-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metroid Prime: Hunters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dsmetroidprimehunters/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Surprisingly fluid and precise control, once you get used to it.
 Lots of multiplayer options for multicard, local play.
 Four-player online play.
 Great look and presentation, complete with numerous cutscenes.
 Lefty-friendly control options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level design is limited and linear.
 Bosses repeat.
 Online matches against random players are limited to battle mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.4, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 7,009 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Mar 20, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Precise controls and solid multiplayer are the highlights of Hunters, a Metroid Prime game that 
 feels more like a first-person shooter than the GameCube games. 

  Given how long the Nintendo DS has been available, it's hard to believe that Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 was one of the first games shown off when the system was first introduced. Some of you early adopters 
 may remember getting a brief demo level of the first-person shooter as a pack-in with your system. 
 After a long wait, the game is finally out, and for the large part, it hits the nail on the head 
 as far as delivering a faithful Metroid Prime experience in the handheld. It's also got the best 
 multiplayer options we've seen yet in a Metroid game and surprisingly fluid controls.  

          Everyone's favorite female bounty hunter is back in Metroid Prime: Hunters.     

  In 
 Hunters, you reprise the role of Samus Aran, everyone's favorite bounty-hunting heroine. You'll 
 search a small batch of planets in an area known as the Alimbic Cluster for a cryptic "ultimate 
 power" that's said to be hidden in the system. The key to this power involves finding and unearthing 
 eight different artifacts called octoliths. Why not three? Because then it'd be called the tri-force 
 or something. These octoliths are scattered across a few different planets and space stations. 
 Samus isn't the only one searching out these octoliths, though. You'll come across several other 
 bounty hunters with unique weapons and abilities that will duel you during your trip and attempt 
 to steal your hard-earned octoliths. Lose a battle with one, and they'll steal them -- beat the same 
 bounty hunter later, and you'll recover your lost octoliths.  

  Controlling Samus is one of Hunters' strong points, at least once you get used to the controls. 
 The default scheme has you dragging your stylus on the bottom screen to aim your weapons, while 
 you use the D pad to move forward and backward or strafe left and right. Left-handed input methods 
 also exist, so southpaws needn't fret over the prospect of using their right hand to aim with the 
 stylus. The shoulder button lets you fire your selected weapon, while double tapping the touch 
 screen will let you jump. Unlike the Metroid Prime games on the GameCube, there is no lock-on. 
 You have to do all your own aiming. The stylus method can be a little awkward to learn for some, 
 and it induced cramps in our hands at first; the temptation exists to switch the controls to the 
 more familiar D pad and face buttons for your movement and aiming scheme. But if you stick with 
 the stylus control, you'll find that you have much more precision over your aiming, and you're 
 able to execute circle-strafes and other FPS-style maneuvers with ease. Up the sensitivity and 
 you'll even be able to spin 180s, which can be key in multiplayer. In many ways, Hunters' unique 
 control gives it a precise and speedy feel much closer to the keyboard-and-mouse input of PC shooters 
 than you can get from typical dual-analog stick control schemes on console shooters.  

          Once you get used to the interface, aiming is speedy and precise -- just like an FPS game 
 should feel.     

  The downside to the interface is that to switch weapons, change into morphball mode, or access 
 your scan visor, there are small touch panels on the touch screen that you need to tap. It's possible 
 to accidentally drag your stylus over these areas and unexpectedly swap to missiles, for example. 
 It's also less than ideal to take your eyes off the main screen to find exactly where you need 
 to press to swap weapons in the midst of battle. These compromises are not all that burdensome 
 though, and the tradeoff for speedy, precision aiming is definitely worthwhile.  

  Hunters' single-player adventure mode has you exploring several different planet types that run 
 the gamut of typical Metroid settings. You've got your abandoned tech station, an ice world, ancient 
 ruins, and a lava world, among others. The art style of the levels is definitely evocative of previous 
 Metroid Prime games, and the game engine does a pretty good job of rendering rooms. When the action 
 gets hot and heavy, the frame rate can dip noticeably, but it's pretty rare when it happens. The 
 detail put into the boss and bounty-hunter models is great, and everything animates nicely. There 
 are a generous number of cutscenes that sometimes stretch across both screens or use separate camera 
 angles in each screen for cinematic effect. Our only major gripe with the graphics is that they 
 can look grainy at times, particularly when you're engaging in a long-range shooting battle with... something 
 that you can't quite make out. The resolution limitations of the DS may be more to blame for this 
 problem than the game engine, though. On the plus side, Hunters sounds fantastic, both from an 
 effects and a music standpoint. Hunters offers some familiar tunes, which contribute to the authentic 
 Metroid feel and experience, while the weapon sounds and explosions offer great feedback in both 
 single-player and multiplayer.     

   

  As you make your way through the campaign, you'll not only find the storied octoliths, but also 
 uncover the lore behind the ultimate power (you are using your scan visor, right?) and unlock a 
 number of different beam weapons, ranging from an ice beam that bounces off walls to a fire gun 
 that does added burn damage on impact to a sniping laser. In typical Metroid fashion, you'll have 
 to backtrack to earlier areas with your new guns to open up doors that were previously inaccessible 
 to you, though you don't have to find and unlock all your abilities -- the morphball mode and bombs 
 are available to you at the outset.  

          Bland level design keeps the single-player from being as good as it could have been.   
   

  There are some disappointing aspects to the campaign, though. For one thing, the level design feels 
 more linear and uninspired than in any other Metroid game. Sure there are simple puzzles to solve, 
 maybe a couple branching pathways here and there, and some morphball mazes, but the unified, organic 
 level design that typifies the Metroid franchise is missing. Instead, Hunters offers a cookie-cutter 
 feel to its planets, with sometimes repetitive room architecture. You'll make your way down a mostly 
 obvious path, picking up energy tank and missile upgrades or maybe a new gun. You'll then take 
 out a bounty hunter and a boss (many of which are recycled) , grab your octolith, and leave. After 
 picking up an octolith, you'll have to quickly evacuate to your ship as a countdown timer ticks 
 down -- this makes no logical sense, though, as nothing happens when you reach your ship. There's 
 no dramatic escape from an exploding planet (you do have to come back later, after all) and nothing 
 that suggests what the urgency to leave was in the first place.  

  The multiplayer aspect to Metroid Prime: Hunters holds, perhaps surprisingly for a Metroid game, 
 more appeal than its single-player game. You can play with up to four players locally through game 
 sharing or multicard and online for up to four players through Nintendo's Wi-Fi service. Single-card 
 game sharing limits you to playing standard battle (deathmatch) mode, and all players have to play 
 as Samus. However, multicard battles and online play let you use any of the bounty hunters you've 
 defeated in the single-player campaign. Each hunter has a unique alt form (such as Samus' morphball) 
 and special weapon. Weavel, for example, can split himself into two, with his bottom half being 
 an automated turret, while his top half can run around and melee or find more power-ups. Each character 
 has different strengths that can be exploited depending on the arena, though not all can be used 
 with each game mode.  

  For multicard play, a number of different other game types are available, including one- and two-flag 
 variants of capture the flag (or the octolith, in this case) , last man standing, king of the hill, 
 and "prime hunter." The latter is a variation of assassin where one player has the prime hunter 
 designation and must hold it for as much time as possible while others attempt to kill that player 
 and take the title. Team play versions are available for the appropriate game types. The game host 
 has the ability to set options for point limits, time limits, and even restrict the use of radar 
 and other options. You can insert bots of varying skill levels to play against to fill out the 
 rest of the field, so you don't necessarily need three friends with the game to enjoy these multiplayer 
 modes. The bots offer a respectable challenge at the higher difficulty levels and are worthwhile 
 to play against if you can't scrounge up some buddies. To help you on that front, a rivals radar 
 is included, which is similar to Nintendogs' bark mode -- set this option on, put your DS on sleep, 
 and any other Hunters owners you pass by who have their rivals radar on will be added to your rivals 
 list. Presumably this allows you to build up a nice list of opponents for online play, but its 
 utility is questionable for anyone outside a large concentration of other DS owners, like in a 
 school perhaps.  

          Seven hunters to choose from makes for good variety in multiplayer.     

  Online play 
 for four players is also available. Searching for a game is as simple as logging in, and Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi service will automatically match you up with three other players. Once you're logged in, 
 each player has a few seconds to select their preferred hunter before the game automatically loads 
 up a voting screen for players to vote on the map to play. The online action was smooth and lag 
 free in our experience, and you're likely to find stiff challenges online against other human opponents. 
 The game ranks you based on how many kills you get and matches you play and keeps track of other 
 stats, such as your favorite weapon, how many kills you get in bipedal or alt mode, and others. 
 The strategies are pretty young at this point, but a popular one so far seems to be using a hunter 
 with a melee-attacking alt form to charge in and spam close-range attacks.  

  Online play is overall quite fun, but it has its quirks. For one thing, the only mode you can just 
 play online right from the get-go is battle mode. The only way to access the other online modes 
 is by playing against those on your friends and rivals list. So while it's all well and good that 
 you do have access to all the multiplayer modes online, the fact that you have to input lengthy 
 friend codes in order to access all of the game modes is annoying. Once you do that, you can see 
 who's online and host a game or join an existing game that's open to you. You can even send voice 
 messages to each other while in the lobby of a friend's (but not a rival's) game, or send text-based 
 messages that you can type in using a keyboard that appears on the touchscreen. Both communication 
 options work pretty well, but once the game starts, you can't message each other anymore, so the 
 trash talking ends.  

  Despite those caveats, Metroid Prime: Hunters is an excellent multiplayer game and easy to recommend 
 to anyone who enjoys FPS action. The single-player is also well worth a play through, despite its 
 limitations, if only to take in the story and unlock all the hunters for multiplayer action.  

 
    Editor's note 03/23/06 : Our review originally overlooked specific aspects of the friends/rivals 
 system, which required a reevaluation of these parts of the game and a revision to the text. GameSpot 
 regrets the errors.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (778 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RAICHET
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  i like this game mainly because of its multiplayer, u can play over Wi-Fi, u can even play with 
 the people who don't have the game. it has 6 unique character with special transformation, ability, 
 and weapon. my personnal favorite is trace because when he is holding imperialist, he can be transprant, 
 so that makes him a hard hunter to spot, and counter even if it is spotted, it can transform into 
 a high speed spider to get away and the spider doesn't need a imperalist to be transparent, it 
 just has to stay still for like 3 seconds, give it the abilitty to ambush its enemy easily. my second 
 favorite is weavel because when he tranform he can split into half, upper body becomes a robot 
 with a blade, the other half will be a turret, although it can't move and the transformation halves 
 ur health but its really powerful, he is a good attacker but he takes a lot of risk. the story 
 is kinda awful, if this has no Wi-Fi, it will be a broken garbage. the only thing this game doesn't 
 have is vehicle in multiplayer, i mean what's a FPS game with out vehicles? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moppy64
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a brilliant RPG FPS for DS! You control Samus Aran, and you are on the track of a 
 mysterious message from an unknown source, from a faraway cluster. From there, you have a training 
 mission on the first object in the Alimbic Cluster, the Archives. You end up having a boss fight 
 ( of course ) and end up getting your first Octolith.
  
  You are soon sucked in, and end up going all over the cluster, getting new weaponry, and fighting 
 the rival hunters who are all trying to get the Octoliths for themselves.
  
  The game has a long life, probably about 5-10 hours for the main story, depending on the player, 
 and maybe 15-20 hours for you to complete it 100%.
  
  The multiplayer is ace, and you can go online via wifi, or you can have a wireless battle. In multiplayer, 
 you can choose a hunter other than Samus Aran only if you have defeated them in the main part of 
 the game. In wireless you can also add bots, so if you wanted to, you could have a bot battle with 
 just yourself.
  
  All in all, if you are in the market for a good FPS for the DS, and you don't mind a good RPG, 
 go for this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from my friend, and like I said earlier, I got hooked on the series. It's 
 a great combination of many game elements, and I had lots of fun with it.
  
  The story is about samus exploring the different planets in the galaxy, discovering facts about 
 a deceased race that was overtaken by a powerful entity. Using the clues and going from place to 
 place, you find out how everything went wrong....
  
  The gameplay is different from most metroid games, in the sense that you can move samus around 
 the same with the directional pad, but you aim with the stylus. This fact alone might turn some 
 players away from the game, but once you get the hang of combining the controls, you'll find this 
 to be a really fun experience. You can fire many blasters at your enemies, such as an ice beam 
 and plasma beam, and the missles stayed in your arsenal of course. The enemies include metroids, 
 space pirates, etc. and usually, you encounter a decent number of these creatures as you explore 
 the different areas. You must venture through each area searching for artifacts and power-ups to 
 help you on your quest, but the game doesn't end there. There are countless secret areas that can 
 be unlocked if you fire the corresponding blaster at the force field in front of the area. Morph 
 ball mode is easily controlled too, which is good, because some of the areas require you to harness 
 the morph ball's power.
  
  The environments are excellent and extremely huge! There is much to explore within this game's 
 levels, so there is always something to look for. Boss fights are hard but well planned. Once you 
 beat a boss in it's room, you have to evacuate the premises before you're compromised! A nice touch. 
 The music isn't the best, but it makes the game. Multiplayer is nicely done as well.
  
  Overall, this game is a great addition to anyone's ds collection. All the elements make this game 
 an awesome game experience. However, inexperienced gamers could find this game to be very difficult. 
 Anyhow, enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necorid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me sum this up, a DS fps with wifi compatibility. Short answer, it works. Long answer, Nintendo 
 delivers a DS version of Metroid prime, on the DS, the visuals are gorgeous, the control is fluid 
 and precise. Adding to this, an average campaign. The campaign is a stripped-down version of metroid's 
 console cousins, but its worth a play through. it contains a number of worlds similar to Metroid 
 prime 1, an ice world, a fire world, a ruin-filled world, all make it in to the game, with many 
 enemies and secrets. the same boss is recycled four times and the Hunter npc characters are really 
 annoying but if you can get passed that, the game holds up just fine, The real gem of Metroid prime: 
 Hunters is it's online play, for up to 4 friends you get a plethora of game modes that are variations 
 on classic fps modes. However, when playing random opponents the only mode available is death match, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mAD_ADaption
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Despite having tight, mouse-like controls, the DS just seems to hate FPS of all types. Most FPS 
 on Nintendo's little handheld are, how should I put this... complete crap. The PSP seems to have 
 a much better FPS lineup than the DS despite using more traditional controls instead of a stylus. 
 Thankfully for DS owners, there is one FPS that can hold it's own on the DS. 
  
  Now Metroid Prime: Hunters isn't much like the other metroid games you might have played. Hell, 
 it's not that similar to the prime games on the consoles. It can be considered "metroid for the 
 masses". The reason why is because of the emphasis is more on fast paced action that exploring 
 and upgrading your suit. Nowhere is this more evident that the single player game.
  
  In the single player game, Samus receives a strange telepathic message about an ultimate power 
 (SPOILER: it isn't the Death Star) in a distant, dangerous galaxy. Naturally, the government wants 
 her to secure this power for them, or destroy it so nobody else can use it against them. To make 
 things more difficult, several other powerful hunters have also received the same message and are 
 trying to secure the ultimate power for their own respective purposes. The goal is to collect 8 
 objects called "octoliths" on the 4 visitable planets while scanning objects for info and defeating 
 rival hunters. It's fun and engaging to explore and scan, but it's much more combat oriented than 
 past games. Unfortunately, it tends to get repetitive. The worst part though is the bosses guarding 
 the octoliths. You won't see any Kraids, Ridleys or Metroid Primes here (no metroids at all, in 
 fact) . Instead, here are two different kinds of bosses. You have to fight these two different kinds 
 of bosses over and over again, with little variation or difference. After you kill the boss and 
 take the octolith, a countdown starts and you must run back to your ship before it ends. You also 
 fight your rival hunters over and over again, which can be tedious since there is little to no 
 challenge fighting them. Overall, the single player experience is nothing special, and can be tedious 
 and too easy in most parts, while disgustingly frustrating in others, particularly in getting all 
 scans .
  
  Fortunately, the game's multiplayer saves it. Weapons and hunters are nice and varied, as are the 
 arenas. Weapons can range from quick firing sprayers to snipers to balls of lava that set your 
 foes on fire. The hunters are unique, and each has their own distinct feel. Every hunter has their 
 own alt. form (Samus has the morph ball) and special abilities that can add additional strategy. 
 Arenas themselves have their own distinct feel, and players will often find themselves preferring 
 certain ones over others. There are options for single card, multicard and wifi games. In single 
 card, everyone but the host must be Samus and you must play a standard deathmatch, while in multicard, 
 you can choose your hunter and game type, from capture the flag to standard deathmatches to king 
 of the hill. Wifi is really where the fun begins, though. You get a customizable hunter license 
 (gamertag for MP: H) which tracks your wins, losses, draws, headshots, kills, time playing, friends 
 and rivals (more on rivals in a second) , along with other stats. You can exchange dreaded friend 
 codes with someone and play friend matches, where you have all the options of multicard play and 
 voice chat. You can also play with random people around the world. Although you can't add random 
 people to your friends list, you can add them to your rival roster and play friend games with them 
 and your friends (minus voice chat) . Random matches can only be played as standard deathmatches, 
 but you get to choose your hunter.
  
  Unfortunately, there are some drawbacks to multiplayer. Hackers, spammers and bug abusers are fairly 
 common in random fights. The games can lag, which can be frustrating. People also like to disconnect, 
 which ends the match if their doing poorly. Fortunately, their is a penalty for disconnecting, 
 and hackers are much less common then they used to be.
  
  Overall, MP: H isn't a standout FPS. It plays a little like unreal tournament and quake, while retaining 
 a metroid feel. If this was on a console, it would be hyped for awhile, but then forgotten among 
 the halos and call of duties. For a portable, however, it's incredible. Not only is this easily 
 the best FPS on the DS, it's one of the best multiplayer games on the DS. The graphics and sound, 
 though not amazing, are wonderful for the DS. This great little title will give you FPS fans a 
 good reason to pick up your DS again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  The Good : Impressive atmospheric 3D graphics. Plenty of multiplayer options, including single 
 card play. Control options for left and right handed players.
  
  The Bad : Infuriatingly difficult boss fights. Limited save points. Aiming with the gamepad can 
 be ineffective at times. Single card download play options limited for freeloaders.
  
  --
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is Samus' second foray into Nintendo DS territory, and boy is 
 it eye popping. Us legacy DS owners will notice (that is, those of us that played the demo that 
 came with the "classic" DS model) that the interface and the structure of the game has received 
 quite an overhaul, and the graphics are far more detailed and sharper (particularly in regard to 
 the morph ball visuals) than in the brief 1 level demo.
  
  While this is the first full Metroid game I've ever played, I wasn't sure what to expect at first, 
 however, seasoned Metroid Prime players will feel right at home with Hunters, despite the rough-around-the-edges 
 controls. It can get quite difficult balancing all the controls in addition to aiming the weapon 
 at targets, however the controls have been fairly adequate enough for a Metroid noob such as myself 
 to complete the entire game (even though it appears that I've only scanned 33% of the scannable 
 objects in the game :-O... yikes!) .
  
  The levels are for the most part, quite linear, and the game takes place on four different planets 
 (with the fifth and final planet being the final boss stage) , however, the major fault with the 
 structure is just so vague the mission objectives are. Sure, your goal is to collect the eight 
 octoliths, however since you'll be switching from one planet to the other quite frequently, it's 
 not often clear how you're supposed to obtain the additional weapons required in order to advance 
 through the game. While I only ever do so as a last resort, I have found myself referring to an 
 FAQ or two throughout the course of the game.
  
  Another fault in the game structure is the frequency of bosses. There are only 2 types of bosses 
 in the game (aside from the final boss) , and you must battle each one a total of four times each 
 in order to obtain the 8 ocoliths. Unfortunately, the bosses gradually increase in difficulty, 
 and you will find yourself dying a number of times before defeating them. This not only removes 
 any element of surprise once you see the bosses, but the added fact that the weapon required in 
 order to kill them changes from cycle to cycle can also be quite frustrating.
  
  The sound is passable. There are decent amounts of ambient sound effects and atmospheric music 
 scattered throughout the game, but there's nothing particularly memorable about the audio in the 
 game. And incidentally, once the game has been completed, there's really nothing else to do but 
 to scan any objects that you may have missed, which may not justify having to explore each level 
 from scratch for the less obsessive Metroid enthusiast.
  
  There are also plenty of multiplayer options (though single card play has a few unnecessary restrictions) , 
 but I haven't enough experience with it in order to properly review it. Wi-Fi games may suffer 
 from the occasional lag, however, my experience has been fun and smooth for the most part, and 
 there are over 24 arenas available, making it one of the most varied multiplayer experiences on 
 DS to date. 
  
  In short, Metroid Prime: Hunters has been a satisfying experience until the bitter end, however 
 the at times ridiculous difficulty and unclear mission objectives detracted from an otherwise enjoyable 
 FPS adventure. MPH is best recommended for the hardest of the core DS gamers out there. Enjoy it 
 while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poke-Dude333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters...... There is only one word to sum it ALL up....... TOTALLY AWESOME!!!!! 
 At the beginning of this game it gets boring, but as you go through you get powers, hunters after 
 you, artifacts, crystals and soooooooo much more. When you start you have only a simple gun, a 
 few missiles and no enemy's. But after the first planet it gets really fun. You get upgrades and 
 in each planet after you beat a boss you have to escape on a timer or you die and of course you 
 get tones more missiles. It sounds like one of those usual gun games, but this Metroid is way more. 
 Its fun, exciting and multi-player is extremely fun. Overall this game is a MUST GET for all Metroid 
 fans and anyone else who likes adventure, suspense, guns and colourfull crystals. (WARNING: It was 
 extremely hard for me to complete, it is recommended for top gamers!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular graphics; impressive, intuitive touch screen control; cool sound effects 
 and music; single player has a couple fun battles; multiplayer has variety and is a total blast; 
 Wi-Fi; the controls aren't as weird as you'd think.
  
  The Bad: Single player is very dull and repetitive, and not much like Metroid; single player isn't 
 very hard.
  
  2002 saw the rebirth of the Metroid franchise with Metroid Prime on Gamecube and Metroid Fusion 
 on GBA. Since then, Metroid: Zero Mission for GBA and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes on the Cube started 
 a very successful new era of Metroid games by Retro Studios. Though Prime 2 was a slight disappointment 
 relative to the first Prime, the Metroid train was still going pretty strong.
  
  Meanwhile, the DS was picking up steam very quickly by early 2006 when Metroid Prime: Hunters was 
 released. The First Hunt demo that came with your DS probably whet your appetite, and meanwhile, 
 more good games than average for a new system were arriving left and right. Super Mario 64 DS, 
 Nintendogs, Castlevania, Kirby, and Mario Kart all made their mark on the DS in 2005, kick starting 
 the systems beginnings. And all that time, the life of the GBA lived a little longer because the 
 DS plays GBA games, and Zelda: The Minish Cap and Final Fantasy V and VI rock.
  
  Hunters is certainly the first big 2006 title for the dual screen replacement of the GBA. It took 
 awhile, but it arrived at last: 3-D Metroid, portable.
  
  The gameplay is similar to the first two Metroid Primes. You'll be using your beams, guns, and 
 missiles to battle your opponents, switching visors and turning into a morph ball and dropping 
 bombs in tight spaces. The big, obvious difference is the aiming system. You won't have a lock 
 on system as seen in the first two Primes, but instead move Samus's head with the stylus. This 
 works much more efficiently than a control stick, and is certainly the better way to utilize the 
 system.
  
  Meanwhile, you use the control pad to move Samus, hit buttons on the touch screen to switch between 
 missiles, guns and morph ball, and hit the shoulder button to shoot. It even allows for multiple 
 controller set-ups for lefties. The controls all work together nicely, and are some of the best 
 I've yet seen from the touch screen.
  
  The graphics and music are very high quality as well. Hunters looks more like a console game because 
 the screen is so small than it does a handheld game, and other than Mario Kart, as of its release, 
 nothing even compared. The music has a level of ambience expected from Metroid, and the sound effects 
 are really cool and futuristic.
  
  The single player campaign, however, is the major disappointment of the game. Unlike Metroid Prime 
 1 and 2, Samus's new mission is very linear, a lot of the rooms look exactly the same, and you're 
 basically doing the same thing eight times. You even fight the same two bosses over and over. There 
 are cool cutscenes interspersed through the game and they show us how that's done on two screens, 
 but they're all very short.
  
  There are six opposing bounty hunters Samus battles over the course of the game. At first these 
 are fun to fight and actually mix up the boring and repetitive gameplay, but later they grow a 
 little stale as you find out the tricks to fight them. It's too bad, because the first two Prime 
 games did a great job of mixing up gameplay, and this one feels like you're doing the same thing 
 over and over.
  
  On the other hand, this is certainly not the only mode to Prime: Hunters, and oddly enough, multiplayer 
 is it's saving grace. Prime 2 introduced multiplayer to the franchise with four players controlling 
 a Samus, but now Hunters takes it to the next level.
  
  The controls and graphics and all are just as good on Wi-Fi, which also improves the experience 
 (though local play is fun too) , and there's not really any lag, very impressively. Single card 
 play only allows you to play as Samus, but that's not that much of a drawback. Meanwhile, if you've 
 seen other opponents in multiplayer or single player, they're unlocked for you. This means the 
 six other bounty hunters that rival Samus in single player are options for you to use too.
  
  That element is more of a distinction than it sounds. Each hunter does indeed have their own 
 very unique fighting style, and the more you practice with that particular hunter the better you'll 
 be executing kills. Also, there are tons of levels, over twenty, and they are all the most unique 
 areas from single player. It helps to practice in all the locations too, because finding the secrets 
 in each area will truly give you an edge.
  
  But as in many other Wi-Fi games, multiplayer is fun even if you're bad at it. There are even multiple 
 modes.
  
  So to sum up, this Metroid isn't like any Metroid before it. The controls are awesome, the graphics 
 and music are awesome, the single player is just so-so, and the multiplayer, oddly, is a blast. 
 If you're a Metroid fan and you have Wi-Fi set up, and maybe you enjoy just fighting with your 
 friends or wireless players, Hunters is certainly a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Metroid Hunters released a few years ago but it still is one of the best DS titles. Much in the 
 same way Wave Race 64 and Mario 64 were some of the best titles after the 5 year span of the N64. 
 If N64 ever had a Metroid game i would imagine it would be like Hunters. 
  
  Graphics: 10
  The graphics as quite amazing. It pushes the DS to the limits. If you have played 
 Metroid Prime you will feel right at home. You will see much of the same stuff and it looks great!
 
  
  Sound: 9
  I'm giving sound a 9 because some of music crackles. And some of the sound effects feel very dated. 
 Like they came from Game Boy. But overall the sound is great. 
  
  Control: 10
  I love how the DS plays first person shooters. You walk and strafe with the D pad and use the stylis 
 to look. This is very fluid and natural. Metroid Prime for the NGC wasn't a true FPS but Hunters 
 is. You use the touch screen to access all your different abilities and guns. Double tap the screen 
 to jump. The only button you will use is L to shoot your gun.
  
  Online Support: 9.5
  Online is easy to use. You can find games fast. Games are quick and they are fun. It plays smooth. 
 You can get some frame rate issues when a lot of stuff is going on though. This will occur in the 
 campaign as well. The chat feature is kinda flawed. You can't chat with people unless they are 
 in your friends list. The only way to add people to your friends list to ask for their friend code. 
 But getting their friend code is impossible because you can't communicate with them until they 
 are your friend. So basically Nintendo made the talk feature for people you know in real life. 
 You can add people as rivals after a match only if they selected you as a rival as well.
  
  Overall this game is a must have for DS players. The campaign is on the shorter side for a Metroid 
 game but multiplayer will keep you coming back. Nintendo did a great job once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrinityCat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  As you know, this is the first Metroid game to be released for the Nintendo DS, and it is a great 
 game, but unfortunately, like all the other video games, it has it's noticeable flaws.
  
  Story: OK, short, a bit boring, it ain't Samus' best adventure but still quite good and entertainable.
 
  
  Samus goes on a journey to the Tetra Galaxy to solve the source of a mysterious message. Samus 
 travels into 4 different worlds, she'll need to get 8 crystals called "Octolith" and everytime 
 she collects one of them, the mysterious message slowly gets revealed. 
  
  Each of these 4 worlds will have 2 different missions, and you will notice it when your playing 
 the adventure. Sadly, the adventure is short and it could've been better.
  
  Gameplay: Hard to get used to at first, but after you practice it for a while, it gets a bit easier 
 to play but it will frustrating at times, especially if it is your first time playing the game. 
 
  
  There are 4 different controls for you to choose, for left-handed people: Stylus Mode Left, Dual 
 Mode Left. And for right-handed people: Stylus Mode Right, Dual Mode Right.
  
  Design: Good, bright arenas, colorful characters, but there will be times in where you'll see noticeable 
 glitches, but overall, it's still good and it won't give you a headache like other games.
  
  Wi-Fi: Amazing. Undoubtedly, this is one of those games that has a strong Wi-Fi connection. 
 There will be times in where you'll get disconnected, but luckily, a few times only.
  
  Multiplayer: Solid, great, entertainable and fun. The real reason of getting this game. 
  
 
  You will have 7 Hunters available for you to play: Samus, Sylux, Weavel, Noxus, Kanden, Spire 
 and Trace. Each hunter has their own abilities and weakness.
  
  Overall, this is simply a must-have. Although it has such a tough gameplay and a short adventure, 
 it won't stop the fun you'll have in this game, thanks to the Wi-Fi and the multiplayer section. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arceus14
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  Its Sunday ! And YAY :D ! I have get my metroid prime hunters (finaly?) .
  When i was starting with playing this game .... Saw i the strong 3d buildings :O , i was realy 
 feeling that i playing this game on the pc ? but i was playing this game on a smal TFT screen ? 
 and OMG! AWESOME !!!! yes you wil see the pixels on some things in this game ... BUT dont Wory 
 !!! the ds isnt realy strong in graphics .. so i maybe should these graphics stronger than a N64 
 ???? 
  
  
  The Gameplay feels good .. ! you can move the camera with using the stylus .. and the control feels 
 realy strong.... but lets stop with talking over the graphics and gameplay and lets see how the 
 game looks real ..!
  
  
  The game starts realy easy , just shooting of the robots . make jumps . scanning items .. finding 
 stuff .... but than , when we see the first boss , oh dawn , you must shoot on the blue things 
 and than you wil see a metalic thing (or something) and you must shoot on that thing and than hit 
 points wil down for the bos .. it was realy frustating becouse when you moving on the first bos 
 , the strales are hitting you every ware ! , than when i finaly beats the BOSS! i have must go 
 back to my ship or something and that was frustating as HELL , the map was 3d and unclear !!! and 
 your moving . moving and your back , the wrong way OMG . becouse al the plases in this game resemble 
 each other is this realy hard ; ( when i was in level 2 ... yes again you must scanning thing , 
 shoot on the bad thing and the boss in level 2 was easy ... no the first times it was hard but 
 when you finally got to him hitten it becoume easy ... but richt this game is hard (maybe only 
 for me ) ??? and its not realy what I had expected ; (
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeltergon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime hunters is how Samus does DS. You'll most likey find yourself using the touch screen 
 to aim and D pad to move. This game takes getting used to, it might even seem uncomfortable at 
 first to hold and play it well. But once you get the hang of the controls, it will entertain you 
 for a while.
  
  The adventure mode takes you into space scanning for planets and bases and then flying to them 
 and exploring through them defeating other hunters and Bosses searching for new weapons and crystals.
 
  
  The game draw backs on me on the fact that you need to retrace your path A LOT just to advance, 
 and sometimes, it's easy to forget where you've been already. But the maps helps out when you press 
 START in one player mode.
  
  Boss fights are rather repetitive, and you'll end up fighting the same thing, just with an added 
 twist to it. Like needing to use a different weapon or avoiding more attacks..
  
  
  Multiplayer is fun, and Online just expands that. The only downside I can see is when you fight 
 cheaters in the game, or when you experiance lag and other players apear to warp on your screen 
 (can't imagine it's much better for them) .
  
  Personally, I suck at this game, but even I find Multiplayer fun sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: *Great graphics *precise and sharp control scheme *great multi-player *boss fights are 
 brilliant *strong and lengthy campaign *great variety of weapons
  
  THE BAD: *lame sound *repeated planets and boss battles *difficulty levels are too high at some 
 times *you have to scan everything to get a 100% completion *story is not told via cut scenes
 
  
  STORY: 8/10
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  PRESENTATION: 8.5/10
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 9.5/10
  
  REPEAT VALUE: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
  
 
  First of all, let me tell you how much I like this game. I've played through it thrice. I've clocked 
 in around 80 hours of gameplay. I compare it to the likes of The Legend of Zelda. And I found this 
 game to be so good that it was only after this game that I started playing the GC Metroid Prime 
 games (that was around a month ago) . 
  
  The strongest part of the game is the gameplay. First of all, its very very very similar to Zelda. 
 The creatures, the mazes, the puzzles, the bosses, the collection concept- everything in short. 
 So much so, that just like any other Zelda game, when you defeat a mini boss, a portal is activated 
 to go to the beginning of the level so that we can save our game and come back to this point without 
 any effort. 
  
  The bosses are spectacular and you've got to destroy some things that are like their defense mechanisms 
 and only then can you fight the true boss. You have to repeat this stuff to ultimately kill the 
 boss. Then, there are eight octoliths that we have to collect by going to eight planets and killing 
 the bosses there.
  
  The variety of weapons is amazing. And very rarely have I seen that all the weapons that we get 
 are actually useful. Metroid Prime: Hunters is one of those games. 
  
  The control scheme of the game is amazing. The stylus helps a lot and makes this game more like 
 a first person shooter than any GC Metroid game. The control scheme is sharp and very responsive.
 
  
  The multi-player is great and addictive. Sometimes, even better than the single player adventure 
 mode.
  
  The story of the game, though, is a weak point. Even though it might be good when told to somebody, 
 but the only way you can find out the story is by scanning stuff. There are no cut scenes.
  
  The sound is quite lame. Not that its bad. But not very good either. 
  
  The bottom line 
 is: this game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters DS
  
  Sound- 8/10: Nothing really that memorable in terms of music.
  
  Story- 8/10: You play the 
 roll of bounty hunter Samus Aran as you hunt down relics called octaliths left behind by and ancient 
 race now extinct. You must obtain every octalith to unlock the ultimate power. But there will also 
 be other hunters after the same power.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10: You'll visit many different planets on your hunt for the octaliths. You'll battle 
 rival hunters, and bosses, collect new weapons and missile/energy tank expansions. Its not much 
 different from other Metroid Prime games. What sets this game apart is its multi-player that rivals 
 even Mario Kart DS. You can play with up to 3 friends (4 total) on single or multi-card mode or 
 you can play against bots. There's over 25 arenas and there's 6 new hunters (7 including samus) 
 each with unique alt-forms and weapons. Not to mention 4 player Wi-Fi.
  
  Graphics- 9/10: Graphics are amazing, And the cut scenes are gorgeous and plentiful. You can watch 
 them any time you want in the movie menu.
  
  Overall- 9/10: Metroid Prime Hunters comes with my unconditional recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Metroid has never been a series known for its poster boy properties. In both style and design this 
 is a series that traditionally hides away from such areas of publicity, instead going for the more 
 intimate, careful reinventions of its own gameplay rather than showing off its prowess to others. 
 In contrast to such traditions Metroid Prime Hunters looks to broadly proclaim how both the DS 
 and the series itself can be used as a competent player in the fps generation. Rather than shy 
 away from such comparisons Hunters embraces them and though such an embrace ultimately leaves you 
 with a pain in the palm, it's a worthy showcase all the same.
  
  It is clear from the start however that such a showcase has come at the expense of the games design, 
 both technically and inventively. In terms of the Metroid design it is all here, but stripped down 
 to the point of worthlessness. The fact that Hunters is in itself a side story from a side series 
 never really bodes well and thematically not only does the game not even reach the heights of its 
 predecessors, it rarely even tries. The plot is a throwaway; while there is the familiar extinct 
 race of sentient beings they are never analysed, let alone examined-there is no substantial lore 
 in Hunters but more importantly there is no real detail either. Rooms now only serve the purpose 
 of funnelling you along-too often through the same tired corridors. Hunters' space sections are 
 frequent sufferers of this problem, with the stations symmetrical layout causing even further confusion 
 through the linearity. Planet side and things fair a little better. Every effort has been made 
 to try and make each room look different, but little to try and make each room feel unique. It 
 ultimately leaves the impression that Metroid Prime Hunters "worlds" are no better at presenting 
 the lives of the Alimbics than Super Mario World's attempt to represent the ecosystem of the Yoshi's. 
 
  
  Unsurprisingly the gameplay follows the same pathway as the graphical design; geared towards the 
 linear, consistent strain of enemies forgoing traditional Metroid staples of puzzling and exploration. 
 The latter two are here of course, but in greatly reduced forms. The effects of this would matter 
 little if the gameplay core was strong, which sadly it isn't. Fundamentally however Metroid Prime 
 Hunters controls well, its set up may cause ache but it is fast and precise and for the most part 
 allows easy access to the other buttons involved. The problem lies in the series it represents 
 however. Enemies continue their tradition of being damage sponges, with both lock-on and fleet 
 of foot required to down them quickly-two features Hunters both lacks. Enemies are also equally 
 vulnerable on all parts of the body, so the use of an accurate, mouse like system over traditional 
 lock on is all but pointless. Exploration is hindered mainly by design limitation. Item accumulation 
 in Hunters is limited to beam upgrades which results in progression being determined by opening 
 doors with the corresponding colour. Rewarding this is not and the obvious structure of the game 
 in terms of visiting the planets results in a game that is obvious to the point of banality.
  
  Enemy design also suffers or rather suffers due to the lack of it. Occasionally, the Hunters 
 themselves will pop up for a random bout through levels. Though tense at first, these quickly become 
 a brutal massacre as you increase in arms and health while they remain resolutely underpowered. 
 It ruins the initially threatening Super Mario Land 2 style death system, where defeat resulted 
 in the stealing of a necessary "key" to finishing the game. Bosses also feature but are arguably 
 the most disappointing thing about Hunters. The pitiful two bosses are recycled throughout the 
 game leading to entirely new reasons to dread such showdowns. Whereas bosses in Metroid usually 
 increase in complexity, here they can only increase in potency; their strength of attack and wealth 
 of life going up in tandem with your own, your struggle to defeat them in later levels more out 
 of boredom than difficulty.
  
  It is both a relief and a disappointing realisation to find that Hunters' multiplayer is far superior 
 to its single player compatriot. Relief that such a shift in design has not been a waste, but disappointing 
 to realise that the quality of the multiplayer is simply never found elsewhere in the game. Here 
 the level design is surprisingly strong, making use of numerous levels, various structures and 
 at times multiple settings. In terms of game modes the multiplayer is also very strong-featuring 
 the staples of deathmatch, survival, capture the flag and king of the hill as well as speciality 
 modes such as the one vs. all Prime Hunter mode and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes' infamous bounty mode. 
 The hunters too offer even further variety-all housing a suitable morph ball replacement as well 
 as a bonus effect for each of their specialised weapons. While some of the characters are overpowered 
 the games Unreal Tournament like nature never really causes this to be a problem. There are mode 
 and feature restrictions online however and although there have been improvements over some of 
 Mario Kart DS' more frustrating online moments (drop-outs and cheating mechanisms) the occasional 
 lag and lack of communication make Hunters a far better local multiplayer game than an online one.
 
  
  And this remains the surprising thing about Metroid Prime Hunters. It is by far a better multiplayer 
 game than a single player one, which asks the question of why Nintendo even bothered using the 
 Metroid license in the first place. Everything that makes Hunters good is ultimately what makes 
 a Metroid game bad, it is a contradiction of a game both in principle and design and it ultimately 
 fits into its stalwart series by name alone. If anything Hunters is a lazy creation, not because 
 of how it was designed but why it was designed. This was an opportunity for Nintendo to create 
 a new IP to truly branch out its creative licensing but instead it has shoehorned a series into 
 the style of game it was always feared of turning into. Metroid Prime Hunters is not a bad game 
 by any means, merely a bad Metroid game; and for a series that prides itself on such consistent 
 quality it is a real blow. Miyamoto has always stated that he would make a Halo type game if he 
 wanted to. One wishes he would have found the energy to do it here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 72 % Metroid prime hunters on the ds isn`t the same thing like the solid metroid series 
 on the gamecube what i dont like about hunters is the whole idea of playing a first person shooter 
 on the ds. You can experience the same feeling but its not as fun because going in differents planets 
 is kinda werid and frustrating. In metroid prime 3 you can go in different planets but its much 
 easier to understand where to go and what to do. The Wifi connection is where the game is interesting 
 but playing online is the only part where its actually fun. Graphics 74 % I really like the graphics 
 it looks real and its even better than the gamecube version this game has got better graphics.
 
  
  Sound 70 % The sound in this game doesn`t really sound good the guns sound really weird.
  
 
  Controls : The controls are weird on a touch screen because you need to push pretty hard on the 
 touch screen to move your character around.
  
  Value: This game is worth it if you really like the metroid series and if you like first person 
 shooter game on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iruletewo1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  On the whole Metroid Prime Hunters is the best multiplayer on a nintendo system. The single player 
 is awesome on your first play however it isn't really the single player if you want replayability. It's 
 also short but the multiplayer will entertain you for hours! It has 7 hunters who all have general 
 positions e. g. sniper, all round. I loved the game on the visual side as well as it looks amazing 
 for the ds although occasionly it can look grainy. Oh yeah Metroid Prime is a FPS so perfect controls 
 are a must and I have to say the touch screen aiming is great. As an FPS it focuses more on exploing 
 and solving puzzles and backtracking is needed when exploring the 4 planets to gain the mythical 
 octoliths. Multiplayer wise there are a number of different arenas some are slightly changed versions 
 of single player areas others are designed just for multiplayer! Thanks for reading this (if you 
 actually do) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoshMosh
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so I'm hoping this turns out good...
  
  I bought this game the same time I got my DS. I was hoping to find a great first person shooter 
 that is comparable to Halo and Quake. Well, the adventure mode quality is no where near near Halo 
 or Quake.
  
  
  Story Line (4/10)
  
  The story line is very linear and very simple. The levels and maps however, can be quite beautiful 
 and interesting. The beginning and the end of the game are the only remotely interesting parts 
 of the game, since the middle of the game is quite repetitive.
  
  
  Levels and maps (8/10)
  
  Very unique and interesting. That's all I can say about that.
  
 
  
  Music and Sound (8/10)
  
  Very clear sound and music. The music is simple and repetitive but it matches the world around 
 it quite well. The sound is good but there is only one sound for most actions. For example, every 
 time a character is shot it makes the same grunt.
  
  
  Game play (9/10)
  
  Excellent. Both the stylus and dual controls are easy to use, and the phenomenal game play is just 
 as great as any other metroid game.
  
  
  Multiplayer (10/10)
  
  I would recommend this game mainly for the multiplayer. You and three friends (single card, multi-card, 
 and wi-fi) can battle in over 20 arenas from adventure mode. This mode is probably just enough 
 to buy this game.
  
  
  
  I would recommend this game to:
  
  -People who like easy first person shooters
  -People who like multiplayer first person shooters.
 
  -Anyone with access to Nintendo wi-fi connection
  
  Another good reason to buy this game is because it is one of the few first person shooters for 
 the nintendo DS.
  
  
  If you purchase this game I hope you enjoy it and I hope this short review was helpful.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walking_key
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  It's a love, hate relationship. 
  
  The Love
  This game has the best wifi of any nintendo game to date with its built in microphone and typing 
 system. The ability to host games in a lobby type environment where you can see your friends/rivals 
 online.
  
  The Hate
  This is a wifi only game. 
  If you don't have wifi... definitely don't buy it. The single player is boring and nothing to it.
 
  
  In-fact the single player is merely fighting the same two bosses 4 times each.
  Yeah, boring, right?
  
  The fun part of this game comes from the good graphics, decent sound 
 and amazing multiplayer.
  
  With 7 characters to choose from, over 20 levels, and an assortment of weapons and play-styles 
 this game is worth getting and joining the hunt.
  
  The single-player is absolutely horrible though, so, so very terrible that I must mention it several 
 times and end this review on this note.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  At first when I played this game I was a bit afraid. Most of the other FPS weren't that good, the 
 graphics weren't the greatest, and the stylus use made the game tiring after 30 minutes. But then 
 after an hour I couldn't believe how good this game actually was. The campaign is nice, and the 
 first level gives anyone directions on how to play. I haven't beaten it myself, but I plan to.
 
  
  After I did some campaign I decide to explore the multi player options. It has single card play, 
 multi card play, and wi-fi. Single card play is fun with friends, and wi-fi is even better. But 
 if you're ever at a place with no w-ifi, and none of your friends are with you, you got multi card 
 play which allows you to face bots.
  
  The option mode is pretty cool to. For controls you got options which allow you to really change 
 it up. As I said before, I don't really like playing with the stylus, so I simply changed to the 
 Right-handed mode, which let me use the control pad to move and x, y, b, and a to look. 
  
  Any bad stuff? There are only two things. You can't save it any time you want on campaign, and 
 it can take some time to kill sometime even if both of you are shooting one another, but hey, every 
 game has a downfall.
  
  Conclusion? The game is definitely worth it, even if none of your friends have it. If you convince 
 your friends to buy it, you'll have one heck of a time. Even if they don't, 4 of you can enjoy 
 it with single card play =D. Buy this game!!!@
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to believe that when the DS was first shown at E3 in 2003, Metroid Prime Hunters 
 was one of the first shown games, yet it took 2 years after the release of the DS before it finally 
 came out. Metroid Prime Hunters surprisingly isn't a side-scroller like most Metroid games, in 
 fact it retains the 1st person view found in the GameCube titles, and because of this the whole 
 game is in 3D. This results in Metroid Prime Hunters been visually one of the best, if not the 
 best looking DS titles out to date. But the big question is, after been in development for 3 years, 
 is this game as good, as the wait, and the answer for most of it is, yes.
  
  Because it is a DS game there are Touch screen related controls, were you move with the d-pad and 
 aim by sliding the stylus across the touch screen. This might take some taking used to but when 
 you've figured it out, you see that the control system is very fluid. As for the rest of the controls, 
 you press the L trigger to shoot (press and hold to build up the charge shot) , press the R trigger 
 to sight with the Sniper rifle, to turn into the Morph ball, simply press the Morph Ball icon on 
 the touch screen, to select missiles, press the missile icon on the touch screen, to jump quickly 
 double tap the touch screen and to select the secondary beam weapons, press and hold the weapon 
 select icon and drag the stylus over the gun you want to use. The scan visor is also on Hunters, 
 which is a welcomed addition. To use the scan visor, press and hold the icon on the touch screen 
 until it is turned on, then press the L trigger to scan. The control scheme is even friendly with 
 left-handed people which will please them. But this isn't the only control method, there are more 
 to select form, but I find this to be the best one, but whatever control scheme you choose, you'll 
 notice just how easy the game is to control.
  But as well as the controls been as good as they are, and as good as the game looks, the games 
 sounds and music scores are brilliant too. Each action has their unique sounds, and the sounds 
 of the Arm cannon are fantastic too. And mix this in with the many weird and wonderful sounds the 
 enemies and bosses make, and it results in Hunters been one of the best sounding games on the DS.
 
  
  To get to the point, the story mode in this game is poor, maybe good at best. You could probably 
 finish the game in less than 12 hours. The story mode does have some tricky areas where you'll 
 have to think, but for the most of it the single player is easy. The games environments and enemies 
 are designed fantastically, but Metroid veterans will find it just too easy.
  The story goes that a message saying the promise of 'Ultimate Power' lies in the Alimbic cluster. 
 The message gets translated into every language in the galaxy, resulting in the 7 best bounty hunters 
 in the galaxy, including Samus, getting involved in a frantic race to find it. Apart form seeing 
 this message at the beginning of the game, there are no further references to it after this and 
 the story is to non-existent, resulting in you forgetting about it when you're playing, and this 
 is bad. As for Samus's mission; it is to either seize the Ultimate Power for the galactic federation 
 and to stop its misuse, or failing that destroy it. This is the first game in the series that has 
 more than just Samus as the only Bounty Hunter, which. The other 6 hunters are:
  
  KANDEN: A scientific experiment gone awry, he killed his creators and then became a bounty hunter. 
 Now he wants to prove he is the best by getting the Ultimate Power.
  Alt Form - STINGLARVA
  SPIRE: Spire is the sole survivor of the Diamonts. He wants the Ultimate Power so he can learn 
 about his race.
  Alt Form - DIALANCHE
  NOXOUS: A proud member of the mighty Vhozon race and wants the Ultimate power to stop evil doers 
 getting it.
  Alt Form - VHOSCYTHE
  TRACE: A member of the Kriken, the most hated and feared race in the galaxy 
  Alt Form - TRISEKLION
 
  WEAVEL: A Space Pirate who was nearly killed in a previous fight with Samus Aran, who now seeks 
 revenge.
  Alt Form - HALF-TURRET
  SYLUX: Little is known about Sylux except that he hates the Galactic Federation and anyone associated 
 with them, including Samus.
  Alt Form - LOCKJAW
  
  All the other hunters have their own ideas of what to do with the ultimate power, so you will have 
 fight each of them all numerous times during the game, but they are not at all hard. Each of the 
 Hunters have their own weapons, and Samus does gain their weapons throughout the game. The 6 weapons 
 are: Judicator, Battlehammer, Shockcoil, Volt Driver, Imperialist and Magmaul. Each gun is different 
 and each gun is good in different ways. Like the Magmaul is good in close combat as if you hit 
 the enemy with a charge shot, they ignite, and the imperialist is good from long range as it is 
 a sniper. Apart from having their own unique weapons, each bounty hunter has their own alternate 
 form, like Samus' morph ball. This adds a new dimension to the game, because if you turn into morph 
 ball to try to escape from the enemies, this time they can follow you. You can also use the Hunters' 
 alternate forms in the games multiplayer mode.
  
  The main things you have to find in the single player mode are 8 crystal things called Octoliths, 
 which act as keys to find the Ultimate Power, and these are all guarded by bosses. There are in 
 fact only 2 different bosses in the game before you reach the last boss Gorea. These bosses names 
 are Cretaphid and Slench, both organic, computerised guardians. You go against each boss four times, 
 and although they do get harder, it gets boring fighting the same things over and over again. A 
 word of warning; if you encounter a Hunter in the single player mode and they kill you, you'll 
 lose all your hard earned Octoliths to them. The only way you can get them back is if you redeem 
 yourself and get revenge by defeating the Hunter who took them off you. The Hunters may not be 
 in the same place where they defeated you, but this isn't a problem because before you enter a 
 new place, it shows you which Hunters are currently there, so you'll know just where to find them.
 
  There are 4 different areas Samus can go and explore in Hunters making this the first game in 
 the entire series where you can go from one place or planet to the next. You get two space stations, 
 and two planets. The two space stations are called, Vesper Defence Outpost, a fuel depot, and Celestral 
 Archives. The two planets are Alinos, a fire planet, and Arcterra, an ice planet. Each area has 
 2 Octoliths, but you can't get both at one visit, you have to re-visit the places later in the 
 game. Once you've got all 8 Octoliths, and once you've taken them to their resting place, a new 
 area called Oubliette, the resting place of the Ultimate Power, becomes open.
  If you compare Hunters to the GameCube titles, you'll notice that the gameplay is similar, but 
 Hunters seems more of a standard FPS, than of a First-Person Adventure that Prime and Echoes are. 
 For instance, on each of the GameCube games, there are 14 energy tanks to find, but on Hunters 
 there are only 7, so Hunters has half the exploration value. And on Hunters, you do have to visit 
 each area twice, but apart from this, there isn't a lot back-tracking. Also, on Hunters there are 
 only 2 visors (Combat and Scan) , unlike the 4 you can use on each GameCube title. Over-all, Hunters 
 seems less like a typical Metroid title, which is probably why the Multiplayer mode works so well 
 with this game.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters does by far, shine more with its Multiplayer capabilities. You can play with 
 up to 3 different friends over single card or multicard play, over 7 different game types on 27 
 different maps, or if you don't have 3 friends, you can choose to add Lethal AI bots, and even 
 choose their level of difficulty ranging from one star to three stars. The level of depth the Multiplayer 
 mode has, for a DS, game is fantastic. If you had this much of depth on a home video console game 
 you'd be happy.
  On all forms of the multiplayer (except single card play) , you can play as the other hunters, but 
 you have to encounter them in single player first before you can use them. On single card play, 
 only the person with the game card can pick their hunter, everyone else has to be Samus. And also, 
 when you play on single card mode, you can only choose between 15 maps instead of 27, and you can 
 only choose Battle mode.
  
  But the biggest attraction to Hunters, and it's 'piece de resistance' has to be it's ability to 
 play Multiplayer matches over Nintendo's Wi-Fi connection, making Hunters the first EVER online 
 Metroid game, and only the second ever with Multiplayer capabilities. If you play random people, 
 you can only play Battle (free-for-all) which is a let down, but the only bad point about the online 
 experience. To play all the other game modes from Capture (CTF) , to Defender (King of the Hill) , 
 you have to play with friends who's Friend codes you've acquired. You can also play with Rivals. 
 To get rivals, you can choose to add them after you play people online, or you can use the games 
 'Rival Radar' option, but you can only be someone's rival if they also want to be yours. You can 
 even talk to your friends, not your rivals, using the DS headset, which is a good feature, but 
 as soon as the game starts, the talking gets disabled, so if you're doing two-on-two team battles, 
 you won't have the ability to bark orders at each other. But never mind because without a doubt 
 this game has easily the best multiplayer features ever to feature on any hand-held console.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a technological masterpiece. Never in a million years would you have 
 imagined that an FPS on the DS would look, play, feel and sound as good as Hunters does. Yes, it's 
 true that the single player is a bit of a let down to what you would have expected, but it still 
 delivers some good points. But while the single player is worth a play through, it will be the 
 multiplayer capabilities that keep bringing you back to this game over and over again. Metroid 
 Prime Hunters is one of only a few DS titles that once you pick up your DS and start to play on 
 it, you'll not want to put it down. 
  
  THE GOOD: Brilliant visuals for the DS. Sounds and feels fantastic. Brilliant online, and local 
 multiplayer capabilities with plenty of depth. Some tricky areas in the single player but...
  THE BAD: ... for most of it, the single player is very easy. The story is to non-existent.
  
 
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 7
  Design 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDDZX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime Hunters is a wonderful first person shooter which takes place in space. You play 
 a a female hero known as Samus who is going around from planet to planet looking for these crystals 
 known as Octoliths. The only thing is that Samus is not the only bounty hunter looking for these 
 Octoliths, so you quest through space destroying the regular aliens seen in metriod games as well 
 has some new bounty hunters trying to take the Octoliths from you for their own use.
  
  The game makes good use of the DS top and bottom screen. The top screen is used to view the map 
 ahead of you while the bottom screen is a visor which contains information such as health and ammo. The 
 bottom screen is also used to rotate the camera angle with the use of the DS stylus pen.
  
  Learning the curve takes anywhere from 25-40 minutes depending on your gaming skill. You will find 
 the movement very easy and free. The game plays and feels like a true 3D first person Metriod shooter. Though 
 going through the adventure you will meet bosses that can range in skill level, you will be annoyed 
 at the fact that the bosses repeat with only small changes. And certain parts of the game become 
 repeative, i. e returning to planets you left, meeting guardians etc.
  
  The only play is a great feature in the game you can play with anyone around the world and your 
 friends over nintendo wi-fi. Local multiplayer is also fun. You can do download play with up to four 
 friends for those who dont own the game, but for those who do own the game and play with you will 
 enable you the feature to play new game types.
  
  Completing the game gives you online emblems and new multiplayer maps. You can also unlock maps 
 by playing a certain amount of games online and offline with your friends.
  
  Well thats the end of my review. Be sure to check out Metriod Prime Hunters, it has good replay 
 value and can be bought for about 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular graphics; impressive, intuitive touch screen control; cool sound effects 
 and music; single player has a couple fun battles; multiplayer has variety and is a total blast; 
 Wi-Fi; the controls aren't as weird as you'd think.
  
  The Bad: Single player is very dull and repetitive very quickly, and not much like Metroid; single 
 player isn't very hard.
  
  2002 saw the rebirth of the Metroid franchise with Metroid Prime on Gamecube and Metroid Fusion 
 on GBA. Since then, Metroid: Zero Mission for GBA and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes on the Cube started 
 a very successful new era of Metroid games by Retro Studios. Though Prime 2 was a slight disappointment 
 relative to the first Prime, the Metroid train was still going pretty strong.
  
  Meanwhile, the DS was picking up steam very quickly by early 2006 when Metroid Prime: Hunters was 
 released. The First Hunt demo that came with your DS probably whet your appetite, and meanwhile, 
 more good games than average for a new system were arriving left and right. Super Mario 64 DS, 
 Nintendogs, Castlevania, Kirby, and Mario Kart all made their mark on the DS in 2005, kick starting 
 the systems beginnings. And all that time, the life of the GBA lived a little longer because the 
 DS plays GBA games, and Zelda: The Minish Cap and Final Fantasy V rock.
  
  Hunters is certainly the first big 2006 title for the dual screen replacement of the GBA. It took 
 awhile, but it arrived at last: 3-D Metroid, portable.
  
  The gameplay is similar to the first two Metroid Primes. You'll be using your beams, guns, and 
 missiles to battle your opponents, switching visors and turning into a morph ball and dropping 
 bombs in tight spaces. The big, obvious difference is the aiming system. You won't have a lock 
 on system as seen in the first two Primes, but instead move Samus's head with the stylus. This 
 works much more efficiently than a control stick, and is certainly the better way to utilize the 
 system.
  
  Meanwhile, you use the control pad to move Samus, hit buttons on the touch screen for missiles, 
 guns and morph ball, and hit the shoulder button to shoot. It even allows for multiple controller 
 set-ups for lefties. The controls all work together nicely, and are some of the best I've yet seen 
 from the touch screen.
  
  The graphics and music are very high quality as well. Hunters looks more like a console game because 
 the screen is so small than it does a handheld game, and other than Mario Kart as of its release 
 nothing even compared. The music has a level of ambience expected from Metroid, and the sound effects 
 are really cool and futuristic.
  
  Now as for the single player campaign, this is the major disappointment of the game. Unlike Metroid 
 Prime 1 and 2, Samus's new mission is very linear, a lot of the rooms look exactly the same, and 
 you're basically doing the same thing eight times. You even fight the same two bosses over and 
 over. There are cool cutscenes interspersed through the game and they show us how that's done on 
 two screens, but they're all very short.
  
  There are six opposing bounty hunters Samus battles over the course of the game. At first these 
 are fun to fight and actually mix up the boring and repetitive gameplay, but later they grow a 
 little stale as you find out the tricks to fight them. It's too bad, because the first two Prime 
 games did a great job of mixing up gameplay, and this one feels like you're doing the same thing 
 over and over.
  
  On the other hand, this is certainly not the only mode to Prime: Hunters, and oddly enough, multiplayer 
 is it's saving grace. Prime 2 introduced multiplayer to the franchise with four players controlling 
 a Samus, but now Hunters takes it to the next level.
  
  The controls and graphics and all are just as good on Wi-Fi, which also improves the experience 
 (though local play is fun too) , and there's not really any lag, very impressively. Single card 
 play only allows you to play as Samus, but that's not that much of a drawback. Meanwhile, if you've 
 seen other opponents in multiplayer or single player, they're unlocked for you. This means the 
 six other bounty hunters that rival Samus in single player are options for you to use too.
  
  That element is more of a distinction than it sounds. Each hunter does indeed have their own 
 very unique fighting style, and the more you practice with that particular hunter the better you'll 
 be executing kills. Also, there are tons of levels, over twenty, and they are all the most unique 
 areas from single player. It helps to practice in all the locations too, because finding the secrets 
 in each area will truly give you an edge.
  
  But as in many other Wi-Fi games, multiplayer is fun even if you're bad at it. There are even multiple 
 modes.
  
  So to sum up, this Metroid isn't like any other Metroid before it. The controls are awesome, the 
 graphics and music are awesome, the single player is just so-so, and the multiplayer, oddly, is 
 a blast. If you're a Metroid fan and you have Wi-Fi set up, and maybe you enjoy just fighting with 
 your friends or wireless players, Hunters is certainly a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henson91
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5: some of the best graphics seen on the DS but can be grainy at times
  
  Sound: 8.0: the sound is nice and has good quality but was slightly disappointed by lack of either 
 familiar Metroid themes and/or not very creative soundtrack
  
  Controls: 8.5: as far as the controls it's a hit or miss situation, some will like how creative 
 it is while others will dislike how awkward they are
  
  Story/single-player: 7.0: fighting stronger versions of the same two bosses for almost boss battles 
 gets old very fast while the story seemed rather lackluster, had minimal power-up collecting (all 
 were beam weapons) having you already with a good portion of the upgrades that in other games in 
 the series you would have to collect, such as the morph ball and varia suit
  
  On-line/multiplayer: 8.5: fun and creative with selection of mode, hunter and stage
  
  
  Overall: 
 8.0: For those are looking for a solid multiplayer FPS, I highly recommend, but for those looking 
 for a good story and exciting single-player, I recommend trying somewhere else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a story of all the hunters, and boy this game is awesome!
  In this game theres a single-player Mode wich is nice BUT the Multiplayer Mode is what we came 
 for right? Exactly, the multiplayer mode is very good designed. You have 26 Huge medium small size 
 levels to choose on wich you battle in, and 7 different modes to choose from like capture flag, survivor 
 etc. Theres a choice of 7 hunters to choose from wich to play with, wich is awesome. My favourite 
 is Spire, he just is the coolest looking playable character in the Game, i like his Super Weapon, the 
 magmaul. In the multiplayer mode you can add bots with 3 different difficulties to fight with 4 
 players Max (isnt it great!) . You control the game almost only with the stylus pen, except moving 
 with the D-Pad and for left handed with the buttons.
  
  The Online play is totally lag-free wich is good, it would be horrible if it would lag, the only 
 bad thing about online play is, that there are to many hackers in online as it was for about 2 
 years ago. You also have a ranking system. If you have 1 star =prime hunter 2 stars=super hunter 
 3 stars=epic hunters and so on.
  
  Overall this game is Very good FPS game and it is a good add to you DS collection.
  
  Thank 
 you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unksea
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  first of all this is the best ds game. so there are four worlds in the hole game. you visit each 
 planet twice. You use the diffrent guns to unlock the other parts of the level. so your after these 
 things called okioths. You and six other hunters are after these. after you kill them for the first 
 time they will roam around the planets and they become playable in multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is were this game shines. It's still fun even if your getting your a$$ kicked. My only problem 
 with the multiplayer is that when someone has the sniper it's very unbalanced. The multiplayer 
 still super fun. It dose have some strange controls. there are great graphics in this game. Once 
 you beat the first four levels you get to chose witch order you go to the worlds. I would put this 
 in the hands of any one with a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splash-Bar
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game came as a huge disappointment to me. I was excited because, wow, it's 3D! As a matter 
 of fact, this game was one of the main motives behind my buying a DS Lite oh so long ago. But, 
 alas, my hopes were in vain. As soon as I started the game up, a chunky, pixelated cutscene greeted 
 me, showing a bunch of Metroid hunters. That was just one of the first clues. Then I started playing. 
 The majority of the textures were excessively pixelated... even from a distance, landscapes looked 
 grainy... and people are HAPPILY saying that this is as good as the $130 DS's graphics are going 
 to get.
  
  The gameplay. Yet another downside. The reticule in the middle of the screen is extremely inaccurate 
 to control with the stylus. It provides wayyy too much leeway, making it so you had to meticulously 
 poke and prod at the screen to aim correctly. And, sometimes, when selecting items, you'll miss 
 and hit another just because of the touch screens inaccuracy, and end up getting killed. Especially 
 in online mode.
  
  The sound is yet another downside. It's extremely dull, and almost depressing. It feels like loneliness, 
 when you're walking across mostly empty, ugly, dreary worlds, and having the music to match it, 
 and only a few silly, primitive AI enemies coming toward you to shoot. The AI is another downside. 
 It feels like you're playing a crappy spinoff for Doom.
  
  There really aren't any upsides to this game but for the Gameboy idolizers who are amazed their 
 "2-screened Gameboy" could produce 3D, and the "intuitiveness" (it's like trying to play Counterstrike 
 with a touchpad, fergodsake!) ; I could go further into detail, but others already have. All in 
 all, unless you already have a DS and you see this game in the bargain bin, I'd recommend not letting 
 it tempt you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincesTwilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This game is about Samus Aran being called in to sort a problem out, her mission was to discover 
 the meaning behind this mysterious telepathic message, to secure the ultimate power or, if it cannot 
 be secured, to ensure that it remains secret, or destroy it.
  
  There is alot of shooting involved as many other bounty hunters desire to seek the ultimate power 
 and collect the Olcaliths, therefore, more enemies to destroy.
  
  The game has excellence towards sound effects and graphics plus the story line is great with a 
 good sense of meaning to it.
  
  It is quite addictive as it makes you want to go further into the game.
  
  There are many missions 
 to complete and many enemies to defeat.
  
  It inculdes Wi-Fi connection where you can play other hunters from around the world and multi-player 
 too.
  
  Great game and has around a 10-20 hours playing.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazonix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the fourth installment in the metroid series (or third) It once again 
 stars Bounty Hunter Samus Aran as she travels around looking for crystals , trying to get them 
 before the other bounty hunters do.
  The game was OK, it was missing some difficulty, some TRUE puzzles, and it had repetitve boss fights. 
 It just didn't seem like a metroid game to me.
  It also includes a online multiplayer, which works pretty good. It allows you to play as all of 
 the Bounty Hunters, each with a different interfaace. This, really, is the only thing that saves 
 Hunters. The graphics were good, but they didn't stand up with the simple, and short single player 
 campain 
  
  If Metroid Hunters was stood alone, It might have been a good game, but when it has to compete 
 with Prime 2 : Echoes, it doesn't stand a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iSpeak_InClicks
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, I rented this game, and I've played through a few levels, and I have to say, this game is awesome. 
 Flat out awesome. Details:
  
  Graphics: Incredible. Best graphics I've ever seen on DS. Beautiful cutscenes and play.
  
  
 Control: Great. Love the control, waaaay easier than in previous Metroid Prime games. Only problem, 
 no lock-on. But charged shots do change trajectory if target moves.
  
  Sound: Awesome. Very sci-fi, and lets you know what's going on. Also, fantastic music.
  
  Play: 
 Great. Not too hard, but not easy either. you have plenty of Boss fights. only problem, you have 
 to flee the scene every now and again. Learn your maps and you're fine though.
  
  Multiplayer: Wonderful. I've only gotten to use single-card Deathmatch, but that's a blast (no 
 pun intended) . You get to unlock new characters to use. You have 12 levels! And lots of weapons, 
 and you can set time limits and point limits.
  
  -----
  PROS:
  -Beautiful presentation, audio and video
  -Great control
  -Cool bosses
  -Morph ball puzzles!
 
  -Mystery
  -Doesn't kill your touch screen
  -You can watch your cut-scenes later too
  -It actually tells you why you have to shoot doors!
  -You can unlock new hunters by defeating 
 them in Single- OR Multiplayer
  
  CONS:
  -Sometimes you have to die in order to figure out what to do
  -You can't save until you reach 
 a save point
  -Sometimes in Multiplayer, the frame rate slows down
  -You probably won't scan it all the first time around
  -Some rooms seem similar to other rooms 
 (but they are different)
  -----
  
  I love this game. I would strongly suggest it if you're looking for a good game. I haven't been 
 bored or frustrated since I started. It's also fun to try out the different characters in Multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime Hunters works surprisingly well on the Nintendo DS platform. Even the demo, has great 
 graphics. It's a puzzling game, but it's fun for a challenge. It has really fun multiplayer! You don't 
 even need someone to play with because you can add robots to play with you. You can play as one 
 of the 7 bounty hunters (6 of them are totally new, you probably knew that though) . The new bounty 
 hunters are  Spire. Every hunter has a unique ability, even Samus 
 Aran. The bosses can be painfully hard, but you feel good to have finally beat them. Never forget 
 that once you get the ocilith in a level, that you still have to fight another hunter and get back 
 to your ship really quick! In adventure mode, you collect weapons along the way, but in Multiplayer, most 
 of the weapons are on every map, and you can get them that way. It's just you can't use them in story 
 mode unless if you find them in story mode and get them. This game will take a long time to beat, and 
 when you do, you fight Gorea, and then that's it right? WRONG! You have to hit the colors on the wall 
 with the weapons in the right order, then after you beat Gorea, you have to fight Gorea 2, but he's 
 not so hard and neither is Gorea 1. This game IS rumble pack compatable so when you get shot with 
 one in the GBA slot, you feel your DS rumble a little. If you're trying to find one, you can get one 
 for free from Metriod Prime Pinball. I enjoyed this game so much and I hope you will too.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime Hunters was a long game in the making and took forever to be released, but when it 
 finally came out back in March '06, I wasn't disappointed with it. The single player doesn't have 
 much of a story and it wasn't all that great, but the multiplayer is where MPH really shines. It's 
 probably the best multiplayer game for the DS and it had online play that was much improved from 
 MKDS. The 'with friends' play was good and the voice chat/messaging between games was really cool. 
 There are tons of places to battle, and each are significantly different and the sizes range from 
 tiny to huge. The multiplayer can be pretty intense at times which makes it fun to get into. The 
 gameplay is really good as well with excellent controls that work to perfection and make the game 
 great for the DS. Overall, Metroid Prime Hunters is THE multiplayer game to buy for DS, but you 
 really shouldn't get it unless you either have lots of friends or frequent access to Wi-Fi play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calx3
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters is good also in this metroid prime game theres ...
  
  NAME SPECIES ORIGIN
  sylux unknown cylosis
  weavel csp unknown 
  noxus vhozon vho
  trace 
 kriken kriken empire
  spire olamoni mondreus
  kanden enoema a sinister lab 
  samus aran unkown unknown
  
  csp stans for cybernetic space pirate
  the game its self is 
 good the gameplay is good the difficulty is hard. its a first person shooter which is great and 
 its only for the nintendo ds one bad point is that if you shoot the first door it will automaticly 
 open but when you get to the second door it takes 10 seconds to open. my first friend has also 
 written a review on the game but it wont be as good as mine. i haven't yet completed the game but 
 i am almost 20% through the game. the game gets harder as it goes on. it works on wi-fi aswell. 
 the weapons you get are power beam, missiles, volt driver, battle hammer, imperialist, judicator, 
 magmaul and the shock coil. my fav is the shock coil bercause you can electracute people. WWWHHHOOO!!!
 
  
  gameplay-great
  graphics 7/10
  sound-good theme tune
  HD: NOOOOOOOOOO
  rating:8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doughboy93
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that this is a good game for the D. S. , that I'd probably recommend, however 
 it's online play is what really makes it stand out. If you can't play online don't even consider 
 this for a second.
  
  The graphics are mediocre at best, and environments aren't too impressive. Enemies appear blocky//pixely 
 at times. This game is in a FPS-format similar to that of the Metroid Prime series. Keep in mind 
 this a DS game and an early one at that so I'm cutting them a little slack :)
  
  Gameplay is oook. Controls have about an hour learning curve. And even then they're a tad uncomfortable, 
 but that's ok because I don't see any other way they could've made this a free-look first person 
 shooter otherwise. Enemies are fairly easy, you're still scanning everything you can to complete 
 puzzles and etc.
  
  The story is decent enough, i'm not going to spoil anything, but I'll just say the "twist" isn't 
 really a surprise, so I guess I shouldn't even be calling it a twist in the plot. There's 6 hunters 
 though that you encounter and they have their own unique weapon that you have to search for (previous 
 players of metroid can think of these like powerups, like the spider ball and supermissile, etc.)
 
  
  Overall the single player isn't to impressive and doesn't offer much replay value. Then again, 
 most Metroid primes don't offer much replay value (with my exception of Metroid Zero Mission)
 
  
  If you've played any of the metroid games previous to this, you know by know that the series is 
 renowned for it's fantastic boss fights. Metroid Hunters introduces a new format for boss fights: 
 There's 2 different bosses. You encounter each 4 alternating times. Each time they get a little 
 "harder" and a lot more boring. The bosses aren't very creative to begin so that's disappointing. 
 It also gets frustrating when you HAVE to use a certain weapon. If that weapon like the lava gun 
 thing (excuse my lack of knowledge on the name of this gun) is really weak and is subject to gravity, 
 it can make the boss fight even more tedious and painful.
  
  REDEMPTION!!!!
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters was an early game to have the Wi-Fi compatibility for DS, and is very impressive 
 for that matter. You can play as Samus Aran any of the other 6 hunters who have their weapons and 
 unique morph balls. There's plenty of maps and different modes. There's powerups scattered across 
 the maps (Similar to Metroid Prime 2: Echoes's multiplayer) . There's minimal lag and it's above 
 all FUN!
  
  Considering the single player doesn't take too long (8-10 hours) you don't have to suffer too long. 
 The Wi-Fi leaves plenty of room for more gameplay. But all good things end eventually. After you 
 play on all the maps the multiplayer doooesss get a tab bit repititious whereas I still keep playing 
 Mario Kart DS Wi-Fi.
  
  I guess the reason I'm a bit harsh is that this game took sooo long and for the single player to 
 be so.. disappointing it's a bit frustrating, but I do have to give props to Retro studios for a 
 good effort and overall fun game.
  
  Get this game if you really want to, if you don't like the single player, just pause and quit and 
 play Wi-Fi =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Bosmer
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunter is simply the best competive shooter the DS will ever offer. In my opinion 
 MPH is two different games: story and battle. I didn't say modes because they are too different. 
 I gave this games a score of 10 because the battle 'mode' is perfect. The story isn't perfect, 
 I would give it a 7.5 but since I don't play the story after beating it (7 hours of gameplay) , 
 I gave the 10 for the multiplayer.
  The story is that of the bounty hunter Samus Aran. I won't tell the story, I won't ruin it because 
 it's somewhat clever. The story is cakewalk, blast pathetiquely weak enemies and (like in the console 
 Metroids) scan things. The scans don't realy give the story, they just give info on history of 
 the Albimics, still it's fun to scan everything. The boss fights are easy, if not boring (there 
 are two different ones witch you fight four times each) .
  Now the multiplayer, you can play up to four people in 7 different modes (normal modes, deathmatch, 
 king of the hill, prime hunter (one player gets to be prime hunter. He has higher attack but his 
 healt will drop) . The single card play lets the other players play deathmatch as samus. There are 
 7 hunters: Samus, Kandan, Spire, Trace, Noxus, Sylux and Weavel. Each hunter has there own alt 
 form:
  Samus: morph ball. Rolls around can use bomds and tackle attacks.
  Kandan: stinglarva. Crawls around and has a detachable tail bomb that will seek enemies nearby.
 
  Spire: dialance. Rolls around. Has a spin attack where two rocks spin around him. He can climb 
 walls and is invulnerable to lava.
  Trace: triskeleon. Spider-like. Can be invisble when still. Has a fast charge attack.
  Noxus: 
 vhosceth. Spining like a top. Can use a blade that turns around with him.
  Sylux: lockjaw. Hovering morphball-like. Can deploy bombs wicth conect with a tripwire. If three 
 are placed around an enemy it''s an instant kill.
  Weavel: halfturret. Can split into two. His legs become a automated turret and the head and arms 
 become a crawler thing. You can run around and even fight with the head part.
  The alt forms make a new tipe of combat never seen before, Ex. Weavel is fighting Sylux. Weavel 
 turns into a halfturret an runs away. Sylux turns into lockjaw and tribombs the turret (instant 
 kill) and runs after Weavel.
  There are 8 weapons in the game (available in the story) . Each character can use all but they each 
 have an affinity weapon from witch they can gain special abilities:
  Powerbeam: basic weapon, unlimited ammo, default. It fires a rapid fire machinegun burst or can 
 be charged. The charged shot is much more powerful but is single (charge shoot, charge shoot...) . 
 
  Missle Launcher: Defaut to all hunters. shoots a medium speed missle that deals medium damage. 
 Charging it can double the damage. Is favored by Samus. She can have charged homing missles.
  Volt Driver: Fast shooting, low damage weapon. It's charged shot is slow but powerful. Favored 
 by Kandan. He can have homing charged shot.
  Magmaul: Shoots like a grenade launcher. Can bounce on walls once or twice. Deals massive damage 
 when charged. 
  Imperialist: Sniper. Easy head shots. Favored weapon of Trace. Can turn partialy invisble when 
 using it and standing still.
  Battlehammer: Rapidly lobs frag bombs. Favored weapon of Weavel. The explosions are bigger.
  
 Judicator: shoots wall bouncing beams. When charged, it can shoot three beams. Favored by Noxus. 
 He can freeze people with his charged shot.
  Shock coil: short ranged, latch-on electric gun. Favored weapon of Sylux. He can suck out health.
 
  Omega cannon: (hey I didn't count that one) single shot rocket that kills all in it' s blast radius.
 
  20some maps and the intelligent bots make the matches different, favoring different tactics 
 
  
  PS: Don't mind the spelling errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marrrrrrrio
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  To start, the game had no resemblance to a good, metroid-themed storyline. It had nothing to do 
 with phazon, even though it happened right after Metroid Prime. It had no metroids, no Space Pirates 
 (Other than Weavel.) , and not even any Chozo suit upgrades, or any other suit upgrades, for that 
 matter, other than some cheap guns, that cold have been ripped right out of some random, low-budget 
 FPS. It also focuses more on multiplayer than single player. Not very true to the metroid theme. 
 The controls are clunky, and there's no depth to the gameplay. In all, they might as well have 
 taken some random FPS, and stuck a Metroid label on it. However, to be fair it still has some great 
 multiplayer options, and the graphics look pretty good for a DS game. They also managed create 
 some very interesting Hunter profiles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Literally.
  
  Metroid finally hit the DS in 2006. And it was a good start. They introduced Wi-Fi for us, which 
 accomplished our hopes from when we played split-screen multiplayer on Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. 
 The graphics and environmental design are awesome, since it's Metroid though, it wouldn't be Metroid 
 without detailed environments.
  
  Online was great, we could play as any bounty hunter we defeated to unlock, including Samus. 
 
  
  But what amazed me more (surprisingly :O) , was the Story mode. If I'm a fan of a series, I tend 
 to get into the story first, and Metroid Prime: Hunters helped me with this. 
  
  It's a shame that there was no Phazon in this game, since Metroid Prime is based on Phazon, which 
 deducts a point from this game for not sticking to the story, you might think it's a spin off series 
 because of the bounty hunters and Wi-Fi, but they were just bonuses, and these other hunters have 
 a biography which they speak of later in Metroid. Overall, the game was not disappointing, apart 
 from the story, just a bit.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 - You can play with the buttons, or the stylus and 1 set of buttons. Choose. But 
 the stylus was easier, at times, that is...
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - Great graphics for a DS - Metroid game. It was all nice to look at.
  
  Sound: 
 6/10 - Wasn't really high quality, they could've done better, most of the time it sounded like 
 a laid back vacuum cleaner (do they exist??) . Only at small times did the sound actually sound 
 good. Nothing memorable about it though. The boss battle sequences were nice though, still, every 
 sound file put into the game wasn't at it's highest quality. Promise. I could tell.
  
  Value: 7/10 - Didn't quite stick to the story, but if you want a shooter on the DS that goes online, 
 then Metroid Prime Hunters is for you.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters is a first person shooter for the ds. If your new to metroid prime then it 
 wont tell you that much about it. The main character is samus aran who you rarely see because shes 
 mostly in her zero suit. The story is she recieves a strange message from the tetra galaxy so she 
 goes to investigate onthe second planet she goes to you find a giant cannon that needs about 8 
 octoliths to work she she goes on a quest to find them all competing with other hunters.
  
  The game play is innovative because you use the stylus on the bottom screen th move your gun about 
 and the d-pad to what about it may sound tricky but once its clicked its feels amazing however 
 playing for too long can hurt your thumb that you use the d-pad for.
  
  in terms of graphics its the best ive seen on a ds with full scale buildings and maps full of detail 
 and if that wasnt enough theres amazing cut scenes that will make you want too see them again and 
 again. Theres also great sound which playing in the dark will really scare you because you can walk 
 through a dark corrider with mysterious scraping coming from the other side and turn round and 
 see a hunter jump out of the darkness at you!
  
  There are some noticible flaws in the game including that all the bosses are the same, for example 
 one boss is a big tower that shoots you the next boss is a tower that shoots you and has lasers 
 and so on. The best part about metroid prime hunters is the multiplayer you can challange anyone 
 across the world with wi fi however its limited to death match, if your playing with someone next 
 to you theres about 6 different games you can do.
  
  This is one of my favourite games for the ds with lots of charm and one of the best fps on the 
 ds yet recommend for hardcore gamers only though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlord94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Metroid has always been a great series and this title brings it to the ds. Hunters follows the 
 tradition of first-person shooters fo the earlier metroid games but brings the multyplayer factor 
 and lots of other contributions.
  Starting with graphics, the graphics aren't some of the best, and some of the other hunters and 
 enemies look sometimes quite square, yet they do enough to not drag it down. The sound is a bit 
 above average with some nice little sound effects from all enemies. 
  The story mode of hunters is nice, as the history of the alimbic is told through these datashades, 
 which you can scan and slowly the mystery of the alimbic is revealed when you piece all of them 
 together. Yet, there isn't a very good variety of bosses in this game. You only fight the same 
 types of bosses, just upgraded and soon enough the "ultimate" version of the bosses goes down in 
 almost no trouble. The only exception is the final boss, who is very unique, but again, not to 
 hard once you know how to beat him.
  Probably the stongest aspect is the multiplayer. Multyplayer has several different types of game 
 modes. Additionaly, you are able to play the hunters you faced through story mode with their own 
 unique abilities and new ways to use some weapons you got. The Wi-Fi functionality of the game 
 only improves multiplayer. Only having to be able to play battle mode, which isn't such a drag cause 
 battle mode just rounds of the base of all other modes, shooting everyone else. The only downside 
 is ranking which when you win you win points and increase rank, but if you lose then you lose some 
 points as well. So if you're not at the top of the competition, you may have a bad image. 
  Overall, hunters is a game for people who have been fans of the series, but that doesn't mean a 
 beginner can just pick it up. The hunt for a 100% is long and in the end there still is a lot to 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to note that if you aren't planing on playing this game online, then you 
 probably won't want to buy this game. The single player is good, as in, I would give the game a 
 7.5 if there were no multi-player, but because the multi-player is so fantastic it realy raises 
 the bar and overall quality of the game. If the game consisted of only the multi-player, I would 
 have to give it a 9.8 or so. But they are wrapped together in an overall very good package. The 
 single player is worth playing, just because it's cut-scenes are sooooo beautiful to watch. Probably 
 the best looking on the DS. And the multi-player is realy realy fantastic. Mostly due to the quantity 
 and quality of the maps, and the supurb controls. But there is only one mode to play except if 
 they are your rivals or friends. But that mode is sooo great that you will probably forgive them. 
 you will go up ranks and get badges according to how good you are online. Like if you get 1000 
 head-shots then you might get a badge with a target on it. And when you get rivals you can look 
 at each-others profile to look at there kills and a dozen or so facts and to look at their badges. It's 
 realy probably the most robust online on the DS. And so long as you plan on playing multi-player 
 you will be fully satisfied.
  
  Good: Multi-player is fantastic!!!!!
  controls are revolutionary.
  visuals are amazing.
  cut-scenes look awsome.
  
  Bad: single 
 player is mostly disappointing.
  Bosses repeat multiple times.
  Only one mode when playing with strangers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface1996
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  well i thought it was a challenging game because my hands are really big for the DS when i play 
 this game... so my hands get a cramp. Also because i have online play and i keep forgeting to choose 
 same lvl as me to play w/ and i get a lvl4 vs. me... but im a lvl2 and the story i thought was 
 a little disappointing because..... Well you'll now when you get the game. Also i had the game for 
 about 6 mounths now and i only played it for 52 hours and 34 min... unlike a final fantasy witch 
 i what you should buy with you 30$  
 GTA games r better.......... AND monkeys rule and labadore puppys are the cutest........... BTW nentendogs 
 is good but only when u buy used cause talks 4ever to lvl  
 l0l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkjak95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I first saw it at Sears and i never knew that they still sold it unused. So i did some research 
 on GS and IGN and it looked good, Halo DS was never coming out so this is the next best thing. 
 I never played any metroid game and i now wondered how I survived without it. What i like the best 
 out of this game is the 3-D graphics. sure thy're a bit linear but it feels like you are in another 
 world entirely. I personally think the multiplayer is the best part of this game. single card multiplayer 
 is just battle. but the multi card has about 7 ways to play. capture the flag ,nodes (staying in 
 one area to collect "data ") The Prime Hunter and many more. althogh solid online play is available 
 WI-FI is limited to only battle, unless you have a freind on your roster, then you can voice chat 
 and have the same amount of options as you would in multi card. this game is highly addicting and 
 I highly recommend anyone who likes shooters or just wants a new game. I got this game and is now 
 my most frequently played now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Many gamers will admit that when they heard news of rookie developing studio Retro tackling such 
 a venerable franchise as Metroid and attempting to transition it to a 3D title, they were dismayed. 
 What were the chances that Retro could pull it off? To be honest, very slim. And yet, many gamers 
 will also admit their shock -- and delight -- when the game was released and met with critical 
 acclaim from nearly every major review source. Somehow, Retro had done the impossible and created 
 a Metroid world that was nostalgically similar to that we all knew -- and at the same time something 
 brilliant and new and all its own.
  
  So, is it any real surprise that gamers were giddy with anticipation for Metroid Prime Hunters? 
 After all, it was announced at a time when the DS was relatively young and owners were yearning 
 for a quality first-person shooter. Plus, Metroid Prime Hunters was next in line for the Nintendo 
 WiFi Connection, popular thanks to the stellar title Mario Kart DS. And finally, Nintendo themselves 
 would be handling Hunters; while gamers felt a connection with developer Retro, was it possible 
 that Nintendo could create an even better game experience?
  
  I'll come right out and say it now: The answer is no. While there is clearly a pile of potential 
 in Metroid Prime Hunters, the sad truth is that Nintendo completely failed to capitalize on the 
 potential that the DS had for making Hunters a great game. Regarding the potential that Hunters 
 sports, the way it's most prevalent is with the game's graphics. They're actually among the best 
 to date on the Nintendo DS, even with graphically impressive titles on the market such as Final 
 Fantasy III.
  
  The entire game runs very smoothly, which is quite a feat considering how heated parts of the game 
 get. There are a variety of environments throughout the course of the game, all of which are nicely 
 animated. Of course, because the DS is a handheld system, environs do get a bit blocky once you 
 get close enough to them. Still, though, a little pixilation is a small price to pay for the overall 
 beautiful graphics. There are also a number of short cutscenes throughout the game, all of which 
 are absolutely stunning. Metroid Prime Hunters really does push the Nintendo DS to its graphical 
 potential and sets the bar for visual superiority of DS titles to come.
  
  The audio of the game, while nothing spectacular, is also fairly well done. Music is atmospheric 
 (which usually translates into being creepy) and sound effects are plentiful. The music does a 
 fairly good job of immersing you in the game, which is, after all, what the audio should be doing. 
 The music couldn't be called great, though, just because it is somewhat forgettable. Still, though, 
 it makes the game slightly more fun, and that's good enough for me.
  
  The controls, while ragged on by some players, are actually (at least to me) one of the best aspects 
 of this entire game. While the demo of the title that came with the launch DS systems had the action 
 unfold on the bottom screen, that's not how things work in the final edition of the game. Instead, 
 the bottom screen houses a radar, and a few other critical buttons (switching ammo, missiles, and 
 changing into your alternate form) , while all the action unfolds on the upper screen. Sliding the 
 stylus around on the bottom screen controls Samus' aim. Naturally, you can crank the difficulty 
 up or down, depending on your comfort with the system. While this may seem a bit gimmicky, it actually 
 works incredibly well. While the overall game fails to impress, Hunters easily sports the best 
 FPS mechanic I've seen so far on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Where the game absolutely fails, and in a big way, is with the gameplay mechanic. The vast majority 
 of gamers out there would agree that gameplay is by far the most important aspect of any game; 
 sadly, Metroid Prime Hunters' just falls flat. It's obviously not the controls that kill it -- 
 as I mentioned already, they're actually quite good. The problem is that the game is just too immensely 
 repetitive. Yes, it's true that the early Metroid games relied a lot on backtracking through areas 
 that you already visited to open up new paths and find critical items. Even the Prime games did 
 the same thing. So, perhaps it may seem at first glance that Nintendo is simply implementing a 
 callback to the quality of past Metroid games. However, this is just not the case, as much as I 
 wish it were.
  
  First, let me tell you something: There are only really four areas in the entire game. Yes, that's 
 right: four. In every other Metroid game, the planet has been all connected; you could get from 
 the beginning of the game to the final boss just by using a ton of warp devices. The fact is that 
 it was all connected. However, in Hunters, there are four different planets in a "cluster", and 
 you've got to rocket off to each one. Secondly, these planets are annoyingly small. Even once you 
 unlock more areas of them, they still seem so miniscule compared to the huge, lush worlds created 
 by Metroid Primes 1 and 2.
  
  Essentially, the player (taking the role of Samus, interstellar galactic bounty hunter extraordinaire) 
 fights through these planets, accessing what rooms they can. Many are locked, and have to be revisited 
 later. You'll find a number of upgrades, including health, missiles, and Universal Ammo. The UA 
 powers a variety of different weapons, which are found throughout the four planets. Each different 
 weapon, in addition to being "useful" in different situations, can unlock different doors.
  
  So, you are fighting you way through planets, overcoming pathetically weak, stupid enemies 
 and a few simplistic puzzles. Find a weapon, fight a boss, maybe engage an enemy hunter (more on 
 that in a bit) , then leave, and repeat. You'll have to visit each planet twice, and that's where 
 another of the game's problems come in: it's far too linear. Past Prime games have given you the 
 field and let you do what you want. You're not given much guidance and you've got to explore by 
 yourself. However, in Hunters, you're pretty much told what to do and where to go. So while there 
 is a ton of monotonous backtracking, there's no exciting exploration element to it, because you 
 KNOW that you're supposed to be there. Why? Because the stupid game told you.
  
  Another monstrous (pun intended) problem with the game is its boss battles. Again, part of the 
 problem lies with lack of quantity (and the other part with lack of quality) . Let me extrapolate: 
 there are two bosses in the entire game. Yes, you read correctly: TWO. That is absolutely inexcusable. 
 You've got to fight each boss multiple times. Yes, each time you fight it, it changes minutely, 
 but the basic fight is identical. When you compare that to the incredible originality and diversity 
 of bosses in every other Metroid game, particularly the Prime titles, you'll begin to see how Hunters 
 just really fails to live up to its namesake.
  
  The game's plot is similarly uninspired. Past games have been somewhat mysterious; all you know 
 is that some sort of accident has happened, and you're left to investigate, find out what went 
 wrong, and find out eventually that you've been swept up in an epic quest. However, such is not 
 the case with Hunters. You're told from the start what's going on: There is some sort of Ultimate 
 Power hidden within the Alimbic Cluster; you must go and investigate. Sure, there's some plot revelations, 
 mainly about the previous inhabitants of the Cluster, but it just lacks the charm and atmosphere 
 of the previous games.
  
  The game also sports some multiplayer, and this is all that keeps Hunters from being an absolute 
 bust. This is where the game's title really starts to come into play, as well. See, the Galactic 
 Federation isn't the only group who has picked up the signal about the Ultimate Power, and other 
 bounty hunters are searching for it as well. They'll come up in your adventure and you'll be forced 
 to defeat them; however, the role they really play is as multiplayer characters.
  
  Each different hunter has a very unique skillset, and the fun lies in figuring out who exactly 
 fits your play style. One, called Trace, excels in sniping. Another, Kanden, is able to skew foes' 
 vision and null their fighting capabilities. Each one has a different weapon (these are actually 
 the different weapons that you find in the game) , and they have improved abilities with their affinity 
 weapon. Also, each one has a different alternate form (the equivalent of Samus' morph ball) . Some 
 are good for escaping, while others are effective at taking out an opponent. There's a lot of depth 
 here, and it's clear that more attention was devoted to the multiplayer mode than to the story 
 mode.
  
  There are three different modes of multiplayer: single-card download play, multi-card play, and 
 the much anticipated WiFi play -- online gaming for those of you unaware. Single-card is fun enough; 
 every stage you've unlocked (there are tons of them, by the way) is available to play, but the 
 downloading players (up to three) must use the basic, default hunter: Samus. Still, it's fun enough, 
 and worth it to be able to play with your friends with just one game card.
  
  Multi-card is my personal favorite. Every character and every course is open to you, and you're 
 up for some fun frag-fests with up to three of your friends. The game keeps extensive records, 
 including basic items such as wins and losses, but also includes headshot kills, hunter of choice, 
 favorite weapon, win percentage, and the like. There's also an option here to go head-to-head against 
 bots, allowing you to practice your shooting abilities and gear up for fighting friends.
  
  Finally, there's WiFi play. I've got to admit: it's probably my least favorite of the three available 
 multiplayer modes. It's full-fledged, but it takes a long time just to find some players, and the 
 game has an annoying habit of refreshing and disconnecting any opponents you've already found. 
 And then, once you finally get a game going, there are still multiple problems. The game is pretty 
 laggy, especially with four players running around in a large arena. When the action gets fast 
 and thick, the frame rate drops noticeably, and it's really annoying. And finally, there are the 
 myriad of cheaters out there, who hack and disconnect to ensure that their precious win record 
 remains untarnished.
  
  So, is it really worth purchasing Metroid Prime Hunters? Well, that's ultimately up to you and 
 depends on what you're looking for in a game. If you're expecting the type of experience that the 
 true Prime series gave you, you're going to be severely disappointed -- I sure was. If, however, 
 you're looking for a decent multiplayer shooting experience on the DS, then this might be the title 
 for you. Still, though, it might be a good idea to have a wireless router or Nintendo's USB WiFi 
 connector, to ensure that you can play online. But ultimately, I'd try and talk some of your friends 
 into getting this game, so you can play lag-free and without worry of cheaters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is such a great addition to the Metroid Prime series because it is so well 
 done just as the other Prime games have.
  
  The gameplay is one of the best things in Hunters because you use the stylus to aim, jump, and 
 everything else except shooting and moving! It really works perfectly more than any FPS game for 
 a handheld gaming system.
  
  The graphics aren't very attractive, but it shows what the DS can do with visuals, and it succeeds. 
 Animation is smooth, as are the cutscenes. 
  
  If you've ever played a Metroid game, you should've noticed that the music is always sci-fi (go 
 figure) . Hunters stays true to that as well. Everywhere you go, the music fits perfectly.
  
  The game should last you quite a long time because there is so much to do on the DS's little 
 cartridge of Hunters. Not only that, there is online available ... but it is far from being amazing. 
 It is extremely basic and often boring because at times, it gets very repetitive -- as does the campaign.
 
  
  Anyway, Hunters is a wonderfully addictive game and will last you for quite a while especially 
 is you are an FPS fan such as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSeal-Curse
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Frankly, i think this is probably the best Metroid in the series it presents everything beautifully
 
  Graphics-10/10
  This game literally glows on a ds lite, and it has some of the best graphics youll find on the 
 ds, so i highly reccomend it if ur upsessed with graphics
  Sound-8.5/10
  all your favorite metroid tunes are back from samus's music when she first appears out of her ship 
 to the four notes of music that play when you get an item this game has beautiful surround ecspecially 
 if u play it on surround lol
  Gameplay-9/10
  what do you expect from a metroid game of course its for hardcore gamers! its difficulty is hard 
 unless your an expert at metroid games but i highly reccomend it cuz it super fun!!
  Multiplayer-10/10
  dude wi-fi is so much fun lets jus say its like halo on a handheld 
  ! P. S.- 
 (join my team the POISOnUs SNIPeRs)
  
  I highly reccomend this game even if your new to the Metroid Universe! U will have so much fun!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I like Metroid, the GameCube games were awesome, so is Corruption for the Wii, but Hunters is, 
 uuhh, not as good.
  The single player campain is kind of boring. Your enemies are pretty much little grub/snail type 
 things and the floating green Metroids, and hovering robots that are kindof like the Sentinals 
 in Halo. With the occasional dino-robot and hunters. The boss fights aren't any fun either, and 
 most of the time, downright frustrating. They're close to impossible. The console games had the 
 space pirates and such, what happened to those, those are fun, in Hunters you just kill little 
 bugs and floating robots.
  
  Plain and simple, there is only one good thing about Metroid: Hunters, and that is the multiplayer. 
 I could play multi-player on Hunters for hours, I used to take it to school and me and my friends 
 would duke it out. At home, get the bots in there and kill them, the multi-player is just plain 
 addicting and fun. But the single player leaves alot to be desired. It wasn't that great, if you 
 like mass multiplayer games, this is a good game for that, but if you want a fun single player 
 it is not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  nice game but its hard. all metroid prime games are hard to me but they're still good. im stuck 
 though. i like how you can play multiplayer and the game has wi fi. they should make another metroid 
 prime game for ds. they do have a lot of bosses and the action good. the graphics are nice for 
 a ds game. i think metroid prime for wii would be better because u can use the wii controls. some 
 or most first person shooters for ds are bad but this game is another reason why you should own 
 a ds. now the bad. but i have only two complaints. 1. it feels like you are constantly going over 
 things like over the maps if your stuck. and the aiming isn't great. my hand keeps on slipping 
 like on the bosses and i die. but i do like how you can play against computers. and how you can 
 unlock your enemies by beating them in story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is nothing like any of the other Metroid video games for the Nintendo GameCube, 
 or any other system. That is the good part about this video game. It feels so much more like a 
 first person shooter than any of the other Metroid video games. 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters really lacks in the single player mode, and I wouldn't drop the score at 
 all if it did not have the single player mode. The single player mode plays a lot differently than 
 the other Metroid video games. The gun upgrades are cool, but there is not really much more to 
 it. You collect items, open the door to the boss, fight the boss, and then repeat. 
  
  The storyline is also horrible. I do not even understand it, and I do not care about it, either. 
 A couple of hunters are just looking for the "ultimate power," and they will kill people over it. 
 The storyline is told in text by an unknown narrator, and no one else talks in text or in a voice. 
 Players will even question why the heck they are going to these pointless planets, but some video 
 gamers may find it intriguing. 
  
  The multiplayer is the exact opposite. This is the best multiplayer feature I have ever played 
 in a video game. That is how fun it is. The great part about it is that choosing the character 
 to fight with really effects your overall performance. If you are a good sniper who likes to go 
 unnoticed a lot, then Trace is your choice. If you like to just constantly use the same attack 
 over and over again to kill an opponent in one hit, then Sylux is your choice. I am amazing with 
 Trace, but I am horrible with anybody else. I would win very few matches without Trace. That is 
 how effective your choice is in this video game. 
  
  While I think the weapons are great, some of them are just completely useless. It is fun to use 
 different guns that look different and have a different color, but I do not see much use to them. 
 It is not a huge con, but there are tons of unique ideas that they could have used for the guns 
 that they didn't. 
  
  The seven hunters all have a different form. They can all turn into smaller creatures, such as 
 Samus's morthball, to do different attacks. These smaller forms (Also known as "alts.") are a lot 
 faster than the normal forms, but it can cause problems when you are playing people online, especially 
 if they are just in that form for the whole time! 
  
  Players will also notice that they can communicate by using the microphone on the Nintendo DS. 
 Unfortunately, you have to be someone's friend by entering a long code. You can also use text if 
 you do not feel comfortable revealing your real voice. You cannot talk to rivals either way. Video 
 gamers can also choose from seven different matches to play with their friends or rivals, but you 
 cannot send them an invitation or anything. You have to wait for them to notice that there is another 
 game available to play on. The chances of them noticing it are low. 
  
  The Wi-Fi is great to play online, but it can sometimes run lag, or it may boot you out of the 
 game you are playing entirely.
  The sound has the same Metroid feel, but all your hunters do is screech when they get hit by something. 
 There is no voice acting. Your characters say nothing, but the music that surrounds a stage is 
 good enough to listen to. 
  
  There are also ranks that appear as stars. Your points increase as you win more matches, and your 
 points decrease as you lose more matches. If they are higher rank than you and you win the match, 
 then you gain more rank points, but if you lose to someone of a lower level than you in a match, 
 you lose more rank points. 
  The graphics look so fantastic on the DS! The colorful environments, the vivid texture, and the 
 astounding look of the attacks make it look like it could be a Nintendo GameCube video game. Maybe 
 not, though.
  
  I think that Metroid Prime: Hunters is the best DS video game ever. It has the best multiplayer 
 feature ever, too. I also think that this is the best first person shooter (FPS) ever. There are 
 few video games that can be performed as well as Metroid Prime: Hunters. Surely this was a gift 
 from a God, because I do not think mankind can design something so fun. It could have had eight 
 players play in a match instead of just four, but it is still superb. This is one of the best video 
 games to ever grace this planet.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 7.7/10
  Game Play: 9.2/10
  WiFi: 8/10
  
  Review created on March 28, 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Hunters is a fun DS game with all the metroid goodness that you can expect from the series. In 
 the beginning its a bit hard to get used to especially if you are used to playing all the other 
 metroid prime games. But what really makes this game shine is the wifi capabilities. I'm pretty 
 sure that everyone has played at least one metroid prime game so i don't need to explain the concept 
 and style of a metroid game. But when you play online its a whole new world! you don't only have 
 to choose samus (although i personally think she's the best one) . But there are a number of other 
 hunters to choose from, all with their own arm cannon and morh ball styles. Lots of levels to battle 
 in and a ranking system showing how good you are! I think this is the game i have spent most my 
 time playing on wifi on my ds. this is a great game people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty cool it's graphics are great and there is even better online play with up to 
 4 players and there is always someone playing and you can choose 7 players each with their own 
 special/unic abbilyties and the storymode is pretty decent and kind of hard as well as the controls 
 to play they get complicated at first but you eventually get used to it and it's lefty freindly 
 you can play with only 1 gamecard which is pretty fun the game can rank you online and everything 
 is decent and you can add people as rivals so you can talk and battle with them and if you add 
 freinds you can talk to them as well the bad thing is that it's to linear and hackers got to it 
 and people disconnect all the time but other than that it's a great game but if you don't have 
 wi-fi you really shouldn't buy it because that is where the game truly shines! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djcomputron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is definitely one of the better games from Nintendo for the DS. Even though 
 it is more FPS-like than the previous Metroid games, it still feels very much like a Metroid Prime 
 game and tells a very interesting story without actually telling it. The addition of these other 
 hunters really added an extra angle to the game that allows it to stand proud and tell next to 
 the other entries in this franchise.
  
  The graphics are slightly grainy but about as good as one would expect from a DS. The 3-D world 
 that Samus is exploring is very rich in those Metroid Prime textures we have come to enjoy. The 
 sound of the game is really fantastic, no voicework of course. It takes some time to get used to 
 using the stylus to aim but it is very precise. The only problem is that, if you're not careful, 
 you'll have her turning into a morphball right when you need to be shooting or jumping from a platform. 
 That can get very frustrating but you just need to pay attention of where you touch the stylus 
 to the screen.
  
  The game is very enjoyable to play, though the little timed chases to escape a place seem unnecessary 
 but I guess they needed to add a little more excitement.
  
  Add on top of all of this Wi-Fi multiplayer and you definitely have something that will be remembered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi7007
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  MPH is an attempt at putting a futuristic shooter, which has never been quite as good as Halo, 
 on to the Nintendo DS. The graphics are superb. I have not played a DS shooter with as good graphics, 
 but the gameplay doesnt transfer as well. You use the stylus to aim, which is ok, but your hand 
 aches after a while from the position you have to hold it in. The difficulty is fairly hard, as 
 on the bigger screen, it is slightly easier. On a small screen, they tried to over-complicate it 
 too much, which often baffles the player, with aliens flying in from all directions, whilst you're 
 trying to reach your goal in a dimly lit room. This may be better on the DS lite with a brighter 
 screen, but I just have a DS. This game is on the verge of impossibility in a car, especially on 
 bumpy roads as it is hard to shoot other people. The online play is quick and easy, but the game 
 moves way too fast before you have a clue where you are. The maps are ok but often you don't know 
 where you are.
  
  A decent game, with some great areas, but also some poor ones too. If there is a sequel, hopefully 
 those will have been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RossMan14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  What's not to love about this game? I really don't know because in my opinioin, this is one of 
 the finest DS games out their and is worth every dollar you spend on it. The story mode is fun 
 and engaging and makes great use of the touch screen which has you move Samus's vision and switch 
 weapons/ morphball. The other hunters you meet in the game are very creative and a joy to kill, 
 (who doesn't like blowing bots up???) plus the weapons and alt-forms they bring are a blast to 
 use. Which brings the multiplayer which alone could support the game by itself. There are so many 
 different modes to play, and with so many stages and options to customize, you'll be playing over 
 and over until you hand falls off. Although the Wi-Fi can be a little annoying, the battles are 
 a joy and you will be playing this game for months and months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  I bought this game hyping the multiplayer and thinking lowly of the single player. Find out more 
 in my review.
  
  8/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  I barely even finished the single player. Not that it was hard, it was just kinda boring, I don't 
 know why. The multiplayer on the other hand, is a lot of fun! Even though I sucked and only got 
 up to two stars, I had fun and probably did over 300 matches. The controls are just like every 
 other FPS on the DS. Stylus on bottom screen controls the view on top screen, L to shoot, D-Pad 
 to move, etc. Get some friends though, because when you tell the matchmaker to find someone the 
 same rank as you, it rarely will.
  
  8/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The graphics are nothing special, especially for the DS. There are sound effects which are very 
 good to listen to, but there is no voice acting.
  
  10/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  That rating is not for playtime, it's for replayability. The multiplayer is a lot of fun on wi-fi, 
 and there are different modes, but I only did battle.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  Get this game if you want a 4 player first-person deathmatch. Or if you love the Metroid series, 
 you'll probably like this. This was my first Metroid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review.
  Gameplay: The controls can be custimized to your likings, but the styulis is akward to use in this 
 game. The single player is very boring. You barly ever see any enimes at all, but the multiplayer 
 and WI-FI make up for it. You can use DS download play or multi card play, or you can face a few 
 bots on your free time. Wi-FI also has a problem of disconecting you though.
  
  Grahics: The envirnment and your gun look pretty cool, but your enimies look a bit muddy and weird.
 
  
  Value: When I got it (on the night it came out) it was a good $35 at least. Now it is probably $25-$30, 
 and is a grat deal.
  
  Replay value: You woun't want to replay the story line again, but you will probably want to keep 
 doing WI-FI.
  
  Conclusion: Get his game ONLY if you:
  A.) Like FPS games (First person shooters)
  B.) If you like Metroid games. Or
  C.) If you like 
 laughing at other people as you snipe them in the head on WI-FI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonbuddy7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best you can go around different planets and blow stuff up. you can also get different 
 weapons so to speak different bosses require you to do different things to test your skill you 
 can also challenge your friends or random people to see which one of you is the better metroid 
 this game is cool if you want to shoot something or duke it out online you get the option to change 
 hunters which is cool since you have different weapons that that hunter favors each hunter also 
 has a different anti forum that do different things due to the hunter you are using the story mode 
 is cool your one objective is to get all ocholiths which are little shining things that look like 
 diamonds on online play you are rated according to your skill level the more kills you get the 
 higher your rating but if you die a certain amount of times your rating will go down so be careful 
 you can obtain a majority of different stages by meeting certain requirements such as getting to 
 a certain point in story mode or beating a certain amount of players on wife 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Forget what you know about Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. Though Hunters takes place 
 in between the two, the story itself is radically different, as is the gameplay. Especially the 
 gameplay. The Prime games on the GameCube relied heavily on exploration and adventuring. Hunters 
 not so much. The story goes like this; all these random messages are being sent out across the 
 galaxy, in many different languages, but the message itself is always the same. Apparently there's 
 a great, ancient power available, called an 'octolith', so this attracts bounty hunters from all 
 over, because they all want this power. Some want it because it's there, some for more power (they're 
 greedy) , some for respect of others. Samus (our heroine, in case you didn't know) is sent out to 
 harness the power before someone else gets it. If the power cannot be contained, it's to be destroyed. 
 Not on the same level as Prime, in my opinion, but I suppose it's passable.
  
  Graphics
  
  This is the most visually stunning DS game yet. No way around it. From the amazing looking 
 CG cutscene movies (which range from the stellar opening scene to the lackluster boss movies) to 
 the environments, to all the little details. I literally thought to myself a few times while playing 
 "so when am I getting my Metroid Prime port"? It looks that good. It retains the look and style 
 of Metroid Prime, which is amazing considering the hardware. It's been said the production values 
 are sky high, and that's no understatement. Like I said, considering the game's on the DS, it looks 
 very much like the GameCube Prime games. But there is the typical DS texture smudge, as I like 
 to call it; get up close a wall or door and you'll see it.
  
  The little details sets the game apart from anything else. I've yet to see this much attention 
 to the little things in any other DS game. Samus' ball has this little reflection thing to it, 
 there's all kinds of relics on the walls and on the ground, holes in walls, etc. My only complaint 
 was that there isn't really a worldly feel to it. None of the areas felt like an advanced race 
 of things lived there formerly, it just feels like chained together multiplayer arenas that were 
 built for the standard FPS multiplayer game modes, not for a singleplayer game... Hmm...
  
  You can't see the normal enemies that well though. They're incredibly tiny, so they don't really 
 look too good. The "guardian" enemies are essentially just random bots that will fight you occasionally. 
 They play the same as the other bounty hunters, but have no "ball" form, and they look pretty generic. 
 The bounty hunters all look unique though, from the "lava guy" to the "ice guy", each one has their 
 own personality, and they all look really well. Animation problems don't seem to come into play 
 either.
  
  The only real problem with the graphics is that when there's a bunch of guardians attacking, as 
 well as some random fodder enemies, with all that action on the screen at once, there is some slowdown. 
 Doesn't last long, nor does it happen often, but it's there.
  
  Sound
  
  Like alot of sequels are, it tends to remix the old tunes. Unfortunately for Hunters, I can't say 
 that there was enough remixes. The Metroid games always have great soundtracks, but Hunter's is 
 definitely forgettable. Generic up-tempo rock for battle sequences, but the chilled out tunes for 
 "exploring". Mixes well, there just isn't anything stand out about it.
  
  The effects sound like they were ripped from the GameCube, for the most part. The sound of the 
 power beam, the little fanfare that plays when you open a missile door, the cry of the shriek bats 
 before they attack, etc. No problem with the effects, aside from, can an eyeball scream (more on 
 that shortly) ?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Like I said, forget about Prime for GameCube when you go to play Hunters. The GameCube games are 
 strictly adventure, with a dash of puzzle solving and some combat tacked on. Hunters is combat, 
 with some walking to a new room in between battles, and they kept the scan visor. Any "puzzles" 
 that are thrown your way can be overcame with little to no thought.
  
  The action takes place on one of four planets. After you get the first octolith on each planet, 
 you then go back to the planets you've already been to, but now you can open new areas with your 
 new found weaponry. Don't get worried though; there is minimal backtracking, really, if any. And 
 since there's only eight octoliths (get it? Eight, octo? Har har) you most likely won't see the 
 planets anymore after you've been there that second time. There's energy tanks, missile tanks, 
 and ammo tanks, but they're all easy to find and shouldn't require any searching at all.
  
  Ammo tanks are present because in Hunters, there is no "beam" weapons, aside from the power beam. 
 Instead, there's the "shock coil", "judicator", "magmaul", and others. They're basically standard 
 first person shooter weapons, but with a Metroid touch. The Unreal Tournament shock rifle-like 
 judicator can freeze, for instance. And the serie's standard missiles is more like an under-powered 
 rocket launcher (compared to other first person shooters) , but props for including it in that form. 
 These secondary weapons are limited, which is why you can collect ammo extensions, allowing you 
 to be more liberal with their usage. There's also doors and force-fields colored for each weapon 
 too, so if you've played a Metroid game, you should understand how that works. If not, allow me; 
 once you gain a new weapon, you can go back to that previously inaccessible area and open your 
 way up with your newfound sidearm. I can appreciate that they'd want to spice things up, but I'd 
 have rather seen the wave, ice, and plasma beams in there instead.
  
  Morph ball 'puzzles' are included, though there isn't nearly enough, in my opinion. Plus, considering 
 that the d-pad isn't precise enough to control the ball and the stylus isn't as responsive, some 
 of the timed puzzles can be a chore. Not because of their difficulty, but because they require 
 precision actions, and that's not possible, apparently.
  
  Back to those octoliths; there's two on each planet, like I said. You have to find three artifacts 
 to open up the boss portal, then when you beat the boss, you get an octolith. The bosses however 
 are fairly horrible. There's a giant totem pole that fires lasers (sort of like the Hive Totem 
 in Metroid Prime) and a giant eyeball that fires balls of electricity. You face each boss a total 
 of four times. But, each time you fight it, it gets a little harder than before. Definitely some 
 of the laziest boss design I've ever seen. But, once you've defeated a boss, you're engaged in 
 a timed escape back through the level to your ship. Anyone that's played a Metroid game knows that 
 timed escapes are essential. But not when they're in such an abundance. They become more a tedious, 
 tacked on chore to lengthen gameplay instead of a frantic, frightening dash to the exit, which 
 is what they should feel like. And once you get to the ship, there's no explosions, nothing. Almost 
 as if that rushing back to the ship was more for a bathroom break rather than anything else.
  
  You do encounter the other hunters during your romp through the singleplayer portion. When 
 you step in certain arenas, you get into an impromptu deathmatch with one of the other hunters. 
 I'm not sure if this happens if you have an octolith in your possession, or if only after you've 
 just beaten a boss, but supposedly if you lose to a hunter, they take an octolith and you have 
 to track them down and take it back. I never had to do this though, cause I never lost against 
 them.
  
  The one thing that bothers me most about the singleplayer portion is the environments. While they 
 do look really nice, they're also nothing more than chained together multiplayer maps, with a few 
 exceptions. A map that was built with deathmatches, capture the flag, etc. in mind isn't really 
 the ideal location for an exploration kind o f game. But, since Hunters is a FPS rather than adventure 
 game, I can see why the exploring is toned back. But you can clearly see where the focus was put...
 
  
  Online
  
  The most robust online game for DS so far. Not without it's flaws, but hopefully a foreshadowing 
 of even better things. The biggest addition is the voice chat. You can talk to people only if they're 
 on your friend list and you're on their list. Very walky talky like in it's execution, but that's 
 good though, cause if four people tried to talk at once it wouldn't work out right most likely. 
 Also included is a text chat for the shy, and the character limit is alor larger than Animal Crossing's, 
 so no worries about having to shorten everything up. Speaking of which, the friend list has expanded 
 since the first online games for DS; now you have 60 slots, and you can divide them between both 
 friends and rivals. Rivals are people that you've added after an online game; if you want to play 
 them again, you have no choice but to add them as a rival, since there's no way to exchange codes. 
 The best thing about the online is that it treats your friend/rival list as a buddy list of sorts; 
 you can see everyone that's online, which you can't do in any other DS online game. The only downside 
 is that you can't see if they're in a game currently or waiting in a lobby or staring at their 
 list like you're doing to your's.
  
  All the standard FPS modes are present, such as deathmatch, survival, capture the flag, domination, 
 king of the hill, etc. The names have been changed a bit though, so if you don't read the description, 
 you'll be wondering what mode is what, and you can also do team modes of each too. The levels are 
 also right varied, and there's 26 in all. Not too shabby. The problem though is that some are too 
 large, even with four people playing; I've spent lots of time wandering around looking for someone 
 to kill as I have actually fighting. All the weapons from the single player are available to all 
 the hunters, but each hunter has a favorite; an "affinity" weapon, that when they use it, special 
 abilities are added. For example, using the imperialist with Trace allows him to go invisible if 
 he's stationary. Each hunter also has their own special "ball" mode; they're all unique, whether 
 it be the type of bomb or weapon they use, and one hunter can even climb walls in his alternate 
 form. Pretty cool making them all different, instead of everyone being exactly alike just with 
 a different skin.
  
  Closing Comments
  
  The single player is short and semi-sweet; sweet enough to where you don't mind playing it, and 
 you have fun doing it. But not good enough for multiple plays through. Multiplayer however is a 
 sucker. With it being so varied, with a packed friend list, you'll be playing a long time.
  
  A great DS game; a bit better online than off. It's just not quite up to par with the other 
 Prime games. Which isn't much of a knock, considering we're talking about a DS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edpeterson
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This review might be a little late but I have to review it, it's too good not to review it. There 
 is good and bad with this game even though I gave it a 9.0.
  
  Well I'll start with the good stuff. OK the graphics are pretty good, expecially for the DS. Now 
 I'm not saying the DS graphics suck, wait that's exactly what I'm saying. Most of the DS games 
 have horrible graphics but not this game. This game also has a side-quest: scanning everything 
 (it may be borring but it's still a side-quest) . This game also has a good control scheme, and 
 bosses. This game also has 2 different endings!!!!!! It also has a funtion that lets you watch 
 all the movies in the game!!!
  
  The Multiplayer is the best I've seen on the DS. Since I'm too lazy to write about the Multiplayer 
 all I'll say is it's fun, expecally when you see how good you are at this game.
  
  There is not a lot of bad stuff with this game but that doesn't mean that it's flawless. The worst 
 thing about this game is the bosses are repeatitive. You fight the same boss 3 times (they get 
 a little harder everytime) . I also hate how some of the bosses are really hard and almost impossible 
 to defeat. Also sometimes it is hard to see what's going on. An example of this is when I was fighting 
 a monster thing and I fell into lava, I died. Sometimes in this game it's hard to know where to 
 go, I know this because I got stuck a lot.
  
  Good
  + graphics (the DS has poor graphics on most games but not this game)
  + Movie viewer (you can 
 see all the cut-scenes after you played through them in the main game)
  + 2 different endings!!!!!
  + controls
  + actually many bosses (but if you look down it's kind 
 of a bad thing)
  + Multiplayer (the best I've ever played)
  
  Bad
  - bosses
    sometimes hard/impossable
    repeatitive (only 3 different bosses in the game and 7 bosses 
 total)
  - sometimes hard to see what's going on
  - easy to get lost
  
  Bottom line: GET THIS GAME, you won't regreat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin419
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  It's really fun, but the bosses get boring, they are the same thoughout the game. Multiplayer is 
 great. Awesome game!
  
  The game has a lot of nice features like Wifi, but that is probably the only reason for you to 
 keep playing this game after you beat the game several times and explore it fully.
  
  The game is too short. You get to travel to other planets like in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, 
 but you only have two missions per planet with a total of four planets excluding the final planet, 
 Oubliette. Eight Octoliths makes the game too short, but with the possibility of having an Octolith 
 stolen from one of the other six bounty hunters and having to retrieve it back makes it more intense.
 
  
  Other great features include the innovative touch screen with the option of using movement functions 
 with the touchscreen or with the directional pad and A, B, X, and Y buttons. The game adapts to 
 your control style to whether you're left-handed or right-handed. The game does have a great sense 
 of action to it and it's a game that will keep you playing for hours even after you beat it several 
 times, especially the addicting Wifi and Multiplayer game modes. Multiplayer has seven modes to 
 play on including Classic Battle, Survival, Prime Hunter, and others.
  
  The cons about Metroid Prime: Hunters is that the game has exceptional graphics, but aren't as 
 good as they could possibly be, but the game card is small and it's made for a portable gaming 
 system, so give credit where credit is due. Also, as said before, game play is too short and the 
 bosses and enemies aren't that difficult to put out of existence. There are three main bosses which 
 are Slench, the flying, mechanical eyeball, Cretaphid, the laser assault pillar, and Gorea. Gorea 
 is the power behind the reckoning and evil unrelenting in the Tetra galaxy that had to be locked 
 away to end the horror and bring peace. Gorea was imprisoned in a mystical trap called the Seal 
 Sphere and sent to an interdimensional prison, the Oubliette. Slench and Cretaphid are bosses that 
 you face four times each though out the game, but with every time that you encounter them, they 
 have upgraded to one extra ability, which makes it harder to beat the boss, but makes the game 
 more boring. If you were hoping for eight different bosses to fight to obtain each of the eight 
 Octoliths, you may feel very disappointed.
  
  The six bounty hunters which are Kanden, Sylux, Noxus, Spire, Trace, and Weavel are against you 
 and trying to obtain the eight Octoliths in their quest for the Ultimate Power. These six bounty 
 hunters have special weapons that Samus obtains throughout the game which have their distinct strengths, 
 weaknesses, and damaging characteristics.
  
  Overall, the game is very good and will keep you playing this game and you will never want to stop 
 playing. I give this game a 9.0 because it is very fun to play, but Wifi and Multiplayer are probably 
 the only things that will have you playing this game a lot longer than if it didn't have these 
 features and only adventure mode. The graphics aren't the greatest on a handheld system like the 
 Nintendo DS, but the touch screen makes it worth while. The game is a little too short for any 
 serious Metroid gamer, boss battles do get boring as the game continues forward due to the little 
 variety of boss challenges. Metroid Prime: Hunters is definitely worth buying and will keep you 
 occupied and having fun around the clock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCrunner161
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome for a DS fps. It really uses the DS's strong points to make up for its weaknesses. 
 The DS has never really been strong graphics wise. The psp really blows it out of the water on 
 that front. But what it lacks in looks, it makes up in playability. The controls on Hunters is 
 really intuitive and the aim is precise. Its really satisfying to aim up a shot on the imperialist 
 and headshot a difficult target. With an almost computer game like accuracy to the controls, it 
 really shines in that area. The single player is pretty decent. When I bought the game, I really 
 thought I wasn't going to play the single player, but when I tried it, it turned out to be a pretty 
 solid game. While some parts are really repetitive, overall, it is a full metroid prime game in 
 it's own rights. With the full scan visor and multiple weapons, it really does a good job of making 
 the game rewarding. The single player is good but what makes this game shine is the multiplayer. 
 The frantic action of the multiplayer really gets you into it. There are those players online who 
 are sore losers and can't stand losing to you and those who use action replay cheats but aside 
 from them, the online wi-fi is filled with competitive rivals battling for those stars that signify 
 your rank. All in all, the game is a really good game for the DS that really gets your heart pumping 
 and those fingers moving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll get straight to the point. The metroid prime hunters was the first FPS to introduce wifi battling, 
 which still continues on today. They also introduced the touch screen aiming system, which was 
 very usful. I'll start the review, starting from the single player. Let me say this. The single 
 player was very dull, and boring. There was no storyline, there wasn't anything exciting, the game 
 didn't feel much like a Metroid game at all. The bosses were repeated, and had very similar attacks. 
 The single player was a total letdown. On the other hand, the online play was very solid, and plenty 
 of fun. There's over 24 maps, 7 hunters with different abilities, multiple weapons to choose from, 
 and up to 4 player battles. The only problem with the online play is that it's full of hackers 
 and such, so it can be disappointing. Nintendo doesn't do anything about their WiFi, but they really 
 should fix some of the problems on the game. In conclusion, with a superb online play, I'll say 
 this game is really solid. If you have a wifi connection, and love FPS, this is worth every penny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiboy95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Thia game was simply amazing, the adventure was astounding, with great cut-scences and a great 
 storyline. However, the bosses did reapeat themselves so bosses were boring. In this game, Samus 
 is loaded with lots more weapons like the shock coil, volt driver and even a sniper! (Imperialist) . 
 During this game, Samus is confrotned with other bounty hunters that seek the ultimate power in 
 the tetra galaxy so they have to recover octoliths within the planets. The multiplayer is outstanding. 
 Metroid+Wi-Fi= Very Very Fun! I am untouchable with Kriken. Altogether the multiplayer and the 
 adventure mode tie together to create a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanIce2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game more than I did with Metroid Prime 2.
  finally some portable.. um.. prime. and I liked it.. I played it everywhere. and I couldn't get 
 enough of it until I won it.
  ok, first I'll talk about the Story mode.
  The bosses were lame.. they were always something like moving statues or some kind of balls with 
 eyes that were flying around.
  but the guns were fun and the graphics, I liked the graphics a lot! because they are like PS1, 
 so it's like Metroid Prime on a playstation 1. I just love these bad graphics.. I mean it.. it 
 reminds me of the good old 90's.
  and in this game there were like 4 planets.. and when you beat the 4 bosses quick.. you really 
 continue through doors you couldn't get through because you didn't have guns for them.. and fight 
 more bosses. so there were like 2 bosses in each stage.. and you sometimes met up with other hunters 
 and had to fight them. and it's weird, why are always a "5 min to detonation" in every end of a 
 boss fight when you get to the ship, you fly away, but the planets are always ok when you go back. 
 but I once didn't really know how to beat the story mode, but what you actually had to do was collect 
 diamonds from the other hunters and get everyone of them to unlock some kind of portal to fight 
 the final boss.. and the final boss is maybe the most fun boss in the game, and it's also the hardest 
 one.. took me a loooong time to beat him. but he's not a statue or a moving ball.. he's just a.. 
 random big pirate like you see everywhere around the other Prime games.
  
  The Online mode.. well, I didn't like it. it was nothing like how a Metroid should be, it's like 
 Halo.. you're shooting other players, and there a VERY cheap character most players just use, the 
 red hunter that changes into a spider instead of ball.. and he's fast, and when you get close to 
 players, instead of going in a circle with another player trying your best shooting him in short 
 distance.. if you have that red hunter, you just change into a spider, jump at the other player, 
 and you're the winner. the stages in the online mode are always very small.. and if you started 
 playing the game at 2007 or something.. you will not get as good as the others EVER. you HAVE to 
 have started playing the game at 2004 when everyone were noobs so you could at least practice fairly. 
 and it happens a lot players know about lots of stage glitches in the online mode, so they get 
 behind the wall, they can shoot through it at at you, while all you can do is shoot the wall.
 
  and the Online mode is not like Metroid. it's like a portable Halo.. just for Halo fans.. and 
 it seems lots of Halo fans only enjoy the online play but less Metroid fans.
  
  but I think this is a must-have DS game.. not only for the cover, it's also 3 weeks of enjoyable 
 experience. hmm.. I give it 8.5.. but I personally think they should have made it like other Prime 
 games.. these little missions were not good. I prefer a huge planet. and moving around planets 
 in Metroid has never been my thing. I also don't like that in Metroid Prime 3.. they shouldn't 
 have done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Link_753
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Wow. This game is WAY better than I thought it would be. The game play is addictive. The targeting 
 is easy to use. This is the best first person fighting game ever! Well, almost ever.
  Enemy hunters are creatively made. They look cool. They are difficult, but not so you die. But 
 the guardians get very obnoxious, how the run all over. But they have verity, in their shooter 
 things. The way the bosses repeat, is a downside. When you now how to defeat one, you got them 
 all.
  The movies are in high detail, even for a DS.
  Awesome game, you should buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I would give a higher ranking but Metroid Prime: Hunters is more of a multiplayer or online game 
 than anything else. For those who don't know what Metroid or Metroid Prime is, Metroid was a side 
 scrolling shooter back in the olden days of Nintendo. A game wasn't made for a while until Retro 
 Studios came along and worked with Nintendo on the first-person shooter series we know as Metroid 
 Prime (though it had a pinball spin-off also for Nintendo DS) . Anyone who has played this would 
 know why its multiplayer makes it what it is. For those who haven't tried this, the same 2 bosses 
 are pretty much repeated through the whole game, if you're good the story doesn't even last 2 hours, 
 and above all the only purpose of the story is to unlock movies and the hunters that aren't unlocked 
 from the start since the story is just a spin-off of the Prime series itself and has nothing to 
 do with the original plot at all. The story shouldn't be totally slammed because even though the 
 story strays from the main plot of the rest of its series, it sort of makes up its own with the 
 whole Alimbic thing and your fight with Gorea (that includes an alternate ending) . The multiplayer 
 was great, but along with the story and could've-been-better graphics; I wouldn't recommend this 
 to someone who wants a nice, long, or even challenging storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is pretty solid, until you use a sniper rifle. The sniper rifle requires you to push 
 the right shoulder button, while controlling movement with the stylus and firing with the left 
 shoulder button. This can be a tad frustrating - especially during online battles.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are a bit grainy, but are acceptable on the DS. As long as you don't 
 get too close to any particular surface, the game looks fairly decent.
  
  Sound:
  
  Great music and sound effects. The music is ethereal and consuming, and the sound effects are fairly 
 convincing, considering their source.
  
  Value:
  
  The game offers a good amount of value, with a fairly long single player campaign, and a healthy 
 amount of multiplayer functions and modes.
  
  Closing:
  
  A good single player mode and fun multiplayer mode are hampered only by control issues. The story 
 is compelling, and is complimented by great audio and variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmreaper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is the game i always play on multi-player. This is pretty much the only game i play for DS 
 besides Rayman DS wich sucks really bad. This game in my opinion is the best game out for DS because 
 it has the best controls and so far the best graphics i have seen on the DS. There is nothing to 
 say bad about this game in my opinion. it is good all around in game play and everything especially 
 multi-player. Except For the fact that the people that play in multi-player are amazingly good 
 Japanese and foreign people that no one can kill unless you are a master at the game so if i encounter 
 one of them i usually go to another game or just try to beat them for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daturkboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  overall this is a fun game the best part of this game is its unique wi-fi and multiplayer caps. 
 the single player is ok but if didn't have wi-fi i would not buy it. it is a good game for the 
 price. also there is a unique ranking system. if there is a sequel to it i bet it would be sold 
 out in the first day. i would reccomend it to everybody, and if i got to rate it i would give it 
 E10+ because there is no mild language or blood. so overall it is an awesome game.  
 buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charybdis22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Some people say its terrible ( its because they know nothing about ds games) This game is amazing 
 man!! If you look good you will see that almost everyone say that its a great game. This game is 
 a nintendo ds game so dont look at the graphics so much
  its not ps3 game. It looks awsome for DS !! DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
 DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS 
 DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
 DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
 DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS 
 DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS 
 DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
 DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
 DS DS DS DSDS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanritter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I never had any metriod prime games, until i bought this. Now i plan to buy the new ones that are 
 coming out in the future. I loved this game to death. I think this is the best DS game out so far. 
 The story is boring, but thats only me because i'm not so intrested in storys. I mainly bought 
 this game for the online multiplayer. I think its great to play 4 player deathmatch on wi-fi. But 
 if you could use the mic in the game while playing and without having to use a friend code i would 
 think this game is perfect. One problem i have is the controls but i think there good but just 
 not for me because i get hand cramps from the way this game is played. Wireless play is fun too. 
 My favorite is nodes, which is a type of annex (for all gears players) . Over all i think this game 
 is pretty fun to play, and its pretty cheap now because its been out for a while. I recomend at 
 least taking a look at this game because its a load of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud-madhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Given how long the Nintendo DS has been available, it's hard to believe that Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 was one of the first games shown off when the system was first introduced. Some of you early adopters 
 may remember getting a brief demo level of the first-person shooter as a pack-in with your system. 
 After a long wait, the game is finally out, and for the large part, it hits the nail on the head 
 as far as delivering a faithful Metroid Prime experience in the handheld. It's also got the best 
 multiplayer options we've seen yet in a Metroid game and surprisingly fluid controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mase666
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  When first buying a DS i knew this game i would have to buy, my friends and me during our rainy 
 college breaks get out our handhelds to play this game multi player and is real good laying around 
 with friends on the different modes.
  
  A lot of people complain about the controls being too difficult to master but the only real problem 
 i can see with the controls is after a good 30 - 60 minutes play your hand starts to cramp and 
 unless you stop it feels like its going to fall off.
  
  But the huge problem with this game is the boring single player and the horrible HORRIBLE online 
 multi player. Upon reading various other reviews i have found most players think that the single 
 player game is boring and really does not do the game justice compared to the other Metroid games 
 in the series. I agree wholeheartedly with these players as the single player offers nothing but 
 slow boring game play and continuous backtracking and no real storyline.
  
  The online multi player is possibly the worst online feature i have ever come across in a First 
 Person Shooter. The game searches for random opponents to play either in your area or anywhere 
 in the world, the problem is world games are usually too laggy to play and makes you want to throw 
 your DS down in disgust. Another fault with the multi player is that it allows you to search for 
 two types of opponents, one being opponents 'matching your rank' and the other is opponents with 
 'any rank', this feature is terrible. I have chosen the 'Match your rank' option almost every time 
 i have played and i will be playing against people who have a rank of 3 stars and who i cannot 
 hit due to being too good. This simple flaw destroys the multi player and really does destroy my 
 dreams of a good online feature for this game. Of course you have the option to play with your 
 friends over the internet but it rejects the idea of meeting new people and not everyone at the 
 moment has a wireless connection in their house to play with.
  
  This game is really let down due to its online feature and i believe it had a lot of potential 
 but in the end it seems the developers did not test to see if they had created a gripping single 
 player and a online multi player without any flaws.
  
  this is mediocre, download the ROM instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neilwars
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  This game has excelent multplayer, awsome graphics, and good story. n h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h hh h h h h hh h h h h h h g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 gg gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GUNNERF
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have this game for ds this is a must have, if you dont have a ds get it for this game. 
 The multiplayer wifi is the best wifi game for the ds yet and it is so addicting. Also if you add 
 friends you can voice chat and set up games which is a great feature. The single player story mode 
 is good but its a little repetitive, but its still very fun. The graphics are pretty good a little 
 low but the cutscenes are so cool they have really good graphics. This game will last you years. 
 Definitley this game is a must have ds game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condog1702
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: At first I thought the story mode wasn't that great, but after playing it a little, its 
 amazing, the multiplayer mode is awesome, you can do Wi-Fi, wireless, or DS Download Play, 10.0.
 
  
  Graphics: These graphics are amazing, especially for a handheld, a lot better than one would think, 
 10.0.
  
  Sound: The sound is really cool, but a little freaky, 9.0
  
  Value: This game is easily worth every single penny you spend on this amazing DS game, 10.0.
 
  
  Tilt: 10, a perfect 10.
  
  I recommend this game to all DS owners and all Metroid fans!!!!!
  
  In Conclusion, i give this 
 game a 9.5 out of 10. If anyone would like to play me then just send me a pm with your friend code 
 and ill return the favor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden626
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is quite posibly my favorite game on my DS. Some people complain about the single 
 player being terrible, and you know what? They're not lying. This gmae's single player is pretty 
 dry in my opinion, but you can still burn up a couple of hours playing it. Of course, most people 
 play it simply to unlock all of the Hunters in multiplayer, which is this games main attraction. 
 Now, it's suprising that a Metroid Prime game has a lame single player and a great multiplayer, 
 and this is what turns off most hardcore Prime fans. If you don't have a Wi-fi adaptor or a router, 
 then don't get this game. The single player story mode really is short of anything good. If you 
 do have access to Wi-Fi and want a good game for it, then look no further. In Wi-Fi, you can play 
 against friends or play against random people around the world. Some people cheat, but it's not 
 as common as Snakers in Mario Kart. This game has lots of maps to choose from, multiple modes, 
 and very tight controls. I honestly can't recommend it enough to anyone who is a fan of shooting 
 games or great multiplayer games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman894
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I love this game It has Great gameplay Best multiplayer ever Music is not that great one of the 
 best first person shooters ive ever played besides halo its just a good game not perfect not horrible 
 i just like it alot cause i love playin online and losing like always cause i suck at but its awesome, 
 comment on this review if u play metriod and give me your friend code plz.. ill tell my freind 
 code if u tell me yours so plz tell me ur friend code so i can play u and get down to rank -2 lol. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big metroid fan. I feel its best to get that out of the way first because this latest Metroid 
 offering feels like a game made for people who already have a love for Metroid. The sounds, the 
 sights and the sometimes downright ridiculous difficulty are all reminiscent of metroids past.
 
  
  Thats not to say there isnt something here for new Metroid gamers. Because this game is without 
 the first (and currently only) quality FPS shooter on the DS. Infact this really feels like no 
 FPS you would have played before. One hand controls the movement and shooter and the other uses 
 the stylus to aim and jump. It takes a little while to get used to the controls but soon enough 
 you will be taking out all manners of wrong doers with Samus without even realising what your hands 
 are doing......
  
  .... oh but soon enough your feeling will return. This game is brutal on your hands with extended 
 play. The way you hold the DS in stylus mode leaves you (or at least me) with hand cramp like no 
 other game has done before. This is only a small quip though as it is no fault of the game just 
 something that you should be prepared for.
  
  As far as looks go this game is excellent. You get FMV at points during the game and although short 
 they show off a side of the DS we have not yet seen. The levels look great, there are the usual 
 ice, fire and futuristic looking levels. Each planet has its own style and this keeps the game 
 fresh. Enemies are well designed and there is only a slight amount of slow down during big battles. 
 One thing this game keeps intact is are the end of level bosses who are big and impressive but 
 with some wit and good shooting can be taken down easilly enough.
  
  No doubt people were expecting a 2-d platforming handheld Metroid game to come to the DS but Im 
 so glad nintendo too the risk to bring prime to the DS. It sets the standards for all other DS 
 First Person Shooters to follow and also provides a handheld experience like no other. Highly recommended 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USSR_AK47
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a spin off of Retro Studio's Metroid Prime series, but designed by Nintendo 
 specifically for the Nintendo DS. Metroid Prime Hunters is a unique game in it's own right, and 
 sets the bar for the First Person Shooter genre on the Nintendo DS. But with all of it's innovation, 
 comes a lot of flaws as well.
  
  First off, here are the facts about Metroid Prime Hunters:
  -Includes 7 Playable Hunters: Samus, 
 Kanden, Spire, Trace, Noxus, Sylux, and Weavel.
  -Includes Single Player and Multiplayer via local wireless and Nintendo Wi-Fi connection.
  -26 
 different maps to play in multiplayer.
  -Only Samus is playable in Single Player.
  -Both Stylus and Dual Control Options.
  
  The thing that makes this game so unique from the 
 others is the control scheme. First off, you have 2 different control scheme options, and they 
 have left-hand mode also to make it accessable for all players. There is Stylus Right-Left and 
 Dual Mode Right-Left.
  
  Stylus Mode makes it a unique First Person Shooter, making it similar to a PC game. The control 
 is basically you using your touch screen to aim with the Stylus, it's sort of like a mouse on a 
 PC. If you use Right mode, you'll move with the D-Pad and fire with the L Button. If you use Left 
 mode, you'll move with the ABXY Buttons, and fire with the R Button. You jump by double tapping 
 the Touch Screen, and switch weapons or go into Alternative Form with the touch screen. You can 
 also use a Thumb Strap instead of a Stylus if it makes it more comfortable. This control scheme 
 is very hard to get used to at first, but works very well, even with Left mode.
  
  Dual Mode is for those gamers who enjoy using the Dual Analog control scheme on the console First 
 Person Shooters. In Right mode, you'll move with the D-Pad, fire with the L Button, jump with the 
 R Button or Double Tapping the touch screen, and aim with the ABXY buttons. In Left mode, it's 
 the same thing, except reversed, move with the ABXY buttons, fire with the R Button, jump with 
 the L Button or Double Tapping the touch screen, and aim with the D-Pad. To switch weapons or go 
 into your hunters Alternative Form, you use the Touch Screen as with Stylus. This control scheme 
 works well too, but the flaw is the need to use the Touch Screen to switch weapons and turn into 
 Alternative Form, it takes some getting used to.
  
  The controls are very accurate for both Control Schemes, and work well once used to them.
  
 
  The graphics in this game really push the DS's hardware. Everything is in full 3D view, and even 
 though you can still see frames, they don't bother it much, and still make everything look beautiful. 
 Though the enviorments are still very small, especially in Multiplayer matches, and there isn't 
 much variety in how it looks, it's still very nice overall.
  
  The sound effects are great, from shooting your gun, to hearing your opponent die, it's done well. 
 The problem is with the music, in the Single and Multiplayer modes, there isn't much variety in 
 the music, so you'll end up hearing the same music over and over again, and it gets boring at times.
 
  
  Now the Single Player. The Single Player starts off with a message sent from the Alimbic Cluster 
 about the ultimate power, so Samus is sent there to check it out. In here, you start off with your 
 suit, your Power Beam, Morph Ball with Boost Ball, Single Jump, and Missiles, and that's what you'll 
 be using the whole game, aside from 6 other weapons you'll find throughout the story.
  There are four planets you travel in through the course of the game, Celestial Archives, Alinos, 
 VDO, and Arcterra. The story revolves around you traveling through each planet, going through each 
 room, collecting 3 artifacts to activate a portal, going into the portal, fighting a boss, collecting 
 an object called an Octolith and then having to run back to your ship after you obtain it before 
 the time runs out.
  
  There are many set backs to this. One, as I said before, there are no real upgrades, just 6 weapons 
 you collect. Sure, I'm not complaining, it's better then nothing, but if they at least gave you 
 more to work for, such as a graple beam, double jump, missile combos, and of course, suit upgrads. 
 Also, more use for the Morph Ball besides a bomb jump once in a while would've been nice, such 
 as more use for the Boost Ball, and a Spider Ball upgrade.
  That of course doesn't stop the game from being fun, but it also stops the Single Player from having 
 any real depth. Also, one of the biggest dissapointments of the game is the linear feel. Metroid 
 Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes were both games in which you have so many ways to go. In here, 
 you go to a room, and there's only one door to go to to get to another room, once in a while, there 
 are too, but other then that, there's not much depth in traveling. It's basically you go through 
 the planet, you get the artifacts, beat the boss, collect the octolith, go back the same way. Also, 
 the boss fights were very dissapointing, considering Retro Studios put a lot of effort in the boss 
 fights in their Prime games. In here, you have 6 Hunters to fight, 3 Bosses, and 2 Mini Bosses. 
 Sounds like a lot? Well, no, considering that when you first fight a Hunter, it has more health, 
 adding somewhat difficulty to an already easy fight, but after that, in your next encounters, it's 
 health will be reduced greatly, and can be killed within a few shots. After you face a Hunter, 
 it will randomly appear in any of the planets and you'll fight it again, sometimes you'll fight 
 more then one at a time, but that doesn't add much difficulty. There are generally 10 boss fights, 
 but 8 of them consist of 2 bosses, the ones you fight after you activate the portal with the 3 
 artifacts. There are 4 versions of each, each version getting somewhat more difficult then the 
 last, but still not saying much. The 2 Mini-Bosses add a nice surprise, but there should've been 
 more variety as a whole. The final boss (es) are harder, but if you got used to the aiming scheme 
 by then, then it shouldn't be a problem. Throughout the game, you'll also face enemies called Guardians 
 which are sort of weaker versions of the hunters, sometimes they'll use the same weapons the hunters 
 use. As I said, they're weaker so they're not much of a problem, only difference is they come in 
 groups a lot of the time.
  
  The 6 weapons you get throughout the game are the Volt Driver, Battle Hammer, Judicator, Imperialist, 
 Magmaul, and Shock Coil. They have few uses then once in a while opening a Beam door or destroying 
 a barrier. They're not much of a necesity when it comes to combat. Most enemies are predictable, 
 and don't deal much damage, and your Power Beam, the weapon with unlimited ammo, has a sort of 
 homing feature in the Single Player game only where it slowly curves towards it's target. This 
 sort of reduces the skill needed for the game. The Single Player also includes the Scan Visor, 
 which is a nice touch, and it has some nice descriptions on enemies/areas/lores/etc.
  
  Overall, the Single Player is easy and linear, unlike the ones from the series. Yes, I understand 
 that this isn't a console, but this game shows little effort on the Single Player compared to the 
 Multiplayer, it's obvious what the main focus on the game was not the Single Player. It's still 
 a nice extra, but it won't be much after it's done.
  
  Now, the Multiplayer. You can play Local Wireless with people who have the game or Single Card 
 with people who don't. If you play with someone who doesn't, they're limited to using Samus. You 
 can add bots, only in Local Wireless to play with your friend, or just you against the bot for 
 extra practice. It's a nice extra, and helps people practice the control scheme while getting to 
 know the weapons and levels of the game. The AI of the bots is very simple, even if you put the 
 highest difficulty, the difference is, the higher the difficulty, the better their aim. The difficulty 
 goes One Star-Easiest, Two Star-Medium, Three Star-Hard. The Three Star bots have very predictable 
 patterns, but their aim is increased, making it hard for even the better players to survive at 
 times, at least if they fight head on.
  
  The game also supports Wi-Fi for online Multiplayer. You have two options, go to Find A Game which 
 matches you up with 1-3 players randomly, or Friends And Rivals which allows you to play against 
 the Friends/Rivals you have added. The frame rate in most of the matches is usually smooth, but 
 can sometimes slow down against all four players being in one spot, fighting.
  
  Each player has a thing called a Hunter's Liscense . It shows all your stats throughout your whole 
 Multiplayer experience, and even shows if you've completed the Single Player, and if you've obtained 
 100% scans in the Single Player, adding some encouragement to actually go and play it. The hunter's 
 liscense isn't too deep, but it still shows enough neccessary, such as games played, kills, etc. 
 It also shows all of the Friends and Rivals you have added and their Hunter's Liscenses.
  
  To add a rival, you must either play them in a random match, or another rival's/friend's game and 
 select Add Rival under their name at the end screen, if they do so as well, then it adds them to 
 your rivals list. To add a Friend, you must go to Edit Friends And Rivals which is in the bottom 
 right corner on the screen that shows Find A Game and Friends And Rivals . When there, you select 
 Add Friend in the bottom right corner, and enter their 12 Digit Friend Code. They must do so as 
 well. When you go to Friends And Rivals you can see how many Friends/Rivals you have on, join their 
 game if any of them are hosting, or host yourself for them to join. When in a Friends game/have 
 one in your game, you can talk with them via text messages or Voice Chat using the mic built into 
 the DS. It's sad that you can't do the same thing in a Rival's game or a random match.
  
  As the host in a Friends And Rivals game, you can select different options, such as different game 
 modes, if Friend's/Rival's are allowed, what stage to play in, time limit, goal, and team play. 
 You can't do things such as kick people out or select amount of players in allowed in the game. 
 It would've been nice, but it's not much of a problem. In Find A Game , you play in the default 
 setting: Battle-7 Kill Goal-7 Time Limit-No Team. Each of the players select their hunters and 
 select a stage to play in, and one is randomly selected out of the ones picked by players.
  
  The thing is that in Battle, against 2-3 other opponents, there can be a lot of flaws. This 
 includes having your kills stolen very often, and a player going against a weaker opponent, just 
 to get kills. This can result in an unfair loss. A lot of players will use a glitch to disconnect 
 without having it count on their Hunter's Liscense because most of them are just sore losers. This 
 happens all too frequentally, and Nintendo does nothing to stop this.
  
  One of the biggest annoyance is the amount of Action Replay users. There are hacks such as invincibility 
 to make it impossible for a player to kill another, really ruining the experience for players.
 
  
  One of the other biggest problems are balance issues. The Imperialist, the Sniper, is the only 
 weapon that can kill with a one-hit, and can be used easily close range, making it stronger then 
 the others, and making it the prime weapon. It makes it boring sometimes to play every match against 
 the same weapons and same stages. A lot of players run away to get health, making it sometimes 
 boring having to chase around the players. The thing that would've have possibly made it better 
 is take out health, and instead, make it similar to how the mode Prime Hunter plays. In there, 
 when you're the Prime Hunter, you constantly lose health, and can only get health back by killing 
 enemies. I think if that's how it worked in general, except without the constent health lose, the 
 game would've been a lot more balanced.
  
  As I said earlier, you can play as 7 Hunters. Each have their own special weapon, and, even though 
 everyone can use any weapon, when a weapon is used by a certain hunter, it adds certain abilities 
 that can't be used by any other hunter. Also, every hunter has an Alternate Form , which is basically 
 like Samus's Morph Ball , each having their own abilities. The Alternate Forms are: Samus-Morph 
 Ball, Kanden-Stinglarva, Spire-Dialanche, Trace-Triskelion, Noxus-Vhoscythe, Sylux-Lockjaw, and 
 Weavel-Half Turret. But as with the weapons, they have balance issues, some being slow with little 
 power, such as Spire's Dialanche, while some can be fast yet still very powerful, such as Samus's 
 Morph Ball. They're still a nice addition, but provide too much cowardness from some players.
 
  
  There are a lot of glitches in this game, some consist of going through walls to make, in which 
 you can shoot people from the wall, but they can't shoot you back. Others consist of character 
 glitches. One of the most common is the disconnecting glitch, which as I've mentioned allows players 
 to leave a match, and prevent losing, without it being shown on their Hunter's Liscense .
  
  The thing that ruins the Multiplayer expierence the most though is the lag. The lag in this 
 game can be very horrific, even for those who have a great connection. Lag will make it show that 
 your shots don't go through on your opponent's side, making it useless sometimes. Against one player, 
 it's usually not bad, but against two-three, it can be dreadful, sometimes it consists of your 
 opponent's sprites teleporting around your screen, because the DS is having a hard time handleing 
 where your opponent is.
  
  Putting all the setbacks aside, this game is still very enjoyable, especially if you find a lot 
 of friends to add and play. It really brings out the fun, from playing a 1-on-1 to an 2-on-2, even 
 in different modes. And it's always nice to be able to have Voice Chat in the Friends game you're 
 in/hosting before and after you play a match.
  
  Now, as I said in the beggining, this game is very unique, but I feel that it may have been better 
 in the hands of Retro Studios themselves. They most likely would've made a more in depth Single 
 Player experience, and possibly a more balanced out Multiplayer experience. Nintendo did a good 
 job in making the game, it's very fun, but it shows that they were lazy at some points. They didn't 
 put as much effort in the Single Player as they did in the Multiplayer, and they didn't work much 
 on variety, balance, and technical issues, such as glitching. Also, they don't update their servers 
 to ban hacking, and fix the glitches, mainly the disconnecting one. They've already put updates 
 where you can't put in inappropriate words in your name, so it's a sad thing that they don't fix 
 the other things. Also, the Friend Codes feature just makes it harder to get good Friends to play 
 with, and makes things feel more limited. Hopefully they'll learn in their next online First Person 
 Shooter, if it happens.
  
  Overall, this is a solid game, great graphics, nice music tracks, though they get old, a lot of 
 sound effects, and a great Multiplayer, even with it's issues. It's obvious this game could've 
 been better, from it's Single Player, to more in-depth options online. But in the end, we still 
 got an enjoyable game that set the bar for the First Person Shooter genre for the DS, and hopefully 
 will show growth for improvement in future games. If you want a great Multiplayer experience that'll 
 last you a while, then get this game, though it may be a little late, and if you start out, you 
 most likely won't be able to go up against a lot of the current players, but you can still find 
 other people with the same skill as you, and play against them. If you don't have Wi-Fi or want 
 a great Single Player experience, this game isn't for you. It's a rental, if even. It's your choice, 
 but if you want to get the best out of it, then Wi-Fi is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmaster696
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  metroid prime is a great game to buy, the wifi is fantastic and you can play wirelessly aswell 
 single or multiple cards. the adventure mode is thrilling and you go against multiple bounty hunters 
 but it is to short!!!!!!!!!!!! The games graphics are great the movie clips have brillent cenimatic 
 cgi  
 h hh h h h hh h h h he e eeeeeeee eeeeeee e ee ee ee ee e e ee eee e e e e e e e ee e e ee eee 
 e eee   
    
 eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeee eeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeeee eee eeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeee ee hb hb hb ub ub ub hb bh bi biu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Well first off as soon as you start the game you watch the movie of all the hunters and immediately 
 you notice woah! graphics rock ... for a ds game.
  I would have given this game like a 9.5 if it wasn't for its single player. Its an OK single player 
 but it lacks many things. First off its repetitive i cant even count the amount of times Ive fought 
 one of the other hunters or guardians. And there is only 2 main bosses the slench and the big tower 
 thing and you have to fight them like four times each. The only difference between this one and 
 the other is there weakness. The good part of this game is multi-player you can choose any of the 
 hunters and go fight the other ones in a timed death-match (at least thats the main multiplayer 
 mode) . The other six are like every day games like capture the flag and stuff like that except 
 your risking your life in this one. Wifi is also great but it limits you to what you can play. 
 But overall this game deserves a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically the next generation FPS game for next generation consoles... the new stylus 
 control is totally different from the old control pad from GameCube. The multiplayer mode is awesome- 
 you can play by two different ways, either using wireless link to play with 4 buddies or use the 
 Wi-Fi connection and take the hunt around the world. Game graphics are stunning (for the Nintendo 
 DS anyways) and the 6 new hunters is what makes this game unique from the other Metroid games so 
 far. With the six new hunters and their weapons and abilities, you will never run out of challenges 
 because there's always going to be someone who is going to hunt you in Wi-Fi games with a totally 
 different hunter. A must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game started as a neat demo that came packaged with the first batch of DS systems, then turned 
 into one of the best multiplayer shooters available on a portable system. How can that be true, 
 from a Metroid game? Well, read on.
  
  To begin, I should say that the game looks absolutely wonderful. It looks somewhere between an 
 N64 and a GCN game, which is very impressive, and during its released could have been called (arguably) 
 the best looking game on the DS. The environments are varied and very beautiful, ranging from a 
 space station to a frozen iceland. There are all sorts of minor details that one would expect to 
 be left out of a portable verision of Metroid Prime, but the developers managed to stick in quite 
 a bit. Each hunter is very unique as well, and the cutscenes look absolutely BEAUTIFUL (though 
 a lot of them looked similar, but we'll get to that) . My main problem with this game is that there 
 is a very small selection of enemies, and it does what a lot of the older NES games did. That is 
 to say, it throws at you a small handful of enemies and merely changes the color and the weapon 
 slightly and treats it like a different enemy. That means the enemies are limited to a few and 
 that means less visual variety. Overall though, the game looks GREAT.
  
  Speaking of great, the sound goes under the same department as well. The sound effects are spot 
 on. There are varies footstep sounds (something I have become more aware of since the monotonous 
 footsteps of Doom 3) and everything sounds exactly as it should, exactly as loud as it should. 
 In fact, you will gain much pleasure from firing your favorite weapon, because each one sounds 
 wonderful and fitting. The enemy sounds could have been more varied, but considering the lack of 
 enemy variety, that doesn't come as a variety. On the other hand, the ambience is well done for 
 each environment. The music, as the Metroid series has done well with time and time again, is perfect. 
 Each is catchy and fits the situation perfectly.
  
  Enough of the aesthetics though, how is the game REALLY?
  
  Well let us get the most important 
 point out of the way: the controls. They are perfect, yet they are not. Using the stylus to aim 
 is extremely precise and I would not want it any other way. Moving with the control pad makes sense 
 and shooting with L does as well. Any other abilities are touch screen activated (you touch and 
 slide across the corner to change weapons, tap the lower right to change to morph ball, touch upper 
 left for beam, touch middle top for missiles and touch center bottom to activate Scan Visor) . It 
 sounds a little complicated but it is actually pretty intuitive and you will adapt VERY quickly. 
 Contrary to what you might believe (what with so many things to touch on the touch screen) , accidentally 
 activating something you don't want will rarely happen. I found that I naturally use the center 
 of the screen to do my aiming with, meaning I avoid the other abilities, though once or twice I 
 have accidentally activated the Scan Visor. Jumping by double tapping the screen rounds off the 
 controls quite perfectly. There are even multiple control options, involving buttons only or stylus 
 control... even going as far as offering right-hand and left-hand options (a glorious thing that 
 other games need to take into consideration) . So I make it out to sound all perfect... what's wrong 
 with it then? Long-term gameplay. I like to sit down and enjoy a fun game for an hour or two usually, 
 and this game will take its toll on you if you use the stylus controls (the button controls are 
 just too imprecise) . For short bursts, you will feel perfection coming out of your game, but for 
 those of you that will sit for more then 10 minutes, your stylus-hand's wrist will start to pain 
 after a while. Though the controls are well-done, they are unwieldy due to the size and shape of 
 the DS Lite, and will leave you in pain after you turn off the game (the standard DS is a little 
 larger/wider, which doesn't hurt your wrists as much, but adds a little straing to your fingers 
 thanks to the added weight) . This is a major factor that means you wil likely thoroughly enjoy 
 the game for a couple of days and then not want to come back for a week because of the pain.
  
  Control issues out of the way, the game is actually pretty good. Admittedly, the single-player 
 campaign is a straightforward walk in the park (even the upgrades are a cinch to acquire, though 
 the scans are a lot more annoying than the other 2 Prime games) . Even though the game doesn't give 
 you hints as to where you need to go next, there usually aren't that many paths to take so it's 
 usually a matter of 'oh I can't go left, so I'll come back there later and go right for now'. At 
 least fighting against the other Hunters is fun, and traversing through the planets isn't boring 
 even if it is straightforward. The bosses is where this game lacks. You have to fight the same 
 two bosses 4 times each, obviously upgraded a little each time. That is annoying and just completely 
 pointless. At least the last boss was really fun, interesting, challenging and creative. As far 
 as the story, well it takes the same route as the console Prime games, giving you data through 
 scans and not really telling you anything directly. The story is decent, and overall has nothing 
 important to do with the Metroid universe (it doesn't even have any Metroids in it!) . The Single-Player 
 is only mediocre.
  
  Why is this game so good then? MULTIPLAYER. First off, you can practice your skills against bots 
 on any map you have unlocked. You can even set handicap and their difficulty. You also get a choice 
 of all the Hunters, each having unique attributes, making battles much more interesting than Metroid 
 Prime 2 (while essentially keeping the same game modes) . There are 26 (or more, I don't know if 
 I unlocked them all yet, not having anybody to play Local games with, which is how they are unlocked) 
 maps which is a good number. You can play single-pak with the downloaders only using Samus and 
 the stats not recording, or play 1-4 player Local or Wi-Fi. With Local, the options are all there 
 and it is loads of fun. Wi-fi is the heart of this game though.
  
  Basically you can choose to connect to randomly connect with people in your region or internationally 
 and then you will start the battle. Problem with random battle is that you only do standard deathmatch 
 and you can't chat with them. Still, it is just so darned fun, takes all the fun that most PC FPS 
 games put into their online multiplayer and make it work on the DS (the precision control helps 
 it out a lot) . After you finish a random battle, you are given the option of mutually adding another 
 player to your rivals list, in which case you can then play custom games against whenever you want 
 (assuming he or she is online as well) . The last way to play, is with friends, of course. This 
 uses the standard annoying (though somewhat understandable) Friend Code system. You exchange friend 
 codes and then go online and play eachother. The good thing is that in the game lobby you can talk 
 to your friends through the mic or type messages, the bad thing is that there is no voice chat 
 during the match itself. The multiplayer has lots of maps and a good number of hunters (7 if I 
 know how to count correctly) , not to mention there are an acceptable number of game modes to play 
 through. It is just too bad that the only way to fully enjoy the game modes and full features of 
 multiplayer is to do it locally or with friend codes. Besides that one downfall, this game may 
 have the best Wi-Fi multiplayer you will find in a DS game, even to this day.
  
  So buying this game really comes down to a few things. Are you a Metroid fan, do you enjoy FPS 
 games, do you have access to Wi-Fi? If you answered yes to any of those questions, then you should 
 definately buy this game. If not, then think twice before jumping in. Either way, get ready for 
 some extremely fun, wrist aching times! Enjoy.
  
  SCORE=
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0 (8.75/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWolff7774
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters DS is a great-looking DS game!
  
  SINGLE PLAYER : MPH single player mode takes you on a big adventure with many equipment to choose 
 from ranging from sniper rifles to cloaking devices! The ending of the game is GOOD! Overall, though, 
 I think Metroid Prime Echoes 2 on the Gamecube has a better storyline.
  
  MULTI PLAYER : If u have a high-speed WI-FI connection, you can enjoy deathmatch with people from 
 around the world. Even if u don't have high-speed Internet, u can play against BOTS or play locally 
 with your friends who have their own DS! The multiplayer let you choose out of 7 bounty hunters 
 to play as (some you must unlock) . It goes up to 4 people WI-FI. I give MPH on DS an 8 out of 10! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime hunters for the ds is easily a must have for the ds. Theres an adventure mode and 
 a multi player mode. The adventure mode is alright but the multi player is wayyy better. In multi 
 player u can either do single card play, multi card play, of nintendo wifi connection. In the wifi 
 connection u can find a game for local or worldwide and match your rank or verse any rank. You 
 can add your friends or your rivals to your friends/rivals list. This game was mostly meant for 
 multiplayer. If u get farther in adventure mode u can unlock new hunters for multiplayer mode... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll get it over with quick and painlessly, this game is not that great. Don't get me wrong, 
 this game is not bad at all it's fun, but not what I'd expect from a Metroid game. Where this game 
 really shines is the multi-player. Whether you play via DS download or play on-line Nintendo wi-fi, 
 you will get one of the most satisfied multi-player ever. Anyway, the story line takes place in 
 space ( of course) and you have to retrieve eight artifacts that contain massive power. Not only 
 that, but other bounty hunters are trying to get them too so you will have to battle it out with 
 the hunters. You can play as any hunter online as ling as you already beat them. Each hunter has 
 a special weapon that you can unlock to help you through the levels.
  
  THE GOOD: Fantastic multi-player with a descent single player. Great graphics for a hand held.
 
  
  THE BAD: For a Metroid game I was expecting better ( but it's still not bad)
  
  OVERALL: If you do not like Metroid games you should still get this game for the multi-player. 
 You will play on-line for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_of_Hyrule
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  this is one of my favorite games for the ds simply because it has an amazing multiplayer and absolutely 
 brilliant graphics for the ds. the single player in this game is allright. the levels were pretty 
 linear. by that i mean you were just walking in straight enviroments. there was no adventuring 
 on huge maps and getting lost which might be a good thing because that can get annoying but sometimes 
 challenge is a good thing and opens up the gameplay more. however the multiplayer in this game 
 is a solid 10 in my book. there are lots and lots of levels to choose from small hectic enviroments 
 to huge sniper preferred enviroments. it had plenty of weapons and characters to choose from and 
 a little bit of a strategy element of when and how to use the morph form of each character. the 
 wifi for this game is definitely my favorite of any other. you can choose to play ranked or unranked, 
 worldwide or regional games with unknown players around the world or matches with your friends 
 using friend codes. however if you dont have wifi the multiplayer lets you create ai bots and that 
 is what i did for a long time until i got wifi. i said previously that the graphics to this game 
 were amazing. im not lieing. the graphics in this game are definitely the best on the system as 
 of right now. the only problem is that sometimes the framerate can really lag in multiplayer. the 
 sound in this game was ok. i usually play without sound most of the time to save battery life. 
 but my only complaint on sound was that there wasnt any great music to get you going and get pumped 
 on multiplayer. and that is a big no no in my book. the value of this game is tremendously incredible. 
 you have an ok single player, download play, multicard play, and an awesome wifi. the value of 
 this game is really high. believe me when i say you would want to play this game over and over 
 again. overall i would suggest this game to anyone. it has great gameplay, solid controls, amazing 
 replay value with multiplayer, just go out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Granted that the game itself isn't my can of coke, the multiplayer evens the game or even surpasses 
 any other wi-fi game i have ever played! In this game you have the option of player each with their 
 own special gun ability (except for samus of course...) Players are also allowed to vote for the 
 areas they want. Each character has their own form and their own weakness. Items allow for attack 
 increase, invisibility, etc.. By far, this is one of the best wi-fi presentations i have seen on 
 the ds... Furthermore, the graphics and controll shcemes are to kill for... which is probably why 
 this is a fps... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Link_77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Hi i hope this review is helpfull.
  
  I found this game not so great compared to other metroid games. Thats just the singleplayer. The 
 multiplayer is great though. Im gonna break down the multiplayer to single player in the game.
 
  
  Graphics are the same for both..... not that good. I was unimpressed with the graphics. They were 
 a bit..... foggy. I dont think they even compared to the other two primes.
  
  Gameplay is bad for singleplayer. the quest isnt even that great. Its too easy for me too. I played 
 through it twice and then tried the multiplayer. That was worth it. I found it a challenge playing 
 others at first, but then i caught on. Now im a 5 star hunter (best) . Its really good.
  
  The sound was OK in this game. Wasnt that bad, wasnt that good. i give it a 7/10.
  
  The value 
 depents on what you play. Single player=little value
  multiplayer=HUGE VALUE.
  
  Note that my rating is Based on the multiplayer side.
  
  I hope this was helpfull 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a really good DS game. It is an awesome first person shooter and it can 
 have Wi-Fi Connection so you can have Death Matches online. I haven't tried this feature out yet 
 but I am pretty sure its awesome. To tell you the truth as I write this I haven't totally finished 
 the game yet, but what I have played so far, this will be an instant classic for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  GRAPHICS ~ The cinematic video graphics are a good as Xbox360 gameplay graphics. It is amazing 
 what Nintendo can do when they feel like it. Gameplay graphics for this game is also pretty good 
 it is up there with some of those PSP game graphics. So all in all the graphics are very good.
 
  
  SOUND ~ The sound of Hunters is hard to hear, but when you put in some headphones you get to hear 
 the great beats in the music. The music of the game are good. The sound of the gun that Samus has 
 sounds good. In the movies the sounds of stuff moving slowly up from the floor is simply amazing. 
 The whole game is brilliant.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT ~ Metroid Prime Hunters, like I said be for it's the best in the Metroid Prime series. 
 It is very addicitive and it is real hard to put that DS down. You'll probably miss many meals 
 just to get to the next level or to kill that boss that was so hard to defeat. The game is just 
 brilliantly put together.
  
  REPLAY VALUE ~ Moderately High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Metrpid Prime Hunters is one of the few yet amazing first person shooter for the DS. Using the 
 bottom screen as your aming and turning (Which can be changed.) and the D-Pad for moving left, 
 right, forward, and backward. The hand controls feels comfy, and your stylus makes the game move 
 quicker and feel more percise. You also use the touch screen as a radar screening for enemies. 
 The sad part is, is that story mode sometimes feels sloppy and rushed, with the same mini-bosses 
 with the exception of the final boss. You sometimes fight felow hunters, but they should prove 
 no challenge. The thing that makes this game great is online play. You can connect with 4 other 
 players from around the world and fight it out on a wide veriety of courses. Unfortunately the 
 music is a little lacking, but the sound effects aren't to bad. All in all this is a really great 
 game and if you love first person shooters, you should think about adding this to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  The controls in this game are absolutely amazing. They're so fluid and responsive that it just 
 made the game play like a PC shooter. I think a lot of people broke their L button playing this 
 game though... The story mode is really a week point in the game, as it just reuses old bosses 
 and isn't really that creative. Where this game really shines is the multiplayer. One of the best 
 experiences I've had on the ds was logging on to wifi and battling people that I didn't even know. 
 It supports a lot of forms of multiplayer, whether it's shooting your friends in the face locally, 
 or shooting your friends face from across the world. It seems as if the single player is just tacked 
 on, because when you compare to the great wifi play, multiplayer dwarves it.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are also a true technical achievement for the DS, i have seen only 
 a few games that really pushed the system's limits like MPH did. Once you play this game on a DS 
 lite with the highest brightness setting, you will know how mind blowing these graphics can look.
 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The sound effects in this game are great, I couldn't praise them more. But the music soundtrack 
 is really bland and repetitive. I think they could have incorperated some really cool remixes into 
 the game, but the sound seem like they kind of just blew it off. I would keep the volume off if 
 you play this game, and just put some metroid music on your mp3 player, because they did a lackluster 
 job for this.
  
  Value: 6/10
  The value really hurt this game for me. The single player wasn't bearable enough for me to complete 
 and the wifi can only last you so many weeks of playing. Once you hammer wifi to the bare bone, 
 the game doesn't have much left. Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10
  A game that could have been so good if they just would have spent a little more time on the single 
 player really makes me depressed. To see a game with so much potential being shaved off hurts me. 
 The wifi makes up for the mundane single player, but sadly won't last you too long. I really wish 
 I could have given this game a higher rating, but this title didn't deliver like I hoped it would.
 
  
  -Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Simply Amazing. a first person shooter for the ds armed with some of the greatest graphics, and 
 greatest gameply this game skyrocketed to the top of mine and many other people's favorite game 
 list. the stroy mode is long and always something new to run into from bosses, to new weapons, 
 to new planets. the guns are diverse and easy to use. but, the story mode hails in comparison to 
 mulriplayer and wifi modes. in these modes the greatest factor in the gameplay comes from the 7 
 different characters and each has its own special ability, from freezing people to turning invisible. 
 there are many ways to customize your battle, from gametype, to damage level, to what weapons are 
 going to appear on the map. but of all of these modes none are as great as wifi. playing a first 
 person shooter online with a handheld console is amazing. but there is one huge flaw in wifi. cheaters. 
 armed with an action replay, some people can be completely invisible all the time, to having infinite 
 health, to being able to see through walls. this makes the fight COMPLETELY one sided so i strongly 
 advise you to not play with an action replay, most people will just quit as soon as they know you 
 are cheating. i have an action replay and i choose not to use it online. please do the same. but 
 as for the review, i strongly reccomend playing it, and most of the people i know who play it reccomend 
 it too. my rating 9.6/10. play it you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_muscat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  If you are a Metroid fan and you're looking for a new Metroid to hold you over for Mertoid Prime 
 3 this is not for you. Their basically nothing Metroid about this game apart form a little backtracking 
 and the name, While the Metroid Prime games focused on having a great single player, Metroid Prime 
 Hunters focuses on Multiplayer with the single player potion as an after thought.
  
  In terms of graphics Hunters is great, the frame rate is solid and rarely dips and considering 
 that there are 5 huge worlds throughout the game, short load times and upwards of half a dozen 
 enemies on screen at one time, all while still looking good shows how graphically amazing this 
 game is for the DS, even if it is somewhat grainy looking. 
  
  As for the Controls they are great using the styles to aim is great and makes shooting that much 
 easier, and that's what makes this game leagues above any PSP shooter so far (MOH Heroes and COD) 
 as well as being a great game. 
  
  The game's single player is pretty bad when compared to the console Metroids (even with taking 
 in mind that it's a DS game) , but when comparing it to other handheld shooters single player it 
 holds up pretty well and while it may not be the cream of the crop it's still one of the better 
 ones. But one part of the single player that shouldn't let you down in is its length, which for 
 a fully 3D game is pretty damn good. First time though it should take you about 8 hours, but then 
 afterwards, or at least for me this is halved as you now know all the ins and outs of the games 
 puzzles everything.
  
  But then the game also features WIFI battles with up to 4 people on and offline, which act as the 
 meat of the game, and really if the game was released with only this WIFI features alone I would 
 still stay it's worth the price tag. Yeah there that good (remember it's for a DS game though) . 
 Also from my experience it is lag free and also has a match making system that matches you up with 
 people at your skill. 
  
  All in all this is not your traditional Metroid game, it's more of an Multiplayer focused FPS than 
 anything really with the Metroid name stuck on, but it is still a great game and I would recommend 
 it to anyone looking for a great handheld FPS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a really fun First Person Shooter for the DS where you have difrent choices 
 of controls. My favorite is Dual Hand. It really feels like a portable First Person Shooter.
  
  You don't even have to play or like any other Metroids. The graphics are really great especialy 
 on the small DS. Amazing touch screen controls. Really fun weapons and puzzles. Sometimes it can 
 get annoying with puzzles but thats all the fun of puzzle games.
  
  The battles are cool. Multiplayer is sweet. except for hackers. But theres those in every games. 
 Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game for anyone.
  
  Anyways I love this game. It's design and originality.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters deserves every 
 bit of it's 9.1 Superb!
  
  THIS IS NOT PART OF THE REVIEW IT'S MAKING ME PUT 100 WORDS
  (a is for apple b is for ball c is for cat and d is for dog e is for egg f is for freak! lol. g 
 is for girls. (cuz they hot XD) h is for HAAAAAAAAAH AHAHAHAHAHAHAH AHAHAHAHAahahahahahaaa) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyguy11
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so dont snap at me. THe
  Gameplay: Nothing in this game is repetitive. Every level is different even if you have already 
 been there before.
  
  Graphics: We are talking Nintendo DS here... The graphics amazed me!!! The Graphics in this game 
 even gives the PS2 and Gamecube a run for their money!
  
  Sound: though there is not much music in this game, the time when there is music it is very nice. 
 The gun sounds are cool too.
  
  Value: $35 is a great price for any game to start, but for a game this good i say it is worth a 
 least $50:) But the DS is low cost so $35 is great!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I really dont know what this means so i give it a perfect score . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series has always been great. This one though isn't like the other two games. 
 This game is focused more on the multiplayer aspect of a game and is spends very little time on 
 the single player.
  
  Gameplay: The controls work really well. The puzzles are challenging and rewarding. The characters 
 you can unlock are cool. The multiplayer is the best part. The only problem is that the bosses 
 get sort of repetitive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. In fact the graphics are so good that the DS can't handle 
 it somethimes som the game lags or it goes into a low resolution. This mainly happens on wifi, 
 rarely in multiplayer, and practically never in the singleplayer.
  
  Sound: The Sound is fantastic. It has all the Metroid tunes and it never gets repetitive.
  
 
  Value: The game's multiplayer will last such a long time it isn't even funny. You will completely 
 forget about the single player.
  
  Tilt: There's nothing more I can say to make you buy the game.
  
  Even though the multiplayer 
 is really good Retro studios should have done a little better on the single player. Then the game 
 would be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  wow i don't really like the metroid series bu this game is different. multiplayer is no short of 
 halo and the different characters with different abilities are just amazing. story mode never get's 
 dull this first person shooter is one of the best iv'e ever played. when i recieved the demo with 
 my first ds i was stoked to play this highly hyped game. iv'e played the game so much iv'e even 
 found a few glitches of my own. one of the best games, if not the best ds game ever. and now i 
 need over one hundred words to make this review complete.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  this game is so immersive its amaizing its a fps game on the ds the touch screen is used for aiming 
 and the l button is shoot dpad is walkaround and the rest of the bottons are on the touch screen, jump 
 is also double tap.
  
  (note: this game is more fun with the thumb stylus.)
  
  i would have to say the controls take about 20 mins to get use to u can use the buttons and dpad 
 instead of the touch but i prefer touch.
  about a 15 hour single player pros:
  the online play agianst 3 other people, the wireless play against friends who have it and the single 
 card play against 3 other friends taht dont have the game. its great seems like online last for 
 ever when ur on it never ends.
  single player is actually good i liked it but it still needs work. almost every one that owns a 
 ds owns this game lol.
  
  cons:
  there is some lagg on multiplayer,
  the single player bosses are repetative and the story isnt that deep like metroid prime on the 
 gcube. no additional content except for unlocking multiplayer characters and 15 sec movies.
  the multiplayer matches would have been better if there werent hackers and if there was about 8 
 people battling.
  
  all in all this is a great game and i give it a 9.4
  for being the only fps that can deliver on ds sofar.
  i say go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoeman12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The good: Controls great, awesome weapons, looks great
  The bad: Boss battles get repetitive
  Gameplay: Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great first person 
 shooter/adventure for the DS. You play as Samus. A message has been sent around the galaxy that 
 the key to ultimate power lies in the Alimbic solar system. You are sent on a mission to get this 
 power for the Galactic Federation; but six other bounty hunters have received this message. You 
 have to collect eight Octoliths to claim this power. The other bounty hunters will show up sometimes 
 to try to hinder your progress but theyre pretty easy. There are four main areas you go through. 
 Along the way you collect health upgrades, ammo upgrades, and weapons. Once you get certain weapons 
 you can return to an area to open previously inaccessible areas. There are two control methods 
 to choose from: using the stylus to aim and the D-pad to move or using A, B, X, Y to aim and the D-pad 
 to move. The only problem with the A, B, X, Y method is you dont get the same level of accuracy as 
 with the stylus. There are some boss battles where you need to hit a precise spot to do damage 
 and this method just isnt as good for that. The stylus method is great, it works perfectly.
  Graphics: MPH looks great for a DS game. The surroundings are pretty detailed but could be a little 
 more colorful, they tend to be on the dark side.
  Sound: The sound in MPH is good, but it could be better. Theres nothing really memorable about 
 it. Value: Probably the worst aspect of MPH is the boss battles. With the exception of the final 
 boss, you face the same two bosses four times each. They have upgraded weapons but it just gets 
 boring. The online play makes up for this somewhat. You can play against friends or random people 
 across the world over Wi-Fi or locally. If you play against friends you can voice-chat with them.
 
  Overall, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game. If you have a DS I recommend this game, even 
 if you dont like first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EZ360
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Looking back when this game was first mentioned, the thought of an online Metroid for the DS was 
 almost too good to be true. Well it's true , but not exactly good . On any other system, the graphics 
 and audio would be a joke. But since this is a DS game, it's the best you're gonna get. Although 
 the graphics are the best the DS has to offer, they come with a price. You'll notice that the environments 
 are grainy and not very smooth. Another issue is that it is often hard to tell who's at the other 
 side of the map. The adventure mode may entertain you for a short time, but it gets old. Enemies 
 (even bosses) are repetitive and recycled. The hunters don't do much for the story and are only 
 useful for multi-player. The multi-player also has it's own set of problems. This game is littered 
 with balance issues, lag, glitches, and hackers. There are 26 maps and 7 game modes, which is good. 
 But not all of the maps are good and players only play a few of the game modes. The on-line play 
 is too intense and is exausting. Overall, this game may be tempting to purchase but I would suggest 
 renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHEWY49
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters, is the best FPS shooter for the Nintendo DS, but thats not saying much. 
 This game take place inside of you favorite Cyborg (Me second favorite, Master Chief takes the 
 top their.) Samus Aran. She blast and rolls her way through tons of stages useing classic guns 
 brought from the Game Cube versions and also brings in some new elements. The game is hard to get 
 at first, the controls are kinda tricky and its still hard to play even after youve mastered the 
 controls. The games story mode was so dumb that I forgot what I was doing half way through the 
 game, its got something to do with other bounty hunters trying to get stones before you do. (Sonic 
 anyone? Chaos emerald!) Anyways, the story sucks so ill stop talking about it. The main value of 
 this game lies in the online play for Wi-Fi. You can randomly join games with out haveing friend 
 codes or anything like that, and everyone doesnt have to be Samus, you can pick the other hunters. 
 The only problem though is you have to unlock them in the boreing single player first. There are 
 many game types that you can play from Free For All to Capture The Flag. But cmon, CTF with only 
 4 players cant really do much. Other then that its an alright game, if you dont have Wi-Fi I really 
 dont recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  One of the main reasons I bought a DS was for this game... I'm a Metroid Fan and after playing the 
 early demo I was pretty excited. I thought the gameplay would surpass the demo concepts (which 
 were 2 years older) , but it seems the stayed true to that idea. It is a handheld so I could understand 
 less depth and longivity.... but the single player is just BORING. Visually the game is incredible 
 for the DS, but everything else just falls short... on it's face. A lot of recycled corridors and 
 paths make it feel bland and unexciting. The multiplayer is decent with some lag, but overall pretty 
 impressive for one of the first online Wi-fi games. The controls are on the right path but still 
 need a lot of work.
  
  Pros: - Visuals are great
  - Multiplayer setup is smooth and easy - Controls are on right path
  
  Cons:
  - Single player 
 is boring
  - Too many recycled rooms and corridors - Controls still need work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkavatar2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Metroid has always had decent games for Nintendo in the past. But with MPH for the DS, the realistic 
 meters start to climb steadily. From the first person view of Samus herself, it really makes you 
 feel like you are literally in the game.
  
  At first the controls may be a little tricky to figure out, but after about 10 minutes you tend 
 to get the hang of it.
  
  The graphics (for the DS at least) are tremendous. Although they can be a little grainy at times, 
 MPH really makes the DS system graphics look good. The single player mode seemed a little lacking, 
 as it follows the traditionally way of all Metroid games, where the majority of the hours spent 
 playing are just you wandering around the levels trying to find a secluded entrance that leads 
 to something important for you progressing through the game.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand, along with the wi-fi capability really shines in this game. 
 With all of the medals and different ranks in wi-fi, it really keeps you busy doing your best to 
 pwn noobs, stay away from the MPH hackers and keep improving your rank. Exchanging friend codes 
 and wirelessly talking to one another through the use of the mic. is great. Setting up individual 
 games for your friends and then playing with them when they live across the world really shows 
 what wi-fi's true potential is. Overall I'd give this game a B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze_carvingheadz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Another game for the DS that wants to be fun. Since Metroid has become a FPS instead of the classic 
 2D side scroller, it has become mindless and boring.
  
  The main game is to basically move on stage after stage destroying everything, fight a insainly 
 cheap boss, and run back to the entrance befor it blows up. As the game moves on, you gain more 
 weapons and suit upgrades. The game also features the same stuff from Metroid Prime on the Gamecube, 
 like scan vision. The story mode is short, and will last a day or two.
  
  The graphics are most likely the best for ds so far, but it doesnt save it.
  
  The most dissipointing 
 thing about this game was the multiplayer. Online play is pointless. The fights get so intense that 
 after 30 minutes of play, your wrist will get very numb. The players online are also either A: insainely 
 skilled B: totaly suck or C: HACK THE GAME A BECOME INVINCIBLE!!!!!!!!
  I gave up playing online after a hour!
  
  This game was the final straw for metroid prime. 
 The GC version was terrible and now the DS version is. Some things will never change... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddman009
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters
  
  Pros +Best graphics on the DS. + Controls are more precise then console FPS +Kick ass multiplier
 
  Cons -The single player mode seems like it was added at the last moment. -Even though its more 
 precise, theres a whole new learning curve.
  
  
  The Plot: Metroid prime hunters is the third sequal to the prime series. Taking place between Prime 
 1 and 2. The plot takes place when Galactic Federation empaths receive a strange telepathic message 
 stating that ultimate power resides in the Alimbic solar system. Samus Aran, the renowned bounty 
 hunter, is sent to investigate and retrieve (or neutralize) this power. Meanwhile, six other bounty 
 hunters have picked up on the information as will and are also heading to the system to claim the 
 power as their own.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of MPH are of the roof when compared to any other DS game (like Mario kart 
 or whatever) . The graphs are at the point that there like PSP graphics. The only problem that i 
 can think of about the graphics are that the areas around u can seem a bit dull and boring to look 
 at because the look really picalated when looking close up to it.
  
  Controls: The controls on the other hand are a solid average. Even though the touch screen gives 
 u more precision then any console FPS, the controls can at be frustrating and annoying to use at 
 first giving u a pissed off feeling when your playing MPH.
  
  Sound: Sound in this game overall is very will done. With every creature, explosion, gun shot, etc 
 having their own different sounds, they must of spent a lot of time making sure the sound was top 
 notch for this game.
  
  Fun: Ah yes fun the only reason i play games to begin with. Will the amount of fun in MPH is a lot 
 in the multiplier. But not so much in the single player. Not that the single player sucks its that 
 it seems like they rushed it or it was a last min add on. Which for a metroid game is not very 
 good at all. The multiplier though is great even though the online is hacked to hell. But overall 
 MPH is a very fun game and u owe your self to check it out.
  
  Replay: Replay in this game overall is ok. Its great when u finish it the first time and maybe a 
 second time but after that you will never play the single player anymore after that. The multiplier 
 though is where its at with king of the hill, surviver, and a lot of other modes u can have fun 
 for months at end.
  
  Over all: Over all MPH is a excellent game no matter what and u need to play this if your a hardcore 
 Metroid fan or even if your just looking to have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GANGSTASAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a huge success for the ds, Nintendo gave us a fps game for your ds and 
 the graphics are really 3d and Nintendo has put all effort in, making this one of the best ds games, ever.
 
  
  Gameplay: In Metroid Prime Hunters you play as samus aran like other Metroid games and you get the 
 usually good singleplayer, lasting about 12-15 hours (for the first time playing) , the controls are 
 easy, you use your stylus to control where you are shooting, you can easily switch weapons using 
 your stylus, or transform into your morphball like the other Metroid games, also, the scan visor 
 comes back, and it is hard hitting the icons by accident which makes the controls easy, you can 
 use left hand controls or right hand controls which makes it fair, In singleplayer you are 1 of 
 the 7 hunters you play as samus aran, you must race to get all octoliths (the main item in the game) 
 then you can reveal the 'ultimate power' and that is your mission objective. There are 6 enemy 
 hunters: Kanden, Spire, Weavel (yes, from Metroid 1 but in a new metal body) Sylux, Noxus, and Trace. 
 All of them have different Alternative forms so you can transform into something else, like samus 
 has the morphball. All hunters have different weapons from, sniper rifles, ice beams, shockers, rapid-morter 
 shooters, lava blasters, and electric paralysers. All of them are different and you can get all 
 of them in singleplayer mode. There are a total of 9 weapons (power beam, missile  
 Driver, Magmul, Shock Coil, Imperialist, and your hunters alt form) After you finished singleplayer 
 you can go to multi-player local play or ONLINE, yes this game has online and you can battle other 
 players around the world, which makes the game lasting for a LONG time, has you play through singleplayer 
 when you beat a enemy hunter you unlock them in multi-player and you can play as them, which is 
 great. Even for the people who can't go online they can still go and play with the computer in 
 multi-player so, for them people who can't go online you can still play with the computer and have 
 lots of fun, which makes the game largely better. The AI in singleplayer are dull they cant shoot 
 you probably, even if you stay still, sometimes they miss you which is a shame, but in multiplayer 
 the BOTS (computer controlled player) you can set how could they play, and in multi-player the AI 
 is great.1 bad thing though in singeplayer the game's 'Big Bosses' repeat a lot and are only changed 
 a bit (like there weapons) ,but it doesn't make the singleplayer disappointing, because it's still 
 great.
  
  Graphics: The first step you go out of Samus ship you WILL be surprised with the quality graphics 
 all in 3d and there is no other DS game that has High quality 3d-graphics and i am amazed ,how 
 much effort that Nintendo has put into this game.
  
  Sound: The sound in Metroid Prime Hunters is good enough as well, the power beams sfx are the same 
 has the gamecube games which has never been bad you get good quality sound with this game in any 
 setting, i think the sound is best when you change the settings to surround sound ,because you 
 can hear the background music better, there is big variety of music ,which makes the sound impressive.
 
  
  Value: In Singleplayer you will have to go to 4 planets of the 'tetra galaxy', in the end of each 
 one you will encounter a big boss ,after you defeat the boss you will get one of the 8 octoliths. 
 4 planets may seem a little but after you completed them all, you need to go back to the first 
 one, then if you look around you should find the next level (in the same planet) so, there's 2 levels 
 in every planet, making a total of 8 levels. For a good 12-15 hours of the singleplayer. After 
 you done that you can go to multi-payer, play offline or online you WILL be playing for ages to 
 increase your gamer rank and you can unlock more levels for mulitplayer for a total of 27 arenas 
 which is a lot. Multi-player will keep you interested for a LONG time.
  
  My tilt: The singleplayer is really good, the multi-player is really really good, in fact one of 
 the best wi-fi games on the ds, and you can still have fun after singleplayer ,even if you can't 
 go online, the graphics are unbeatable, sound's are as good as the gamecube shooters, gameplay is 
 overfun. Metroid Prime Hunters offer the fans a great exp on their ds and they will be playing 
 non-stop, while even players who like shooting games (like me) will find this game the best on the 
 DS.
  
  OVERALL: Not much other ds games have this much to offer, it impresses anyone and no-one can call 
 it bad, Nintendo put all there effort and they deserve a medal. So, the game is A 3D-FPS shooter 
 on your DS, right in your hands, Metroid has never looked better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIKID406
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok this waz actualy the first ds game that i played or beat because i dont have a ds i used my 
 friendz ds without him knowing lol
  
  This game waz prety good though
  at first its kinda tricky with the controls but if you custimize them the game wil seem ALOT more 
 funner and crazyer.
  its got a good story and all but the game is all based on strategy and it could get hard some times 
 if your stuk in a place you cant beat.
  Ok but thats not the hardest thing about the game the hardest thing waz the bosses they were so 
 god damn hard to beat especialy the last one it takes patience to kill one. As bosses youve got 
 the wierd pole that moves and shoots lazers @ you and youve got the anoying eye that floats and 
 tryes to crush you and the last boss im not gonna tell cause i dont wana spoil you.
  Ok so in the game youve got alot of really cool mods for your arm canon that will come in handy 
 later in the game you can also find life and rocket upgrades to make you stronger. In the game there 
 are hunters in every planet, station you visit and they all have theyre own attack but dont chiken 
 out when you se one youre stronger than them but its hard to hurt them cause they move alot and 
 i mean ALOT!
  
  so ya i guess thats all i have to say about this cool game
  now the only thing you have to do iz buy it or try it! cause im sure youl like it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace_95
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is an amazing game. Its single player adventure is long but very fun. You 
 discover different artifacts, encounter or fight different hunters, explore different worlds, and 
 collect weapons. There aren't many weapons, but the few that you get have amazing abilities. For 
 example, one weapon, the Imperialist can zoom on in to easily shoot your opponents and kill them 
 in one hit. The boss battles aren't that hard once you get used to the game. The multi player mode 
 in this game is amazing. You get your own hunter's license which shows your (from 1 star to 5 star) , 
 how many battles you've won, and which hunter you use the most . Overall, this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing FPS every Since Doom and Duke Nukem. never have i played a first person shooter 
 that wasn't on a keyboard mouse or dual analog. That is Until I bought Metroid Prime: Hunters.
 
  
  The way the developers laid out the controls are pretty much as good as you can get and i have 
 to say it controls more precisely and accurate , even though the DS limited screen may bring it 
 down. If i can use my DS touchpad to play Half life 2 on my PC i would thats how good it is.
  
  Metroid Prime doesn't have lock on it requires you to be good enough to kill the baddys in 
 the game ,this is why lock on is on most console games , the controller limits the speed you can 
 aim at any given enemy , so the devs put in Autoaim to help. See the touchscreen doesn't need that 
 cause it eliminates that problem
  
  Metroid Prime is not as long as the other Prime games , but for a DS game it's decent. The online 
 multiplayer for Prime , is really good and fun. It's great that the game is online cause it adds 
 to the replay value and it means your gonna play the game more often , maybe to take a break from 
 Pokemon or Mario Kart :P
  
  The graphics on MPH are like a baby version of the cube games. Which means it's really good since 
 it's a DS game. The textures are not filtered and there very Little reflection or Shaders like 
 the Cube games , so from far it looks good but when you get close it's really pixelly. It's still 
 good because there alot of effects that add to the visuals, like Charging your gun your see the 
 lites coming out the cracks and it'll start smoking up. I have yet to see an action game with better 
 Graphics on the DS.
  
  The Story and Music are nothing really to brag about . You killing Bounty hunters who are after 
 Samus Aran because her milkshake brings all the boys to the yard? I dunno i really don't keep tabs 
 on the story in Prime i'm more interested in the Puzzles, Shooting and upgrading. The music feels 
 like every Metroid game.
  
  I suggest MPH to anyone who owns a Nintendo DS. Unless your favorite game is Hello Kitty Island 
 Adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Metriod prime hunters is a game were you go different planets to kill the hunter's and bosses on 
 each level . You can upgrades around like missils , engry tanks and more wepeons to use . You use 
 L to shout , use A to jump , The Stlyes is to look around with , Use the touch sreen for the morphball 
 and use L for the bombs . Fling your styles on the touch sreen to get a boost . The muitiplayer 
 is great if you have friends you talk to them from really far away . The Nintendo wifi connection 
 is to verse people all over the world like The United States of America .
  
  This game is the best and easeist metriod so far and it is all so online game playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomgiv3r6
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you're interested in a game with a rich story line and interesting and challenging bosses, this 
 game is not for you. This game's single player is a big disappointment. The lackluster levels are 
 pretty straightforward and linear and the bosses are definitely nothing special either. Throughout 
 the game you fight 2 repeating bosses whose difficulty is the only thing that actually changes. 
 It may take a good 25 to 30 hours to finish this game, but once it's done there is very little 
 reason to give at a second go. Aside from that the weapons are pretty cool and there is a better 
 selection than in previous Metroid games. This game also has some cool in-game movies and really 
 good graphics. The frequent encounters with other hunters are pretty cool to. Despite its many 
 flaws, the single player is still somewhat enjoyable.
  
  The multiplayer is by far the best part of this game. It has a lot of fun modes to play on local 
 play and multi card play, but the wi-fi is limited to deathmatch. Even though it has only one game 
 mode, wi-fi in this game is fantastic and if you are looking for a good game with solid multiplayer, 
 you should give Metroid Prime: Hunters a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing Metroid Prime 2 Echoes, I thought MPH would have some cool features, but it didn't. 
 The Levels were unoriginal, you went to each one twice, so you knew your way around, The bosses 
 were not original, there were two bosses, a tower and a moving ball, each one had 3 forms, that 
 always had the same tactic of defeat, and the power-ups were lacking (no Screw-attack, laser beam, 
 plasma beam, just missiles and charge beam) . There is still some originality to it, such as the 
 bounty hunters and the plot line, but much of it is still just as much the same. The enemies I 
 found to be quite lacking, with bad focus, graphics, and battles. The planets just filtered themselves, 
 you just landed at the same place both times, They could have at least had different landing zones 
 for the 1st and 2nd time. Another thing was the battles, you could not tell if you were firing 
 or if it was the other guy, your weapons look so much alike that the weapons morph together and 
 you often find yourself dying. The power-ups they did have were annoying and hard to use, when 
 you had to use it you often didn't have it out causing you much damage. The bounty hunters were 
 really dumb because once you killed them they reappeared on another planet and you had to kill 
 them again. Once you beat a boss you had to make it back to your ship before the time runs out, 
 and when running into bounty hunters on this way out, man does it make me paranoid!! The multi-player 
 was also hard. I am not the best at this game so playing it I almost always lose, and playing harder 
 people, Man don't make me tell you. MP: H is still a fun game besides the problems, so I would rent 
 it before buying it to make sure you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Wow is one way to describe this game, Coolio is another the list can go on about this great game 
 but we have to review. The gameplay of this game is one of the best I've seen on the Ds. It has 
 unique controls that are often hated but seems to only impress me. The graphics are even more amazing 
 than the gameplay. The enviroments were beautiful, the enemies were nicely done, the cutscenes were 
 great, and the weapons, lasers, etc actually looked real. The sound was also done great because all 
 the sound effects went with whatever you were doing. This game will last you long due to the long 
 story and because of Wi-Fi, of course. The only downfall about the game is that you verse the same 
 2 enemies every other level, the only difference is that its stronger than the last. The reson 
 this is a downfall is because it gets kind of annoying and if your a person like me that likes 
 variety than your not going to be happy. So overall I'd say pick this game up if you don't have 
 it because you'll enjoy it as much as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeshamUchia
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Wise man says good things come to those who wait'' i saluet you wise man. Well what can i say about 
 one of the most antisipated games on the DS. Well first of all the multiplayer is fantastic. Not 
 only is it fun to kick your friends buts in single and multi card play the wi-fi multiplayer is 
 so satisfing because you can kick but all over the world without leaving your home. Graphics wise 
 this game puts alot in especialy in the cutscenes. Also having two endings for some reason it makes 
 me want to play until i completed it 100%, there are more things i could say about this game but 
 i don't want to bore you lot. kthxbai! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  If you own a DS, and you don't own Metroid Prime: Hunters, you need to go out and get a copy. It's 
 is easily one of the best games to hit the DS.
  
  Graphically, it's beautiful. I know textures aren't exactly wonderful up close, but you can only 
 expect so much. The graphics are what they need to be. I never felt like I was just shooting at 
 pixels across the room, I could tell what I was aiming for. Graphics are important, but the two 
 things that really sucked me in were the gameplay and the sound. This controls perfectly. Using 
 the touch screen to change weapons, and to change your form, and so on works perfectly. The interface 
 is so clean and smooth, I love every minute of it. Using the touch screen to look works well, too. 
 I really can't say enough good things about the controls.
  
  The same goes for the sound. I'm amazed at how many channels they were able to use. Or, if they 
 had to limit it, how well they hid that limit. Everything makes a sound, appropriate to what it 
 should be. The sound makes exploring interesting, it makes battles exciting, and it really adds 
 to the immersion of the whole experience. It's all about ambient noise.
  
  The multiplayer, while limited to battle mode, really keeps the game alive after you complete it. 
 I know I'll be playing through the game a second time. But it's fun to jump online and game with 
 people from other countries.
  
  My tilt on this game is fairly obvious. I love it. It's a game that takes patience, and you have 
 to be willing to backtrack and fight quite a bit. I don't feel this is more of a shooter than an 
 adventure game. There are shooting elements, but it's just as exciting exploring these games as 
 it was for me to explore the original two Metroid Prime games.
  
  I say this is a must buy. Easily the best game I have played on my DS. RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Great shooter, got it for x mas and im still playing it.
  
  Graphics: Great for the DS, detailed arenas and characters look good too. Nice menu presentations 
 and great cinimatics. 8/10
  
  Sound: The music is great, your standard metroid music+sounds. every different character has a 
 different death sound, which is pretty cool. Nothing wrong here.8/10
  
  Gameplay: A great first person shooter! The Adventure mode is okay, it could of been better and 
 a little longer. The Multi player is Outstanding. 4 player Single card, multi card and online play. 
 I still play it with my friends when they come over and it's just a great game overall. 9/10
  
  Overall: Great DS game. You'll spend alot of time playing it and the multiplayer will make 
 it last even longer. I recommend you pick it up, you'll love it. 
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.0/10. Good job Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitelightn1ng
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I just borrowed hunters from a friend of mine at school. I started playing it today at around 4ish 
 and stopped playing it now. I gotta say, its a pretty good game in terms of multiplayer but the 
 single player may need some good coats of paint. The graphics are superb given that the DS's hardware 
 isnt all that superd. At times you could find an occassional lag here and there but it subsides 
 after a sec or two. At first glance, I'm definitely gonna but it this weekend because it think 
 it's a must have for DS owners. If your looking for a good solid FPS on the Ds that you can play 
 hours on end with then look no further than Metroid Hunters. Have a nice day and hopefully you 
 get this game. (as a lil side note, its like the new crack expect in a video game form. lol........ j/k. 
 I dont do that stuff) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: administor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime Hunters is a great, well the mulitplayer as least. I'm writing this review late i 
 got it in 2006 as soon as possible because word on the street was it was a killer title for ds. 
 Well, yes it show the the ds's hardware can do. As a result it is impressive. the graphics, gameplay, sound 
 and over all tilt will impress you and you'll find it to be the best looking ds game out there (there's 
 mario kart, but w/e) . The problem is of course you may have already guessed the single player mode. 
 It just sucks. i mean its so boring it is not at all like metroid prime 1 and 2 for gamecube. Those 
 games are all like use your brain and stuff. This game is mindless, pretty easy stuff, a Metroid 
 fan would be dissapointed. However, if you have been waiting for the ultimate fps mulitplayer killer 
 game for the ds, this is it. In mulitplayer you can chose from single ds donload play (not so much 
 fun) , but the you really want to go with is the normal mode where if everyone has the game you 
 get all the multiplayer features. God, this game is like halo 2 in mulitplayer. There like 7 different 
 game modes and there all as fun as hell and you can enjoy it so much with friends. If you have 
 no friend theres 2 things you can do. First if you dont have wifi you can play with computers (easy, normal 
 or hard modes are there) . if you have a wifi connection and friends you''ll be happy to know you 
 can play with online and the same features of the ds card. Thats right all 7 diffrent game modes! 
 But why stop there? Theres also team play and you chat with using the ds mic. Metroid prime is 
 the best ds game i own curently 9as i write this review) while the single player sucks, the muliplayer 
 is a killer. With or Without friends. If your interested i suggest you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I've never been much of a Metroid fan, but when I saw the graphics this game had and played a demo 
 version of it showing me its tremendous gameplay potential, I decided I was hooked and was definitely 
 going to purchase it. After buying it and playing for a month or two, I doubted whether I made 
 the correct choice or not...
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 | It's a traditional first person shooter. A good variety of different weapons and 
 a nice cast of characters combine for a great gaming experience. Things like loading times ( Come 
 on! Door, you better open! ) were rather unnecessarily annoying. Repetitivity also causes some 
 problems. In addition to that, as you get farther in the game, the more boring it becomes after 
 you've unlocked all the characters. Unfortunately, at that point, I lost most of my interest and 
 played like a zombie -- mindless and vagrant. Still, gameplay is admittedly a strong aspect of Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters and should certainly be acknowledged.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 | Obviously, graphics is the strongest aspect of Metroid Prime: Hunters. Amazing 
 3D visuals and backgrounds and impressive detail on enemies and characters are great! The introductory 
 and in-game cutscenes are extremely remarkable. It all could've run a bit smoother, but all in 
 all, it was great!!!
  
  Sound: 8/10 | Hmmm... Metroid Prime: Hunters had fair sound; realistic opening doors, weapon sounds, 
 jumping, etcetera. Suspenseful music was also a nice touch to the soundtrack, I believe. However, 
 some music and sounds seemed 'remixed' from past Metroids and/or other sources.
  
  Value: 8/10 | Good replay value? No. Good price? Not exactly. Going to last you a long time? Definitely. 
 After finishing the game, there are no benefits nor are there encouraging unlockables or easter 
 eggs to encourage you to play again in single-player. The price on the game also should've been 
 lowered a bit. It will definitely last you quite a while, though, especially with the EXCELLENT 
 online and multiplayer modes. Tilt: 8/10 | Great, but certainly not the best. I thought Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters was a great game, but it could've been improved in so many ways.
  
  Overall: 8.3 Great | It's a solid first person shooter for the DS with many good traits but also 
 noticeable flaws. My suggestion to you is that you may want to rent it first because it's Almost, 
 but not quite . It's all good stuff, though, and Metroid Prime: Hunters can be rewarding, but it 
 lacks what makes other games... well... more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a unique game for the Nintendo DS. It takes Retro Studios&acute; Metroid 
 Prime franchise and makes it more of a first person shooter than an adventure. Game seems to be 
 designed as an online multiplayer shooter and in this respect Metroid Prime: Hunters totally succeeds.
 
  
  Story goes that Samus goes on a hunt for the ultimate power, which can be attained by getting eight 
 different artifacts called octoliths. These artifacts can be found in Alimbic Cluster, which is 
 a small batch of planets. This hunt is a little different though: Samus is not the only bounty 
 hunter anymore. There are also Sylux, Weavel, Noxus, Trace, Spire and Kanden and they are all after 
 the same thing as Samus. Bounty hunter is not a friend of another bounty hunter, so expect to see 
 lots of fighting. Story sounds interesting and it actually pretty much is just that, but at some 
 point youll get the impression that the adventure mode is just a warm-up for the multiplayer.
 
  
  Graphics are great in terms of what can be seen on the DS. Colors are good and it looks just like 
 a Metroid game should. Unfortunately when you get close it becomes very pixelated and ugly, but 
 luckily the frame rate almost always runs smoothly. There are no loading times anywhere just like 
 it was in console Metroid Prime games, since they&acute; ve been hidden in between different rooms 
 (just like in console Metroid Prime games) .
  
  The use of dual screen video cutscenes is a great feature. Sometimes the two screens are used like 
 one (with a gap in the middle) , but other times the lower screen shows the exact same thing as 
 the upper screen does, but in a different camera angle. Already the first video is impressive showing 
 all seven bounty hunters and there&acute; s a separate menu where you can watch unlocked videos. 
 Music also makes a great job in creating a Metroid feel. I still have to say that the music during 
 battle loops way too often and in the end you&acute; ll get tired of hearing that techno music over 
 and over again. Sound effects are familiar and they work, but there is nothing amazing or totally 
 new about them.
  
  Gameplay works like a charm, as long as you&acute; ll give enough time to get use to it. Controls 
 are hard at first, but the use of a stylus like a mouse in PC shooters is very precise. There&acute; s 
 no lock-on feature and Samus has all her abilities right from the get-go so Hunters is very much 
 a first person shooter. Get ready to spend somewhere around 30 minutes to one hour just to get 
 a grip on the controls and remember: it&acute; s more about getting out of the way than taking a 
 direct hit to your armor while hoping for the best. Touch screen is also used to jump by tapping 
 it twice with a stylus and to choose between different visors, weapons and the Morph Ball mode. 
 It all works well. Map is displayed on the top screen and it is cycled by using the stylus. Map 
 is pretty much the same as in Metroid Prime, so it works great pretty much all the time.
  
  It wouldn&acute; t be a Metroid without a Morph Ball mode and every bounty hunter in the game has 
 his or her own alternate form. In adventure mode the use of a Morph Ball is not as good as you 
 remember from console games. Camera is not as good and boost is very hard to achieve by using the 
 stylus. Luckily boost can also be done by using the R-trigger (L-trigger for left-handed players) . 
 There are Morph Ball things to do in a regular basis and they help to bring some variety in the 
 gameplay.
  
  Level design is a lot more linear comparing on what you&acute; ve used to in console Metroid Prime 
 games. But have no fear: there&acute; s a lot back-tracking here as well. Also the structure of 
 the game seems very linear and predictable at first, but luckily gets more interesting and non-linear 
 after a while.
  
  In a true Metroid style the enemies come back when you visit an area for a second time. This is 
 not a problem, but this time the re-appearing enemies seem to be random in terms of quantity and 
 quality. This makes it very hard to think of a strategy when going to an already familiar territory.
 
  
  When enemies die in console Metroid Prime games they leave behind that thing which Samus in that 
 moment needs, but usually this is not the case in Hunters. This means that your energy may be very 
 low, but you&acute; ll only get a bunch of ammo when killing enemies.
  
  For the first time ever it is now possible to do more than just save in Samus&acute; bug-like Hunter 
 Gunship. You can read your scanned information on Logbook, change your secondary weapon of choice 
 and make changes in gameplay via Options menu.
  
  Speaking of saving, death comes pretty frequently in Metroid Prime: Hunters so you should visit 
 often in your Hunter Gunship, because that&acute; s the only place to save your progress. This is 
 not as bad as it sounds, since there are warp points to make a faster retreat to your Ship (and 
 back to where you just left) . Also there are checkpoints now and then, but for some reason the 
 game doesn&acute; t tell you when a checkpoint has been reached.
  
  Multiplayer is the best part of Metroid Prime: Hunters. Without a friend code you can play only 
 Battle (deathmatch) for up to four players on Wi-Fi, but already that is a blast and fun. With 
 friend codes and multiple game cartridges you can play Battle, Survival, Bounty, Defender, Prime 
 Hunter, Capture and Nodes. Battle mode can also be played with four DS consoles and just ONE game 
 cartridge on a wireless multiplayer. This is a great way to see what the game is like before getting 
 it to yourself.
  
  When first playing on Wi-Fi you&acute; ll most likely get your ass kicked over and over again. In 
 this case I recommend selecting wireless multi-card play and then create game . Now you can choose 
 to play against one to three bots, whose skill level can be changed according to your personal 
 preferences. This is a great way to practise or just to have fun, when you don&acute; t have an 
 access point to Wi-Fi.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a unique first person shooter in Nintendo DS&acute; s library and you 
 really should experience it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  If you love First Person Shooter games such as Halo or Timesplitters or Half Life you may find 
 this game disapointing on DS. Metroid is in the Nintendo Series Samus is on anathor Universe stopping 
 Bounty Hunters and looking for Artifacts and You can use the touch screen to move around and the 
 L sholder button to shoot and you can yourself into a ball-shpere. But this game can be frustrating 
 and your hands will ache on DS but its worth playing once or twice. If your a Nintendo fan you'll 
 enjoy this game but theres always a new story in every Nintendo game and series. Finding somthing 
 wired useing its power but if there is a sequel you'll start a new journey but no power ups in 
 the Metroid series. But its graphics belong to an N64 game or PS1 game they look oldish but the 
 cutscenes are cool. Multiplayer is worth playing if you have Wi-Fi connection on the DS, Some of 
 you may want to rent it but if your a Nintendo Lover you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I didn't know what 2 exspect. Waz I 2 c a game so addicting as Pokemon? 
 Or a game that waz totally going 2 suck. Well it wwaz a little in between. I saw the screenshots 
 and they were pretty good. So as the hours went by I started getting more and more bored. But then 
 I noticed I waz in a spot of Wi-Fi (Where I live, there's no service) . So I configured the settings, 
 blah, blah, blah. And I joined a noob game. It waz just like Halo, well 4 me anyways. The storyline 
 is quite simple, samus gets a message from her ship saying that these 4 planets have some sort 
 of crystals, I don't no much about them but they sure look cool. When u defeat all 8 bosses then 
 comes the big boss, the last boss. Pretty easy at first but as u die, u start 2 c his weaknesses 
 and strengths, like all other games. Its a easy game after awile. U exspect 2 c alot of twists, 
 turns, puzzles, and mazes. Accasually there'll b a hunter around, and they're probably the most 
 challenging because they actually put up a fight. The 1 proplem I have in this game is there r 
 no decnt enemys, when u buy the game, u'll c what I mean.
  
  There's 6 new hunters in this game. Weavel, a warrior, who when u put him in2 his alt-form his 
 body is cut in half and his lower body is a turret. His special weapon is the Battlehammer which 
 causes 2x more damge than using it on any other hunter. Kanden, a experiment gone wrong. His alt-form 
 is a worm type of thing, and its attack is a mine. His special weapon is the volt driver, which 
 when hit, ur target's vision is temporarily messed up. Noxus, a law inforcer, turns into a top . 
 His attck is a blade comes out of him and chops ur foe in half or causes alot of damages. His special 
 weapon is the judicator, which freezes foes when charged. Spire, a rock person (hey I'm trying) , 
 who can turn into a boulder that can run up walls. His special weapon is the Magmal, which explodes 
 into a ring of fire when charged. Trace, a diffrent race that is feared by many, turns ino a creature 
 kind of thing. He can turn invisible while standing still. His special weapon is the imperialist 
 which is a sniper. And last but not least: Sylux, a sharpshoter. Hes my favorite. he turns into 
 this wierd floating machine, its attacks are link-mines which if put into a triangle, destroy ur 
 opponent. His weapon, the shock coil, drains ur foes life and adds on 2 urs.
  
  The Multiplayer is the best on this whole game. The server only holds up 2 4 ppl at a time. Most 
 games r exsilarating. The pros kill ppl every 10seconds. And u can find some1 whos the same rank 
 as u and have some sort of a challenge. You also have download play, which is as fun as ever. And 
 if u have no service, u can put on bots which r just like the actual players. Also, when u have 
 a friend, there's voice chat which is super cool. So bottom line: Buy it, its cool, but no good 
 enemys. Mostly buy it 4 the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  If you are buying this game because you like the feeling of an alien adventurous game.. then don't, 
 the missions are boring and have no purpose. The controls are easy to use and are a great improvement 
 since the demo which came with the ds phat. The bosses are boring and easy so I would give 1P mode 
 maybe 6/10. But hold on there more, much more!!!
  
  The multiplayer wi-fi mode makes this game one of my favourite games, there are lots of arenas 
 and lots of characters to choose from with their own special moves. I haven't tryid it but you 
 can talk to people through the mic and it sounds clear! The only downside to wi-fi is that there 
 is a lot of cheaters which can make a game dull as they cant be killed and they just headshot you 
 all the time. But don't worry because if you have other friends with the game then you can have 
 fun matches.
  
  So over-all the 1P mode is.... hmm ok. But the wi-fi mode is superb! And I highly recommend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow what a great game... My brother has it and it is fun. The single player is fun and good for 
 players all of the sort. The enemies are cool and the controls are awkward at first but, it gets 
 better. Multiplayer is where the fun is located you can play with 4 players online through your 
 wireless router or 4 locally... This is a great feature and you can spend hours playing it. All 
 in all if you have a nintendo ds get this game you will not be dissappointed and is like a portable 
 Halo 2... Go get it now.... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devoo55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Great game! Very good graphics and multi-player. The game has a lot of good things about it and 
 a few bads.
  
  The goods are the graphics and the multi-player! The graphics are great and I haven't seen that 
 good of graphics on any other Nintendo DS game out there. The multi-player... WOW. It is GREAT 
 on WI-FI. I just love it. This game reminds me of Halo 2 on Xbox Live but in a crappy form. Hey, 
 its a DS right? What did you expect? But still, this is a very fun game. If you add friends on 
 Wi-FI, you can use your built-in mic. to chat to them or you can always use the ABC chat.
  
  Now the bads... Well, the worst thing of this game is the story. The adventure mode has a lot 
 of repeating and things coming by that were in other levels. Personally I hardly ever play Adventure 
 Mode anyways. The WI-FI is too good for it self! I suggest this game to EVERYONE because everyone 
 needs a good shooter for each console right? Well, this is a great one to get. One of the best 
 DS games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPAaron
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game just because it was a metroid games, so i assumed it would be good. Most people 
 complain about the single player, but i really like it. I like this game more than the other metroid 
 games that they've made so far. Plus the wifi is incredible, there are always people on it, so 
 u always have someone to play. The only complaint i have is in the wifi, they dont always match 
 u up with people that are equivalent to ur skill level, so its hard to win anything at first cuz 
 u dont know all the secrets and tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ZyoX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  This is a Metroid game for the portable console NDS. It's about an ultimate weapon hidden within 
 a solar system called the Alimbic Cluster, and it's up to you, Samus Aran, to find it. But it won't 
 be easy as there are other bounty hunters from other planets looking for it too. But it's not as 
 hard as it sounds.
  I think that the story-line is good, but just if they could make the game longer and more difficult, 
 then I would recommend to all DS owners to get this game. However, that's not what it is. I spent 
 8 hours in single playing mode, just 8 hours (could've done it faster, but that'll just worsen 
 the goodness of a positive review) and I finished the game, that's how easy it is. Even though 
 I just finished it with 95%. I didn't even die once battling a boss or enemy, I've just died accidently 
 like falling down the cliff. It's just the multiplaying mode and Wi-Fi connections that can hold 
 it up to last longer. But multiplaying is like the main thing of this game, people mostly enjoy 
 it than the single mode, I can say that I do.
  The graphics are squary, but because it's a portable game and it's in a 3D mode, I'll still give 
 it a quite high rate. Otherwise, it's decent. The effects are good though.
  Audio, it's alright, not much to say really. They've got many new music tracks and effects, it's 
 good that they've got the original Metroid melody, that's the best one.
  So if you're going to get this game, expect it to be short and easy. But I can't guarantee, you 
 might like it or think it in a different way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Mostly fantastic touch screen controls; great 3D graphics; varied characters and weapons; 
 awesome multiplayer, whether it be online or LAN.
  
  The Bad: Single player is usually downright dull; online play is limited to deathmatch, unless 
 you swap friend codes; single-card play is fairly limited.
  
  The original Metroid Prime on the GameCube was initially met with skepticism when it was announced. 
 People were afraid that Metroid was becoming a straight-up first-person shooter. It turns out that 
 peoples' concerns were unfounded, though, as Metroid Prime was not only one of the very best games 
 in the series, but it was one of the best games ever made.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is pretty much faithful to the two GameCube titles, though it has a much 
 more FPS focus. In fact, it feels more like a Quake or Unreal Tournament game than a Metroid game, 
 which isn't too bad as long as you're not expecting anything else. The single player is rather 
 linear in comparison to the GCN games, and is obviously not the focus, though it is necessary to 
 play it due to the unlockable stages and characters. It tends to be rather dull, unfortunately. 
 Enemies are pretty generic, and the bosses repeat a lot. A small-scale version of one of the console 
 games would have been great here, but it just isn't so.
  
  As previously mentioned, the multiplayer is the focus of MPH. There's tons of locations to have 
 fragfests in, and they are, for the most part, very well designed. Some are a little too big for 
 their own good, but that's a minor complaint. Online and LAN play are both solid and fun, especially 
 if your friends have copies of the game, or you have swapped friend codes with others. Otherwise, 
 you're stuck with the Deathmatch mode, which is unfortunate.
  
  The graphics are very impressive for a DS game. There's a lot of detail and well done effects, 
 as well as solid framerates. Some of the environments feel a little scarce and empty, but it all 
 works well.
  
  Overall, MPH is a well made game. It has problems, and is disappointing as far as the single player 
 goes, but what it does it does well. And who could ask for more? Get it if you have friends who 
 own a DS and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBowser
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: I am so dissapointed by this. single player was just plain bad. repetitive and boring. 
 big metroid prime fans will be crushed by it. The combat wasn't very creative so basically it means 
 that you could just shoot with a beam and be done. Online wasn't that fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: Very good graphics. It's just the terribly lazy and repetitive level design bores me 
 to tears.
  
  SOUND: Always loved the sound of metroid.
  
  TILT: awful control scheme, and this was just to sensitive when shooting.
  
  VALUE: A bad metroid 
 game that falls terribly short of it's hype.
  
  In conclusion it has a bad control scheme, bad level design, and very bad gameplay. Overall it's 
 a bad metroid game that should be passed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well the first Demo game with the DS was Metriod. Well we have all waited for about 2 years and 
 finally we can play the full version but how does it add up?
  
  Well Samus it at it again with a whole new adventure. This time she is going from planet to planet 
 Defeating the other Bounty Hunters and destroying the evil boss and escape the planet before it 
 blows and do it all over again. Well this game has a very lackluster story to be honest. You don't 
 really care about the story at all. But it has its moments where you have fun while playing the 
 storyline.
  
  The main part of this game is its Multiplayer. Its has the biggest wifi option on the DS. fun creative 
 levels and different modes to play on. If there is one game you need to play online its this. Even 
 if you don't have wifi its still enjoyable. if you play single or multi card with a friend in the 
 same room is quite enjoyable. In multiplayer you can play as the other bounty hunters you defeated 
 in the story mode. This game has a new way to play first person shooters. You use the stylist to 
 move your dun and directional pads to move Samus. you use the back buttons to shoot like a normal 
 game. But the stylist is so much better and precise you wish every first person shooters was like 
 this. it might sound weird at first but after a few Min. you will get the hang of it. there are 
 also many different options to change your controls if you like. Overall this is great buy for 
 the DS. it shows that First person shooters work extremely well on the DS and i will look forward 
 in seeing more of this genre on DS.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Has its moments on storyline but the real fun is multiplayer. very good controls as well
 
  Graphics: The best looking game on the DS. lots of details and as sick CG and they are a lot of 
 them in the game
  Sound: It fits the style they want in the game. Not my favorite music in a game but it fits very 
 well
  Value: Depends on Wifi and multiplayer. if you have access to both or even one this game can last 
 you years
  Overall: Great game and its recommended to wifiers and people who want to play a good first person 
 shooter on the DS. Even if you don't have online access its still worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmcm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters was one of the games that made me really want a DS. I saw lots of people 
 playing the demo that was included with the original DS and thought it looked awesome.
  So when the time came and i got my DS Lite, MPH was the first game i bought. And i wasnt disappointed.
 
  
  The thing thats great about this game is the control system, but its also caused a lot of anger. 
 Some people seem to find it unbearably uncomfortable and it hurts their hands/wrists, so if you 
 plan on getting this game, ask to try it out first, either in the shop or from a friend.
  
  The control scheme in MPH is purely touch screen. You can set it to either right or left handed 
 and in my opinion is the best thing about the game. You use the stylus or thumb strap to aim your 
 gun and this is really easy and aiming has never been so much fun.
  
  The graphics are probably the best on the DS, and the characters have a fair amount of detail. 
 The sound is also very good. Whenever a boss/hunter shows up, you can tell instantly by the type 
 of music that plays. Its all generic, but very catchy.
  
  Multiplayer is another awesome thing. There is multiplayer for up to 4 players, even if they dont 
 have their own game. But the best multiplayer is wi-fi and let me tell you, its not easy. I swear 
 that some people must like play this game 24/7 they are so good. You especially have to watch out 
 for the japanese players, cause they mean business.
  
  This is, without a doubt, my favourite DS game, the most fun, best graphically and in my opinion, 
 the best control system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This is easily the most ineptly made metroid ever. The level designs are just plain lazy. How do 
 I describe this? There are four levels? Normal, Ice, Fire, and.... another one kind of like ice? 
 Worse yet, each ends with a boss, and there is a final boss, so, that should be 5 total bosses. 
 No, wait, each level has two bosses and two objectives, so that's 9 boses. What's that? All the 
 objectives are the same, just get those crystal thingies. Oh, and there are only two boss types 
 , and the final boss. So, first you fight this thing that looks like a organ sticking up out of 
 the center of the room. There are these warts on the side you have to shoot that blast out blobs 
 of poison. Sounds like a typical friday night to me. Next boss, there is this eye-eyed-ball-monster 
 in the center of the room. You have to shoot away it's shield, which makes it excited, before damaging 
 it. Now onto boss three, which is... another wart rod, followed by another one-eyed ball monster, 
 then another wart rod... and so on until you fight each four times. They get a little harder each 
 time though.
  
  This is absolutely ridiculous. Plus, after each fight you have the same you have 5 minutes to get 
 back to your ship without saving EVERY TIME. It's annoying. The first few times it's ok, then it 
 get's old fast.
  
  None of the typical metroid stuff is really there either. You shoot doors open. Most of the time 
 you shoot them and kind of have to back up a little before they realize you're there though. It's 
 like those senso doors in supermarket. You have to go back and forth a bit til it realizes you're 
 there and opens. The doors only open with certain weapons. There are different colored weapons. 
 They all kind of suck. They all supposedly do different kinds of damage. There are different colored 
 monsters. I guess there is some kind of coordination here. Shoot the right colored monster with 
 the right colored weapon and you do more damage. But there wasn't much intelligence. It felt like 
 you could be randomly generating this stuff. You walk into a room and it locks you in before generating 
 2-5 of these bots to fight. They sometimes come back. There are also these bosses that represent 
 each color. They kind of randomly appear on plants. You can kill them a million times, they show 
 up again. There isn't any intention to any of this. You just go around, and this world kind of 
 happens semi-autonomously. It's like instead of actually designing levels, they just made some 
 simple maps and a few rules and let the DS to their designing. This works for the sims and it works 
 for Diablo, but only because they spent a lot more time with those games and made a game that makes 
 SENSE with that kind of design. This game, is just boring. After a few crystals, you just want 
 it all to end. And it's not just your eyes and your patience being worn, this game is painful. 
 The control scheme is clever, and I would be lying if I said it didn't have a certain fun factor, 
 but I really don't think got created DS's to be used for first person games. There were a few boss 
 fights where I had to stop cause my hand got sweaty and the pen kept slipping. At the end, my wrist 
 actually ached a little bit. This type of game just isn't that worth while in the long run.
  
  And that really sums things up for this game actually. It is a fascinating idea. The did well 
 creating the interface. It works. It's interesting. But it gets old WAY too fast, and the level 
 design, plot, and action to not ramp up well enough to keep you interested. The puzzles are pretty 
 boring too. Most of it is just timed obstacle course stuff. There are a few intriguing places where 
 you have to get into a ball and everything goes all 2D on you, but they were rare, and the fact 
 that they WERE 2D really felt odd. It really felt out of place. This is my first Metroid 3D adventure, 
 but I kept really wishing it was more like Metroid: Fusion. Maybe metroid just isn't meant for 
 3D? I can't say not to get this. There is definitely some interesting game play here, it just doesn't 
 last. I'm betting there is a lot of replay available in the multi-player too. I just don't go for 
 that so much. (And nobody here wants to play with me. Oh well.) As a stand alone game, especially 
 when compared with the metroid franchise as a whole, this game just doesn't measure up. It's lazy, 
 and just doesn't exhibit the same level of quality in play and design that I have come to expect 
 from the Metroid franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters may in fact be the only game I've ever bought on launch day. Or atleast the 
 only one I can remember. But I was psyched for this game and preordered it. And when I got it, 
 I was still psyched, while the controls took a little getting used to ... after a while they just 
 felt great. It's like a pc shooter, almost. People may doubt the ds, but a look at this game just 
 shows possibilities. Not only are the gameplays stretching the gameplay limit, but so are the graphics. 
 They are topnotch in detail. I can't think of a prettier ds game at the moment. But neither of 
 these attributes are perfect, the gameplay can give you carpal tunnel pretty easily and shooting 
 can be hard sometimes. The graphics aren't beautiful in every spot and also are so polished in 
 others that they cause a little loading. Which is actually weird on the ds. :D If you know what 
 I mean about DS loading. And sadly the sound and value aren't real great. The music is lame which 
 is not good because it's like the only sound in the game. And the story is one of the stupidest 
 on record. I guess you could say there isn't one, you just find crystals, and shoot hunters and 
 these 2 really stupid bosses that appear over and over again. But on the other positive side there 
 are some REALLY cool fmv videos especially the one in the beginning. And of course there's the 
 multiplayer which is by far the best part of the game. Sadly for me, I can't go on the wifi anymore 
 so I can't do that anymore. But it's really fun. Buy it for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulsdeparting
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  This was the first metroid game ihave played, ever. I have heard great things about the series 
 so i pikced this up when i got my DS last summer. FIrst of all let me say the gameplay is excellent. 
 IT is completely innovative and works wonderfully with the DS' touch screen, and the fact that 
 you can change the sensitivity makes it even better.
  
  The graphics are top notch for the DS, not many games look better, and the opening video still 
 astounds me (even though i sold the game) .
  
  The only thing is this game could not keep my interest. All of the baddies that you fight throughout 
 the world were the same, and no new ones (there were a couple, but not too many) were able to chaneg 
 the gameplay. The gamerevolves around you, Samus Aran, trying to find some kind of power. There 
 are other bounty hunters trying to find this power as well, and you must destry them. These fights 
 are pretty fun, and i looked forward to them, as all the hunters had different guns, and therefore 
 you needed a different strategy to defeat them.
  
  Then the boss figths at the end of the world are very similar, from what i experienced with my 
 time in this game, as i said it was too similar to keep my interest. After you defeat it, you have 
 a couple minutes to get back to your ship and fly away before the place explodes or whatever, i 
 never found out.
  
  The storyline? there isnt one. defeat the other bounty hunters. thats it. not very exciting.
 
  
  Online is fun, but there were too many people that obviously play the game too often, making it 
 hard for someone that is a n00b to FPS, like me.
  
  Overall, it is a solid game, well made, but the lack of the storyline and things to keep me busy 
 and interested made it upsetting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime is an interstintg game because it lets you get a first person perceptive on her adventures 
 as a bounty hunter. I know many people though OMG! this game is going to suck but actually it doesn't. 
 For me there was only a few downfalls to this game. One is that there is no lock-on button making 
 the angel of where you are looking at very important. The bosses aren't unique because you fight 
 two different bosses four times each not including the final boss which (thank god) is totally 
 different. But the worst thing of them all is when playing this game your hands will hurt so you 
 will see your self pausing for a while to gain strength and play again making the game longer than 
 what it should be. Other than that I can't see any downfall to this game. I wish I can speak more 
 about the muti-player but I haven't tried it yet but from what many people are saying and many 
 of the reviews say this game drive force is it's muti-player aspect so it must be that good. Well 
 this is a great game and if you don't have it you should get a it and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipky
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The 1 player mode is very fun, although the bosses and levels get to be a bit repetetive, it is 
 fun to play again and again, its almost like the GC primes. Though somewhat glitchy, and lacks 
 the atmosphere the first primes had, it is a definite buy for anyone with a DS. The graphics are 
 great for a Ds game, plus complete with the metroid puzzles, hunters is a very fun game.
  
  Multiplayer- The best feature of Hunters, it completely makes up for what the 1 player lacks. Local 
 play is great, and the ranking system is very good. PLay your friends and brag how much better 
 you are. WiFi is okay, it is sometimes hard to find a game, and there are many hackers, but thats 
 what you have to deal with if u want to play.
  
  Overall Metroid Hunters is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The answer is kind a sort a.... I have mixed feelings about Prime's little sister Hunters. It just 
 doesn't feel Metroid enough. I will admit that I was a bit concerned when the Big N announced that 
 Metroid Prime for the GCN was going to be a FPS, but I was wrong, and it's one of the best games 
 ever! When I first started reading about the DS verision I was excited because here is a whole 
 new approach to hand held gaming. Well it has it's ups and downs. First off the graphics in Hunters 
 are some of the best you will see on the DS, they are better then both the N64 and the PS1, and 
 on par with many of the PSP and early PS2 titles. The graphics are highly detailed, lush, and engrossing. 
 The sounds are typical Metroid, and have been enhanced and recycled from previous entrys. The music 
 is also typical Metroid of which I have no complaints. The cut scenes are quite nice and you can 
 watch them over and over after you unlock them. The controls are a different story.
  
  I don't feel that Hunters capitalizes on the touch screen feature, somthing that many DS game seem 
 to lack. It just makes it a bit easier to play with two screens. But all of the touchability can 
 be done with the buttons on the side. When you move around with the touch screen, it's just to 
 ackward. So naturally players go back to the traditional button sceme. It's a bit disapointing 
 really. The DS is designed so compactly that your hands cramp up quite easily as you play through 
 the game.
  
  Other things to note is that the same old wicked hard difficulty level is here still with Hunters. 
 It's one of those (much like prior games in the series) that you have to be in a certain beat your 
 head against the wall difficulty mode. It's easy to get lost in the game, and although the story 
 isn't as compelling as the first two games, it's nice to see that they mythos has opened up more 
 hunters then just Samus.
  
  That being said the best is the multi player. You can either bot up, jump in on the WiFi or make 
 your own game. It can be pretty brutal if you run into some chaps that really know how to beat 
 you to a pulp. My suggestion is get out of the room as quickly as possible. It's a good additon 
 to the growing DS library, and one of the more mature title for players. It's worth a look even 
 though it has its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayzee994
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  The Metroid prime series has always been fun. This one takes the cake and the plate too!
  
  The controls may seem difficult. I just got it this weekend and I was wondering if the controls 
 were any good. They are. The unique aspect of the controls is that you aim using the stylus. Sounds 
 bad and quite difficult but it is much easier than the other control that they put in which is 
 a-b-x-y are to aim.
  
  When playing multiplayer you must choose between all of the hunters that you have killed either 
 on Wi-fi or multi-card multiplayer for the single card multiplayer only lets the owner of the card 
 choose. I have found that some people hack in to the game and make their player invincible. I was 
 versing the hunter Trace (the red guy that slightly looks like a spider) and then he jumped in the 
 air and started flying and when he came to the ground again (after 3 mins) I shot at him around 
 15 times (he should have died at around the 3rd or 4th shot but he remained there. After that on 
 his score it said 0 deaths for that guy. So be aware.
  
  Other than that the game is near-flawless.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  
  Graphics-10/10
  
  
 Sound 9/10
  
  Value-10/10
  
  Reviewers Tilt-10/10 Now why am I still reviewing, I should be playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is great, basically it is a fps shooter with some adventure elements in it eg you have 
 to find and scan all the monsters and these rune things that you find on the walls. the graphics 
 arent all that great but they are 3d unlike most games out on ds, and the movie graphics blew me 
 away, i had no idea that the ds could play such quality movie clips.
  the soundtrack is pretty good i liked it, i dont think it was exactly the best point of the game 
 but it was good nun the less.
  the gameplay is very good in this game though i found the controlls a little retarded at first, 
 the story mode is okay but what really makes this game great is the multiplayer games you can be 
 any of the hunters that you have beaten so far in the game and you can pick any map. there are 
 about 9 different types of matches from survivor aka last man standing, to prime hunter where you 
 have to get a number of kills to win.
  all in all this is a great game with wireless multiplayer, so basically i love this game and i 
 think it would be a great game to add to any ds owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the newest game in the Metroid Series. It is a FPS game for the Nintendo 
 DS. You once again reprise the role of intergalactic space bounty hunter Samus Aran and travel 
 through planets picking up Artifacts and Weapon Upgrades fighting tough bosses and even other bounty 
 hunters.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in the MPH is perhaps its strongest point. While it may be awkward to use 
 the stylus at the beginning, you'll get used to it. You'll find it very much emulates a FPS game 
 on the PC with a mouse as you scroll with it just like a mouse and look around in the same way. 
 This allows quick precision shots which are crucial to a FPS game especially since this game has 
 such a strong multi player.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are very good for a Nintendo DS game. Its got great use of color 
 and they all come in a fitting surrounding. Everything flows and looks just like it should be. 
 To be honest, the graphics are some of the best to be found on the NDS and definitely aren't a 
 disappointment. Character models of all the bounty hunters are equally excellent and animate fluidly.
 
  
  Sound: Sound yet again is another strong point for MPH. Great sound effects for each weapon, jump.. 
 everything you could imagine is performed with proper justice. Along with an excellent overworld 
 soundtrack to boot. Sound is excellent.
  
  Value: This is where the game slows down a bit. the game offers a very linear and straight forward 
 single player campaign. You just follow pretty much a straight path. While there are turns, theres 
 usually only one path to take. The single player mode is still fairly good and is worth playing 
 through at least once as it is abundant in cutscenes and you'll want to beat it just to unlock 
 the other bounty hunters for multi player.
  
  Multiplayer: The multi player in MPH is so good, it offers perhaps the greatest multiplayer experience 
 out of all the multi player NDS games. While mario kart was fun, this offers a fully fledged totally 
 awesome multiplayer mode. Plenty of maps to choose from with a large range of different weapons 
 to choose from. You won't be disappointed. It even offers online, though you can only play death 
 match. However, if you play people on your friends list, then you can choose all the other modes. 
 So if your a real fanatic of capture the flag or something, head over to the NDS forum and get 
 some friend codes!
  
  So overall, this game is good. Its got everything you'd expect in a shooter. The storyline is quite 
 disappointing but is still somewhat fun. I think this is a good game and worth your time if you're 
 into the multiplayer aspect of gaming but otherwise you might want to pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cryptosopoidium
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  While the game story mode is totally and completely awful And takes about a half-hour to complete 
 with almost 100% complete. Metroid Prime: Hunters is the easiest Metroid game ever. Graphics aren't 
 that great but still are pretty good. The Soundtrack and sound effects are great.
  
  The Soundtrack is worth listening to again and again in the sound test option.
  
  Gameplay 
 controls are a little confusing at first and they take a little while to get used to. And with out 
 the old lock on feature it makes it a little difficult to hit enemies.
  
  Multiplayer is the best feature in the game. And being able to play as the other hunters and use 
 their unique abillitys is a huge plus! The WIFI connection and being able to fight CPUs when no 
 one is avalible for play just make this game one of the best games ever when it comes to multiplayer 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thevincent56
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The single-player was disappointing. It has good graphics, but it just doesn't make up for the 
 boring/hard substance of theadventure. Basically, in single-player, you walk around and get ambushed. 
 There really is no point except to see how long you can last. Also, may I add, you have to pause 
 every 2 seconds to scan every new object you see.
  
  Multi-player mode was better, though. It has single and multi-card play, and you can even train 
 yourself by fighting "BOTs".! Then, in wi-fi, you can choose if you want to fight players in your 
 local region, or worldwide, and if you want them to be your rank, or be any rank. There are a lot 
 of diverse battlefields, too. There are also different hunters (7 in total) to use, and all have 
 interesting alt-forms. Samus can turn into an orange ball (Morph Ball) , Trace can turn into an 
 invisible spider (Triskelion) , and more. I'm not saying there arern't any faults, as there are 
 a couple hackers. But other than that, wi-fi is a blast!!
  
  All in all, the single-player was disappointing, but the wi-fi mode made up for it. If you have 
 wi-fi, I strongly recommend this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeIsLeGeNd2442
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I own a lot of games for the ds, and this is by far my favorite. The gameplay is flawless and multiplayer 
 has almost infinite replay value. The single player mode is somewhat weak and repetitive, but is 
 also a great way to learn the basics of the game. Recently the online play has been flooded with 
 cheaters, hackers, and people that just basically ruin your game experience. Thats where friend 
 codes are necessary for a fun online experience where you can play people who dont hack or cheat. 
 All in all this game is great dispite a few minor flaws and everyone should own a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is full of so much stuff that itll blow your head up. The multi-player, and single-player. 
 I'd say out of the two, I spend more time on the multi-player.
  
  The multi-player is Wi-Fi. You can play all over the world. That's what is so great. YOu can automatically 
 add a new rival whenever you want. If you are playing single-player, and you fight and kill another 
 hunter, you will be able to use him in the multi-player thing. You can pick between something around 
 20 different levels and 7 or 8 different characters. You can go up to against 3 other people in 
 Wi-Fi. You will spend hours and hours on this.
  
  The single-player is cool too. It's not as good at the begining, but later, when you get more weapons 
 and upgrades, you can go to which ever of the 4 levels you want to, to look for more things. There 
 are 8 Octoliths. You go to each level twice. The second time you go to a level with and upgraded 
 beam, you go farther into the level. There are only 2 differant bosses, not including hunters, 
 that you fight. Everytime you fight the boss it's like an upgraded version of it. Then when you 
 beat the boss, you need to escape the level and make it back to your ship in a time limit. Its 
 really repetative, but it's still good. Great game, and I'm waiting to find a game that's better 
 than it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  You will understand when you first turn the power on. The game starts off with a cutscene with 
 amazing graphics that introduces the other hunters in the game. The storyline to the game is simple 
 you are Samus and an ancient civilisation has left behind relic type things called Octoliths. There 
 are 4 levels that each hold two Octoliths. The game is just simply amazing because you can choose 
 if you want to play with alot of the stylus or not alot. In the levels you will encounter some 
 hunters and they will try to kill you and take your octoliths, if they defeat you one octolith 
 will be taken. The boss battles are predictable because there are the same guys each time (a big 
 pillar and a big shooting eyeball thing) . But through out the game you get to collect weapons and 
 octoliths, fight many diffent enemies, explore many amazing enviroments and the game is multiplayer 
 and WI-FI!! The game has alot of replayibility because you will have to scan everything and get 
 every upgrade or expansion pack to get 100%. This game is just simply amazing and can be recomended 
 to any DS owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good that once I got my DS I decided that; s the first game i'm gonna buy although 
 it was my second (not my fault Star Wars was bought with my DS for my B-day) anyway enough about 
 me! this game has okay Graphics (good for DS anyway) The game is great I'm still playing and am 
 stuck I got as far as killing the fire creature to get the third weapon upgrade! anyway I've played 
 about only 25% and I am still hooked and not ready to put it down for a while. I loved Wireless 
 play but am still waiting for my Wi-fi to get set up (I think I'll get a USB this weekend) anyway 
 you just gotta love a game like this with fifth rate games clogging the market this game is like 
 a quadruple bypass of AWESOME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexterbrains
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a must have game for all fans! Its better than the GCN version i love 
 the huge variety of multiplayer levels now control over 6 new hunters each with a awsome alt formation!
 
  Great controls hard to get used to but its a good game and story!
  Must get it! i wasted &pound;30 on this and i thought i would regret it! Its ace and you should 
 get if ur intrested! The bad:
  the graphics are sometimes boring so are the enemys which sometimes repeat! The bosses are repeated 
 but have a little thing extra to make it hard to fight! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great controls; Amazing graphics; Cool weapons in multiplayer; Fairly well balanced; Unique 
 characters for multiplayer; Complete Wi-Fi support with rankings, friends lists, etc; Several modes 
 and options when playing against friends; 26 maps to fight on
  
  Cons: Controls have a steep learning curve; Single player isnt challenging, and lacks the puzzles 
 and exploration that made Metroid games interesting to most (in other words, its fairly boring) ; 
 Bosses are repeated with little variation; Exploring for power ups doesnt feel as satisfying as 
 usual, because single player lacks major challenge; Some balance issues; aiming can be a bit sensitive 
 for those who dont have a perfectly steady hand; Only 1 mode to verse random people with; No options 
 to turn off rank tracking; Rank tracking when versing friends; Glitches that will ruin everyones 
 time; Some maps are sections of other maps; Always a small bit of latency on Wi-Fi that causes 
 shooting (sniping in particular) to be a slight bit harder; Controls may cause cramps after a while 
 Although computer games, and consoles enjoy most genres, and share several games, portable players 
 almost always have something different. Sometimes we get new games that just wouldnt be fun on 
 consoles, other times we get solid versions of the same games, other times we actually miss out 
 on large games and genres. Such was the case with first person shooters (or 3-D shooters in general) . 
 Portable systems didnt get these due to a lack of buttons for aiming, and graphics. Enter the 
 DS, which has a touch screen to help aim, and has 3-D graphics. Enter Metroid Prime Hunters, and 
 you have proof that portable systems can handle shooters.
  
  First things first: if you are expecting a normal Metroid game (Prime games in particular) forget 
 all those ideas. Metroid Prime Hunters is a run-and-gun shooter, and for once, theres a solid 
 multiplayer. And even more of a first, the multiplayer is better than single player.
  
  The controls for the game are pretty simple, yet may take some getting used to. Either you aim 
 with the touch screen, tapping icons to change weapons and forms (each hunter has an alternate 
 form with its own attack) , double tapping to jump, or you aim with buttons and jump with a shoulder 
 button (still tapping for weapons) , each scheme handling righty and lefty forms (using the control 
 pad or A+B+X+Y to move, and L or R to shoot, the other set of buttons being used in the second 
 scheme) . Although Im not too fond of the second scheme, its not broken. The better scheme for 
 most is the touch screen one, which allows fast, yet precise aiming, and has you closer to the 
 weapon icons anyway. The only issue is the unnatural holding which causes cramps, but its a minor 
 complaint, and only shows during marathons of MPH gaming.
  
  As for gameplay, the single player in the game is ok for one play through, but I wouldnt recommend 
 trudging through it a lot. It takes almost everything that Metroid meant, exploring, puzzle solving, 
 and unique bosses, and replaces them with repetitive shooting; straightforward pathways, and repeating 
 bosses. In fact the whole routine is repetitive. You go to a planet, collect 3 items to open a 
 portal, fight one of two bosses, and then escape from the planet within a time limit (for no reason!) . 
 Even the same 4 areas are recycled, and the only truly good part of the single player is the final 
 boss. Its actually not bad, but it is repetitive and isnt that great.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand is great. You can play single pack, multipack, or Wi-Fi. If you 
 play single pack, you get 1 mode (a deathmatch) , all courses, all character, but your friends only 
 get to use Samus. If you play multipack or Wi-Fi with friends, you get everything, including all 
 7 modes and will get a great experience. If you play Wi-Fi against strangers, you are limited to 
 just deathmatch again, but your opponents will probably be tougher.
  
  In it, you select a unique character, and get to use some creative weapons, and then do whatever 
 the mode requires, killing people along the way. Its quality run-and-gun, and will test your fast 
 aiming, and weapon usage. Unfortunately, a couple weapons are overpowered when used right, glitches 
 allow some people to cheat (to rank up no doubt) , theres a small bit of latency (not at all unplayable, 
 but there has been higher quality networking) , and you only get 1 mode.
  
  Whether single player or multiplayer, the game performs superbly in graphics. The environments 
 are detailed (for a DS game I mean) , and everything animates smoothly, often with a bunch of objects 
 on the screen at once with no slowdown. And besides that, you also get impressive cutscenes in 
 single player (one of the few reasons to play it once) that are more detailed than almost anything 
 else on the DS so far.
  
  The music and sound effects on the other hand arent as standout. They arent bad, but you probably 
 wont remember the music at all. The gunshots and hunters on the other hand sound pretty unique, 
 but not bad. However, depending on who you are, the sound effects may eventually wear thin on your 
 patience.
  
  Technical features aside, the main 2 things to decide whether you want Metroid Prime Hunters are 
 whether or not you have friends and/or Wi-fi, and if you like run-and-gun shooter multiplayer. 
 If so, then you cant go wrong to have Metroid Prime Hunters, even if just for trips when you are 
 away from your other, more feature filled shooters at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfredeen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  A version of this game on the GCN or Wii would be awesome. The game is fun and sticks to the exploratory 
 style of previous Prime games. I find my hands cramp up when I play for too long. Fun multiplayer, 
 would be better if I could win. :oP
  
  Maybe I am impatient but it's hard to read the maps and figure out where you are with the DS interface. 
 I started playing metroid on the GCN so I am probably biased towards the map sizes on there.
  
  Played the online multi player, fun but like I said before, the DS interface is difficult to 
 play on for long periods of time. Great multiplayer concept though, I like being able to play against 
 people that aren't around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xmaster888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a really good game if you have a DS. The best thing about it is that it's multi-player 
 is excellent. You can play on the WIFI connection, play with your friends and if you're alone with 
 no wireless Internet connection anywhere nearby you can even practice by yourself with the bots. 
 This is a great way to get good and i'm glad this game has allowed me to do that. The game isn't 
 all that hard to master. I have played single card play with my friends and within a few games 
 they picked up the necessary skills.
  
  One thing not so good is the campaign. I think it could've been more longer. The bosses also repeat 
 themselves and it the Gameplay starts to get old. But overall it is pretty good and it focuses 
 on the puzzle and action elements like all Metroid Prime games.
  
  Another thing I like about this game is the other 6 hunters. It adds more variety in multi-player 
 and I personally like Noxus and Sylux.
  
  Overall I'd say this game is worthwhile getting and even though i have other games to play and 
 work on I still go back and play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camzo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game the first thing I thought was: why aren't I losing all my stuff? 
 Samus does not lose her abilities to begin with! After completing the single player I was slightly 
 disappointed, until I realised I hadn't completed it! The final boss confuses you as there is a 
 second form which you only fight if you put the right combination on some coloured walls. It is 
 pretty easy but VERY cool and you use an immense weapon - the Omega Cannon. For completing it properly 
 you get to see Samus out of her suit again - looking the best out of any game in my opinion.
  
  But the real reason you buy this game is for the multiplayer. The matches are so intense (if 
 not cheap for the amount of glitches noobs use) and you will NEVER get bored of this game. Your 
 hunter license really frustrates you as it becomes so important to you when it loses something 
 e. g. connection history you will be literally be pulling your hair out. Playing as other hunters 
 is so great and this game will remain fun forever.
  
  I give this game a 9/10. Excellent story but the graphics aren't too great and the single player 
 is pretty easy, but the multiplayer never bores you and will continue to excite over Wi-Fi mode 
 forever. Doesn't match up to the other Metroid games but for itself is an excellent title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTNAPALM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  this is the best ds game ever. bottom line.
  
  it's single player is great. you are samus, an you have been sent out to investigate a meesage 
 promising the ultimate power. the only problem is, everyone else wants it to, so you need to kick 
 some ass.
  
  you go to 4 planets, each with 2 octiliths each. for each octilith, there are 3 almbic artifacts. 
 the almbains are an ancient extinct alein race.
  
  you also get a good host of weapons. apart from the basic power beam (low power machine gun) and 
 the missle launcer (if you dont know this, to bad.) , ther is the imperialist (sniper rifle, can make 
 user invisible if trace) , shock coil (a beam of electricity, can replenish health if sylux) , an 
 volt driver (high cal machint gun of electricty, can disort vision as kanden, way diffrent from shock 
 coil) , juidicator,) a plasma beam that can freeze enimeis, will freze them in ice ir noxus) , the 
 battle hammer (a grenade launcher type weapon that has high splash damage if weaval) , and my favorit: 
 the magmaul. (a gun that lobs extrmely hot rounds on to enmy, can be charged to burn them with fire 
 as spire.)
  
  the characters. i wont go in depth. samus, trace, nouxus, sylux, kanden, and spire.
  
  multiplayer 
 is great. that is all i know. you can even train againts the computor, and has all the basic multiplayer 
 features. (king of the hill, juggernaut, etc.) and has online.
  
  buy this game if you like explosions. the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kira05L
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Hooray or no way? You choose.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters, also known as MP: H, is an extraordinary game for the Nintendo DS. But, 
 that doesn't mean that it is all that great. In this game, you play as Samus Aran, the famous Bounty 
 Hunter. It is the usual: killing the monsters. The graphics aren't that bad. They are quite nice 
 for a Nintendo DS game. But, this game has a twist that some may like, and others may hate.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a Wi-Fi Game, meaning you can hook it up to your computer, or if 
 you have a wireless router, you can play online and battle opponents. The people you play online 
 become your Rivals , while at the same time, the people you add with their Friend Codes to battle 
 become your Friends . As you participate in online games, or win in online games, you unlock new 
 characters which you MAY ONLY choose to play as in the online games. All of the characters have 
 their Pros and Cons, but it's really fun to play as them, and not always, as Samus Aran.
  
  Also, Metroid Prime: Hunters features an Adventure Mode, in which you play as Samus Aran. The Adventure 
 Mode, for me, is not that special. It lacks a lot, well, at least for me. First, you play as Samus 
 Aran. Too overrated for me. Second, it's way to complicated to find your way through some puzzles, 
 well, for me. Third, it is way to easy to kill or defeat the other Bounty Hunters and also way 
 to easy to kill the monsters, well, at least for me. Also, it is complicated with the finger strap 
 to move the screen because sometimes it moves more than what it is necessary, and it becomes a 
 pain in the neck, well at least for me!
  
  At the end, this game is wonderful on Wi-Fi, but it is horrible on the Adventure Mode. What it 
 lacks on Adventure Mode it gives it to you on Wi-Fi. I recommend it if your looking for beating 
 other people online. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jose-Javier
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is an impressive game. I did not expected it to be that good.
  I liked the other hunters they are cool especially Trace.
  Some of the characteristics of thigame 
 are: original good story, innovative using the stylus WAS a lot of fun, cool enemies those hunters 
 WERE a challenge. It has cool graphics and good gameplay. Maybe... the only bad thing about this 
 Metroid game, is that it does not have any classic metroid enemies. For example it lacks Metroids, 
 Ridley, Space Pirates and afew more. Also the game is kind of easy, but I REALLY reccomend it. 
 That is why I give it a 9.6 It was worth waiting 2 years. I really recommend this game. I really 
 am a Metroid fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanadam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game was finamonal! I love this game. I got it about maybe 1 week ago and was so happy about 
 it. I have gotten to the third planet. The Adventure Mode is pure gold. IT is long but the levels 
 aren't even close to being the same . They have a new twist in every level of exciting fun. There 
 are new crteatures every level so you don't know what to expect. Also the wi fi gameplay is great 
 also. You can play people online any time. I am not that good yet but I am sure when you are really 
 good it makes it really fun. Thanks for reading this review for Metroid Prime Hunters. I would 
 get this game if you don't have it. It might just be the best DS game of all time! Some people 
 might tell you the graphics aren't good there good. Also it is on the DS not like the PS3 they 
 are very good graphics for the DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DattebayosEpPo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  The greatest power in the universe lies in the Alimbic cluster...
  Samus you must find this power, and if thats not possible, destroy it!
  And so, the greatest 
 bounty hunter of all time flies towards new adventures
  
  Everyone knows that Metroid is a must have 2D action game to every platform it has appeared, but 
 then came GameCube and it nicely turned into a first person. And &acute; when DS was lauched, fans 
 were instantly waiting for a Metroid, then First Hunt came out. But it was only a demo so it didnt 
 satisfy.
  
  Then finally Hunters was launched...
  AND IT ROCKED! Surely one of the best Metroids ever made, and it also hit the internet too which 
 is the best feature in the game. The controlling of the game is similiar to WSAD and mouse on PC, 
 and it works very nicely on a portable system. The games graphics are top notch its nice to see 
 bounty hunters jump across the screen and shoot ya in the face. Though there are only two bosses 
 and new versions of them... its the only flaw in the game. And only really. Again there are manymany 
 things to scan equipment, monsters, history and technology. History for example is a very interesting 
 thing to scan, it tells everything about the ''mysterious'' Alimbic. I cant say much about the 
 online gaming cuz i havent played it much, but what i have played is amazing
  
  Overall its a stunning game, im impatiently waiting for the next big Metroid Prime hit :D: D: D: D: D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  As i said, this game is a must have for all fans of Metroid Prime, but when i look at it again 
 and at all of its features, this game is a must have for all DS owners. It sees you once again 
 as Samus raiding the universe, but this time, you're aginst several other bounty Hunters. So, it 
 all gets a bit cramped and you have to use your butt-whipping skills to come out trumps!
  
  Anyway, Metroid Prime Hunters was a long time coming and it got fans anticipating its release on 
 the DS with the free demo called 'Metroid Prime: First Hunt'. What struck most people about the 
 game was its innotative controles and use of the DS' 3D engine. Metroid Prime Hunters carried on 
 this and improved upon it making this a great game to control and to look at.
  
  The DS sees you having to use the touch screen alot - infact, you will rarely stop using it. The 
 main function of the touch screen is as a map of your surroundings and there are the buttons to 
 change into a morph-ball, switch weapon types and other actions. However, you mainly use it to 
 look around as Samus, the main character of the game. You run your stylus over the touch screen 
 to look around and movement is assigned to the d-pad. The Left trigger is the 'fire' button and 
 the Right trigger is used to aim with certina guns, e. g the sniper rifle. This comes in handy alot 
 when playing multipleyer. However complicated this method of playing seems, it becomes second nature 
 and works extremely well.
  
  Now, Metroid Prime Hunters is one of the most attractive games on the DS with great and vast levels 
 and brilliant effects. The quality remains fluid even when playing online with wi-fi! However, 
 you probably won't have much time to appreciate all of this due to the game's fast paced action! 
 It's non-stop alien thrashing and boss bashing. Speaking of Bosses, each level (or planet, because 
 each level essentially sees you travelling to a new planet in search of an artifact) sees you fighting 
 a boss at the end of it. These can be quite tricky but great fun, and then entire game is filled 
 with some exellently presented cut scenes that show just how well the DS can work!
  
  Sound wise, Metroid Prime Hunters doesn't knock you back in awe but it does have its fair share 
 of in-action, thrilling effects that truley add to the immersive feeling that comes with the many 
 battles and encounters! As i have already said, this game is constant 'in-your-face' action!
  
  Now, possibly an even bigger attraction to this game is the multiplayer oppertunity. You can 
 either play with several other DS consoles using just the one cartridge ( but you're limited to 
 how much you can play) , or you can play with a game cartridge each and this obviously allows to 
 much more customisable options, and finally, you can play online wi-fi style! This is what attracted 
 me and it does not fail to get you addicted! You can create your own name and profile as such and 
 then go all out aginst 3 other players from around the world. There are more than 20 maps to choose 
 from and you all vote on whcih to play on. There are seven rounds in a match and each round requires 
 you to get 7 points to win. A point equates to a kill, but you can get deducted a point for suicides. 
 Once someone gets seven points or the match duration ends, the results screen pops up and you are 
 given 1st, 2nd, 3rd or last place depending on your points gained. All of your results for every 
 game you play can be viewed by yourself and your opponents in your profile screen.
  
  Gameplay wise, online play with Metroid Prime Hunters is terrific. The frame rate sees hardly any 
 dip and the game experience does not altar at all! You can chose any of the bounty hunters to play 
 as and each has its own unique specail weapon and unique form of morph-ball. It all depends on 
 your preference. In all, online with Metroid Prime is a perfect example of how wi-fi gaming should 
 be on the DS. Actually, overall, this game is a great example for how DS games should be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  The story is quite interesting: a message is sent out to different places speaking of ultimate 
 power that can be obtained in the Alimbic Cluster, once home to an ancient and wise race. The Galactic 
 Federation has recieved this message, and has given our hero, the lovely bounty hunter Samus Aran, 
 the mission of finding out was this power is, and if at all possible, to retrieve it. So Samus 
 ventures off into yet another adventure, only this time, she's not the only one going. Six other 
 bounty hunters have retrieved this message and are set on getting the power for themselves or for 
 their races. The single player is fun, but a bit askew from the Metroid series. There is hardly 
 any backtracking (you have to visit each of the four areas twice) , and the gameplay is kept mostly 
 to shooting instead of exploring. The game is quite linear. Also, the puzzles are few and easy, 
 as most of them are scanning a certain panel, or blasting a green door with a certain weapon. At 
 least Samus has all of her hardware right from the start, Morph Ball and all. The only things you 
 obtain are the other hunters' weapons. The bosses are... repetative. Aside from the final boss, 
 there are basically two types of bosses: a totem poll and an eyeball. The single player will take 
 you several hours to complete, just short of Metroid Prime. The controls take getting used to, 
 but eventually they will be deadly accurate. Basically, single player is fun, but it's not up to 
 par with the other Metroid titles (there aren't even any metroids) . My closing comments: this game 
 is fun, beautiful, and a solid title. It's a must for fans of multiplayer games, or people who 
 don't have many DS buddies but still want to play others through Wifi. It is definetly the best 
 Wifi game for Nintendo DS. I would say this is the game to get for anyone with a DS. And if you 
 don't have a DS, get one and then get this game! It's that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pices
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the best DS game in my view until now . It features great single player 
 along with multiplayer wirelessly or along with Wi-Fi connection . The game has new weapons , beams 
 , hunters , modes , maps and stages . In single player mode , It is harder because it involves 
 thinking and strategy . Kanden has been my favorite in the game along with his volt driver beam 
 which makes me rank as a super hunter . As an advice for all players : Think before you use any 
 weaopn against your opponent . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  7 Hunters. 26 maps. 7 modes. Countless hours.
  
  What do these mean? These signify the multiplayer in Metroid Prime Hunters. Its singleplayer is 
 cannon fodder compared to its multiplayer. I'll go so far as to say that its multiplayer is the 
 best I've ever played on a handheld. I've played many matches, and it wouldn't have been so if 
 it wasn't so freaking addicting.
  
  If you're looking for a traditional Metroid game, then you'll walk away disappointed. Unlike most 
 games in the series, Samus doesn't lose all her powerups. Instead, she expands what she currently 
 has, in the form of new weapons. That guard node on the green barrier reflecting every shot you 
 fire? Use the Battlehammer, and the guard node'll give in very quickly. Can't seem to hit that 
 switch that's far away? Use the Imperalist Sniper Rifle, and strike with ease. There's only four 
 locations in this game, but you'll be visiting each one several times. This answers the oft-asked, 
 Why are there no explosions after the countdown sequence question. As said, you'll have to go back 
 and explore new areas with your new weapons. Also unlike all Metroid games, the focus clearly isn't 
 on the singleplayer.
  
  Another discussed issue, the controls. I'd rank them between PC-FPS and console FPS. Unlike the 
 other two Prime games, there is no lock-on, instead you must make every shot hit by yourself. Couple 
 this with the fact that enemies are very prevalent, some hunters can be challenging, and the control 
 takes some getting used to, and this could make for a couple frustrating first hours with Hunters. 
 When you DO get used to them, they are ultra-precise, and you'll be pulling off headshots with 
 ease. Still, the wrist-cramping issue is a bit more prevalent than I'd have liked, even after getting 
 used to the controls, though it isn't that bad of a problem.
  
  This time you aren't the only one that'll be searching out Octoliths (the objects you are after) . 
 There are 6 other hunters, and you'll frequently do battle with them. You can unlock them for multiplayer, 
 and they even have special abilities. In fact, here's all the special abilities of Samus and the 
 other hunters (don't read on if you don't want to know) :
  
  HUNTER ABILITY SPOILERS
  
  Samus-Doesn't excel with any of the new weapons, but charged up missiles home in on nearby opponents.
 
  
  Kanden-A charged Volt Driver shot will severely reduce the accuracy of opponents temporarily. In 
 the singleplayer when hit by Kanden with this the visor will sizzle and short-circuit for a little 
 bit.
  
  Spire-A charged Magmaul shot will set opponents on fire, causing extra damage over time. Also doesn't 
 take damage from lava and can even scale walls in his alt form.
  
  Noxus-A charged Judicator shot, instead of firing three lasers, instead freezes nearby opponents. 
 This can be combined with the Imperialist to make a deadly combo for those with quick hands and 
 reflexes.
  
  Sylux-When using the Shock Coil, he heals himself while opponents take damage. If you can keep 
 the focus on them for a little while you'll see Sylux recover massive amounts of damage over time.
 
  
  Trace-When standing still and holding the Imperialist, after a short while he'll cloak himself. 
 This is great for going on sniping sprees, however this isn't so useful if other players have you 
 on their radar. Also his alt form is very strong and the lunge attack can get you powerups before 
 others.
  
  Weavel-His alt form splits both his body and his energy in half. Half goes to his mobile upperbody, 
 which attacks with melee. Half goes to his immobile lowerbody, which acts as a turret armed with 
 infinite Battlehammer shots and will fire when enemies get close. Very useful, however the turret 
 can be destroyed. The turret can be deployed and recalled at any time.
  
  /HUNTER ABILITY SPOILERS
  
  The multiplayer modes are typical FPS fare, however being on a 
 handheld with online just makes it much better. If there's a reason to buy this game, it's definitely 
 the multiplayer. In addition, its presentation is marvelous on the DS. I don't know how MPH only 
 got an 8 in graphics on Gamespot, while I'm not complaining I think this is a severe understatement. 
 Cutscenes look marvelous and actually use both screens to view the scene at different camera angles. 
 Also, while in-game graphics can be a little grainy at times, otherwise it's definitely the best 
 looking game on DS as of yet. Same goes for the sound. It actually sounds marvelous, with lots 
 of impressive sound effects. The theme during the opening cutscene is a standout.
  
  Overall, even if you are disappointed with the singleplayer, the multiplayer will keep you hooked. 
 There are some cheaters and disconnectors online, but since there are bots you don't have to play 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosmakerX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a good FPS, it's just not a good Metroid game. Metroid Prime Hunters is 
 the latest installment in the great Metroid Prime serise focuses allot more on multiplayer than 
 anything else. Privious Metroid games have been all about the exploration and puzzle solving and 
 now they are shifting gears. MPH does have a single player mode, it's just not that great. All 
 you really do in single player mode is collect artifacts to unlock doors that lead to bosses and 
 the bosses are frequintly reused too. On the other hand, it has great graphics and it has what 
 is probabely the best wi-fi multiplayer yet. There are plenty of maps, 5 selectable characters, 
 and an online ranking system. The multiplayer aspect is highly addictive and more than makes up 
 for the poor single player campaign and is worth buying just for that. In the end, like I said 
 earlier this game is not really ment for Metroid fans, more for Halo or other multiplayer game 
 fans. It is unlike any other Metroid game and I hope they go back to the old Metroid formula in 
 future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonguy1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever because it has the Single-player mode and Multi-player mode.
 
  
  In single, well the game-play is good but kinda sucks because it is to short .But the best there 
 is in the game is the multi-player mode. I mean Killing your opponents in 1 on 1, tag team, getting 
 the items, defend your place, man this has a great multi-player, and also it has Wi-Fi so you can 
 battle everybody on-line. So if you like this games then buy this awesome game. Trust me it WILL 
 be worth it. And also here is something something for ya, ohh and contact me.
  
  This is my rank in the game: Killer rank**** Contact me and I will send you my Friend Code. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZERO201
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  the best online ds game ever! the gameplay is great, the graphics are good, but the story mode 
 isn't that good at all. all i play is the online. each planet in the story mode seems like it is 
 all the same. got tired of it really fast. still never beat the story mode and never will. the 
 only reason i give the game a 10 is because of the online play. any one who likes online FPS games 
 will like this game. the only thing i don't like about the online is that you can only have up 
 to 4 people playing. i just think it would be fun to have more people. this game is worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turboking005
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Yes! This game is solid. A very good Metriod Prime game, and it's for a handheld! The online mode 
 is supossed to be good, I haven't got it online, yet so I can't tell how good the online play is. 
 The graphics are very good for a handheld. Although it is pretty hard to me. But, the gameplay 
 is very good. The sound is great. And, to me the value is a ten. Same with the Reviewers Tilt. 
 So, if your looking for a great shooting game to carry around with you on your DS, I recommend 
 this game all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  I love the Metroid Prime games. They are some of my favorite games ever. I was really excited when 
 I got to play Metroid Prime: Hunters for my DS. I had played the 2D GBA Metroid games, loved them, 
 but wanted a chance to play the Prime style of Metroid on my handheld. Well, I got a great game 
 that is pretty fun but does have a few flaws.
  
  Graphically, MPH is great. It features some of the best graphics I have seen on the DS to date. 
 The levels look great, featuring the classics like the lava world and the ice world. The character 
 models are all good, especially Samus. You can really tell that the developers tried to copy the 
 look of the Gamecube Primes onto the DS. Some of the texturing can get a little flat and fuzzy 
 and sometimes it is hard to see things that are a distance away, but other than those few gripes, 
 I love the look of MPH.
  
  The sound is basically what you expect from a MP game. The music is good, although not of the same 
 quality of the Cube but great for the DS. The sound effects sound, in my opinion, very very close 
 to their Cube conterparts. Overall the sound is great for the DS although I wish that the music 
 was more like the first MP.
  
  The gameplay is where this game gets really interesting. You get one of two controls schemes. The 
 first one uses the stylis to contol your aim and jump as well as switching weapons and morphing 
 into a ball. This provides precise aiming, but is very akward for a long time. Personally, I never 
 really got used to the controls and find them really akward. The second control scheme uses the 
 face buttons to aim. Although it isn't as precise and accurate as the other scheme, it will be 
 more comfortable, especially for people who have played shooters on the PSP. Both controls schemes 
 have their strong points and their weak ones. In the end, which one you choose is up to you and 
 what is more comfortable for you. But, because of both control layouts aren't perfect, I would 
 say that this detracts slightly from emmersing yourself into the game because you are constantly 
 attempting to fight the controls. Other than the controls, you still get the same great gameplay 
 from the MP series. You explore different worlds, upgrade to new weapons, and do a fair amount 
 of backtracking.
  
  The story isn't really special in this game. You still get your scan visor to read computers and 
 what not but it doesn't really give you much depth. But, the game has some cool new bounty hunters 
 that pop up and are your rivals through out the game and it creates this sense of suspense as you 
 will always be wondering when they are going to spring up and attack you. This element of the additional 
 hunters looking for the same prize as you makes up for the lack of an indepth story.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed MPH. If you are into multiplayer, Hunters has got it and it is a lot 
 of fun. If you want some single player action, you get a pretty good game. It isn't quite the quality 
 of it's big brothers, but it comes close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_Randazzo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The first two prime titles offered a new take on the metroid franchise while retaining the adventure 
 feel of it. Hunters, in contrast, goes into completely unchartered territory for the metroid franchise, 
 which is refreshing for a series we've only seen one genre from. Though, I'm certain, some of you 
 question me, What about the first two prime titles? They were a new genre in the metroid franchise. 
 While they were pioneering in their presentation they did not stray from what you are used to in 
 a metroid game : exploration. Certainly, Hunters has not abandoned this portion of game play, but 
 rather minimalized it. It's clear to me that Nintendo's objective with Hunters was to maximize 
 action and minimize the exploring/collecting elements of the metroid franchise. The main objective 
 of this game, however, is similar. It doesn't crowd you with story elements, but rather works them 
 into the gameplay. You're given a main objective at the beginning and then you set out to accomplish 
 it. That objective is to find the octoliths. Unfortunately for Samus, there are other bounty hunters 
 trying to find these octoliths as well. So from the very beginning you are entered into this war 
 to find and retrieve them first. Other than the new weapons you recieve throughout the game, you're 
 traditional collection aspect of Metroid is basically scrapped. You'll come by a missile upgrade 
 here and there, but that's about it. First person gameplay is the focus here. Travel across 5 planets 
 running and gunning against everything that moves. Though this new concept is entrepreneuring, 
 it's also very marred by a couple of things. 1: repeated bosses, you fight the same bosses over 
 and over again, and i'm not even talking about the other hunters. 2: shallow enemy design. The 
 6 new hunters that were introduced in this game are fabulous, however, the rest of the enemies 
 you face off against are very one dimensional, shoot me until I die sort of enemies. The level 
 design is awesome, and really takes you back to alot of the great times I'm sure you had on the 
 console metroids. Travel through dusty landscapes and lava infested caverns, truly awesome. It's 
 rather shocking how large some of these areas can get considering this is a handheld system. Unfortunately 
 i think this may contribute to some of the slow down seen throughout the game. Which brings me 
 to my next point: graphics. Awesome. Incredible. The character design isn't perfect albeit the 
 ds's limitations, but the way things are rendered tends to shock. Rivals some of PSP's background 
 graphics. Unfortunately (this is the reason i gave graphics a 9) all the slowdown in single player 
 is terribly frusterating. On the sound level, the sounds are really awesome, great weapon noises 
 and the clanking of samus feet. Everywhere from the rolling of the morphball to the charging of 
 the arm cannon, the game is littered with awesome sound effects. Unfortunately, the music isn't 
 so notable. The songs are not what i've come to expect from metroid games, and altogether sound 
 repetetive and dull. Now, something i failed to mention earlier is the implementation of DS innovations. 
 My belief on innovation is that it should only be used when it makes the game experience TRULY 
 better. And i can honestly say that Metroid Prime Hunters has no gimmicks to be found (I also must 
 say i found it much more comfortable to play on a DS lite) . Changing weapons and going into morphball 
 mode has never felt better thanks to the ease of the touchscreen, but it's not uncomfortable to 
 go back and forth due to the fact that aiming is done with a sort of virtual mouse pad. Now i understand 
 that some will complain about how it's hard to keep the reticule still, but come on! It's a handheld 
 device with (IMO) better control than dual analog style. Since it's handheld, it's not quite as 
 good as a PC mouse, but it's as close as it's going to get. Online! My favorite part. The most 
 robust and beefy part of this game. You will find yourself smiling with pride, cussing at your 
 ds, and generally just having every type of guilty and innocent fun there is to be had on online. 
 Adding rivals is awesome, as is playing with friends over game host. One thing i must note, however. 
 The only way to be proficient with a certain character is to be cheap in some way. (It's a sad 
 truth, but the sooner you accept it the sooner you start winning games) I play as trace. He's the 
 sniper character who can turn invisible, but on a negative note his armor isn't very robust. So 
 every time someone almost kills me or comes near me, i go into my alternate form, run away, and 
 start sniping again. Every single character has something cheap that you must do to win, it's just 
 the truth. However, one thing that pisses me off is the option to just quit in the middle of a 
 game. You can quit without any visible ramifications other than your connection rate going down 
 a little bit. It's an easy cop out... i think nintendo should harshen the punishment... Overall, 
 the single player experience is fun, but very flawed. Nintendo really wanted to show people how 
 good they can do online, and i for one am convinced that the future of nintendo online is bright. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowrath4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  O. k. first of i just have to say, this game is off the chain! i bought it the 2nd day it came out 
 and i still play it every now and then. The graphics are awsome, the story is great, and the intense 
 multiplayer mode (with the extra hunters) makes this game a must have. Even if your not into the 
 series its a great FPS and, those who love the series must get it.
  Trust me its was worth my hard earned $35, it will be worth yours too. All-in-all this is a game 
 that you might want to have in your toybin . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strike1112
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  It is back a new Metroid Prime game is out Metroid Prime Hunters. This has to be one of the best 
 games to come out for the DS in a long time. The Graphics are amazing the level layout is good 
 and the enemies are well built. The sound is good it is just like the game cubes sound. One of 
 the problems is the boss fights they are fun when you fight them the first time. But on the other 
 levels the are the same with new powers and that gets boring after a while, and after you beet 
 them you have to back track the level which makes it hard. One of the best parts about this game 
 is the online play. Also the hunters that attack you they are different and there make up for the 
 terror able boss fights and they have different alt forms and weapons. After you defeat them you 
 will get them in the multi player game because of the online play and the hunters this game is 
 one of the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime. What a brand name today. Setting the standard for the Gamecube generation on nearly 
 everything, the first Prime was a groundbreaking performance and is still considered by gamers 
 to be the Gamecube's best first person shooter. The graphics were outstanding, and the gameplay 
 has yet to be matched. The second title, Echoes, was somewhat better, although the light world-dark 
 world mechanic threw a wrench in the amazing first game's legacy. Personally, for me, it was also 
 much too hard. It also set a standard for bad multiplayer modes-Echoes' 4-way fights were pretty 
 dull.
  
  Fast forward to the present, where a new game for the Nintendo DS has come into the spotlight. 
 "Metroid Prime Hunters" holds up that Prime experience quite well, but unlike its console predecessors, 
 it's quite a different experience.
  
  Graphics
  Don't even blink. This game will have your head spinning around and around that tiny DS system, 
 wondering where the hidden Gamecube that Nintendo hid on it is. It is one of the best looking games 
 on the DS, and it is possibly Hunter's strong point.
  
  The 3D visuals are stunning, although the environments are much better than the sprites. The hunters 
 themselves have a chunky look to them, with ends that you just want to blast at with a hacksaw 
 and smooth it out, and Samus especially looks a bit blocky compared to the rest. The enemies as 
 well suffer slightly from the occasional pointy edge, but overall the fact that they are rendered 
 in perfect 3D is enough to merit a high score for me.
  
  As for the environments, they are stunning. They rarely have the choppy edges of the sprites and 
 sometimes match the grandiose quality of the Gamecube games: the boss rooms show off what a talented 
 graphics artist can do. Even the epic canyon of Alinos Perch looks great, and the room is easily 
 the biggest enclosure in the game. The space spots look just as beautiful, with huge space stations 
 rendered and fully able to interact.
  
  If anything is off, it might be the resolution: it was obvious that Nintendo needed the horsepower 
 to make the 3D and forgot the tiny dots. The DS doesn't suffer from this at all, because of its 
 small screen, but a TV adaptor for the Wii might be a really bad idea. Another beef is that there 
 is some minor slowdown with the lava ball weapon, I doubt the DS can compute the curve of the gun 
 and handle four hunters moving rapidly as well.
  
  But overall, this game looks stunning, and it gets big props for it for doing so.
  
  Gameplay
 
  It isn't Prime. That's probably the biggest disappointment that anybody will ever have when playing 
 MPH. But if you come not expecting such an adventure, you will be pleasantly surprised. The shooting 
 has never been better. The lack of the lock-on system doesn't hinder the game at all, it compliments 
 it. It feels like Timesplitters or James Bond on the consoles: skillful fragging and intense shootouts 
 are more common than they were in the old Primes. It's just a lot more action-like than anybody 
 expected, and it's also a lot better than anybody expected as well. Another note: it's much easier 
 than the Gamecube Primes.
  
  The single player is a cross between the console Primes and other action games. You go from room 
 to room on a linear path, sometimes fighting a hunter or several enemies that vary in difficulty. 
 However linear it is, however, it gives off a great level of variety in each planet and situation, 
 like morph-ball mazes (when Samus curls up into her signature ball form) and platform hopping over 
 damaging lava. After you defeat the boss of the level, there's a time limit run to get back to 
 your ship parked at the entrance. These are perhaps the most frustrating parts of the game, because 
 there are usually many enemies and mini-bosses that you must defeat to enter the next room. Here's 
 a good place to tell you that between each room there's a small loading room which you must wait 
 an average of 2-3 seconds for, and these have destroyed my chances of getting back more than once. 
 But don't listen to the idiots who listen to Gamespot too much: this game is fun, and don't let 
 them detract from your single player experience.
  
  The multiplayer modes are excellent but not as engaging in other shooters on the PC, which it emulates 
 very much. It almost feels like a game of Unreal Tournament, except with only four players. The 
 arenas are well designed but aren't as fundamentally different as you would want them to be, but 
 the hunters have been done very well  Nintendo has created seven different characters that branch 
 in their details (such as Spire's immunity to lava, and Weavel's turret-like secondary form) rather 
 than their overall method of play. Traces can be seen hiding and sniping, while Spires can be seen 
 shooting their lava balls/grenades at the opposition.
  
  But it's not perfect. The learning curve for any of the control schemes are great; you can expect 
 to beat the first level and still not be quite with the set-up. The single-player has its weaknesses, 
 such as a collection of boring, repeating bosses and a lack of inter-world areas; instead, you 
 have a ship that will transport you to each area, which makes the game just that much smaller. 
 The lack of team-speak on Wi-Fi might turn off some PC regulars as well, because it's been a staple 
 in so many good shooters. If Nintendo had implemented a Halo-like set-up with a friends list that 
 you can add to without the friend codes, it might have been quite the handheld explosion.
  
  But in general, for the first respectable first person shooter on a portable Nintendo system, 
 it did a lot of things right, and it's a great play.
  
  Control
  The learning curve lies here. Metroid Prime's single-stick movement and looking set-up was one 
 of the things that differentiated it from the rest of the first person games out there. "Hunters" 
 is a step in the other direction, because goes directly into PC shooting game set-ups. You use 
 your finger (or stylus or any other item you can move, like a turkey sandwich without mayo) on 
 the screen to look around, while the buttons on the left or the right move your character. The 
 left or right shoulder buttons fire your equipped weapon, and the opposite button zooms in when 
 used with the Imperialist, a sniper-like weapon. A double-tap makes you jump, so frantic MPH players 
 can be heard tapping their screen frantically. Switching guns and modes is awkwardly placed on 
 the touch screen, and each hunter has a slightly different touch screen layout, sometimes throwing 
 you for a loop. But once you get over the set-ups, wow, it is absolutely perfect. I can't disagree 
 with the naysayers any more than this. After a half an hour, you will understand just how intuitive 
 the setup is, and it feels ten times better than two analog sticks. It feels great and gives you 
 a degree of control that console FPS's can't. It's well worth the time.
  
  Sound
  
  Excellent sound! The music is on par with the console Primes of yore, while the sound effects give 
 a resounding punch to nearly every shot you make. The best example of the music has to be the music 
 on the icy planet of Arcterra; it is the most relaxing yet atmospheric, haunting tune in the game, 
 being a remix of Phendora Drifts from the original. The battle music has a great beat and matches 
 the one-on-one battles spot on. The music as a whole adds more than you can imagine to the tone 
 of the game.
  
  If anything, it's a bit low-key and doesn't have the greatest quality, which was pretty obvious 
 when I found a soundtrack of it on the internet and listened to it on my PC. The sound effects 
 are actually a staple in multiplayer matches, as the shots can give away enemy positions. That, 
 considering that it's on a handheld system, is simply stunning.
  
  Value
  
  Here's where things get tricky. Single player is a good, well done romp that will last you about 
 8 hours, perhaps 9 if you want to scan everything and get the added emblems that show up in Wi-Fi 
 matches. There is little in the way of deviations from the main route, so replay value is low. 
 But by the time you beat it and put it away for a month, you'll have it back in your DS, struggling 
 to remember how you got past that boss. It's got that type of Castlevania attitude-make it good 
 enough and no one will care how long it is. It will still take you a week or two to complete, so 
 don't rent in the hopes of kicking the single-player to the curb in a weekend.
  
  The multiplayer mode is an entirely different story. Maps, 28, modes, 7, and hunters, 7, make up 
 quite an impressive plethora of online adventures. A few, like Oubliette, are substantially different 
 from the others (though I'm not saying how) . The hunters and most of the arenas have to be unlocked 
 for them to be available, which can be both rewarding if you like the single-player, and frustrating 
 if you don't. The bots add quite a substantial amount of fun to the game; for the players who don't 
 have a friend, this is a godsend. The bots will challenge you for a long time, and it will prepare 
 you for the hard Wi-Fi times ahead. And the Wi-Fi is ungodly fun. Could I say it's the perfect 
 replay game? No, but it's darn close, so it gets a perfect score.
  
  Presentation:
  
  Everything other than the game looks pretty well done. Each button is occupied by an icon, like 
 for the single player you see Samus looking at the symbol for the final boss. The menus are smooth, 
 although it feels like there's a small, second-long blip of a loading time that you will only notice 
 if you play the game for several hours. You will also have to traverse around ten menus just to 
 set up a bot fight in multiplayer, which defeats the idea of having a quick computer vs. human 
 fight.
  
  So, the DS has another great game in its library. Although it's not the best, Metroid Prime Hunters 
 is by far in the top ten. Perfect for any gamer who likes shooters but doesn't want to sit at their 
 computer all day! See you online when I get my Wi-Fi adaptor for Christmas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Born2Die83
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Metriod is a good game... but I think people have looked at this game, noticed how good the graphics 
 are, noticed how good the controls are, and were quiet amazed and jumped to the conclusion its 
 a brilliant game and given it extremely high ratings. Its good, but its not excellent.
  
  Graphics are good, for a hand held system, well they are very good! But they have come at a price 
 that not many people have noticed, and that is the loading times. Those who have played it will 
 notice after every room there is a corridor that you must walk though, and when you try to open 
 the door, it doesn't seem to want to open, then a few seconds later it opens fine  This is the 
 game loading the next environment... Its a bit irritating, and slows down the pace of the game 
 a lot.
  
  Another irritation was the fact that to open doors you have to shoot them. Thats weird.... Shoot 
 a door to open it? Then to open some doors you need a better weapon to shoot it with... bit strange 
 if u ask me.
  
  The environments the game has are good... they are reasonably well designed, and are fairly large. 
 However the environments don't seemed to be vary varied. There are 4 main places to go to.... thats 
 basically only 4 stages, which means the games only has 4 different look and feels, 4 difference 
 texture sets. The game developers did something really cheap here by making only 4 stages, then 
 to make the game lifespan longer, makes you re-visit previous stages to find doors you couldn't 
 open previously.... That is so cheap... come on.... It would have been a much better game is ever 
 stage was new with its own new look and feel!!!
  
  Sound... 4 stages to go to.... well guess that means there are only 4 difference music scores for 
 the stages + the boss tune, maybe 1 or 2 more..... not a lot to talk about here... pity
  
  Ok now... ask yourself, what do you expect when you play the single player version of a first person 
 shooter and what sorta bad guys do you expect? Well in other single player first person shooters 
 you get to into buildings packed with bad games wielding big guns waiting to shoot the hell out 
 of you  you expect them to have good AI, duck, hide, call their buddies, raise an alarm, maybe 
 throw a grenade at you...
  
  Well if you expect any of that.... your gonna be disappointed in metriod like I was. The stages 
 are feel like they are empty and there is nobody there. Now and again u will have a little deathmatch 
 against some dude called a hunter... its a mini boss fight.. once he is gone, its back to the emptiness. 
 What you get to shoot while you walk around these empty stages are bugs..... yes bugs.... when 
 you walk into a room there might be a little insect thing on the floor to shoot, or maybe an odd 
 jellyfish thing floating around... but thats its..... no real bad guys, no AI... nothing much.. 
 just stupid bugs.
  
  How much fun did the game developer think this game was gonna be with a crap story line, only 4 
 stages, and besides the odd hunter  only bugs are enemy's to shoot ?
  
  Ive spent a lot of time criticizing this game. But what have they done right?
  
  Well the multiplayer 
 is excellent. There are a fair number of maps, and a lot of different modes... they have everything 
 from deathmatch, capture the flag, king of the hill, and more. What makes it even more fun is that 
 you can choose what character you want to be, there are about 6, and each has a different special 
 ability. For example, this one guy transforms leaving this mini-turret behind (great for king of 
 the hill) , while this other guy has the morph ball form with these things spinning around which 
 is great to crash into other people with. So where is the bad here? Well the maps are not dedicated 
 multiplayer maps  they are subsections of the single player maps. Yep, those 4 boring place again 
 that we already got bored of in single player.
  Another thing is - how many players would you like to go up against in a deathmatch ? 8 or 16 ? 
 more? Well with Metriod... its only 4. 4 is not a bad number, but it would have been nice to have 
 more players. Control... well its something that needs to be experienced to understand it. Its 
 really good, and I think everybody was really surprised to see how well they could control the 
 game... its easy, its fast, its responsive, its fluid... good job here!
  
  In conclusion.
  
  This is a really good game, and i do feel bad for criticizing it - there 
 has been no game like it before on a hand held, and for that it needs to be recognized at a great 
 game. However, the flaws that I pointed out hurt the single player to much and prevent it from 
 being brilliant.
  
  If you are expecting anything as good and varied as the Nintendo first person shooters like Goldeneye, 
 or perfect dark, you are going to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmitboy1990
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  As you may have guessed this is another game in the metroid prime series, compared to the others 
 games in the series (Gamecube Games) this is a very light hearted approach so to fans of the series 
 it might not seem that challenging, but this a fantastic game if you are looking to get into the 
 metroid series.
  Bringing a 3D game to the DS might seem impossible if you think about it, as it might be hard to 
 control the character, but seriously these guys have sorted out the control system, it is so precise 
 and easy to use once you get the hang of it.
  Some of the puzzles in this game, who came up with them, they are amazing! they are a little on 
 the easy side but witty and fun to do!
  I would say this is a revolutionary game for the DS and i hope that other games can learn from 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played a ton of DS games and I have to say that Metroid Prime: Hunters is an intense first 
 person shooter that has precise and unique game play I wasn't expecting. For being on a device 
 that I would only expect basic quality and game play out of this game really packs a bit of a punch.
 
  
  The game is easy enough if you use common sense approach in most situations you will figure it 
 out. The new controls take a bit of time getting used to but once you get going you will really 
 enjoy this game.
  
  Nintendo has the Apple advantage of making the software and hardware which deliver the complete 
 experience and that and crunch a lot of fun into a tiny device. If I recommend any game for the 
 DS it would be Metroid Prime: Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZKB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my DS back in May 06, I bought it for the single purpose of playing Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters. It was worth the money (Well over $150 all together) , and its gotten me hooked ever since. 
 Graphics:
  The graphics are really good in Hunters, however due to the DS' limited hardware, the graphics 
 are abit grainy, which is most noticable when your sniping with the Imperilist. Controls:
  The controls are really great in Hunters. There are 4 control settings you can choose from. Two 
 include using the Stylus pen to look around, one being right handed and the other being left handed. 
 The last two use the A, B, X, and Y buttons and the D-pad (Agian it changes if your right or left 
 handed) to look around.
  
  Story:
  It's a good story-line, however it's not the best story-line in the Metroid series (That goes to 
 Fusion) . The story has you running around looking for the souce of the ultimate power for our friends 
 at the Galactic Federation. This time around, you are in competition with six other bounty hunters 
 (hence the name Hunters) . Its a good story-line, but at times makes you feel more like your playing 
 a Zelda game than a Metroid game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This is where Hunters truly shines. It has a Single card, Multi card, and Online via Nintendo WiFi 
 choices. On Single card you only need one copy of Hunters to play. On multi card is where everybody 
 playing has a copy. This option allows the most choices with game types. Online only allows a battle 
 type, but allows you to fight against people with all skill levels around the world.
  
  All in all, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a solid game. I'd recomend it to any FPS or Metroid fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendomaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Everyone that got a DS at launch got Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt. I was amazed the graphics 
 seemed great and the gameplay was addicting and the shooting was pin point. This was my most wanted 
 game for the DS. A year and 3 months later it was released I got it the day it came out. I played 
 online for like 4 weeks it was great, different hunters awesome weapons, the multiplayer aspect 
 is just fantastic. The I played the single player it was very different from any other game I played. 
 It was the Metroid I was used to so I overlooked the single player aspect and focused on the multiplayer. 
 I beat the single player its ok but Multiplayer is definately were it's at this game will stand 
 alone was the first great handheld FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when I bought my DS Lite, which was the day it came out, but never got around 
 to playing it because of other games. Well, I have finally played it and I'm very impressed. I 
 never played the old-school Metroid games, so this was a new experience for me. Game-play is great 
 and pretty easy to pick up. The stylus is your mouse and you use the D-pad to move and L button 
 to shoot. It's possible to get a bit of a cramp in your stylus hand if you are in a long fight, 
 but for the most part, it feels very natural. Story isn't that great, but the gameplay is fun and 
 the boss fights are challenging.
  
  I have yet to delve into the multi-player action this game allows, but I have Wi-Fi and if you 
 enjoy FPS, I see no reason why this wouldn't be an excellent game.
  
  So if you like First Person Shooters, love the Metroid storyline over the years, I see no reason 
 to not get the game.
  If you have never played a Metroid game, you can still play this game and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Brilliant graphics with smooth framerate; great online; Pretty lenghy
  
  BAD- missions are boring; just aim and shoot gameplay; boss battles are crap; story is rubbish 
 and does'nt go no were; online random people to battle
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Metriod Prime: Hunters is a first person Sci-fi shooter based on a female fighter called Samus 
 who needs to collect these artifacts befor these hunters do, so you must travle the univeurse in 
 search of these artifacts and stop the Bounty Hunter, but the gameplay is so oldschool andjust 
 boring plain, it could've been a great game if they made it 2D or abit different than other Metroid 
 games that are FPS, like maybe a TPS version with better AI and use tatics and fight better monsterrs 
 insted of flying squids
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Best part of the game is the brilliant graphics and smooth framerate, maybe acouple of bugs but 
 no bugs that i cant see, only the bugs that you kill the in the game, but it could've used abit 
 more colour insted of everything looking Green 
::::::

::::::
UserName: likemanlikedude
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  If your lokking for a shooting game for the ds BUY THIS GAME.
  the good: the graphics are great for a handheld the touch screen is precise and this offer hours 
 of multiplayer mayhem.
  the bad: getting back to your ship at the end of a level.
  
  First thing you will notice is how great the touch screen is used for aiming it really is a phenominally 
 good way of aiming. This game has great atmosphere and it even scares me sometimes.
  Fighting against other bounty hunters is great but the the best is multiplayer.
  In multiplayer 
 you can play as characters that youve unlocked during the single player challenges. You can play 
 four player single card and four player multicard (which is online) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters for the Nintendo DS is a fun game for what it's designed for. Unfortunately, 
 not everyone will enjoy what it is designed for.
  
  Hunters' main feature is the online gameplay. It's not that different from any other online FPS 
 though. Obviously the touch screen offers a new way to play, but it can be tough to get used to 
 and still annoying once you are used to it. If you've mastered the feature however, it can be quite 
 fun.
  
  But not having a Main One Player mode can be annoying. MP: H does have a 1 Player mode, but it's 
 very dissapointing. At the very most, it'll take you 3-4 hours to finish it. Also, there's only 
 four worlds to explore and they're all dissapointing at the very least.
  
  My personal favorite thing about the game, not having any siblings who play games, would have to 
 be that you can play multiplayer with yourself and 1-3 bots. This mode is pretty customizable and 
 doesn't get old easily. If they took away this part of the game, I probably would've returned the 
 game before I'd even had it for a week.
  
  Graphically, the game could be better but is still one of the best on the DS. While not overwhelmingly 
 eye catching, they still pack a punch.
  
  Not too much to talk about with this game, if you're a fan of online gaming it's perfect for you, 
 but if not you might want to stay away from this DS title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dajacksterr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit the adventure mode gets frustrating sometimes because of the puzzles. i get stuck 
 in missions alot. good thing is, u can choose to leave the place and go to another planet. also 
 the bosses can get repetitive. and fighting the hunters can get too easy. However, the good controls 
 and the multiplayer makes up for it. The fact that u aim ur gun with ur stylus gives you precise 
 controls. but when u first play the game, u might get carpeltunnels or cramps. it works out ur 
 hands alot! the multiplayer is very fun especially you can play online with other people. This 
 game has got to be the best portable possibly best game ever!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick7890
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters overall is a very fun game and is my favorite Nintendo DS game. The gameplay 
 I give a 9/10. The single player is very short, ad the levels have no twists to it, usually a straight 
 path. There are rooms with some puzzles but they are not too hard to figure out. Other rooms will 
 have a hunter, and when you defeat all the hunters for the first time, they will appear randomly 
 on other planets.
  
  The multiplayer functions are the heart of the game, and they each has its pros and cons, mostly 
 pros. There is Single Card play, where the person who doesnt own their own copy of Metroid has 
 to download the game. The good part is that your friends can play without having to own the game. 
 The bad part is for the downloader; the sound quality is reduced and plays the same music for every 
 level. There is only one game mode which is battle, and for the downloader, they are limited to 
 one character which is Samus. The multi-card play is a nice mode; you can play many levels and 
 7 game modes, and you get to throw in bots, ranging from one star (being the easiest) to a 3 star 
 (being the hardest) . The Wi-Fi play is very fun. There are two types of online play, Find Game 
 mode and Friends and Rivals mode. The Find game option is where you search out for 3 other opponents 
 (the search options are local region/worldwide and any difficulty/match my rank) . Once you have 
 your opponents, you pick characters and vote on a level. There is no selection on game modes or 
 options. When you finish your match, you have the option to add your opponent as rivals, and you 
 can play again or quit. The Friends and Rivals option is just like Multi- Card play, only there 
 is a MIC and text options only if you join a friends game.
  
  The controls are very good. There are two options, stylus mode or dual mode, and they each have 
 left or right handed options. The bad part for the stylus mode is that on the rare occasion, you 
 might tap on another weapon. The bad part for the dual mode, Is you cant aim as fast and you have 
 to tap on the screen to switch weapon. It takes too long to pull out your stylus, so you have to 
 use your finger. When you aim, its hard to be precise, say when you are trying to get a headshot.
 
  
  The graphics are very nice for a DS title. There are some blocky textures and very little texture 
 warps, but to me, the graphics arent a big deal in games, more of the gameplay. The cut scenes 
 for the game have extremely nice graphics and it almost looks like a gamecube game.
  
  The sound for this game is OK, the shooting sounds gets a little bit repetitive. But each character 
 makes its own sounds, thee are different musics for different planets in single player. This other 
 music plays when you are facing a hunter or when fighting a boss. In multiplayer, there is only 
 little variety in music for all the levels. Oh yes I forgot to mention, the main menu music starts 
 to make me mad I have heard it so many times.
  
  The replay value for single player sucks, but you can always get a friends for some multi-card 
 play, or go on Wi-Fi play and see what the game has to throw at you.
  
  Overall, I give this game a 9.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok so here is the deal its fun and highly awesome but this for Metroid fans only and for people 
 who like multiplayer games.
  
  Wi-Fi is awesome me and a bunch of friends play every night because its so fun and the only thing 
 that sucks it that you need to play the story line to get new characters to play with but it gives 
 you three already but still not good.
  
  So in the whole game you do the same thing over in the last games find the bad guys. But in the 
 game you are set to find articals (not a good speller) and thats all you do... i know WTF!?..... but 
 i highly recommend this to Metroid fans and Wi-Fi fans only but yeah so im going to leave my score 
 so here you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnage646
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  first of all start by saying this game is very good for multiplayer for these reasons, first of 
 all it has heaps of maps to play that you unlock by completing certain tasks in single player and 
 by playing multiplayer games, it has wi fi wich is great to test your skills against people from 
 around the world, you can also play with your freinds over local wireless, there is a good variety 
 of hunters to choose from and if you cant get onto wi fi and there is no one around to play with, 
 you can add bots to verse. the multiplayer section should be heaps of fun for a long time. now 
 onto the single player story, and to be honurst, its not that great, i mean its fun for a while 
 but it has some big disapointments, such as the story is kind of plain, and dosnt realy move along 
 to well, and the missions are all the same, kill the hunters grab the artifacts kill the boss and 
 take the ociliths and move on to the next planet or space station. this campaign is good at times 
 and bad times, but it isnt that great after you have done it twice. overall say that this is a 
 great game, despite a few flaws, but its worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  metroi prime: hunters, this is the best creation on handheld console gaming yet, there are a range 
 of multi-player modes to choose from, with a single player mode in there. this can take a while 
 to learn the configuration of the game, but once you got that coverd, its all ownege from there! 
 this games is a must have, if you dont have a ds, then get one! its worth the wait, and worth the 
 bucks. the wi-fi connection may take a while to get used to, and setting up, but its worth it.. 
 the gameplay is good, with solid graphics and really easy to get used to. this game is really hard 
 to put down. a awsome thing about this game is that you can get into tournament fights with other 
 unions, groups etc, so you can take out your anger on the battle field!! pm for questions Curt
 
  
  
  
  JOIN THE Metroid wi-fi union!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr-Doctor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The looks of it is amazing than i thought! The developers should be appraised for the 
 amount of detail in the whole scenario. Enemies are equally treated with high amount of detail. 
 Especially when you get hit by some sort of energy beam, you see a big surge around your face. 
 Cutscenes are are even more impressive than the in-game graphics and you can unlock them for everytime 
 you see a cutscene so you can look at it anytime but they're boring to watch again. I would have 
 give the graphics 10 out of 10 but there are some slow down that ruins the action abit. So the 
 graphics are too slow to reach a ten and instead settle for a 9 out of 10.
  
  Sound: I can't tell which sounds the best? The gamecube prime or the DS prime? The DS's sound quality 
 mimicks the gamecube Prime very well. The background music changes your mood for you like the bit 
 in the game where you open the door and suddenly the music changes and when the music changes, 
 your mood suddenly changes and you know something is going to happen. Badly. 10 out of 10
  
  Story: Like i said before, the story feels disappointing. In fact it IS disappointing. The 
 story starts off you going to an uncharted galaxy trying to find 8 mysterious crystal to unlock 
 a doorway that lead to ultimate power or something. But you're not the only one who's collecting 
 those crystalls. There are several other bounty hunters also in the same quest. So basically it's 
 a quest to ultimate power. Ultimate power? You probably have heard of similar stories like that 
 from almost every fantasy stories so this makes Metroid Prime Hunter's story a load of cliche. 
 And another thing, why is the title called Metroid if there's ALMOST no metroid in the game? Why 
 is the title callled Prime if this story has no relation to the gamecube primes? I get the impression 
 the developers named it prime so it attracts more people to buy this game. This is a good game 
 so i'm not complaining much about the misleading title. 2 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay: It's the usual metroid formula. You found a new ability and you can access through places 
 you weren't able to get through before. While you're playing the game there are usual logic puzzle 
 solving. These puzzles won't kill your brain as much as something like sudoku so you can breeze 
 through it. It's not all 'samey' as the other metroid games. While you're playing through the game 
 you are SUDDENLY in a battle against another bounty hunter and the music changes to suit the situation 
 like i said before. Sometime you're caught in a middle of a fight between multiple bounty hunters. 
 This sometimes not a good thing because it may be too much for your DS to handle and causes the 
 game to slow down a bit which i also said before. During each level or planet, you come across 
 a boss. Bosses are repeat which i guess it shows some laziness from the developers. When you encounter 
 the same boss as the first boss, you probably felt the boss designs are rushed. I scanned the second 
 slench (one of the bosses) and it says slench 2.0. Okay what's the difference to 1.0? Oh you have 
 to fire a different weapon to defeat it. There are 3.0,4.0 but i they should really make it all 
 1.0 because they are all similar. Or you could say the SAME. Overall the gameplay is fine. 8 out 
 of 10
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer is what makes Metroid Prime Hunters stand out. You get a wide variety 
 of levels, and hunters to choose from when you are playing multicard play. For the download play, 
 only the host can choose which hunters to play with while your friend only get to play with boring 
 samus. Each hunters have different morph ball abilities and different HUD.
  Just like each levels have different items to collect and different location to get them. Add to 
 that, are also different modes to play with but i don't need to explain all of them because all 
 of them resovle with violence. The DS handles wifi quite well with smooth animations and frame 
 rate but when all four hunters bundle in one corner, a slow down creeps up. I got to admit it, 
 the multiplayer can be repetitive and boring. What's even more boring is playing with bots if you 
 have no friends coming round but it is a better replacement than playing with your 2 year old younger 
 brother. 8 out of 10. 
  Value: The single player is linear and a bit short if you just want to complete the game. Just 
 like any game, if you want to complete 100% then it takes longer. the multiplayer will probably 
 keep you coming back just to sniper one or two bounty hunter. All this worths 30 quid in your pocket 
 and i think it's just as deserving of your time than most games coming this christmas.
  10 out 10
  
  Verdict: one of the best DS games but one of the weakest Metroid games. Especially 
 the single player. 
  
  overal score: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Hi, this is Poe Tokoro again to give you the review of Metroid Prime: Hunters for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Gameplay: The controls are simply the best you can get. Aiming with your stylus and shoot! Can't 
 get simpler than that. Every move can be achieved without confusion. To Jump double tap the screen 
 and boom there you go. The gameplay is by far the best thing about MPH.
  
  Graphics: The movies in MPH are absolutely stunning. There action packed and are just finely detailed. 
 The graphics outside the movies are not so good. There not bad for the DS there actually really 
 good, but they just don't look as good as they should.
  
  Sound: The constant screaming in this game is brutally annoying! I can't stand it! The music isn't 
 bad but it's not good either. The sound effects are great like for example, walking in a hallway, 
 you can hear the sound of her feet walking on the ground.
  
  Value: For $35 I am just surprised at how much is in this. You have 7 different multiplayer modes 
 to pick from and the single player is long although not as the other Metroids. Wifi is especially 
 fun as you can talk to your friends around the world.
  
  Overall: Buy it! The game is awesome and if you love shooting stuff that just gives you more to 
 love about it!
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to start this by saying, this is the first Metroid game I have played in my life. And thanks 
 to this game Im planning to buy the GC games because with Metroid Prime: Hunters I had a lot of 
 fun.
  The story is intriguing, and it turns more misteryous as you search for the little blue phantoms 
 with the Scan Visor. All this like how Gorea was trapped, and the War of the Alimbic Cluster was 
 magnifecent. All the planets are very well detailed and the graphics are the best I have seen on 
 my DS. First I was confused about how the game was going to turn, because with all these Touch-Screen 
 stuff I didnt knew what to expect.
  
  I decided to give it a try and I wasnt dissapointed. The touchscreen controls work very well and 
 make this game feel more immersive than other shooters I have played. You can adapt the touch-screen 
 sensitivity for faster, more accurate movements. The best part of using the controls is when you 
 turn into a morph ball, is way easier and accurate controlling it with your stylus than with the 
 D-Pad. When I first bought it I was a little frightened of using the Stylus to control Samus, so 
 I truned into the Dual controls with the buttons. It wasnt all bad but I was very slow and inaccurate, 
 so I switched back to stylus mode.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters has one of the best graphics I have seen on the Nintendo DS, they are just 
 gorgeous, and it is pretty detailed. The only bad point I see with the graphics is that you cant 
 see very far, so in battles against the guardians I had a lot of problems aiming at them. The effects 
 are really good, and also the morph ball looked like it was taken from the GC because it looked 
 so smooth and bright. The models are good, but they are not so detailed. This game have the best 
 graphics and shows the potential of the DS.
  
  Ambiental music is fabolous, it isnt just midi, it is actually a little midi orchestra, I love 
 to play this game with earplugs, so the quality can be intensified. Every gun has its own sound 
 when shooting. But there isnt any voice-acting, or dialogue, or maybe even some grunts (only when 
 you kill an enemy you will hear this shriek) . The game sound is decent, nothing spectacular but 
 it is very good.
  
  When I first played Halo 2 with my friends online, I got addicted to playing shooters in teh Internets, 
 and when I heard this game was going to have on-line gaming I bought it right away and I wasnt 
 dissapointed. It is a lot of fun to play online but the bad thing is that the online battling is 
 very limited, yeah you can use 7 hunters and lots of arenas, but you can only choose one battle 
 mode, which is pretty generic. But if you have friend on your friend list you can play all 7 modes 
 which give more diversity to its online.
  
  In my opinion this is one of the best games the DS has, but it made my hand hurt becuase I was 
 having a lot of fun playing it for 2 hours straight but it was worth it because It is an awesome 
 game and I really recommend it to anyone that reads my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthorcron
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  To start mph is a game that will seem like a pretty bad game at the start but after you master 
 the controls and gameplay it really becomes a good well made game that will test your skills and 
 give you loads of fun. The gameplay is a really problem at the start when you are not used to it. 
 It uses the touch screen to move your view and the direction that you shoot and everything while 
 the pad moves you in that direction. This will seem very annoying for a while but once you get 
 the hang of it really seems easy. They also make up for the loss of buttons on the ds by having 
 it on the touch screen. The story of mph is really a little repetitive like you will have to go 
 to a planet fight a monster go through some different scenarios To get these artefacts for each 
 planet you go through. But it all evens out with its remarkable scenery of the different planets. 
 The bosses seem to always come back again but look better and are stronger. There are only two 
 kinds of the bosses. And they might become annoying after a while. The obstacles are very different 
 and thrilling for each planet you go to. The graphics on this game are probably by far the best 
 for Nintendo ds yet. With all the realistic figure and enemies it gives it a good feel to it. The 
 background and scenery is amazing to see and probably almost lives up to the gamecube's graphics. 
 The sound is good and original to metroid series to have that spooky alien song to it which gives 
 you the strength to keep playing especially when you are fighting bosses. The multiplayer is really 
 one of the best things about this game. The computer bots are really a challenge and you have a 
 lot of different modes to choose from including the standard battle mode the defender challenge 
 where you defend a certain area of the map from the enemy and much more. Also on wifi you play 
 all sorts of different people from all over the world with different ranks from how much they have 
 won. Overall this a game that is definitely a game to play that will also keep playing forever 
 probably. if you ever get a chance to play it take the chance it will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysse23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game for the DS its i s really worth a try... even if you don't 
 like fps games! The graphics are great but sometimes its lags a tiny bit, not enough to mess it 
 up. The lagging usually happens on large multi player maps when your on one end of it. Gets kind 
 of blurry on long distances. Good multi player. But in the story mode there is one big bummer, 
 the bosses repeat, just getting harder and harder each time.
  Overall its worth buying!
  
  This game was the game that got me intersted in fps games!
  It may get you 
 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Freak3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime hunters was first announced that it would be a launch title. They kept delaying and 
 delaying the game. It finally came out in Spring 2006. Metroid Prime Hunters puts in the visor 
 of Samus Aran, of course, and the federation sends you a message that there is a omnipotent power 
 in the tetra galaxy. While your in the Tetra sytem you will explore a total of four planets. Celestial 
 Archives, Alinos, Vesper Defense Outpost or also know as VDO, and Acrterra. These four planets 
 carry the omnipotent power that the federation was talking about, the Octolith, you haved to collect 
 a total of 8 octoliths', which means there is some backtracking. Metroid Prime hunters feels awesome 
 when you get used to the precise controls. The gameplay is amzing for a DS first person shooter. 
 The graphics looked great, but when you have the sniper rifle a. k. a. The Imperialist, there is 
 some problems with the graphics. Things will start dissapearing, you shoot the guy in the head 
 and and you might not get the headshot. The sound was amazing in this game, to the superb soundtrack 
 to the awesome sounds that the hunters make when they are eliminated. There as many as four-hundred 
 sounds in this game. Once you beat the game you unlock te soundtrack test, and the sound test. 
 This game is worth keeping if have a wi-fi connector and broaband connection, four friends who 
 have a DS. Metroid Prime Hunters is an excellent game and any DS owner should have copy of it. 
 But here comes the cons. The maps are to linear nad it's just basically walking straight and backwards. 
 The multiplayer maps are like this to since there just rooms from the single player mode. The bosses 
 in this game repeat, and wi-fi against random player is only limited ti battle mode. But like I 
 said any DS owner should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Good: Keeps up the old Metroid Prime gameplay; graphics are the best on the DS, no questions asked; 
 I want a soundtrack, because the music is so awesome; the other hunters are kickass.
  
  Bad: If you play it for too long with a regular DS, you will get a handcramp. And then you will 
 have to stop playing for a bit; It just isnt as good as the GCN primes, but that is not necessarily 
 a truely bad thing.
  
  When I say that it isnt as good as the GCN primes, that is not a bad thing at all, since I gave 
 Prime 1 a 10, and 2 a 9.8. So this game is still a very solid entry into the prime games, and I 
 can only hope that Prime 3 is better than all 3 of these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  As the first real FPS of the DS, this game makes a good debut for the genre. While still feeling 
 like Metroid, it adds a little more of an FPS feel to the series: something I thought was needed 
 in the Gamecube games. The stylus control is a little hard to get used to, but, once you do, it 
 is an intuitive and effective way to control and FPS. The graphics are not amazing, but good enough 
 to raise some eyebrows on the system's capabiilities. And, of course, the multiplayer is great, 
 especially online. All around, Hunters is a good game that I can recommend for anyone who owns 
 a DS. For those that don't, this is solid reason to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  This a great game and if you're a fan of metroid, you should definitely have this in your collection.
 
  
  Gameplay- Awesome. I really, really liked this games controls; the respinded well and they were 
 quite enjoyable. The dual screens with the stylus was a wonderful touch. (I *heart* Nintendo) The 
 only problem is how all the players on wi-fi are like so freakin good. I die way too much, but 
 it's still fun. haha.
  
  Graphics- Great. The graphics on this were just great. They were sleek, colorful, and polished. 
 Though the framerate does flicker occasionally, the overall performance is awesome.
  
  Sound- Good. There's not really much to say about the sound. It's basically what you can expect 
 from Metroid.
  
  Value- Cherishable. This is one of the best hand held metroid games ever. No, it's one of the best 
 hand held games, period.
  
  Tilt- Towards ten. This game is sweet and i really, really enjoyed it. tohough i wish there would 
 have been more variety in the bosses, i still loved this game.
  
  Samus Rules! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffykins8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  A great game to be playing with local and Wi-Fi communication. This game really brings you right 
 into the action of Samus. The game uses a unique control style that might take alittle time, but 
 it is easy once you get used to it. Metroid Prime Hunters also has a great variety of gamepaly. 
 Buying this game IS worth it, you will be playing it for a while, too. A DS players collectyion 
 is not complete without this game. A true pleasure to play. If you don't like this game, then your 
 crazy &gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  There have been many metroids in the past years. Most of which were 2d sidescrollers. The Metroid 
 Prime series completely changed this. It was a all new 3d First Person Action Adventure game. Two 
 games for the Prime series came out on gamecube and now we have the third prime game for DS Metroid 
 Prime Hunters. This one is even more like a FPS than any of the others. As we all know in the single 
 player adventure you are Samus Aran set off to do a mission and you will face great danger on foreign 
 planets with alien type creatures. The story is pretty cool you go to a planet beat it get the 
 item you need and proceed onto the next planet. You are supposed to collect these things called 
 Octoliths (sp?) . As you go you will be ambushed by one of the 6 other hunters. There is Spire, Kanden, 
 Trace, Sylux, Noxus and Weavel. All of them have different weapons and powers. I find the story 
 quite amazing although it is rather short and gets a bit repetitive. You could get 10 or so hours 
 out of story mode if you scan everything for 100%. The best part of Metroid Prime Hunters is the 
 Multiplayer mode which has Single Card Play, Multi Card Play and Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. You 
 can have bots in multi card play. Nintendo Wi-Fi is the best thing about Metroid Prime Hunters. 
 You can random search on Regional or Worldwide or you can play with friends and rivals by exchanging 
 friend codes. There are 6 or so different modes to play ranging from Regular Battle Death Match 
 to Capture the flag type mode. You choose from one of the 7 different hunters and play from one 
 of the 26 different levels. Each hunter has a Affinity Gun and Alternate Form exclusive to them. 
 It is a very competitive game online. The graphics are really good for a handheld system. The characters 
 are all 3d and so are the levels. Some of the levels look pretty amazing. There is a bit of slow 
 down at times though. I say if you like Metroid or are a FPS fan or if you just want a good wifi 
 game for your DS definitely get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitsumasa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is an incredible game. It truly shows off the DS's capabilities and I am 
 surprised that Nintendo didn't release the full version with the console just to show off the DS's 
 capabilities. Sorry about the poorly constructed sentence.
  
  In my opinion, If single player had co-op, well, It would be game of the century. I mean, handheld 
 FPS, co op, multiplayer, internet play. That would be incredible. Unfortunately it does not have 
 co op single player so it does not deserve the title Game of the Century . The bosses in MPH are 
 repeated with slight variations. The final boss in MPH is quite uniqe. However, the bosses do remind 
 me of a cylinder, eyeball (maybe because one of them IS an eyeball) and an ant. Nintendo really 
 hasn't shown much imagination.
  
  Multiplayer is MPH's true strength. Wi-Fi is a bit glitchy, but it isn't all bad. I managed to 
 snipe 2 traces with one imperialist beam. I think it went through the first guy's head then the 
 next guy. Sweet. Oh, and if anyone asks, I meant to do that :) . Metroid truly is, the handheld 
 Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the first overly hyped games for the Nintendo DS and it doesn't live up to 
 it because there's too many little things that ruin the experience.
  
  Let's start with the single player mode. In order to unlock the rest of the Hunters you need to 
 play through this long boring get-to-here-then-kill this boss-get shiny thing-and run formula that 
 plagues the entire single player mode. The game uses the same bosses over and over again and just 
 gives them a new colouring scheme and stronger attacks. Now this game is called Hunters but when 
 the other Hunters do show up your only treated to a five second cut scene and thats it. It seems 
 like the game could careless about these other characters. The boss fights are relatively simply 
 and after you defeat them you must escape to your ship before the timer runs out but if you don't 
 make it to the ship in time..... nothing major happens except you have to start over. That's it. 
 You don't lose any upgrades, just start over. Lame.
  
  This game is pretty for a DS game if though it suffers from slighty pixalation issues. The controls 
 are intuitive and you can select from up to four different control schemes depending on your play 
 preferences. You can get more weapons other than Samus' standard cannon and missiles but multiplayer 
 is where this game really shines.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters has a good amount of multiplayer modes such as the standard deathmatch to 
 other things like protecting nodes to gain points and capture the flag. The game uses the DS Wifi 
 connection aswell as supporting multi and single cart play.
  
  If you want a shooter for your DS Metroid Prime Hunters is the best of the bunch but that really 
 isn't saying much. With a bad single player mode the multiplayer is the only redeeming part of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Some good points of Metroid prime Hunter are The Wifi function its a amazing gameplay only i have 
 saw some bad things to.... that some body whas cheating or use bugabuse or something i can shoot 
 him 100x
  no effect on him he shoots me i go death in one time 100 headshots
  a other thing what harped me is that laggy of the internet
  as you speed is faster than the other 
 you crash or you go slow down
  in the game but the graphics are realy good only the bullets or type of
  sparks is not 100% 3d 
 then you cant see it good as you try jump a way
  but thats doesnt botter me only somethings of the hunters are badly
  i had see a wallpaper of 
 noxus there he whas realy cool ive fight to him in the game and there he is realy poor (and then 
 i mean it whith graphics)
  but i hope Nintendo launch more of this good shooter games!
  but i give a 9,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunchuckmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's just get down to the basics alright? I'm gonna break it down part by part.
  
  Controls: The crontrols in this game are great, simply put. You can choose left or right handed 
 for you control style, and they both work equally well, considering what hand you want to play 
 with. The left handed control scheme has you holding the stylus in one hand, and the abxy buttons 
 are movement, strafe right and left, and walk forward and back, and vice versa for the right handed. 
 The aiming is done with the stylus, and it's veeeery, veeeeeery responsive, and extremely accurate. 
 It's quite easy to fine tune your aiming, and moving while aiming adds a real challenge. Overall, 
 the controls take some obvious getting used to, but after a few minutes, you'll have them down 
 intuitively, and it all feels great to use.
  
  Gameplay: The game is great, it's really fun to have multiplayer battles, and you can use bots 
 if you dont have anybody to play with. Up to four bots can be used, and you can pick their difficulty 
 for each one. There are various methods of play that I won't go into, considering you can read 
 about them in the main reveiw. Anyways, the story mode is fun, really fun. It's immersive, and 
 the environments are huge. Plenty of free movement is around, and there are tons of little things 
 to scan and put into your logbook. Such as: hidden lore (history tidbits) , enemies, switches, items, 
 and other various objects. The bosses get really repedative though, and there are only two of them, 
 with various levels of difficulty. They are tough fights, and they get old, but since their only 
 a small part of the overall action, they don't take too much from the experience. There are also 
 various hunters you need to fight, they all have a unique subweapon, and you can play as them in 
 multiplayer mode, after you defeat them in story mode. You will encounter the same set of hunters 
 throughout the game, randomly, in various rooms during missions. They are all pretty much the same 
 fight, but like I said, just with different weapons, and morphball modes. There are a few other 
 subbosses as well, including a fire monster, that flings lava at you, and the same thing but with 
 snow. Also, there are these chicken-legged robots called guardians, which you will have to fight 
 throuhout story mode, and they can be annoying at times, but still provide a satisfying battle. 
 All of these are in addition to the random other enemies you will encounter during the game. There 
 are puzzles and other things to solve as well, including aquireing the other subweapons for Samus 
 to use, and finding artifacts. The gameplay is great, love it.
  
  Multiplayer: This is fun, considering you can use bots. There are alot of different stages, which 
 are mostly taken directly from the story mode environments, with a few platforms and things to 
 walk on added to them, along with a couple new stages just for multiplayer. Their mostly well made, 
 with plenty of areas to go and hide, along with high grounds to snipe the other players out. Different 
 modes of play as well, including team battles. You can also pick between the various hunters you've 
 unlocked, and you jsut have to beat them in story mode to do so. Multiplayer is great, and it gives 
 much much more depth to the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are, simply put, AWESOME! For a DS game, this FPS has nearly flawless framerate, 
 only slowing down when there are tons of enemeies, and even then it doesnt stagger, it just seems 
 like you're moving in slow motion, without a bunch of jumpy stuff. There are huge rooms that all 
 look different depending on the plane you're on, and their alot of fun to move around in and explore. 
 Very VERY smooth when looking around, and great to look at.
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty good, there aren't any crappy sound effects at all, their all really clear, 
 but the sounds themselves aren't extraordinary, but nothing bad can be said about them.
  
  Value: I would never give up this game, it's going to be a part of my DS collection for the life 
 of the DS.
  
  Overall: This game is great, an awesome technical, and gameplay acheivement. Extremly fun, and 
 a very long lasting experience that anybody that likes FPS, RPGs, or adventure games to definatly 
 hook themselves up with. It would be within your best interest to get this game. It can be tough 
 at times, but not too tough, and you don't get the feeling of it being too easy either, it's just 
 set really well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ptolemaueus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime series began on the Gamecube with Metroid Prime. There were many doubts surrounding 
 this game. How could an otherwise unknown company take one of Nintendo's beloved franchises and 
 put it in first person? But even with these doubts, Metroid Prime met and surpassed the expectations 
 set upon it and is one of the best games on the Gamecube. A sequel soon followed, which was equally 
 good. And now the Metroid Prime series is ready for the DS. But how does it play, and is it as 
 good as the other games?
  
  Let me begin by saying that Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game. At the time of this review, 
 it is the best first-person shooter on the DS. But it's not quite as good as the Gamecube games. 
 Metroid Prime 1 and 2 were adventure games that just happened to be in first person. Hunters is 
 an FPS. There are no lock-ons in this game. Those have been replaced by a very precise control 
 scheme.
  
  There is more than one control scheme to choose from, but the best one is, arguably, the one that 
 has you using the stylus to aim and the D-pad or buttons (for lefties) to move. This takes some 
 getting used to but once you are you'll see just how good it is. This particular control scheme 
 is extremely precise and is, in my opinion, far better than that of a console's.
  
  In order to aim, you move the stylus across the bottom screen. This is where your radar, you weapon 
 select, and your alternate form button are. The alternate form button is what you would press to 
 have Samus change into Morph Ball. The problem with this control scheme is that you could possibly 
 slide over the alternate form or weapon change buttons when you don't want to.
  
  The single player game in itself is pretty good. There are two planets and two space-station-type 
 structures you must travel to. They aren't connected. You land on one then leave and go to another. 
 The single player has you collecting artifacts called Octoliths, and you'll have to go to each 
 level more than once to get them. The bosses repeat, too, which is not good. The level design is 
 a lot more linear than you and I would expect from a Metroid Prime game. There is backtracking, 
 somewhat. You'll go out and find new weapons then use them to open doors you couldn't before. Due 
 to the linear level design backtracking in this game, unlike other Metroid games, feels a little 
 tedious.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is in full 3-D, which is quite a feat for the DS. Everything has a pretty 
 good amount of detail (especially the character models, which look amazing) , but from far away 
 they look a little grainy. It's not a huge complaint, but a complaint. Also, when the action gets 
 heavy the framerate will slow, which will happen the most in multiplayer. It will happen in single 
 player, too, but not as much.
  
  Some of the sounds you'll probably recognize from other Metroid games (mostly the Primes.) Both 
 new and old ones sound great, but they won't blow you away. The music captures the tone of the 
 game very well, as it almost always does with Metroid games.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters comes with multiplayer, which is the reason you shoudl buy the game in the 
 first place. Once you beat another hunter in the game you can play as them in multiplayer, a Metroid 
 first. You have Samus and two other hunters from the very beginning, though. The maps are based 
 off of rooms in the single player game, so to unlock them all you'll need to play through single 
 player. You'll also find a decent arsenal of weapons. Each hunter has a special ability with each 
 weapon and all of them have different alternate forms. This keeps the gameplay pretty fresh.
  
  You have a hunter license, which will keep track of things online and offline. It will tell 
 you how long you've played, your lucky arena, hunter of choice, how many BOOM! HEADSHOT!!! kills 
 you've gotten, and stuff like that. There's also online, which is a little limited. When playing 
 against random people you're limited to battle mode. To add someone to your friend list you need 
 to have their friend code, which is a pain. Hunters adds a Rival option, which lets you add people 
 to your rival list. You only can add them if they add you after a battle. The rival list lets you 
 keep track of their hunter license and lets you find them again in the Friends and Rivals mode 
 where you can play against them in all the modes. The online isn't great, but it gets the job done. 
 In single player you can add bots if you don't want to play online, don't have enough friends, 
 your friends aren't playing, or if you just don't have any friends in the first place (or at least 
 no friends that own a DS.)
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game. It's not the best game out there, and certainly not the 
 best Metroid Prime game, but it's still pretty good. It is, however, a great addition to any DS 
 owner's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave7500
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  tis is the 1st metroid game i ever played n i can tell u 1 thing. never underestimate the ds hardware 
 capalilty. tis is truly 1 of the best 1st person shooter i have ever played beside halo reason?
 
  
  good grahics (at least is the ds standard)
  -good multiplayer
  -many things to explore
  -many kinds of mutiplayer mode
  -if u got no friend to play with there 
 u can also add bots in the multiplayer mode
  -loaded with many kinds of cool weapons
  -great storyline
  -challenging hunters to fight with
  -smart Ai
  -hours of gameplay!
  -wi-fi 
 !!!
  
  the only not so great in tis game is the single player mode. is kind of short but luckily there 
 is a multiplayer mode where u can fight with bots n a online battle! i recommed u tis game if u 
 love playing halo! anyway i am a halo pro haha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_dusk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the metroid prime gamecube games, you might not be a fan of this one. The 
 game plays simialerly to the gamecube games but it feels more like a shooter. I personaly liked 
 the gamecube games alot, but this one... Not so much.
  Unlike in previous games, this game features many (playable) characters instead of only one, samus. 
 Each Hunter Has his/her own special skills and weapon, the problem is a few of them seem rather 
 broken. A sniper rifle just doesn't seem to fit in a metroid game.
  In metroid prime hunters you will explore different planets and space station etc. in your ship. 
 Each planet has a boss you will eventualy have to destroy and then return to your ship before that 
 chamber explodes, this seems to happen with all the bosses.
  You aim using your stylus; just move the stylus over the screen to look around ( or if you perfer 
 there is a Point and shoot mode where you simply poke where you want to shoot, but this makes it 
 hard to look around without wasting ammo) The new controls are suprisingly easy to use, however 
 sometimes it's difficult to have access to all the controls at the same time (I. e. the L button, 
 D-pad, touch-screen and A button) which can make hunter fights, boss fights and multiplayer fights 
 difficult.
  Speaking of multiplayer, the game has fantastic multiplayer mode both DS to DS and Nintendo WFC 
 (wi-fi connection)
  The WFC mode is great, except for the broken hunters people use (Cough, sniper, Cough) Which is 
 immensly frustrating.
  The graffics are decent; imagine metroid prime on the nintendo 64, except with 2 screens.
  The 
 sound is pathetic, however. The only sounds to speak of are low quality background music: It's 
 not catchy at all and you will forget it even exists, shooting sounds: Turn your sound off when 
 you see an enemy, and death sounds: Think diablo 2 except a human sounding scream.
  The whole game really let me down, I was looking forward to it but wish I never bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan891
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game for the Nintendo DS. There are several factors that make 
 this game a must have fo anyone who loves FPS games or if you have a ds or ds lite. This game also 
 has Wi-Fi play.
  
  GAMEPLAY is awesome. The controls are really easy to learn but there is no lock-on for shooting 
 but later you will see that it not needed. Metroid does not force you to backtrack like Metroid 
 Prime 1 and 2. And the weapons are really cool and are different with a special attribute that 
 makes it even more useful.
  GRAPHICS are really good for a ds game. It looks great and once in while who will get a cut scene 
 which looks astounding. and you are able to watch these cut scenes in the menu. The cut scenes 
 may be short but they are really fun to watch.
  SOUND is ok. It could have had better sound effects. The weapons not only look great they sound 
 great. They all have different type of sound and you can here the power beam move or the shock 
 coil shocking. The sound usaully varies from area and enemies. When you fight a boss the sound 
 gets better and the attacks sound good to.
  VALUE is really good too. I have beaten this game so many times just because it is fun. Is has 
 good replay value mainly because of the scan visor. If you scan everything you see will get a star 
 to show off on nintendo wi-fi and get a higher rank. Also there are extra cut scenes that are really 
 cool. Nintendo also added the nintendo wi-fi. This is were the game really shines. Four people 
 can play online. The action is fast paced and there are about 26-30 maps to choose from. And there 
 are about six hunters to choose which makes the game even better. The multiplayer aspect also has 
 a ranking system the more wi-fi battles you win the higher the rank you get and more importtant 
 you will get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakeFPownsu
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game, for starters. The single player is fair, with 2 kinds of 
 repetetive boss battles (a tall thingy that gets a new weapon each time you face it and boss battles 
 against other hunters) . Not much story is worked in either, some weird thing about retrieving the 
 ocaliths. You must collect all of these. But first, you need 3 artifacts from each planet which 
 opens a portal teleporting you to a boss battle. Now, other hunters want the ocaliths too. So throught 
 each planet there's usually 1 or 2 hunters you have to battle, who want your ocaliths. If it sounds 
 fun, trust me, it isn't. The hunter battles end up to be annoying, because if you're looking for 
 something, like a weapon or expansion, and you backtrack to the area you fought a hunter, you'll 
 find another boss there, which is just plain annoying! I shouldn't waste much more time on the 
 single player. It seems fun at first, but after going on the same planets over and over again, 
 fighting the same enemies, and doing the same task, you will get annoyed.
  
  Finally, a breath of fresh air in the game; the multiplayer! Multiplayer is a blast and has support 
 for up to a whopping 4 players! Yay! Really, 4's all you need in this game, though 6 or 8 would've 
 been cool. The main drawback for the multiplayer is that when you're playing against random people 
 online, the only mode is battle, and you can only vote on the map. Battle is fun and all, but you'll 
 find yourself wanting to be able to create your own game and wait for people to join with a unique 
 mode after a while. And nintendo shows that you can create a game and wait for people to join, 
 but only friends and rivals can join... which sucks. And they showed that they could've supported 
 voice chat, but no no no, only with friends . It just ticks me off that nintendo restricts you 
 from doing such things, when they show that it can work online. Overall, I sadly found myself playing 
 more with bots than actual players! Which I would never do. Going to the good side of things in 
 multiplayer, there's a range of different hunters, all with different special weapons and alt forms. 
 Local multiplayer's fun too, single or multi-card, though single only supports, guess what, battle! 
 Seriously, battle's just deathmatch and you will begin to hate deathmatch after playing this game 
 online! Ok, here's the final roundup on things, lots of which I haven't talked about yet!
  
  Gameplay: plays well, you can get used to both stylus and thumbstrap controls, although I started 
 to get major handcramps when playing the game for extended periods of time.
  Graphics: Solid, though pixelated. It shows that the DS can render true 3d. I wish more games looked 
 like this on DS.
  Sound: average. The single player has some good music, but it gets repetetive. Oh, and if you actually 
 find a way to play the prime hunter mode, which is a great mode, for every second you're the prime 
 hunter there's a loud annoying sound that gets sooooo annoying. Weapon effects and everything else 
 is average.
  Value: The single player's long if you can make it all the way through (something that took me 
 about 6 months because I never played it) . I didn't find myself playing online as much as I liked 
 do to everything that I've listed.
  Tilt: Sadly, I've gotta go down on tilt. This game shows that a first person shooter can look and 
 play well on a DS, but some of the features just pissed me off! The single player was an after-thought 
 to the multiplayer, which online doesn't allow what it should!
  
  I really wanted to get addicted to this game. Sadly, I didn't, but it's still a solid game. Through 
 disappointment of all the hype this game was getting, it's still enjoyable, and if I could join 
 games online with all modes, I swear my graphics rating would go up just because I enjoyed the 
 game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game that has great multiplayer but pretty lame single player. 
 You will most probably be playing it online on Wi-Fi instead of bothering with the single player 
 unless you want Oubliette and all characters. This is what I gave Metroid Prime: Hunters.
  
  Gameplay - I gave gameplay a 7 because the multiplayer is just fantastic especially online. 
 Single player is boring so its best to buy this game for the multiplayer only
  
  Graphics - I gave graphics an 8 because the graphics are very nice but they aren't the best for 
 this kind of game. Im sure it couldve been made better
  
  Sound - Sound gets a 6 from me because the music is quite repetitive but it does suit the game 
 i guess
  
  Value - I gave Value 7 because its really worth getting it if you've got some friends who also 
 have a DS or if you have a router or USB Wi-Fi connector. The single player, as I've said before, 
 is nothing special
  
  Tilt - I gave Tilt a 9 because its quite unique as an FPS with all the weapons and character abilities 
 and the different battle modes you get when playing multiplayer with friends who also have the 
 game
  
  In short, Metroid Prime: Hunters is really only worth it for multiplayer and not the single player. 
 So, if you have friends who dont have a DS or if you cant go online then you might get bored of 
 this game quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  (Changed my rating to reflect the fact that i have played a lot more MP and found that it is currently 
 the best DS MP yet)
  
  I was probably feeling a bit nostalgic (and i'm not even 30 yet) but when i first booted this one 
 up, it got the hairs on my neck standing, the music, the graphics, the level design. It's easy 
 to see that this has been polished, like any A-list Nintendo game. When you first start playing, 
 the control system (using the stylus like a mouselook) feels totally weird, but i'm now at the 
 endgame boss, and it feels second nature, but still a little niggly. Very often I end up doing 
 stuff i didn't mean to, like turn on the scan visor or jump when i meant to walk. This can happen 
 at critical moments like when you need to traverse some moving platforms, and it really pissed 
 me off when that happened. Other things i noticed were the very grainy textures. I know this is 
 an early title for the DS, but i kept wishing it looked a bit more modern in terms of graphics. 
 Can't the DS even do bilinear filtering?
  
  The best thing about this game is probably the level design. It is typical Metroid. Puzzles, sequence-breaking, 
 traveling back and forth, unlocking new areas, picking up new weapons along the way. It's surprisingly 
 fun to play a 3D Metroid on a handheld. Don't expect too much though, this game does have many 
 problems other than those i've listed, such as the bosses (all the bosses except the last are just 
 variants of two actual bosses, looks like Nintendo ran out of boss ideas here) , the crappy music, 
 the crappy 16-bit style sound-FX, the lame enemies, the sometimes confusing layouts of the levels, 
 the uninspired choice of weapons (they almost all feel the same) , the way Nintendo didn't make 
 good use of the ABXY buttons (they are all mapped to jump, why Nintendo why??)
  
  Good points: the 3D map, the atmosphere, the storyline, the responsiveness of Samus, the size of 
 the game (it is HUGE)
  
  Borrow it or rent it before buying. It would make a good first DS game, but don't expect a lot 
 out of it. Heres hoping part 2 will kick ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters finally brings the Metroid series to the DS. And it did a fine job with 
 it too. This game plays and feels like a first person shooter should. In MPH you are looking for 
 these special things called ocoliths but are competing with 6 other bounty hunters. The single 
 player story is not really that much fun, but luckily the game is saved by outstanding multiplayer. 
 There is single card play so you can play with buddies who don't have a copy of the game, multicard 
 play, and wi-fi. This is most likely the closest thing to Halo you will get on the DS. Graphics 
 are at some times kind of chunky but at others they are solid. If you want great multiplayer bundled 
 with Metroid, I guarantee you will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Being one of the Big Three Nintendo titles (Mario and Zelda being the others) , Metroid to me is 
 the black sheep of the family. I got this feeling when Metroid Prime came out for the Gamecube. 
 Farming out the development of a classic franchise was a twist us nintendo freaks were not expecting 
 but in turn, worked out to be a type of rebirth of the series. Hunters is the next step in that 
 rebirth. Think of it as a transition from the GC to the Wii. Taking the popular FPS aspect and 
 bring that to the touch screen which in turn has a direct correlation to the Wiimote functionality. 
 Hunters to me was an experiment in what could be done with the series. This is evident in the simple 
 game design and the templating which pops up through out the game. Using the lessons learned from 
 the DS adaptation and control interface, Nintendo and Retro Studios are refining the Wii Metroid 
 experience. Don't take it the wrong way, it's a decent game I just wish that the game, which was 
 delayed for the DS, would have had more substance and not feel like a test case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is truly overated. It is fun at first then gets very boring after a while. It seems like 
 a chore to play the game after a while. and there only to bosses that you fight over and over again 
 but they just get harder every time they at least could have been creative and made some different 
 bosses. I usually love metroid prime games but this one wasn't my favorite. It did tend to have 
 good online though but these days it seems like everyone is cheap. I do not recommend this game 
 even to lovers of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyroglex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  If you like Metroid or FPS games and you own a DS, then you will find that this is THE BEST MULTIPLAYER 
 EVER! The controls are easy to learn. It's actually easier to aim with the stylus than if there 
 were analog controls! Each hunter has similar abilities, but one or two differences in their style 
 that can give them an advantage. Take Samus, for example: while other hunters can still charge 
 and launch missles, but if samus charges them, they seek out their opponent! If you have friends 
 on wi-fi you can talk with a walkie talkie function to suggest levels and modes. If you don't want 
 to do multiplayer, there is also a fun adventure mode with awesome cutscene graphics or train your 
 skills against BOTs. You are missing out if you don't get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123kemps123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is so..... mediocre... I've played so many fps's on the DS and there all the exact same! 
 The guns on this game suck cause the character you choose barely makes a difference because you 
 can pick a character and still get all the weapons the others do.. And the characters there so 
 poorly categorized I mean theres this one Alien called Trace and his weapon is a Sniper rifle and 
 not only is the sniper rifle best in the game its of course a One Shot Kill But doesn't only get 
 that wepon he turn invisble! That's right. I mean I can understand a poor all around character 
 gets a sniper rifle but a character that's the toughest and can turn invisible when he has his 
 secret weapon!?! This game was a complete waste of 36 dollars but wait thank god I bought it used.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatwadMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  this game is not one of the better metroid games and maybe most of that reason is because it is 
 on ds but this games gameplay is like know other, u probly should get this game but if u played 
 other metroid prime games u can figure this one out easily it is not that good of a game but it 
 is fun to play on the road (and i am on the road ALOT) so get this game or if u dont have a ds get 
 a metroid game on ur system because they r most definantly wrth it, i recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingjonno
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This has to be simply the best ds game
  
  amazing graphics amazing controls amazing story line
  
  First player mode take a bit to get 
 into and it very rewarding when you complete a level or kill a bounty hunter but tthe gem in this 
 game is online
  if you havw wifi then you are in for a treat it takes like 1 min to get 3 other players and is 
 very fast paced, although there are alot of glitches that ppl use to win so it kind of ruins it, 
 also its a bit unfair because when it teams you up it teams you up with not 1 star rating but mostly 
 3 + which is really annoying
  
  I think you should buy this game because its good and good online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest Metroid fan. But I have played Metroid Prime 1 &amp; 2 and Fusion. After spending 
 hours with this game, it really does not feel like a Metroid game. It is difficult to recreate 
 a console experience on a handheld but the GBA games were great at re-creating the Metroid experience. 
 The single player is nothing special. Hunters is more like a traditional FPS than like an adventure 
 game. The exploration is toned down from the previous Primes. The controls are not great but are 
 not bad either. It feels easier to control a FPS than it would on a PSP but it still is not easy. 
 After spending some time, it gets easier. The game would have benefited greatly from a lock-on 
 feature like in the other Primes. The story is really non existent, but than again, no Metroid 
 game was about story.
  The graphics are good. The cinematic scenes are great but the in-game stuff is a bit grainy. It 
 basically looks like a N64 game but a little more juiced, which is not a bad thing. One of the 
 better looking games you will find on the DS.
  The sound does justice to the Metroid series. The themes are all here.
  The multi-player is what 
 many claim to be the saving point of this game. Now as an avid online shooter junkie, I don't agree. 
 The game only supports four players. The PSP online shooters, like Socom and Syphon Filter, fair 
 better than Hunters online. Overall this game is not as good as many people claim it to be. Hardcore 
 Metroid fans will love the fact that you can duke it out online for the first time. But this game 
 feels like a step back for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is one of very few FPS (first person shooters) on the DS, so it was welcome 
 with open arms. The game is about a great fighting species that has been wiped out and have left 
 varies 'tresures' out in the galaxy. So like any decent bounty hunter would do... they'd go after 
 them! Metorid/Samus is going out to destroy these artifacts, or harness their power for herself.
 
  This game also had to show off what the DS is made of in order for this game to work, while some 
 dislike the controls, they are actually very well thought out, though may take some getting used 
 to.
  
  Gameplay: In the game you play as Metroid going on several different worlds facing new enemies 
 and even running into new bounty hunters. While on you mission you run into a number of puzzles 
 which you need to solve and remember your environment to finish the level. The levels are quite 
 long, and at the end of each you run into different bosses which prove just as much challenge as 
 getting to the boss. The same with oth metroid games, as soon as you beat the boss, you gotta get 
 off that planet/place as soon as humanly possible!
  
  Graphics: The little movies that are within the game made my mouth drop! stunning colours and graphics, 
 everything looked great. In game it is obviously not as good, but are still not bad. I do think 
 the in game graphics could have been patched up so everything is a bit more sharper, but still 
 very nice.
  
  Sound: Needs some good background music... the sound within the game is mainly the noises of you 
 shooting, a growl or two from you enemies and the little scanning noise. Need some really good 
 music to have in the background and it would be much better.
  
  Value: This game has the potential to last a long time.. and not to last a long time. Since this 
 game has the online WiFi option it can last you a long time shooting up your mates or random people 
 across the world. Although it does have a down side... there are a number of glitches within the 
 multiplayer levels which many people like to exploit, so they may keep you away from the online 
 game after you have beaten the singleplay. Although if you just play against you mates it will 
 keep you there a while longer.
  
  All in all: i like this game, it seems to be a very unique game, even for the DS. It stays true 
 to the Metorid style of game. So if you like the metroid series, FPS games or your just looking 
 for something a little different for the DS, this is a must buy!
  
  Finally: The good - unique and well thought out controls, WiFi online play, voice chat (with friends) 
 over WiFi, new hunters to play as, good story line, great movie graphics.
  The bad - controls need a bit of practice, the need to scan many objects, glitches online which 
 many people exploit, can miss little details on an enemy/object a little far away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters picks up after the events of Metroid Prime 1 and before the events of MP2. 
 It tells how ancient artifacts have been scattered throughout the galaxy and it is Samus' job to 
 find them or destroy them before the other bounty hunters get their hands on them. The story is 
 great but the single player adventure does fall a little short. But its fun nonetheless. Now; on 
 to the multiplayer.
  The online play is easily the best factor of MPH. With up to four players per match, four different 
 play modes, 20+ arenas and online voice chat and Instant messaging before and after matches with 
 friends and rivals. Easy to pick up and fun as hell to play. Although it does get aggravating when 
 people stay in alternate form and hide and when you pass by, they shoot out and kill the **** out 
 of you before going back to their original hiding place. But apart from that, the online play is 
 practically flawless. With no lag, no load times, intense battles and a great arson of weapons; 
 MPH online is by far the best online game on DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hummer433
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  well i have just recently purchesed metroid prime hunters. I am amazed how well this game does 
 on wifi. there are ups and downs about this game like during the game on wifi you cant talk to the 
 other players : ( . but you can add them as a rival and you can talk to them in a wqaiting room. 
 I havent found anyone but still good. the up side is no lag! I have never experienced any lag whatsoever. 
 even when playing with people from japan and china. this is a great game i reccomend u buy it. 
 I am waiting for some friend to buy it to see how the talking feature works i am not sure the quality 
 of it but i am sure its pretty good. if you know the quality of the sound please send a message 
 thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest FPS on DS, and it even beats many of the FPS' on consoles and even computer. 
 This game's single player is good, but not near as good as the great Multiplayer. There are seven 
 hunters this time around, increasing the multiplayer far beyond what Metroid Prime 2: Echoes called 
 fun. This is even further aided by the 25+ levels you can unlock. The only problem with this game 
 is unlocking everything. You can get all of the extra hunters in multiplayer, and most of the stages, 
 but some of the levels you have to play (or even beat) the single player game. This is kind of 
 boring, as the storyline is pretty shallow. But, anyway, the graphics in this game are basic in 
 gameplay, but the cinematics are just unbelievable. The sound is basic Metroid music, however. 
 Just trust me, and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Mph stands out in many catgories. One is the excelent multiplayer were u connect to WiFi 
 and play people in a classic FPS style game on the go.
  Another one of MPH's strong points is in the level variety and difficulty. The game will be extremly 
 difficult to the average gamer but after a little time playing most people warm up to the strange 
 controls that the game uses. All the different charcters have different guns and abilities to go 
 along with there strenagths and weakneses.
  The Bad: The controls are very difficult to get used to and only the most dedicated MPH player really 
 masters this strange control scheme. Another problem the game has is the intense diffuculty that 
 challenges even the most respected gamers.
  Overall: MPH is a solid FPS and is a big step for the DS and has intense multiplayer action and 
 a fun and challenging story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters once again follows Samus Aran as she looks for the eight octoliths in the 
 Alimbic Cluster which are said to unlock a hidden ultimate power. But Samus is not the only one 
 looking to the octoliths. There are a few other bounty hunters gunning for the artifacts who Samus 
 must deal with. THE GOOD-
  
  First person shooters usually arn't very good for portable systems because of the lack of an analog 
 stick. But that is where the DS comes in. The DS unlocks the possibility of the touch screen. So, 
 in Metroid Prime: Hunters, you move with the control pad and shoot by taping the enemy on the touch 
 screen. Surprisingly, this works very well. It may take you the first level or so to get used to 
 it but after that it is smooth sailing. This unlocks endless possibilities for first person shooters 
 on the DS. Hopefully, developers will be able to use this control scheme in future games and finally 
 bring first person shooters to a portable.
  
  The real highlight of Metroid Prime: Hunters is the multiplayer mode. Hunters does feature a online 
 mode, which I'll get into in a bit but even more exciting than the online is the local play. If 
 you and a couple friends have Metroid Prime: Hunters this will take up most of your time in Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters. You are given many modes in local play from capture the flag to deathmatch. And 
 many options that are not seen in the online mode. Now, for the online mode. If your friends don't 
 have Hunters or you simply don't have any friends, the online mode will suit you well. The online 
 mode is the basic four player deathmatch and although simple is very fun. Hunters even offers voice 
 chat with people on your friends list. What's a first person shooter without amazing graphics? 
 Well, Metroid Prime: Hunters delivers with one of the best graphically advanced games on the DS. 
 As well, as having the same eerie soundtrack that Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes had. 
 But the best part about the presentation of the game is the cutscenes. Metroid Prime: Hunters is 
 the first DS to have full blown CGI cutscenes and they will blow you away.
  
  THE BAD-
  
  The Gamecube Metroid Primes had beautiful sci-fi levels but the same can not be said about 
 Hunters. The level design is boring and plain and everything just looks the same. And you could 
 find your self getting lost in the levels. Not to say that you couldn't get lost in the Gamecube 
 Metroid Primes but you'll just see the same doors and the same hallways over and over again and 
 it really gets quite annoying after a while. Now, remember the other bounty hunters I mentioned 
 before? Well, even you have to fight all of them and they are all basiclly the same boss fight. 
 The boss fights are pretty boring and you'll find that all the bosses repeat a certain pattern 
 and once you figure out the pattern of the bosses killing them is pretty simple. Now, lastly, we 
 look at the online mode. One real bummer in the online is that the matchmaking is held to one mode. 
 The only mode you can play with matchmaking is deathmatch. All the other modes have to played in 
 a custom match or local play. Not to say that you won't have fun with the deathmatch but it would 
 have been nice to have matchmaking for other modes. Overall, Metroid Prime: Hunter by no strecht 
 of the imagination is anywhere near the console Metroid Primes. But is still a good handheld first 
 person shooter that will be loved by any Metroid fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryeth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, it reminds me of the one for the Game cube, I don't like the music or the sound 
 effects to much. The stylus got me hooked on this hand held first person shooter, in my opinion 
 the first good hand held one yet. I took me forever to get used to the stylus though, i got the 
 Demo first, and then i got the new game after it came out. I always loved metroid games and i hope 
 the don't blow the game play by making it to complex ( For me...) I think even after you beat it 
 witch takes a while, there is still allot of fun waiting for you on the wi fi connection, that 
 was all i played when i first got it, there are some pretty cool glitches in that game, mostly 
 on wifi, but then again you can't really make a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meta_Ridley89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Since Metroid is a 3D adventure, we can't believe how Samus is beautiful and powerful in her Power 
 Suit. Now, with 6 new bounty hunters (Noxus, Trace, Kanden, Spire, Sylux and Weavel) , Samus isn't 
 the only powerful bounty hunter. All hunters are great with their own weapon and Alt-form. With 
 7 game modes, 26 arenas, many options, MPH is a great game with incredible controls, nice images, 
 good sounds, ect.
  
  I like to use these new weapons like Judicator or Imperialist. It's something different. It's an 
 all-new Metroid adventure. Completely out of the series. It's must be played by all DS players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmaster_234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Well, it isn't the greatest Metroid game ever, but it's cool!
  The single-player mode is unique, different things to find, kill the monsters, the guardions...
 
  It's cool, but what does this game highly addictive is the multiplayer game, with wi-fi!
  Now im not having internet for the ds, but i'm getting it!
  So, as long you play single-player, find 
 weapons, find new bosses (guardions) , in the multiplayer mode you can play with those guardions (by 
 the way my fav guardion is trace) .
  Of course, you need internet for the ds, but, you can train to after play on the internet!
  So, i 
 am not really a Metroid fan, but i wanted to trie and the game is very cool, the sound, the graphics, the 
 gameplay, one of the best games for the Nintendo Ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fungi13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Just about 4 years ago nintendo released a system with 2 screens on it, including a touch-screen. 
 Bundled up in the pack, each system came with a demo of Metroid Prime Hunters that grabbed everyone's 
 attention. After 3 years, nintendo announced that the game would come out before Christmas. Everyone 
 was thrilled to finally get ready to buy it, but then suddenly they pushed the date back. They 
 wanted to add online play to it, so we all had to wait about 4 MONTHS. On March 28th of 2006, the 
 game released and everyone was thrilled to hear about it. When I bought the game on that day, I 
 played it for 5 hours straight, and guess what? I FELL IN LOVE WITH IT!!!!! Everything was great 
 about it (especially the multiplayer) . The game was filled with incredible graphics and sound, 
 extremely long replay value, and 7 deadly bounty hunters.
  
  In single player mode, you play as the bounty hunter Samus Aran, looking for special relics past 
 hunters have left behind. Now all seven bounty hunters are after these relics, also known as octoliths. 
 There are eight of these mysterious octoliths, and once you get your hands on one, one of the hunters 
 might eliminate you and take it! Then you have to get it back by tracking him down. Youll go through 
 some incredibly detailed levels filled with alien scum. In the game you have the simple Power Beam, 
 Missile Launcher, and your affinity weapons. Over time, you will collect all of the six special 
 affinity weapons and use them to get through numbers of puzzles. One of them for example is the 
 imperialist, and it acts just like a sniper-rifle. The controls are much different from the GC 
 versions, but theyre much better! It can take a while to get used to, but once you get it, youll 
 be playing like an official bounty hunter. You simply use the arrow pad to move/strafe, and you 
 use the touch screen to move your weapon (just like a right thumb-stick in an xbox shooter) . On 
 the touch screen, itll show you your radar and your weapons. To change weapons, all you have to 
 do is tap the icon of which weapon you prefer. Dont worry, if youre looking around with the touch 
 screen and you accidentally drag the stylus over one of the icons, your weapon wont change. On 
 the top screen, it shows your interface, including the detailed levels and the disgusting aliens. 
 To shoot, you simply press the L button. Are you left-handed? Dont worry, the game has left-handed 
 options. I think I went over everythingoh wait!!!! I forgot the best part of the game!!! The Multiplayer 
 is simply THE best option to play in this game. In multiplayer you shoot each other DUH!!! There 
 are seven different game modes, seven different hunters, and over 25 locations to kill each other. 
 Each of the levels are taken out of the single-player mode, and you unlock the stages by visiting 
 them in single player. The online play is also very exciting. You also have a hunters license 
 that keeps track of your awesome worthiness. The license also gives you a rank of 1 to 5, 5 being 
 the best. When youre playing online, you have the option to play with random people at your rank, 
 or any rank. You can also play with your friends online and voice chat. Metroid Prime Hunters is 
 simply one of the best Nintendo DS Games around, and anyone with a pulse should definitely check 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4rc4ng3L
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  I wasnt a metroid fan going into Hunters but i must say, i shocked myself that i had not experienced 
 it so far. The game itself is more a find and discover game rather than a straight up run and gun 
 first person shooter, so dont go into the single player expecting a portable Halo or Doom. Although 
 the single player is fun the game itself feels more like it was built for the multiplayer action, 
 and this is where it really excells. Imagine a portable Quake 3 arena and you have a fair idea 
 of what it intails. Its a fast paced, hand numbing experience that you cant miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunter is a pretty much new gameplay for for Metroid series, yet keeps the same 
 basic of Metroid games.
  You still have normal rapid shots, charged shots, missiles and other weapons, but now you can aim 
 them alot easyer.
  With the help of the stylus, u can aime ur gun towards ur enemy, and shoot with the shoulder buttons. 
 This making the game alot easyer, and also more fun. And yes Ball form is here too, and it is same 
 as ever. u sill have ur bombs that bump u up and still have a few ball mazes.
  The ball mazes adds variety to the gameplay, making it not only an FPS games.
  And the biggest 
 new feature, is Wi-Fi gaming. This is so fun, u play with 3 other players, and u just shoot others 
 out, it feels like some Unreal Tournament game, on ur DS!
  The graphics are truly amazing for the NDS, im yet to see better than these on any other 3D DS 
 game.
  The music didnt really change from last games, still this mysterious music.
  Everyone who owns a DS and likes FPS, get it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcocat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  It felt really awkward at first, when I used for the first time the stylus, in fact I stopped playing 
 for 2 months just because I didn't like the controls...
  
  But time passed and I decided to play it again, and I just get used to the controls...
  
  Now 
 I can't stop playing, in fact I can't realize how I've been playing Metroid Prime 1 &amp; 2 with 
 conventional controllers for so much time. Playing with the Stylus is just a dream, it just makes 
 me think of the possibilities of playing it with the wiimote.
  
  The graphics are great for DS, in fact I didn't know DS could handle such beautiful graphics, everything 
 is detailed, there are tons of diversity.
  
  The sound is as good as the graphics.
  
  The gameplay is just the best for any Metroid Prime game to date, everything is well done, and 
 the puzzles are perfect. I think this title is better than Metroid series on the Game Cube.
  
  Just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime started out a gamecube game, and was easily one of the best FPS games ever made, 
 not only cause of its outstanding gameplay, but also cause of its amazing tendency to make you 
 look around for hours on end. Metroid Prime 2: Echoes only made it all better, and added a multiplayer 
 mode, so you can finally shut your friends up who said that they were better than you at it! All 
 jokes aside, its multiplayer was fun, hands down, not only because it was 4-player non-stop action, 
 but also cause it increased the value of the game dramatically. Metroid Prime: Hunters didnt lose 
 much in translation with the exception of single player. In Metroid Prime: Hunters, Samus Aran 
 goes on yet another adventure which includes peppering things with missiles, hunting for keys, 
 and yes, even collecting more beams. In this game, the Galactic Federation, (which is more or less 
 the police of the galaxy) acquired a weird transmission from an un-explored portion of the galaxy, 
 which stated that, the secret to ultimate power lies in the Alimbic Cluster. But the Galactic 
 Federation soon found out that they werent the only ones that obtained this odd transmissionSoon 
 Bounty Hunters from across the galaxy will be pouring into the Alimbic Cluster, attempting to achieve 
 the ultimate power before anyone else. Samus Arans mission is to achieve it, or destroy it before 
 any one else can get their hands on it.
  
  Although it sounds like a blast, it isnt as fun as it sets out to be.
  Its a little slow, 
 not gameplay-wise, but it takes a while to get done what you need to get done. The level textures 
 and atmospheres seem repetitive after a while, and eventually will bore you after long periods 
 of game time. Sure shooting stuff is fun and all, and using 7 different beams makes it all the 
 more fun, but after you beat the game, theres not much more you can do unless your willing to 
 start over and do it all again.
  The graphics of this game, (save bland level design) are awesome, and the full 3D environments 
 make it look all the better. It never slows down, and its probably one of the smoothest DS games 
 Ive ever played.
  
  The multiplayer portion makes this game shine. Not only can you play local wireless with a single 
 game card, and multiple game cards, you can also use Nintendos free wifi services to play online. 
 If you know someone who has this game and wants to play over Nintendo wifi, you will have to utilize 
 Nintendos friend code system, you give your code to your friend and he or she gives you theirs, 
 and you can play together online anytime, and not only that, you can also tell when your friend 
 is online. The multiplayer arenas are truly amazing. They take places of the single player game, 
 and turn them into arenas. Some small, some big, some enormous. The online also supports matches 
 against random enemies, which are capable of becoming your rivals, and if they agree to become 
 your rivals their name will pop up on your rival list which is located next to your friend list, 
 and has more or less the same features. In multiplayer you can choose from 7 different bounty hunters, 
 who all have different abilities, so choose wisely, and the fun will never end.
  
  The all-around gameplay of this game is fun, fast, and slick. The controls use the touch screen 
 to look around, choose your weapon and transform you into the trademark morph ball. It may seem 
 complicated at first, and your hands will probably lock up after a while, but once you get used 
 to this amazingly odd control scheme, it will in fact seem smooth and faster then most FPS games 
 on the market. Unlike the previous installments of the series, Metroid Prime: Hunters doesnt have 
 a lock-on system, but if you can destroy your enemy without it, why bother complaining? The graphics 
 of this game occasionally lag online, but not often enough for someone to lose interest.
  
  The sound of this game isnt quite as good as all the other Metroid games, but still manages to 
 get the job done. It still has the space-age music, the subtle tunes when youre looking around, 
 and the big bangs when you fire the missiles, but it seems watered down to me. The games replay 
 value is very high, not cause of its single player mode, but because of its ranking-based multiplayer 
 mode. As you win matches, you achieve ranking points, which more or less show off your skill to 
 other gamers online and off.
  
  If youre a Metroid fan, I say get this game immediately, because its easily one of the best ever. 
 The single player may not be the best, but its still fun, as long as youre willing to play it, 
 and multiplayers usually always fun, so even if your not a Metroid fan, and are just looking for 
 a good FPS game, go for this one, and although it has its downfalls, and does things a bit differently, 
 it still does it right. ~gunman357~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: 7 different bounty hunters to play  and 
 samus} , many multiplayer modes {like NODES} , many multiplayer levels, fun adventure mode, WI-FI multiplayer. THE 
 BAD POINTS: the same bosses in the adventure mode, glithes, this game have no save stations, you can 
 only save the game in your gunship [CONCLUSION] this game have awsome multi player but the adventure 
 mode is a bit short and is not so impressive as the multiplayer. i give it 10 for the multi player 
 and a 8.3 for the adventure mode. and do not fink the ADVENTURE MODE IS totally bad because the 
 adventure mode is still fun but lesser fun than the multi player. why i give this game a perfect 
 score because i am a VERY GREAT METROID FAN and this game is still mine FAVORITE GAME FOR THE NINTENDO 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABetancourt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Since i got my own DS i want to try something innovative, Mario Kart has given me the Wi-Fi feeling 
 but i needed more, so i've buyed Metroid Prime Hunters (MPH) and i tell you, Nintendo do it again 
 !!
  
  Samus has a new quest, she is investigating some rare activity in a place called the alimbic cluster, 
 but she isn't alone, other hunters are on the way too making the thing an awful mission.
  
  The gameplay is simply astonishing using the benefits (in my own words blessings ) that the stylus 
 give tu us controlling your feet with the pad and the head or visor and the gadgets with the stylus 
 very well and simply. The thing is that in the beginning you'll say OH LORD PATIENCE, but in matter 
 of 10 minutes you'll be jumping an messing around things in the vast maps.
  
  The multiplayer feature is no other than perfect because it combines a FPS game with multiplayer 
 and Wi. Fi action, truly amazing, there is no lag... the different playmodes in lan are many so 
 it secures fun for a while.
  
  So, if you are metroid fan, like very cool 3D graphics and wanna play Wi-Fi mode you have to own 
 this title, the wait for prime hunters 3 will be looooong but surely this will cease the pain for 
 the waiting time. a MUST PLAY IT, or at least TRY IT lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Although it's a little different and falls a tiny bit short of the home console games it is still 
 a superb DS game. This game really shows off the full graphical capabilities of the DS. As it is 
 a handheld console you dont get such a feel of being in there like you would on a larger screen 
 but the game still gives the feel of its game environments very well for a handheld. The hunters, 
 objects and everything else in the game are very pleasing for the eye and the only real criticism 
 I think I have for the graphics is that when you get close up to some objects you start to see 
 the detail fizzle out. As for the cut-scenes they really look amazing and do something graphic-wise 
 that I thought was impossible for the DS. As Ive said gameplay is slightly different from the 
 home console versions. For example in hunters you have the morph ball, bombs and the missile launcher 
 from the start. The biggest difference about this game is in your shooting style, you will find 
 that you do not have lock-on but fear not as you have much more control over your shooting, you 
 aim by moving your stylus around on the bottom screen to make Samus aim on the top screen, this 
 seems to be a very unique method of using the touch screen and becomes second nature once you start 
 playing. As well as allowing you to aim it also allows you to change your weapon, jump and go into 
 morph ball mode quickly and practically and it also acts as a short range enemy radar. The aim 
 of the game is to defeat the final boss which can only be reached by collecting the 2 octoliths 
 on each of the 4 planets, each is held by a boss that can only be reach by collecting 3 artefacts, 
 each of which can only be unlocked by first collecting a shield key Its not as complicated as 
 it sounds but all the time there is also the threat of the other hunters, trying to kill you to 
 steal your octoliths. The multiplayer mode is also very fun, there are 25 different battle grounds 
 to play in and you can play as any of the hunters (including Samus) , each with their own favoured 
 weapon and alternate form as in the main game but there are glitches you can exploit to your advantage 
 in the multi-player mode and I have found the Wi-Fi match my rank feature can behave a little 
 strangely. The music is the kind of atmosphere-mimicking thing youd expect to find in Metroid 
 Prime and there are over 400 sound effects in the game. Ive fond the sound quality isnt too great 
 on my copy when the music grows loud but I dont know if that problem is unique to me, still the 
 sound is all pretty cool. There is slightly less to scan than in the other Metroid Prime games 
 but I thoroughly enjoyed discovering the past of the Albmics (an ancient almost Chozo-like race) 
 and I thought the prophecy fitted into the game perfectly. As I said before, this is a fantastic 
 DS game and well worth getting. P. S I apologise that this review is not properly paragraphed but 
 every time I try it is simply reseted to normal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid02
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  So theres no mistake i think this game is honestly great but it has a few negative things.
  -no voice chat unless its with people on ur friends list.
  -Singleplayer is rather boring
  
 but there is a lot of good stuff about it.
  -Multiplayer is GREAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  -Characters are really well made
  -Online playing works very well *but there are some glitches.
 
  
  Going to single player. I think it was just randomly thrown in there. Its way to linear and WAY 
 to short. Its only 8 hours long. I guess its good if ur on the plane or something like that but 
 it really dosent quite give u the metroid feeling u got in the platformers. 6.5/10
  However, Multiplayer is da best! Honestly its like the best evar! Even if u dont have a wifi router 
 u can have plenty of fun playing against bots. But the main fun is in the online play. I wish the 
 developers could have spent more time in the production of online play because nearly every level 
 has a glitch in multiplayer. 10/10
  Graphics are really nice and honestly cat get much better. However if you go really close to a 
 wall you can see a lot of pixels.
  9/10
  
  Overall get it if ur a) a metroid fan
  b) a 1st person shooter fan
  c) if u have a wifi router
  d) if u have a ds
  
  and even 
 if u dont have a wifi router maybe u should try it out at a friends house or so because its a really 
 great game.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Metroid games has a solid pedigree and the latest installment is hunters. hunters is a good first 
 person shooter fix with solid gameplay and a good multiplayer. The single player is good but if 
 compared to the gamecube games it feels different. The game emphazises the multiplayer modes but 
 up to 4 players only even in wi-fi. Thats why its not fun when your playing capture when there's 
 only 2 of you in each team. There are 7 multiplayer modes here. Also new here is you can pick a character 
 in multiplayer mode each bounty hunters has their own special abilities like one bounty hunter 
 Spire can turn into a rock instead of a morpball. Metroid prime hunters won't dissapoint you it's 
 still a good metroid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: path_of_hope
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  I cant believe this adventure, it is abit on the basic, and you could even miss all of the story, 
 which i what i did, and there are no side quests, apart from if you die, which would be stupid... 
 &gt;.&lt; but it just works so well, and the CPU arnt that bad, they can be a bit annoying.
  
  But as you see the score is 9.5 this is because over al it just works, and it rocks, hard, 
 it rocks really hard...
  
  and is worth buy since it is the only one so far, and the next may not be such a good combination. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majinrick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  my reason for getting a ds. the gameplay is great. can't ask for anything bettera a a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  The Prime Hunters is a very fun game. You've got to play it if you own a DS. The control interface 
 are pretty good, and you'll get used to them very quickly. The frame rate is also suprisinglygood. 
 You can't expect the DS to match the Gamecube's graphics, but it does bring Samus's adventure to 
 life in your pocket. The campaign is very long, but most of the times unpredictable. You'll also 
 going to have to solve a lot of puzzles. Many of them are very tricky, and others you just need 
 another gun. Speaking of guns, Samus can carry 6 different types of weapons . This are changeable 
 attachments with her plasma beam. She basically is as strong as the other hunters, and little bit 
 better, because she has all of their weapons. The multiplayer is also very fun, either if you're 
 playing with bots, or with friends, it'll always be fun. The DS's Wi-Fi connection will help you 
 get into a match if you're in a McDonald, or if you bought an USB connector to connect it with 
 your PC. Either way, expect to be looking around for your enemies like a real hunter.
  
  A must have for anyone with a DS, and that likes FPS with a great storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  the Good: Metroid Prime Hunters is a thriller shooter, that comes out for the Nintendo DS. You 
 may think controls are weird, since the stylus is used a lot, but actually, the stylus use was 
 a great idea. Once you get the hang of it, the controls are fun to use. Story Mode is long in this 
 game, so gamers will play it or a long time. The hunters all have different capabilities, making 
 the game great. The graphics are incredible, the best I've seen for the DS so far. The sound is 
 great, it's some good old Metroid music that no one can get tired of hearing. Mutilplayer is insane, 
 especially on Nintendo Wifi. Players will have a great time fighting against up to 3 foes at once, 
 trying to earn a victory. The multiplayer dynamics of this game, led me to reasons of buying it. 
 If you want the best experience of the game, make sure you have Nintendo Wifi.
  
  the Bad: The story may get boring and annoying at times. Figuring out where to go happens a lot, 
 so players may get stuck at one part for a very long time. Also, bosses are not very creative in 
 story mode. You are just required to fight the same 2 bosses each time, except they improve the 
 further you get into the game. Overall: This game is a DS game at true potential, please purchase 
 it, if you have a Nintendo DS! It is incredible...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brybry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I think this Metroid game is fun. Who wouldn't like it, if they like action/adventure games? The 
 game is about a bounty hunter (who you play as) that is sent on a mission. Sorry I won't tell anymore-it's 
 for your own good. I think that mutiplayer mode is cool, because you can play as more bounty hunters. 
 The part that I love about the game is the starting movie. I would not recommend this game if you 
 do not like difficult games. If you do like to play a hard game than I say you should get this. 
 My age recommendation is age 8-13+. I saw on this website that the GC Metroid game got a superb 
 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddy4940
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  i think its awsome! this was my first metroid game and i love it! it has great multyplayer, although 
 the bad part is single card play that the person who dosen have the game HAS to go with samus ... 
 apart from that, its awsome. i really like the idea of the wifi, when i am out of my house, i play 
 story, but only when i am outside of my house. i never play adventure mode inside! the wifi lets 
 you play with people around the world. you can meet lots of new people and find out some things 
 about yourself depending wich character you use the most! well, apart from that, this game rocks 
 and its a must-have for the nintendo ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Many of us gamers were wondering how a first-person shooter would play on the Nintendo DS. When 
 the Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt demo was bundled in the DS at launch, many fans of the series 
 now knew how it was played. But this is not about First Hunt, it is about the complete game, am 
 I right? Samus starts her new adventure searching for Ocoliths, mysterious items scattered throughout 
 the Alimbic Cluster for the ultimate power. She isn't the only one searching for them. Other hunters 
 (six of them total) throughout the galaxy are finding them for their own purposes. The single-player 
 is somewhat linear, giving you obstacles that continue the tradition of the series; jumping, morphball 
 rolling, scanning, combat, and others that many fans of the franchise enjoy. You will meet your 
 first hunter in the later part of the first area you explore. The area you face this foe is similar 
 to the First Hunt demo, where you face off a hunter identical to the final version. Then you go 
 up against certain bosses (one or two depending on the world you are exploring) , and finally high-tailing 
 it out in record time. The multiplayer is where the game becomes great. In the past it was going 
 to have LAN play, not online play, then it was announced that it would have online play. Playing 
 the game using Wi-Fi connection was a blast, but you are limited to battle mode and the number 
 of players battling out on. Either way, it is another (or the first) online game where you will 
 play for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters. Now this is certainly a game worth getting. With its amazing DS graphics, 
 new innovative controls, and excellent multiplayer modes you will see why. But there is one problem, 
 the extremely short and basic story.
  Now, the game is really great. The story is basic but its not that horrible. You travel around 
 space to collect the 8 octoliths. There are only 4 planets but you travel to each planet twice, 
 but there is another part of the planet its not like you go through the same exact place. After 
 you defeat your enemy hunters you will have many encounters with them because they dont die, they 
 just leave the planet. It will get annoying if you get surprised by a hunter and he steals your 
 octolith because then you have to go chase him from planet to planet. But you can see what planet 
 the hunter is on so its not that difficult. The bosses are very repetitive, there are only two 
 types of bosses and they just evolve to stronger things but they still look alike. So as you can 
 see the story is nothing special.
  The controls will take some time to get use to but after a while they come out pretty good. It 
 is much better to aim with the touch screen, it is harder in the beginning but youll get used 
 to it. If you choose to aim with the control pad or the a, b, x, y buttons it wont be as efficient. 
 Now to get to the juicy part of the game. The multiplayer alone makes this game worth getting, 
 especially if you have wi  fi. There are about 7 normal multiplayer modes. Including a normal 
 point battle, survival, a king of hill type battle, and many more. In wi-fi you can play with people 
 around the world in a normal mode, and with your friends you can play all the modes mentioned before, 
 and you can talk to them using the microphone. You get a nice hunter license that keeps track of 
 your records, including your hunter of choice, favorite weapon, favorite place, rank, kills, wins, 
 losses and other stuff that is impossible to remember because there is so much.
  So, now you know why you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  the game itself is wifi and best for anygame for the ds to be wifi. the single player mode for 
 metroid is easy but except if ur playing for many hours then using the styles will cut off ur blood 
 circulation to ur hand a little bit. any ways in the single player all the levels are easy except 
 the final boss. but the levels bosses are easy to get through, but the one bad thing is about the 
 level's bosses is that 1/2 of the bosses is the same guy over and over again but with new stuff 
 this time but still i would of liked a new boss for each level. you have five weapons one is really 
 cheap aganist the cps its like a sniper weapon. and the rest r most common every were. you use 
 certain weapons for each boss to kill. and you can get health from the bosses as you go alond, 
 but if the health is in mid air that you can not reach hold the firing button it acts like a vaccum 
 of some sort. the final boss can be hard but easy for me he has two forms one that he keeps change 
 shape so you have to change weapons alot and the other he telaports everywere so you have to move 
 alot around form one is easy just keep the sniper weapon out and wait for the colour that u can 
 shoot with that weapon and stay out side of the areana for now and zoom in with the weapon and 
 shoot both his arms out and the rest is simple. the second form u get a new weapon a type of nuke 
 u can say get 7 to 10 shots at the second form and u win (best place to shoot from is the top) . 
 the wifi multiplayer is hard cause some players have the advantage of being cheap and use the sniper 
 weapons in high places and kill people very easy. plus some people use some nintendo ds cheat systems 
 for the wifi play and wrek the wifi play all together. also if you have many friends and metroid 
 friend codes you can talk through the mic on the ds and hear each other. (the only best thing in 
 the game) but anyways that all i got to say for now so whatever by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is the most recent edition of the Metroid series. The awesome game for the 
 DS is unique. It is the first person shooter to use the DS touch screen for aiming. The controls 
 are unusual at first but you quickly get used to it in a matter of minutes. Also this game uses 
 the rumble pack feature that comes with Metriod Prime Pinball. The single player mission mode is 
 a little lacking but is none the less interesting. While going around looking for your objectives, 
 fighting other bounty hunter keeps the game alive because this is the only Metroid game where you 
 fight enemies like this other than Metroid Prime 2: Echos. The multiplayer in this game is a big 
 improvement from the past. not only can you play online with friends but you can keep a record 
 of your performance online. Also you can play the bounty hunters you have faced in single player 
 mode. The best thing about the other hunters is each have a unique "alt. mode" and weapons. For 
 example Spire's "alt. mode" transform him into a rock covered in spikes that allow him to climbs 
 walls and do melee damage instead of dropping bombs like Samus. Also the single player movies are 
 great with final fantasy VII movie graphics. I recommend this game for all Metroid Prime fans and 
 those who like online FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemmyX25
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I never played the First Hunt demo when the DS came out. I got shut out of it, except maybe a quick 
 demo at Wal-Mart. But anyways, when i heard MPH was coming out, i had to think about it, like how 
 are the controls, would i actually get through the game? After i started playing it, i was hooked.
 
  What got my attention most was the multiplayer mode. Sure, in Metroid Prime 2 Echoes, multiplayer 
 mode was available, but MPH made it better. With a single or multicard local playing, or even better, 
 the Nintendo WiFi connection, i never put it down. With rivalries all over the planet, and 7 hunters 
 to choose from including Samus herself, there was a fight anywhere you could go, at least with 
 a wireless connection. The single player adventure is also worth mentioning. The story is that 
 in a distant galaxy, there is an extinct race with artifacts and power like no one else has seen. 
 Samus Aran rushes to the galaxy to find this power, but she isn't alone. 6 other bounty hunters 
 have also heard of this message and head there themselves. This wont be easy for Samus, as she 
 has to visit the 4 planets and collect all the artifacts and **** This adds to replay value as 
 you have to revisit planets when you get a new weapon. Certain doors open with certain weapons. 
 Overall this could take a while as you also have to fight all of the other hunters and each planets 
 2 bosses.
  
  The only concerns i have with this game are so:
  1.) The controls were a little funky. There are two different types: Dual hand mode, where the 
 D-Pad moved your hunter, either foward backward or strife sideways. A, B, X, Y made your hunter look 
 around, R to jump and L to fire. Stylus mode was different that the touch screen made your hunter 
 look around. Either way, the controls take a while to get used to.
  2.) Graphics during gameplay were a little sharp. I'm not taking a lot of points off for this, 
 seeing as everything else that goes on makes up for it. The cut scenes, however, are amazing, like 
 your in a theater. All in All, this is a must have game. Whether your a hardcore Metroid fan or 
 a competion junkie or a whole new gamer, Metroid Prime Hunters is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megagohan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters for the Nintendo DS was the highly anticipated sequel to the Metroid Prime 
 games on the Gamecube. What made this game different, however, is the the free aiming controls 
 and the online multiplay. Being an FPS enthusiast, this was a very exciting new addition, and one 
 I highly anticipated. So when the game finally came out, I bought it on impulse, knowing I would 
 like it. But I couldn't have been more wrong... On the positive side, The game had great visuals, 
 that from a distance almost looked like a current gen Gamecube game, which is a great achievement 
 for the DS. The game also ran at a suprising good framerate. The sound is standard Metroid affair. 
 With eerie tunes that set the mood and sound pretty nice coming from the DS speakers. The game's 
 online mode also has many different modes and 7 different characters to play as. But this is where 
 the game gets ugly... MPH may look and sound good, but it sure doesn't play good...
  
  The single player is fun for a while, but it is extremely repetitive with abnormal amounts backtracking, 
 and the SP as a whole is just uninspiring and boring.
  
  But my biggest gripe is the controls. I'll applaud anyone who can actually play this game for more 
 than 30 minutes without getting carpal tunnel in your wrists...
  
  You have to hold the DS in one hand while you aim with the stylus in the other hand. It just feels 
 awkward, and you have to double tap the screen to jump... Which doesn't sound to bad, but it makes 
 simple things like jumping from platform to platform a hassle.
  
  Many thought that the touch screen aiming would be superior to consoles and rival that of PC's... but 
 this simply isn't the case.
  
  At every sensitviity, it's just too jumpy and clunky, and I would honestly play on a console, where 
 at least my hands don't physcially ache.
  
  The online play leaves much to be desired, too, even if you get past the controls. You'll find 
 that half the time, the game doesn't even feel like a FPS, because you'll have to "alt-spam" to 
 win. Alt spamming is when you switch to the 3rd person in you alt form, and usually deploy some 
 sort of bomb or turret.
  
  Worse than that is how the game has so many different game modes... but you can only play FFA game 
 matches without friends... and the only way to get a friend is to enter in their Friend Code, a 
 hassle in itself.
  
  It takes forever for a game to start, and good luck actually playing the game the whole way through. 
 Of the 100 or so games I played, I was disconnected in almost half of them.
  
  I tried to like this game, being both a Metroid and a FPS fan, but I just saw the game for what 
 it is, and it's just terribly unimpressive
  
  I would only recommend this game if you're a Metroid fanatic who has to own every metroid game, 
 or someone who HAS to have a FPS on the DS, and can overlook the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  In case you don't read my reviews, I have an intamate hate with online games. The only one I have 
 ever REALLY liked has to be Mario kart, also on the DS, because it wasn't training you for online. 
 On the contary, online was thrown in at the last second. Or so it feels like.
  
  So why should I in anyway like this game? Hmm. Well I can't think of anyhting. Except for one thing. 
 It is goddam amazing!
  
  See the one player is a training game yes. And there IS multi, but it is limited to the rivals 
 and lan. But it's a sparkle factor. I'm getting a bit lazy with my reviews, so instead of trying 
 to make you laugh and leaving a lengthy review, just read the results. they say everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a game of Metroid besides a Prime 2 demo until I purchased Prime Hunters. And 
 I have to say that Samus packs a whole lot of action into the game which keeps me playing for hours 
 at a time. I really enjoyed the game controls because they were quite easy to conquer. Aiming was 
 wierd because of the whole stylus deal. Anyway, I enjoyed the gameplay and collecting the cash 
 by finding all the people to kill. I like the fact that you are a bounty hunter. Nothing like Jango 
 Fett though (thank god) . I liked traveling to all the different planets with all the wierd species 
 and enviornments. If you ever get the chance, you really should try the Nintend Wi-Fi connection 
 and take your skills online against other Metroid gamers. I seriousl think that this is a great 
 way to kick off it's debut on the DS. Please try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinger256
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  The metroid prime series was a huge succes thus bringing it to a handheld. But that dosent nesscesrly 
 mean its good. The controls are a bit shakey at first but you'll get use to it. Using the touch 
 screen to aim and directional buttons to move. Tapping and selecting certain areas will make you 
 jump, go to morph ball, missles ,other various weapons and scan. there is a another control scheme 
 but it uses the face buttons to move. Graphics: Every other metroid was graphically and astromically 
 amazing but it lacks that in this game. The textures are ugly and most rooms are square. Luckley 
 the great graphics are there making one of the best graphical ds games out there.
  
  Gameplay: The story mode is about 10-20 hours depending on how good and bad you are. Samus is trying 
 retreive luminoths that contain power, but shes not the only one thats trying to find them. Along 
 the way you'll find several other bounty hunters like noxus and trace with there different abilities 
 trying to get the lumnioths whatever it takes. The boss fight are the same enemy all over again 
 and arent that hard to kill. But it has amazing creatures and a hard mode (if you unlock it) . during 
 the coarse of the game you'll suddenly lose interest in this game but...... it has great wi-fi 
 multiplayer choosong from 6 bounty hunters up to 4 people. Unfortuneatly you cant play all those 
 other modes like prime hunter and defender unless you have friend codes.
  
  Sound: You'll hear weird at the right times wiether its boss fight or trying to find something. 
 You'll also hear amazing gunshots, splashing ,etc.
  its good
  
  Overall: This game is very enjoyable of this game if you have wi-fi but if you don't down this 
 game 3.0 and you'll get your score. If your looking for a game that has both great single and multiplayer 
 fps on a portable this a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidmast3r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing game its quite hard to control at first, if you dont like it you can adjust it even set 
 it to left handed or right handed but there is also the gameplay its not too hard and not too easy 
 its just right there are some bosses (classic metroid) and also some new characters. Graphics are 
 great they can get a little cubey at times but most of the time they are astonishing especially 
 on the cut screens where it uses both of the screens. sound is perfect it catches everything to 
 a gun shot to a footstep, the music is fabulous is has some funky tunes on the menu and during 
 gameplay they sound really cool. The value is pretty good although i got this game with my ds lite 
 in a bundle on amazon for $109.99 - $112.99 CND. this game is great for a starter game and i also 
 think its a great game altogether. Well thats it folks i thank you for reading my review and i 
 hope it helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters (Nintendo DS)
  
  Game play 7/10
  This game is the best First Person Shooter around for the Nintendo DS. There are only a few flaws 
 with the game play that drag it down. For instance, there are 9 bosses and most of them look the 
 same except they are different colors. The Main Problem with the Game play is the repetitiveness. 
 Other than that the game play is exciting and awesome. Sound 6/10
  The sound in this game wasnt anything exciting. In fact when you compare the music in Metroid 
 Prime Hunters to all the other Metroid games, Metroid prime hunters music sounds horrible. The 
 screams and the shot sounds are'nt really that bad. The Main thing that dragged down the sound 
 was the music, which couldve been so much better.
  
  Controls 10/10
  The controls are very unique in this DS game. Its a whole new way to Control First Person Shooters 
 on the Nintendo DS. To aim and switch weapons you merely use the touch screen. I found that very 
 creative and cool. There is nothing wrong with the controls in this game. Its perfect the way 
 it is.
  
  Multiplayer 8/10
  The multiplayer is what made this game good. With over 20 maps, 7 character to choose from and 
 online capability, the multiplayer mode in this game will last a long time. There are only a few 
 things wrong with it. Glitches and hackers are everywhere online so beware if you shoot someone 
 non-stop and they still stand that is a hacker. If someone goes through a wall that is called a 
 glitch. Dont worry though; nearly every online game has hacks and glitches. The multiplayer factor 
 in the game is what saved Metroid Prime Hunters from being a waste of money.
  
  Lasting appeal 7/10
  The single player mode takes about 12 hours too beat unless you know what 
 youre doing. The multiplayer is what saves the lasting appeal. If you have friends to play with 
 or just looking for a random challenger, multiplayer will last you a long time.
  
  Closing Comments
  Metroid Prime hunter is a very good game; however it does not live up to the 
 hype that everyone was giving it. Id have to say its a buy and a worthy addition too add to your 
 DS game library though.
  
  Final Score: 7.6 Mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  To be honest since I got my DS months ago I have only got 4 games for it as I can't find anything 
 good as I was hoping for some good rpg's but they all turn to garbage so I never got them. If you 
 read my review on Metroid Prime 2 you would of heard me say "I would not be getting this game." 
 Well lets just say Echoes at the end really got me into it so hell I got it. This game I find alot 
 more easier to follow where to go next, but in the same sense its also very short compaired to 
 the other games in my view in size wise. The graphics are amazing on the cut scenes and the actualy 
 gameplay is ok. I am not sure if it the DS in general but I think the graphics could of been a 
 bit better. The storyline was ok, trying to find the ultimate weapon. The final end guy I never 
 understood what he had to do with getting the ultimate weapon but maybe that is my fault. The bosses 
 were kinda lam considering there was only really 2 and then mixed with harder difficulty for each 
 one after. Also you had to run back to your ship in time limit each time which made no sense why? 
 I found that a bit dissappointing. The other hunters in the game made the storyline with a nice 
 touch adding to a sense of combat along with the great intro. The controls are preety easy to figure 
 out I just wish you didn't have to use the stilis or whatever that pen thing is called so much. 
 The multiplayer is preety fun and adds alot of gameplay to the game. I thought it was odd in multiplayer 
 then the other hunters didn't have there special weapons also but then I guess that would make 
 sumas not as good so they gave everyone normal weapons and you had to find the other weapons. The 
 sound was awesome at some parts but at others it was a screech so loud it scares the crap out of 
 you, such as weapon fire sometimes. The music was quiet good. The game was a bit shorter then the 
 last game, but it was still entertaining and fun. I don't see a reason to collect all 100% items 
 in this game as theres only a little badge you get for completion which is like not worth it lol. 
 This game is one of the best of the DS at the moment so if you like shooters then this is for you 
 and I recommend you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiningDragon34
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I think Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game for anyone who likes a good first person shooter. 
 Along with wifi the expierience is better. Like mario kart ds, you don't need a persons friend 
 code to do wifi. you can play worldwide or local to find other people to play with. if you do have 
 a friends, friend code you can do more of the modes provided in Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  The adventure mode was kind of easy but still gives you something to do if you dont really feel 
 like playing wifi. collecting the weapons was fun. in the adventure mode, if you defeated Gorea 
 2, you unlocked a little emblem swirl thing on your hunters license to show you beat him. Some 
 things i didn't like too much about Metroid Prime Hunters.. In the adventure mode you had to scan 
 the bosses, and if they had another form you had to scan that too. I didnt like this idea because 
 in order to completely finish the game you needed to scan everything. if you missed one of the 
 bosses there was no way of really re-scanning it, so what i suggest is, if you get this game try 
 to scan all the bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  man this metroid is very good going online is such a nice feature but its not as good as the one 
 for gamecube but it follows the same thing sort of but great action but boss reapets is lame but 
 added new features each time which is pretty smart but great CG im impressed that the DS can do 
 that nice upgrades cool last boss but not challenging but hard enough to get youre ass kicked pretty 
 bad but the second form in quillebete or something like that now that was some **** that was kinda 
 hard but to some of you its easy but admit it it was kinda hard. but great online and how do you 
 do deathhalt????? i wonderand howdo you make youre character change colors online???? someone answer 
 please!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixGod17
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Like most of the DS games. This games has great mulitplayer, and also if your a die hard fan in 
 siangle player mode you can use the scanner to get a 100%, or you can just beat the games. Also 
 the games puzzles are pretty hard. It's a little hard to get use to the styuls, but in the long 
 run it's the best way to go. Also the levels you unlock in the mulitplayer mode are not as easy 
 as just beaing the game you have to put some good amount of game time into it. Which helps you 
 find out if you like the game or no, and the music is the same classic from the GameCube versions. 
 The storyline is great and keeps you guessing and woundering. Graphis wise it's about the same 
 for most DS games nothing specail about them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erp47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't much of a fan of the cold void of space setting that Metroid capitalizes on early in my 
 video game "career", but after reading a review of MP: Hunters, I've discovered what a compelling 
 setting it can be. Metroid Prime: Hunter's main plot point is the intercepting of a strange telepathic 
 message by the galaxy's great minds that references to the secret to ultimate power lying in the 
 Alimbic Cluster, home to the great warrior race. The catch is that the Alimbics are long extinct 
 and no one has inhabited the cluster for eons. The Galactic federation sends out the female bounty 
 hunter Samus Aran to investigate and that's where the story picks up. Metroid Prime is basically 
 your by-the-book FPS implementing the touch screen feature of the DS. This makes for almost unrivaled 
 precision once you get the hang of it. The graphics are amazing, making the otherwise very linear 
 levels look excellent. There are also many weapons to collect. One of the distinctions in boss 
 fights is that beside the repeating level bosses, there are 6 different bounty hunters that you 
 fight. They each have a distinctive 2nd form. One of the shining points of this sort of gimmick 
 is that they also serve as playable characters in online multiplayer, allowing you to use different 
 strategies. All in all, MP: Hunters is a great DS game and a must-have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealguysome2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  if you are a huge fan of the metroid series dont buy this game you will be dissapointed, the only 
 resemblence of metroid in this game is samus, there are no metroids and no space pirates, unless 
 you count that certain enemy hunter, the only reason to buy this game is the multyplayer its amazing 
 but if you dont have wifi its not a good idea to buy unless you have an extra 50 bucks to buy a 
 wifi usb, the single player is just basicly something to pass the time when you arent near a hotspot 
 or something like that, as for the graphics, wonderful, unless you get lodged up into a wall or 
 enemy then you can see every pixel, there are alot of glitches in this game's multyplayer but if 
 you can find some friends online who dont like them then you will have alot of fun will the multyplayer 
 if you just like to search for random people you are likely to find a hacker or a glitcher but 
 overall this is a really good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Metriod Prime is the best first eprson shooter that has been released for the Gamecube and the 
 sequel was just as good. Nintendo then tried to make another but for the DS -Hunters- (obviously) 
 and I'm glad they did.
  
  This game is amazing. It is set over numerous worlds which each hold 2 of the artifacts which you 
 need to collect called Octiloths. Metriod doesn't make it easy though as you can only get one of 
 these each time you visit as you unlock new weapons needed to unlock doors on later planets. Once 
 you collect an Octiloth a countdown timer starts for you to escape in but this is easialy done 
 as they give you too much time. It sounds easy but it is made much harder by the 6 bounty hunters 
 that strole the worlds looking to kill you and capture the Octiloths for themselves.
  
  The gameplay on a handheld first person shooter hasn't been this good. You move with the directional 
 pad (you can adjust it so it is left handed to) and shoot with L. This keeps one hand busy while 
 the other uses the stylus to aim at possible targets. When you watch someone play this it looks 
 like it is uncomfortable but it isn't. You can change weapons easily by just one touch of the stylus. 
 (from missiles to the sub-weapons) .
  Morph ball mode is easy to use aswell. You press a button and then just move with the D-Pad and 
 bomb with L.
  Also scanning is back and by scanning everything you learn of the planets history and the mysterious 
 power. 
  
  The graphics are quite possibly the best for DS so far as it has numerous environments like Volcanoes 
 & Ice Lairs each with thier own characteristics. The sound is very similar to the brilliant Gamecube 
 music. It also changes depending on how dangerous the situation is. (when you meet another hunter)
 
  
  By far the best bit about this game is the multiplayer. 4 player multiplayer between DS's by either 
 single-pak play, multi-pak play or Nintendo Wi-Fi. It is pariticulary good as you unlock new areanas 
 and upgrade you Hunter Licence. When you're on a role you won't want to put your DS down.
  
  Overall I belive this game is good value for money and long enough to keep you occupied. It 
 isn't too difficult either so anybody can play it without getting stressed.
  
  If you own a DS it's a must, come on it has Wi-Fi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmhockey9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Among the many acclaimed first party series in Nintendo, you can find Metroid, a sci-fi adventure 
 that introduced one of the first female heroines to gaming. Even though this series has already 
 made a trip to the DS in Metroid Prime Pinball, its hard to believe that it has taken this long 
 for a new story in its true form to be brought to the DS. In its first trip to the DS, Metroid 
 Prime Hunters brings an adequate story to the series through its single-player and offers ample 
 hours of fun through an excellent multiplayer.
  
  In this newest installment to the Metroid series, Samus is sent by the Galactic Federation to figure 
 out the secret in the message that says, The secret to ultimate power lies in the Alimbic Cluster 
 and to make sure no one else gets their hands on this ultimate power. While on your quest to find 
 this ultimate power, Samus runs into other bounty hunters searching for exactly what you are looking 
 for, leaving you only one option Eliminate the other hunters. Among the Alimbic Cluster, you must 
 search three different planets and a broken down space station to recover octoliths that will unlock 
 the ultimate power. 
  
  Luckily, this time Samus does not lose all of her powers at the beginning of the game, so you will 
 not have to go and find the morph ball modification for your suit or a modification for charging 
 your primary weapon. Instead this time, you must find and unlock the different ammo forms so that 
 you can make it through different security doors. While the task is quite straightforward for Adventure 
 mode, the movement through the different areas in the game isnt so simple and a lot of backtracking 
 and patience. To ensure that you advance through the whole game, you will have to travel to all 
 of the areas multiple times just to obtain all the different forms of ammo, so you can advance 
 through the more advance puzzles to reach the octoliths. While the game involves many aspects of 
 a shooter, it isnt wholly one because of the vast amount of scanning to open locks and switches 
 and just plain trying to figure out some brain teasing puzzles. The puzzles tend to have some challenge 
 to them but after you figure out the first few youll find a pattern to them through either just 
 setting off switches or killing certain things. Bosses tend to repeat themselves throughout the 
 game as you try to gain the remaining octoliths and the other ammo types, only with increasing 
 slightly in challenge. You will also find yourself going one on one with the other hunters in the 
 game and if you happen to die, the hunter who killed you will take one of the octoliths you are 
 carrying and then you must kill that hunter to regain your octolith. Still, with repetitive boss 
 fights that only change in difficulty each time, constant backtracking, and a story with a slow 
 pace, the games single-player seems to lack what would have made it an excellent adventure mode.
 
  
  When you first start up the game, you are given the option of two control modes, one of them being 
 Stylus Mode. The use of the stylus in this mode to move the cross hare for your weapon is good 
 and easy to use but can get uncomfortable and tedious at times between firing, jumping, and moving 
 the cross hare to turn. On the same menu, the stylus also changes the type of ammo you are using. 
 Now with both of these options available at the same time, you may sometimes end up moving the 
 stylus too far to the top and changing your weapon by accident, which while youll notice immediately 
 if your ammo has been changed and wont lose a drastic amount if anyit could still get kind of 
 annoying. Along with that, a quick tap on the bottom right of the screen puts you in your morph 
 ball, pending different forms if you are playing multiplayer and are a different hunter than Samus. 
 Except for that, the stylus also activates scan mode that activates switches and/or gives an analysis 
 of the object, including enemies. Along with all of these in game controls the stylus also helps 
 navigate through the menus with a simple touch. The only other thing that the stylus seems to do 
 is make you jump but it only happens periodically and it is almost questionable if this was intentional 
 for stylus mode when you try to do it, because of the lack of response. Other than the stylus controls 
 in Stylus mode, they are rather simple with the d-pad to move, the A, B, X, Y buttons to jump, start 
 to pause and open up a minimap, the R button to boost while in a morph ball, and the L button to 
 either attack or drop a bomb while in morph ball form. Note: It isnt necessarily a bomb when you 
 are a hunter other than Samus. The controls can also be inverted if you are left handed.
  
  Still, if the stylus controls dont seem to suit you, there is an option to use a different control 
 mode called Dual Mode. In this mode the d-pad moves your hunter and the A, X, B, Y buttons move your 
 cross hare which tends to be a tad bit more comfortable and makes it feel a lot more like a console 
 fps. The other controls are the same as in Stylus Mode, including the styluss use for menu navigation, 
 change of ammo, and morphing, even the jump touch seems to be a little bit more responsive. Overall 
 this control mode seems to be more comfortable.
  
  With seven different multiplayer modes, Metroid Prime Hunters offers many more hours of gameplay 
 if you have friends to play with. In multiplayer you are given the choice of playing as any of 
 the seven hunters, each with their own unique morph form, in Adventure mode, given that you either 
 have defeated them in Adventure mode or have beaten someone who is using that character on Nintendo 
 Wifi. Through Nintendo Wifi you can play against three other players in Battle mode. While Battle 
 mode is fun, it gets repetitive at times because a decent amount of players will just roll around 
 in their morph form the whole game, taking out a large aspect of battle mode out, the guns/ammo, 
 eight types altogether. It is a disappointment though that you are restricted to Battle mode when 
 searching for a game. The only possible way you can play the other six multiplayer modes is through 
 either a multi-card connection or by connecting and creating your own game over Nintendo Wifi. 
 Still, it is very much worth it if you have friends who you can play together with or over Nintendo 
 Wifi because the other modes: Survival, Bounty, Defender, Prime Hunter, Capture, and Nodes; give 
 more playtime to a game with an already worthwhile multiplayer.
  
  This is what a Metroid game would have probably looked if it were to have come out for the N64. 
 While not the best looking game on the DS, it does hurt your eyes to look at graphics like this. 
 Character models look a little jagged and environments seem to have a little bit of an edge to 
 them, too. The effects in the game are done well, including the charging of the weapons, the effects 
 of shooting the weapon, and even an occasional explosion of lava on one planet, Alinos. The occasional 
 cutscene in the game is surprisingly pretty, offering a nice piece of eye candy from time to time 
 with its utilization of both screens usually giving two different viewpoints of what is going on. 
 
  
  While most of the soundtrack is original for the game, it still has a very Metroid feel to it, 
 setting that usual adventure/sci-fi mood. Each weapon has its own distinctive sound when it is 
 fired and it is very fitting to each one. One unusual point of the sound is the screeches that 
 come from some of the hunters when they are shotit just sounds weird.
  
  Even though single-player kind of lacks in some points it is definitely worth a play through just 
 for experience with the controls and to unlock the other hunters for multiplayer. If you are going 
 to get Metroid Prime Hunters, make sure you are able to connect to Nintendo Wifi because multiplayer 
 is where youll spend most of the time playing this game, especially if you have friends who play 
 it, too. Metroid Prime Hunters, even with its few flaws, is definitely a worthwhile FPS/adventure 
 for the gamer on the go and will offer many hours of gameplay after the story is over with its 
 multiplayer modes. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominirican3351
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first Metroid to have mutliplayer. The multiplayer made the story worth playing 
 to gain new hunters, levels, and experience. In my opinion I believe this game has the best Graphics 
 on the Nintendo D. S. than any other game. And by being one of the few games with a wifi connection 
 just makes you want to get it any more. Another good thing about this game is that it is compatible 
 with the rumble pack. The bad thing about this game is that you can beat it in a day. Another bad 
 thing is during multiplayer you can not do a handicap. match to test your skills ( as in Halo and 
 Halo 2) . I recommend this game for anyone who likes Metroid or has never played it in their , since 
 it is addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a long time, and never really got around to beating it. The games single 
 player was predicable and a bore fest. The multiplayer was alright, but nothing I hadn't done on 
 a console with much more success.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Revolutionary this is not. There was so much hype over how the touch screen controls were going 
 to make this game the best shooter ever for a hand held. It may be the best FPS on a hand held, 
 but it doesn't have much competition. I found the gameplay tight, aiming accurate, and movement 
 swift. This is all good but the game never really puts it to good use. I was expecting more of 
 a Metroid Prime like game (not MP2, MP1) where you had one big world to explore with safer areas, 
 more dangerous areas, and lots and lots of secrets. Instead I'm stuck on small areas of planets 
 that have no connection to any of the others. It feels like a huge step backwards in game design.
 
  
  The big draw is that Samus is trying to find these artifact things, but you have to fight other 
 people who want them. The AI for these bounty hunters are terrible, I found standing still and 
 firing missiles was the most accurate way to kill them without losing too much health.
  
  Each bounty hunter has their own gun, but as Samus you can eventually collect all these guns, allowing 
 you to explore new areas in older planets, as enticing as this sounds, it doesn't amount to as 
 much as you'd expect. I don't find much use for any of the other weapons because I constantly have 
 to worry about how much ammo they have, so I resort to my regular gun usually.
  
  There are some generic non-bounty hunter bosses, but they are boring and don't move at all.
  
 
  Your multiplayer experience will change as you get better at the game, but the generic death matches 
 do get boring, and its hard to get together a good CTF match, with the limit of 4 people a match.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  This is the DS we must remember, and the graphics are an achievement for the DS. The draw distance 
 is amazing, models smooth, and textures generally look good. There are some bad textures that were 
 kind of blurry, but no where near enough to ruin the day.
  
  The games frame rate does bog down once in a while, most notably on the ice planet. During Multiplayer 
 lag is at a minimum though, so you will be able to enjoy the game at its fullest in multiplayer.
 
  
  Because of the large array of planets, the graphics are varied and never feel like the same exact 
 area over and over again, and that is definitely a good thing.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound effects are generally good, but nothing will blow you away. The music is generally forgettable 
 also. Not really much to say, I've played many GBA and DS games with music that stuck with me for 
 a long time, but this is not one of them. Good sounds with average music and ambiance gets a good 
 sound score overall. s
  
  VALUE
  
  The games single player is decently long, but I had little will to complete it. You'll probably 
 get stuck on Wifi for quite a while if you have a connection, and that adds quite a bit of replay 
 value. If your a Metroid enthusiast, you'll get a lot more out of it than most people.
  
  TILT
  
  I usually base tilt on how the games story immersed me into the world of the game. 
 Well, lets just say the game fell flat on its face in this aspect. Metroid Prime 1 did get me completely 
 into the game, but Hunters fails in this. I felt as this was a very generic shooter, lacking the 
 story telling and finesse of its console brothers. I understand this is a hand held, but many hand 
 held games have gotten into the world of the game. Oh well, I'll wait for MP3 to see if the series 
 can get back to its first entries level of greatness.
  
  OVERALL
  
  First Person Shooter fans that liked Halo probably won't find much new in this. The controls are 
 responsive, game runs well and looks great, but it lacks something that the console games had. 
 If you want to play online, this won't be a problem for you, but people who love to get into games 
 may have problem with MP: H. A disappointing game, just because of the other games in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, Samus get's some kind of signal, goes to 4 diffrent planets and searches for ... some kind 
 of aritfacts. Good old Metroid Prime gameplay. The problem is that the SingelPlayer is too short 
 and linear.
  
  The Graphics are the best the DS can produce. Just look at it! It runs in a smooth FPS, only to 
 get laggy in some parts. But hey, it's DS! It didn't cost you 250$ anyways. So stop the complains, 
 graphic w****.
  
  The Music are very nice to listen too. Good old Metroid Prime style music. The snow planet's Music 
 will chill you off like the Crashed Frigate did on Metroid Prime, and I like chill Music. A lot. 
 Oh, the other music is great too.
  
  The single-player isn't that great, but it's fun the first time you play through it. You get to 
 face the 6 other hunters that you later can use in Multiplayer, which is this game's best part.
 
  
  Lan play is pretty kickass, yes. Single-cart with 4 players, but all the downloading has to use 
 Samus and have crappy sounds. Oh well, at least the graphics are as good as always. But Wi-fi is 
 gold. Random picks up players for you, always Deathmatch but real fun to kill verious people, or 
 get killed. But if you play with friend-codes you get Voice chat before or after the match :O and 
 text-based chat too, but you wont use that. Voice is more fun =D
  
  Yeah, buy this with Mario Kart or Advance Wars or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shad_link23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is definately worth getting. First you play the single player and have loads of fun screwing 
 around there and completing the story: learning why samus ship changes, about gorea, and the alimbics. 
 Then you get on multiplayer and have more fun there with friends and random game searches as you 
 try to get yourself to a rank 5. I have played single player three times, each as fun as the first 
 and gotten 100% twice. In multiplayer I learn new secrets and tricks having fun as different characters. 
 Lots or replay value. It is a great game to play. Those who complain, A) suck at metroid games 
 in general, B) were mad at someone when reveiwing, C) like to cticize for their own failures, D) 
 couldn't beat/figure out single player without cheating or using a guide from gamespot. ~Momo 352255010011. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguinchow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the all-time great games. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  While unlike the puzzle/adventure gameplay of the gamecube version theres really nothing bad that 
 can be said for the gameplay. It plays like a very solid shooter. The controls are incredibly intuitive 
 contrary to popular belief. Once you get used to the stylus controls you can aim and turn very 
 precisely. But where Hunters really shines is in its multiplayer. The wifi will keep you playing 
 it for months after you complete the singleplayer with almost lag free and very competitive multiplayer. 
 You can even play against bots if you dont have access to wifi at the time.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The Graphics are incredibly good for DS. Everything is very detailed and smooth 
 looking and it has a very consistent framerate. Only thing that keeps it from a 10 is that the 
 DS resolution is to low and sometimes enemies are hard to recognize from distances.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Everything sound like it should. Excellent environmental sounds but the music just 
 doesnt have that metroid sound that was so great on the cube.
  
  Summary
  Definitely a must have for the DS. If you dont have already go buy it you wont be dissapointed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRUMHANZ
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This Games controls are genius! No longer do you have to wait to turn in a FPS game! You can fully 
 adjust the touch screen sensitivity to your perfect setting! 
  
  Single Players entertains first time round, but you might not bother going back through to get 
 the ocolith and 100% scans. Graphics are sweet for DS and very smooth.
  
  This game is deffinately about the Multiplayer. Wi-fi is quick with no lag, plus lots of tweaking 
 options for a hand held FPS Game. 4 player matches can slow a little but nothing too bad. Extra 
 chracters add lifespan and take time to master. Also Alternate Form controls have loads of wicked 
 quirks! Morph ball is DEADLY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFWW
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the greatest Metroid game to date and definetly the best 3-D. The single player 
 is repetitive after a while but not if you do it Celestial Archives, Alinos, Vesper Defense Outpost, 
 Arcterra, Celestial Archives, Alinos, Arcterra, VDO. If you do it in that order, you will only 
 have to make two trips each, (minus the last to Alinos in order to unlock the final area) for each 
 octolith. If you get every sub weapon when you need to then you'll never have to backtrack for 
 the same octolith. There are only two different types of bosses, but as you progress each develops 
 better abilities. If you go through single-player first, it will give you a good background for 
 multiplayer because most multiplayer stages are areas from single-player. Vice-versa, if you try 
 some stages in multiplayer first, (you find more the more you play) you'll get an idea of parts 
 of single-player.
  
  Multiplayer is even better than single-player. Wi-Fi allows you to play against people across the 
 globe, or if you don't have a connection, you can play against local friends with MPH or download 
 to friends without it. In multiplayer you never know what any character is going to do because 
 they are all human, not bots. It adds to the game and eventually you'll find yourself caught up 
 in it.
  
  The controls are easy to get used to, stylus mode allows you precise targeting, like headshots, 
 or you can play in dual hand mode, no stylus involved. The graphics are the best on the DS to date. 
 It gives you the right mixture or music and sound effects. For instance, your running around in 
 multiplayer trying to find your opponent. All of a sudden you hear the unmistakable sound of a 
 charged magmaul coming from behind you. 
  
  With the multiplayer and Wi-Fi capabilities, you can play this game forever and it will never get 
 boring. The single-player allows you to build your skill between wild multiplayer battles. However 
 you play it, it's a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8terdude24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, its got awesome graphics for the Nintendo Ds but this game is a bit challenging. 
 The controls are pretty hard to get use to at first. Career mode is fun and easy but after the 
 second boss its gets almost impossible. This is not your average shoot up the bad guy kind of game 
 you also have to solve puzzles along the way (which I dont like to do) . There are some pretty 
 sweet new hunters a total of six which have special abilities to take on your opponents. So pretty 
 much its each galaxy you have to beat your rival you get the door open to the next place it gets 
 a little repetitive sometimes and boring. The only reason a bought the game was for the Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi connection its awesome but hard. So this is not a must buy but if you love Metroid games 
 you will love the Wi-Fi capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a while ago for my birthday. After playing around with it, it's still a lot of 
 fun and I really enjoy it. Metroid Prime hunters, to me, doesn't have the total feel of a metroid 
 game. It also seriously lacks a good single player, which was dissapointing. However, the multiplayer 
 makes up for it, and even saves this game from itself.
  
  The single player has you playing as Samus Aran. You get dumped on a planet, keep all your powers 
 (morph ball, morph ball bombs, charge beam, etc.) , and explore. Now, in the beggining everything 
 is fun, but it gets repetitive after a little while. You have to collect 8 octoliths, 2 on every 
 planet. There are four planets in total, and 2 teleports available. Now, the game only has two 
 bosses, a wierd eyed thing, and a totem pole. You have to fight them both about 4 times. Once you 
 beat one, you get an octolith. After you get the four planets, you get new weapons. These new weapons 
 allow you to go further on every planet. There are new areas in them, and then you return with 
 all 8 octoliths to one of the planets. It can get a little confusing, but there's an ingame map 
 thats extremely easy to use thanks to the touch screen. Overall, all the backtracking really takes 
 away from the experience, and if you go on a planet with your rivals on it, you'll have to face 
 off in a small battle. Sometimes the battle arenas can be very cramped, which is unfortunate. If 
 there are a lot of enemies in a large area, the game will lag a bit. Overall, the single player 
 is short, a bit repetitive, and involves more backtracking then the original ones. It's certainly 
 not as fun, but that's not the real reason to buy this game either.
  
  The multiplayer is absolutely incredible. To heighten the experience you can choose from all the 
 hunters you meet in the game, all with their own useful abilities. Trace is for people who are 
 stealthy, while samus is for people who like using missles, or are good at fire fights. While the 
 game is spoiled with alt abusing, it's still ok, and you can master it yourself if others do it. 
 Every person you meet online will have a different approach in battle, and a different style. Others 
 will jump a lot, and others will run away to get more health or supplies to starve you with none. 
 It's all very interesting, and a brutal battle to get the most kills. This is a lot of fun and 
 is never particularly aggravating. The win/loss system is also a lot better, which is in the form 
 of stars. This can allow you to match people with your own skill, but it's a shame because this 
 system is a little faulty, and you'll end up facing someone who's much much better then you. However, 
 facing them will make you better faster. The multiplayer has single card, multi-card, and wi-fi 
 internet. It's fast paced, and never lags, except for the biggest courses. It's improved dramatically 
 from metroid prime 2, especially without locking on.
  
  The control scheme is a little different from the original. However, with some practice you'll 
 get very good, and it's suprisingly fast. You'll prefer this control scheme, because it's very 
 easy to get usd to, and you don't have to rely on locking on. It controls like a mouse, and is 
 an overall improvement to the metroid prime series.
  
  The audio for this game is ok. There are different songs for most areas, and sound like the classic 
 themes. It's been a bit dumbed down, but it's still there. You won't find yourself getting into 
 the music a whole lot, but if you just listen, the music sounds similar to all the past games. 
 The music isn't very good because of all the things in the game itself, but is ok.
  
  The graphics for this game are phenominal. The best on the DS to date. There are many different 
 animations in the game, and they all animate well. You can even see if someone is charging a blast. 
 There are a lot of different areas. It really pushes the DS to the limit, and are obviously the 
 highlight of this game. The areas all look familiar and great. It's not that pixely close up either. 
 The hunter models all look really good too.
  
  Overall, the game is worth getting if you have online wi-fi, but a little less if you want a good 
 single player experience. Multiplayer is competitive and fun, and the single player is good for 
 honing your skills a little. It's worth picking up, and is a good game in most places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4ft3rD34th
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. This is not a bad game. However, in truth it really does seem lazily put together 
 by Nintendo. I was expecting great things of this title, but it's all been a let-down.
  
  The multiplayer does add a new dimension to the game but it can get tiring very quickly. I've found 
 in the majority of games I've played in I've entered and died before I knew where I was. There 
 are a lot of game modes to play with friends but some seem very similar and you can only play one 
 online. Also, the wireless microphone chat can only be used with people on your 'friends' list.
 
  
  The gameplay is fine. It seems a bit slippery at first but when you get used to it you can really 
 become a good player. They've transformed the controls from Gamecube to DS really well, except 
 for the controls that are on the bottom screen - they can be really irritating because you have 
 to look down in the middle of an intense fight to select them.
  
  The graphics are good but nothing special. Some of them seem a bit pixelated and I reckon they 
 could've been better. I know it's not a powerful system but some look as though they've been drawn 
 on paint.
  
  The sound is crackly. The music is repeated. Not bad but again not as good as expected.
  
  
 In terms of value, it's good because of multiplayer, but the single player is just absolutely dreadful. 
 Every level seems the same, and it is extremely hard to get anywhere without dying. Also, you just 
 beat a boss and you expect a save point to replenish health. What does it say? "Make your way out!" 
 past tons more enemies and another boss. Plus, after the first two bosses they are repeated, which 
 shows a lack of originality and is an anticlimax.
  
  I like this game. It's good, and has a fantastic history. It just seems lazy. It promised so much 
 but did not deliver. Maybe I'm being fussy, but I'm really not wowed by this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 8/10
  Single Player 8
  I was surprised here as I hope everyone else is. First the action. Basically every planet ends 
 with a boss. There are really only 2 bosses besides the final one so don't get your hopes up there. 
 Anyways, these boss fights are very intense, but still not so hard that you want to scream. The 
 whole game really involves a lot of action. Which i'm sure you are all aware of. However,
  there are plenty of breaks from it. All the action is put in between quests to get things. It's 
 obviously not as deep or involving as Metroid Prime. Yet for a handheld game it works. I actually 
 had a lot of fun, and it felt like I was playing a Metroid game. Going around trying to find and 
 collect things. Really the only serious problem I guess would be the length. I beat the single 
 player story (70% of scanning) in less than 6 hours. Expect 100% to be around 8 hours. Still a 
 good time though.
  
  Multiplayer 9
  Multiplayer offers tons of maps, modes, options and enough characters which is a big plus. Great 
 voice chat and a little bit of extra online features to differ from Mario Kart DS. However, online 
 is still very limited. Not being able to play more than battle mode with strangers is annoying, 
 and really there isn't a ton of strategy required in the gameplay. It isn't the next big thing 
 is what I should say. Don't expect the new Goldeneye, Counter Strike,
  Battlefield or Halo in the multiplayer. The amount of modes and online
  play help this out a 
 lot.
  
  CONTROLS 8/10
  Pretty good. Best use of DSL stylus though still can be difficult. If not mainly because of how 
 cramped your hands can get. The only way to not get cramps is really to play with just buttons 
 and no stylus. I prefer however to get precision and use the thumbpad. It works well and doesn't 
 hurt as much
  as using the pen stylus does.
  
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  Best graphics on the DS so far. Better then the N64, though there is a little pixelation when close 
 up. However there are some pretty big areas in some maps which is mighty impressive. Also the framerate 
 is rock solid and only
  really slows down with lots of big enemies on screen in single player.
  Which isn't too often. 
 The art itself is also very nice for a DS title.
  Multiplayer rocks as well and runs very smooth.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  Again best sound on the DS. 
 The music, and sound effects are so Metroid
  Prime. It brings back great memories. I wouldn't say you would want to
  rip the tracks onto your 
 ipod or anything. It's still DS quality. But
  nothing on the DS beats it.
  
  REPLAYABILITY 9/10
  The Single Player is very short, but multiplayer really makes up for it. 
 Especially if you can play online and have some time to set up a good friends list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEnd123456789
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  It is the first Metroid game that I have played that is 3D so it was interesting playing it. I 
 enjoyed this game very much, but I have to say that I like the 2D Metroid games a lot more. The 
 graphics are really good in my opinion since I have seen nothing like this on a handheld console. 
 The gameplay does take some getting used to. I could not play at all with stylus mode, but with 
 regular mode it is a lot easier. It handles well, it is just sometimes that you cannot properly 
 target and that gets annoying. The sound was great. No problems with the sound. 1 Player is great 
 it long and challenging. My only complaint is that the bosses are all the same, which is pretty 
 lame. The only thing that was cool were the mini bosses, which were the hunters. I still don't 
 have Wi-Fi, but I have played local games and had a blast. Multiplayer is the best part of the 
 game. It exceeded my expectations right there. It is multiplayer that truly makes this an even 
 more enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P0W3RH0U53
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters for the nintendo ds.
  
  Wow did i hype about this game. I mean i watched the trailer everyday a year before it came out. 
 It came. I cried. I wanted a metroid where u traveled through 1 world gathering information about 
 what the problem was. I kinda got that. But instead i got a repetative, boring game that did not 
 satisfy my craving for metroid. There are 4 planets u travel to. 2 "octoliths" on each one. You 
 gather 3 "artifacts" to be abe to enter a room where you fight the same bosses over and over. Thats 
 it. There is a really cool final boss at the end where you unlock this secret ending. I thuroughly 
 enjoyed that. But at the end of the day i wanted to take a *^%#^# on it.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  This is really the best part of metroid. There are 7 hunters:
  
  1. Samus
  
  2. Kanden
 
  
  3. Spire
  
  4. Trace
  
  5. Noxus
  
  6. Sylux
  
  7. Weavel
  
  There are 26 arenas that are compact and small. There is really only 1 arena that feels like a big 
 area. There is a sniper like weapon but u have to be really precise to get a headshot kill. It 
 is a long laser and the entire length needs to reach the target. This means u really cant kill 
 a target that is moving.
  
  I really disliked this title. I think there should have been 2 controller types.
  The multiplayer 
 type that they have now, but for single player, R to look up and down, L to lock on, but instead 
 of having u choose your beams, the beams stacked so a to shoot, x as the missles launcher, b to 
 jump, y to go into morph ball, and of course pause to well.... pause. 
  
  THAT would be the ultimate metroid on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime hunters has an ok single player. It is good for the first like 3 planets, then it 
 gets REALLY repetative. Although the single player isn't that great, the multiplayer is AMAZING! 
 You can play different modes and with different characters. The framerate for the most part is 
 very good. The controls are easy to get used to and there are many different control settings to 
 choose from. The online is very good. It doesnt take too much time to match up with some people. 
 The only bad thing about the online play is that it doesnt always match you up with someone your 
 rank. Sometimes it does but sometimes you play either noobs or complete gods. It is all 'round 
 a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black-Stallion
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters proves that the Metroid Prime series can work as an FPS game. While the console 
 Metroid Prime games have always been more about exploration and adventuring, Hunters takes the 
 series in a very different direction and turns the Metroid Prime series in a First Person Shooter.
 
  
  Depending on how much you enjoyed Metroid Prime for consoles could be a deciding factor on whether 
 you like Hunters. As mentioned before, the Gamecube Metroid Prime games concentrated more on exploration 
 and adventuring than actual shooting, making them more adventure games. Hunters however is an FPS. 
 Those buying Hunters expecting a game remotely like the console versions will be in for a shock, 
 as the exploration and adventuring portions that take up the majority of the console games are 
 almost non-existent in Hunters. Hunters is more about fast action, which will make it more appealing 
 to those who felt that the console Metroid Prime's were too slowly paced.
  
  Hunters will certainly appeal to FPS fans, as it has plenty of action. Once used to the control, 
 FPS fans should be able to appreciate the control scheme as it is very effective. The single player 
 has some interesting planets to visit and enemies to conquer, who may use a variety of battle techniques 
 to try and take you down. Saying that, most enemies don't pose too much of a challenge. However 
 the bounty hunters found on the various planets Samus visits put up a good fight. The bosses themselves 
 can also pose a threat, yet are generally far easier than the ones from the console games. Furthermore, 
 the same bosses are sometimes used more than once, with the only difference being that they are 
 slightly stronger the second time around. The variety in the bosses is seriously lacking and that 
 will come as disappointment to those used to playing the GC games, which have very varied boss 
 characters. Saying that, the cast of bounty Hunters themselves are very varied, so that somewhat 
 makes up for this.
  
  You can't go in expecting a game anywhere near the quality of the Metroid Prime console game though, 
 of course the DS has less advanced hardware. Truthfully, it's impressive to see what the DS hardware 
 has been capable of pulling off. The visuals in Hunters are stunning for a DS game and are quite 
 a bit ahead of other DS games. Some walls look blurry and there are the occasional frame rate issues, 
 but overall Hunters has very good visuals. Most will be surprised at how the DS pulls off visuals 
 this good. The levels, the hunters and the monsters look brilliant.
  
  The single player also suffers from a lot of "collecting" and "backtracking". These two themes 
 are both common in Metroid prime and for the most part are actually surprisingly enjoyable. In 
 Hunters, the same applies for the most part, however unlike the console games, collecting in particular 
 takes up a very large portion of the game. While the action generally keeps things from getting 
 boring, there can be no denying that the constant collecting can get tedious at times. The single 
 player offers some varied action and can be fun at times, but the single player is definitely the 
 weaker aspect of the Hunters experience.
  
  The multiplayer on the other hand is the highlight of the game. With plenty of multiplayer and 
 online modes and a great cast of hunters to choose from, the multiplayer experience overshadows 
 the single player experience. 
  
  If you are looking for an FPS game for your DS, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great choice, especially 
 considering that the DS currently lacks enough quality games in that respective genre. For the 
 most part, Hunters is a great FPS game that has brilliant WiFi modes and supplies a fun - though 
 not brilliant - single player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_trooper92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters, a great game, emphasizes on a great hunt and war between different razes 
 of hunters looking for only one thing, THE ALIMBIC SECRET. 
  
  Well, during the game you will have to reclaim the Octoliths, important artifacts in the game, 
 and here you will have cool and entertaining fights with the other hunters. Going on and on like 
 this in the game there will appear a part where you can dominate the other hunter's weapons, so 
 when it happens go to the multiplayer mode and you will see which character you have unlocked. 
 Why Im telling all this??? Because this is an EXCELLENT multi player. Is the first time I see 
 such game in the DS system with such good graphics, such cool game play, great single story and 
 EXCELLENT multi player. I recommend all the Nintendo DS owners or fans to buy this game, its Awesome.
 
  
  I thank all the producers of this game and I hope they launch a continuation for the DS, like: 
 "Metroid Prime Hunters 2".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syao4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the single player is kinda boring and sometimes annoying.
  When you get all characters you just doesn't have anything left to do in the single.
  When i 
 had all characters i just played Wi-Fi or vs bots.
  the AI is better then i thought, not in the single but vs bots.
  The graphics are nearly perfect 
 for the DS, gamespot should give it 10 and not 9.
  Gameplay is nice, when you learn to play its not very hard, but i think you die too fast in multiplayer.
 
  Sound is also nice, but the music is repetive and um.. not so good.
  and the value, yes if you get a crash on it you can play it alot, but when you do alot of multiplayer 
 games it gets repetive so you get bored kind of quickly if you dont REALLY REALLY love it.
  Well thats all i guess.
  (BTW my score is 8.7 but this is how i think of the Attributes so i 
 couldn't get 8.7 out of it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters (referred to now on as MPH) has awesome graphics and sound. AND...
  
  
  SINGLEPLAYER
  Well what is there to say? You play as Samus and you search for powerful Alimbic 
 artifacts. There are also other hunters out for the bounty! Sound exciting? Well it is NOT. Let's 
 start off with wepons. You can get all the weapons that are in multiplayer, and they are completly 
 different from one another. To get new ones you just play through the game, there are no hidden 
 weapons anywhere. Oh, but how fun is it? The storymode starts off exciting, but after an hour or 
 so it gets DULL. I taded it in, because the storymode is just that simple and boring. I am as you 
 probably already know a singleplayer kind of person, so the storymode was the thing that got me 
 to buy this title. But, singleplayer sucks. 
  Rating 4 out of 10
  
  
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  The multiplayer is the only good thing MPH has to offer. You have all the normal 
 gametypes and you can play as any hunter in the game ater you encounter them. Each character has 
 a special effect that other characters cannot use, such as area effect for the Magmaul. The bot 
 AI is surprisingly good, especially for an online shooter. The only problem is that there can be 
 some minor slowdon problems when the actions heats up. That's the only negative thing about mulyiplayer.
 
  MULTIPLAYER 
  Rating 9 out of 10
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  MPH is a solid online shooter, but a sorry singleplayer game. The graphics, sound, and controls 
 are some of the best around. But, if you are looking for a godd game to take on the road, THIS 
 IS NOT IT!!! But, if you like going to Panera Bread and like to play around online while you eat 
 , this is your game. 
  
  RATING FOR MPH
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  6.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid1491
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  well start with the graphics.
  I say very good. For the DS there are games mostly in 2d but this one is in 3d and still they were 
 able to create a game with great graphics that is even better than those on the nintendo 64
  
  the gameplay in story mode was a little boring and the bosses were all the same but a little 
 upgrade was added each time how interesting
  
  the controls were great and easy to use. a great advantage for the ds is that the stylus permits 
 free look around were you want just slide the stylus and this is it but one disadvantage is that 
 there is no lockdown on the enemies so you must aim precisely to hit your target or else youre 
 doomned
  
  on the other side the multiplayer mode is so awsome! choose the hunter you want and battle on several 
 arenas using the unique ability of each to your advantage for me noxus is the best FREEZE AND KILL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star77241
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why this game does not get a perfect ten is because of the repetitive bosses and 
 it's not as open ended as the other games in the series. The multi-player is truely awesome with 
 the many different arenas and the fun but unintentional glitches in the game. The graphics are 
 amazing compared to other games on the handheld they're just as great as the other Prime games 
 for Gamecube. The sound really pulls you in and makes you feel as if you're in the middle of the 
 action. The makers of the game could have a done a better job on the Wi-fi multi-player so you 
 could arrange games with your friends easier and possibly allow you to talk during the game. Otherwise 
 this game is really awesome and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rey06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  lolz multiplayer in metroid prime hunters is the best thing ever, millions of users have this game, 
 you could voice chat add rivals and friends. There are many modes, stages and a lot to do and its 
 fun. New weapons, hunters and cool stages.
  
  In Single player, well its kinda easy, plain and not much like the traditional metroid series buts 
 its still a must to all metroid fans to play. You won't play single player means u can't unlock 
 certain things like weapons, videos and hunters so you must play the single player. 
  
  Well metroid prime hunters is a MUST-HAVE in any DS owners. MPH is a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconCA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game to just pick up when the big screen TV is occupied and your NextGen Console is taking 
 a break. Just about everyone writes and can use a stylus like a pro. Story is a little weak, but 
 shooting flying baddies is always fun.
  
  NFC WiFi is so easy to use. 4 player battle is a bit weak, but can't complain with it's extreme 
 ease of use. Controls are spectacular, graphics are alright for the DS and probably the easiest 
 FPS to learn.
  
  Puzzles can be more creative rather than just difficult to see. Objectives recap would be helpful, 
 but unfortunately unaivalable. Fortunately it's a fairly simple game. Although the map is available 
 when paused, i find myself often backtracking by mistake.
  
  Overall, good rental. GameFly it this summer before it's too out dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games Nintendo has ever made and they've had quite a few. The best way 
 I can describe this game is that it's sort of like Halo on the DS. The controls have become a revolution 
 in FPS with the touch screen, the multiplayer is untouchable by any other handheld and most console 
 games. The story drags you in and you want to play it just to see how it ends. The boss battles 
 provide you with a new kind of challenge that has never before been seen. I can't wait to see what 
 Nintendo does newt with the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It is my first and only game for the DS and it is so great. I have only had 
 it for a week and I love it. Here are the Pros and Cons.
  
  Pros
  -Excellent graphics for the DS
  -fun multiplayer with unlockable characters
  -the beam ammo 
 is back from Metroid Prime 2
  -many beam weapons
  -great sound
  -the hunters you face are really cool
  -no lock-on makes it challenging
  
  Cons
  -bosses 
 can get repetitive
  -using the stylus sometimes makes you jump when fighting (double tapping the screen makes you jump
 
  -lack of save stations. you can only save at your gunship
  
  All in all, it's an excellent game. Most of the cons you won't even notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that I am not exactly a diehard fan of first person shooters. Besides 
 this game (which is my first Metroid game ever) , I've only played Goldeneye and Halo (2) . Granted, 
 my experience with FPSs is great but I honestly didn't know what to expect from this game. I'm 
 glad to report that I was very pleasantly surprised with it and as a result, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND 
 IT.
  
  As far as the graphics and sound are concerned, both are very impressive. The DS is clearly being 
 pushed to its limits to pull off such detail. I really enjoyed the music and between the music 
 and the sound effects, you can't help but really feel immersed in the game. 
  
  In regards to the gameplay, I have to say that it took me a while to get used to how the controls 
 worked. After enduring the initial sore hands, I was fine. I could never get the stylus mode down 
 (in truth, I really didn't like it at all) , but I didn't feel like I was missing out because the 
 control with the buttons was satisfying enough for me. 
  
  While I feel this game is incredible, I have to say that there were a few things that I noticed 
 along the way that bugged me just a bit. 
  1) You can't save often enough. Since I'm more of an RPG guy, the fact I couldn't save "early and 
 often" was something I had to get used to. The portals right before the boss areas were nice, but 
 the overall lack of save points (your ship is it) was not. 
  2) The game is repetitive. You revisit the same four levels twice, and in this time, you battle 
 four different versions of the same two bosses. Upon beating each boss, you have a countdown ticking 
 down to the level's destruction (or something, but nothing happens) . Personally, I found this to 
 be a slight detriment to the game but the gameplay is what kept me interested and engaged.
  3) I felt the game was a bit short. I'm sure it's because it's repetitive. I think the levels could 
 have been a bit longer. And maybe if the bosses were each unique, then maybe it wouldn't have felt 
 so short. 
  4) Enemies are scarse. Coming from Halo, I definitely noticed this. I don't know if this is typical 
 Metroid fare, but it took some getting used to, not constantly having to shoot at enemies all the 
 time.
  
  All in all, the game is awesome. I'm sure my numbered flaws ^ make it sound like I didn't really 
 enjoy it, but I definitely did. I just want to let anyone who reads this review know what's up. 
 
  The game is hard and challenging, which is good. The multiplayer (non-Wifi) is awesome. The campaign 
 could have been longer, but I was still very pleased with it. And so, I give this game the rating 
 stated above. It deserves it because it has gotten me interested in the Metroid series and even 
 with its minimal flaws, the overall experience made up for them in spades. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildcat04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime hunters has an ok single player. It is good for the first like 3 planets, then it 
 gets REALLY repetative. Although the single player isn't that great, the multiplayer is AMAZING! 
 You can play different modes and with different characters. The framerate for the most part is 
 very good. The controls are easy to get used to and there are many different control settings to 
 choose from. The online is very good. It doesnt take too much time to match up with some people. 
 The only bad thing about the online play is that it doesnt always match you up with someone your 
 rank. Sometimes it does but sometimes you play either noobs or complete gods. It is all 'round 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epsilon72
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed with this game - probably because I thought it would be the DS's break-out hit 
 that would really make me want to play on WIFI all the time. Not so.... with only one gametype and 
 everybody trying to be a sniper (big surprise) online play just gets extremely repetitive. Keep 
 in mind also your opponents only show up as a clumped smudge of a dozen or two pixels making aiming 
 very difficult. One good thing, though, is that there doesn't seem to be any problems with lag 
 (but there are only 4 players per match mind you) .
  
  I won't go into the campaign player very much, but let's just say that if you're going to get this 
 game just for single player, you will be VERY disappointed. Enough said. I recommend RENTING this 
 one BEFORE YOU BUY. 
  
  *goes back to playing BF2 and Halo 2*
  
  edit: I should also add the fact that nintendo's WFC cannot detect cheaters, at all. Even if it 
 could, it could never ban them either. Keep that in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skillish
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  If youre looking for a decent multiplayer first person shooter, then Hunters may fit the bill. 
 If youre a long-time Metroid fan looking for another quality, fitting entry in the series, you 
 may be just as disappointed as me. This review is directed toward those in the latter group. I 
 knew what I was getting myself into as most reviews pointed out the weaknesses in the singleplayer 
 campaign, but since Metroid is debatably my favorite series, I had to play through Hunters anyway.
 
  
  First off, I must say that the graphics are excellent. I never thought that the DS was this capable. 
 Everything from the textures to the framerate are top notch. The sound is average, nothing special 
 but not annoying either. The controls are subjective - I personally liked them and cant see how 
 they could have been done better. 
  
  Its hard to decide where to start with the campaign problems. It was long enough as far as the 
 completion time compared to other Metroid games, but felt way more repetitive. Instead of having 
 worlds that are intertwined and meet up through various passages, this game has you fly to different 
 planets  boring. The level design was bland with very few rooms per planet and most rooms being 
 very boxy and generic. Where are all the cool morph ball passages, twisting tunnels, and destroyable 
 walls found in the Gamecube version? I think the fact that there were a fraction of the energy/missile 
 tanks in Hunters as other Metroid games is a testament to how bland everything is. There simply 
 wasnt any place to hide the stuff.
  
  This leads me to other itemization disappointments. There were no other power-ups besides weapons. 
 I suppose some people didnt like the fact that you had to collect the morph ball, high jump, etc. 
 every game because it wasnt realistic or whatever, but I personally found this to be one of the 
 most fun parts of Metroid games. Not only that, but the weapons you do get dont serve much of 
 a purpose in most cases besides as a method to blockade certain parts of the map to those who havent 
 gotten them. There simply isnt any reason to switch weapons a lot for combat reasons. The other 
 very annoying thing is other hunters or guardians popping up in certain rooms at random times. 
 I dont know if they were trying to make it feel dramatic, but it ends up just being plain annoying.
 
  
  My main problem with the game in general is that common practices in game development these days 
 have seeped over into my favorite franchise and are starting to ruin it. Metroid Prime 2 was the 
 most pathetic example of this. Some people were asking for multiplayer to be included because games 
 like Halo had it so they caved in and it sucked. Luckily the single player portion didnt seem 
 to suffer nearly as much in that case. Why focus on Metroid multiplayer? Isnt the franchise about 
 isolated exploration?
  
  It may sound like I didnt like the game at all, but I did have fun with it at times. Knowing what 
 I know now I would have still bought it because its Metroid. In the end, it may be fine to release 
 a multiplayer focused Metroid game, but my only hope is that this isnt a continuing trend. Im 
 crossing my fingers for something a little more classic next round.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters puts you in the role of Samus, a bounty hunter working for the galactic 
 federation. An ancient civilization, long lost, has buried an ancient power in various planets, 
 and your mission is to find these power before the OTHERS do. Who are the others? Meet Sylux, Kanden, 
 Thrace, Noxus, Spire, and Weavel. Six of the most hated bounty hunters in history. They are also 
 after the power, so, beside having to find this hidden power, youll have to face them along the 
 way?
  
  Gameplay is awesome. Beside playing Samus in the game, you will be able to play with the Bounty 
 Hunters in Multiplayer-online gaming. Ever played Quake? This game is similar, but with special 
 features which could make it even better. The only bad thing about the gameplay would be probably 
 the storyline, which was better developed in other Metroid Prime games.
  
  Great Music and Sound. Nothing bad there.
  
  I will repeat what I said at the beginning. Need 
 a solid FPS with no blood? Then play Metroid Prime Hunters. Don't need one? PLAY IT ANYWAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  gameplay- It will take alot of time to get used to, but if you use the touch screen instead of 
 the buttons, it will definitley help you in the long run. Its not as steady, but you get outstanding 
 aim with it, and you can quickly tap it twice to jump. I've got to admit, this game has a very 
 good fps feel.
  
  graphics- About the best graphics I've seen for the ds. This game prooves to me that the ds doesnt 
 have the graphical capabilities of the n64 (notice how you get blocks when you get close to the 
 wall) but it's definitely passable.
  
  sound and music- Good sound effects; no more than you can ask for. The music is very plain for 
 the most part, but passable to me (pop in a good cd or turn on your ipod; problem cured) .
  
  story- The story is all right, but it's not MPH's strong point. You dont talk to anybody, and 
 everyone you meet is an enemy. Basically, you go and find the 8 relics so you can defeat the monster 
 that destroyed that galaxy, not much in between.
  
  single-player- The bosses are just 2 different things upgraded as you go along. Once you beat them 
 once, they get pretty boring. Guardians and bounty hunters, on the other hand, put some excitement 
 into the game. They are usually pretty fun to fight. The final boss is pretty easy when you learn 
 how to defeat him, and the second stage isnt much harder. I like the second stage better because 
 it more of an all-out fight with less running away and shooting from a distance. Most of the regular 
 enemies are way too easy and the puzzles are just too simple for me. I never once had to go look 
 at a walkthrough like i usually would with a Zelda game. All-in-all, the single player is fun, 
 but could've been alot better.
  
  multi-player (not online) - It's great to go all-out with your friends where you can all agree on 
 the course (unlike the online) . It's much better than playing online because usually your friends 
 are around the same skill level as you, and you can own (and get owned) them. You can also switch 
 around alot of things that you can't online.
  
  online- This is what makes this game hard. I get OWNED on a regular basis here; it's just too hard. 
 It's very fun regardless though. Plenty of courses to choose from, and you get to try your skills 
 with people around the world (is it me, or do the japs always kick everyones ass?) . Once you get 
 used to it, you'll love it, trust me.
  
  replay value- There are better games out there, but this is definitely near the top (for handhelds) . 
 Even if you quit playing it as much, you'll always eventually want to stick it back in and try 
 to own someone. Nothing feels better when playing online than when the game says "you killed so-and-so 
 (HEADSHOT) ", and that's reason enough for you to be playing it months and maybe years after you 
 get it. MPH is the best fps and online game out there (for handhelds) imo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3oHellAz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime is a cool game that is made well for the DS. if your a fan of the previous metroids 
 you will like this one too, although im not a fan but played previous metroid games i think it 
 is a little different to other metroid games but can be seen as a good or bad thing.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics on the game are amazing. there are alot of people who say it ok, but i 
 think there there best on the DS so far, by alot. its amazing how the DS handles it all. the reason 
 i say this is because other games on the DS have crap graphics and its a shock to see such a difference.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay on metroid prime is ok. everything works fine, sensitive control, responsive and the 
 rest, its just that its very hard to find a comfertable position to play with it and once you do 
 it will start to ache. this is were you get a DS Lite. but even on a DS Lite your arms still ache 
 but is not so bad. this tends to happen if you play it for a long time.
  
  SOUND
  I really like the sound in the game. i think its so cool. i love the menu tune. its sooo catchy. 
 i also like the sound during gameplay. it varies to the different moods and problems etc.
  
  VALUE
  The game has alot of value. although the singleplayer mode is kinda short compared 
 to other metroid games (but is acseptable, probably to the fact that they squezed all the movies 
 and stuff in it) . the multiplayer is worth it along just by playing with bots. the bots have different 
 difficulties and there very well balnced. theres also alot of different modes when playing multiplayer 
 or with bots. theres battle, capture the node things, team, prime hunter, last man standing etc.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  This game is very good. it is one of my favourate DS games and probably will always be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irmeleeman5995
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great online play and multiplayer, simply gorgeous graphics, great control scheme, single 
 player is really good considering its a handheld game, movie viewer is much appreciated ;) 
  
  The Bad: Single player seems to be secondary focus of the game behind multiplayer, which isnt 
 the Metroid way, not so great online options when playing without friends
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game. Its Metroid like youve never seen it before, but... oh 
 wait... thats bad. The multiplayer is outstanding (mostly) , but that was the main focus of the 
 game, not the single player. Single player has defined Metroid for years, and all of a sudden the 
 role switch was a little unsmooth. However, if you can look past the flaws you will enjoy this 
 game a lot.
  
  Gameplay is really good stuff. On the bottom screen, you have a radar, as well as icons that if 
 you tap do different things. Of course, the main use for the touch screen is thats how you aim. 
 On the top screen, you have your HUD, crosshairs, and cannon. You drag the stylus or thumb-strap 
 around the touch screen and it moves your sights on the top. This is a really great setup and will 
 define shooters on the DS for years to come. After this, Im explaining the set-up for right handed 
 players, but there is a completely reversed way for lefties as well.
  
  Assuming youre using stylus mode, then L is fire and the icons on the touch screen are Power Beam, 
 missiles, alternate weapons, or the switch alternate weapon button, and scan visor. You tap on 
 one of these to arm that weapon, or the switch alternate weapon button to swap what alt. weapon 
 is in the alt. weapon box for instant usage. In the corner is the alt-form button, and each of 
 the seven hunters has their own alt-form. There is also a set-up called dual mode, where the A, 
 B, X, and Y buttons move you crosshairs up, down, left, or right, relative to their position on 
 the diamond. Like the official review says, its a lot more of a shooter than the other ones, which 
 at times is hard to overlook. 
  
  Single player has you going between two planets and two space stations looking for Octoliths. If 
 you bring all eight to the temple, you receive the ultimate power. You and six other bounty hunters 
 all have their separate reasons for getting this power, but youre all after it. The levels are 
 fairly linear which got a lot of flak from critics and players, but they forget it wont be as 
 good as the Gamecube games for a while. Just live with it, its a handheld! That considered, its 
 really good. 
  
  There are some cool perks to the single player that were sorta well executed. First off, once you 
 retrieve an Octolith, the countdown timer that Metroid fans are all-to-familiar with starts, and 
 you gotta get out; reach your ship before the timer gets to zero or you instantly die. However, 
 it isnt like previous games where the place goes up in flames and is destroyed, because you venture 
 back to the same places at least once more after you get the first Octolith in every place, because 
 theres two in every area. The second of these interesting features is that while escaping, anything 
 can happen. If you suddenly get attacked by a Hunter and lose, then when you finally escape the 
 place after trying again, you have to find what planet they are on and face them to get your prize 
 back. An interesting touch.
  
  Wow, almost a whole page and still on gameplay. I could go on for a while, but Ill do multiplayer 
 and then move on...
  
  Multiplayer is really good. Seven hunters, all with unique abilities, alt-forms, and affinity weapons, 
 and seven game modes, as well as tons of maps and customizable options. Game modes include battle, 
 standard deathmatch; capture, standard capture the flag; survival, standard elimination; Prime 
 Hunter, standard juggernaut; nodes, standard territories; defender, standard King of the Hill; 
 and Bounty, where you take the Octolith in the middle of the arena back to the base to score. However, 
 you can only use the full extent of the Multiplayer if you play with friends or rivals, people 
 you see online but dont have Friend Codes for. If you arent and you play a normal match, its 
 automatically seven point/seven minute battles, no adjustable options. This is kind of a drag, 
 but overlookable. 
  
  Graphics are superb. GORGEOUS cutscene graphics make up movies interspersed through the single 
 player, and are viewable through a movie viewer, which is a great touch (I can watch the ending 
 over and over now ;) ) . Also, in-game engine graphics are better quality than N64 games, which 
 seems to have become the DS standard. Good blaster effects, explosions, and of course the still 
 shot of game points at the end of matches. Nothing notable, but impressive none-the-less.
  
  Sound is decent stuff. Some good music, including remixes of old stuff. Sound effects are pretty 
 good, all the guns have their unique noises, and some cool subtle things like the chink of the 
 cannon opening for missile firing death or doors shutting behind you as you walk into the next 
 room. Also, sound effects and music is in the sound test option after you beat the game once through. 
 
  
  Value is pretty high up there. A worthy single player and really great multiplayer make for the 
 best handheld title out, despite the somewhat linear single player and limited options when not 
 playing with friends, but its still a great experience both ways and is worth buying.
  
  The perfect control scheme as well as near-perfect multiplayer make the games tilt, as well as 
 the underappreciated single player, pretty high. 
  
  Bottom line: The best shooter on a handheld ever, probably best handheld game ever, and of you 
 have online access then its a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman012
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Single player - A great game all around great story , great sound , great controls. Some of the 
 puzzles were hard , or things th look for were hard to find .i actually have not finished the game 
 but i have not been any other bounty hunter except in mulitiplayer. 
  
  Mulitiplayer - The only way to get other hunters in multi. it to beat other hunters which you face 
 in the campain mode. it is really fun if you have like four people and you are just killing each 
 other but if it is just two people it is still fun but it is alot more fun ( if two people) to 
 have a smaller map.
  
  Maps - Nothing much to say about the maps just the more games you play the more maps you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cluelesspunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a good game, plain and simple. It's a spinoff of the Metroid Prime trilogy 
 for the GameCube and Wii, with a more straightforward FPS, action-based focus than the console 
 games. As a first for the Metroid series, Hunters puts more of a focus on the multiplayer aspect 
 of the game than the single-player portion. And it shows.
  
  Using the stylus to control the gameplay feels awkward at first, and induce fear of getting carpel 
 tunnel syndrome, but after you get used to it, it's actually quite precise. The game can also be 
 controlled using only the face buttons on the DS, and there's also a reversed version of both the 
 stylus and button control schemes for lefties.
  
  The single-player mode in Hunters (or "Adventure Mode") seems pretty much like previous Metroid 
 Prime games at first... but only at first. Samus has all her gear at the beginning of the game, 
 and the only upgrading you do throughout the entire game is acquiring various weapons for Samus's 
 arm cannon. The gameplay is much more linear than previous games, and there are only two different 
 recurring main bosses in the game, who are only changed slightly each time you battle them. Many 
 of the normal enemies in the game are repetitive, as well. There are also other bounty hunters 
 who are after the eight Octoliths ("the Key to Ultimate Power") , and you will battle each of them 
 multiple times during the course of the game. Samus travels to a handfull of very small planets 
 and space stations in the game, which are okay, but don't have the same ambience of the singular 
 worlds like Tallon IV or Aether.
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is Hunters's relative strong point. There are dozens of maps 
 and many modes to choose from. Battles with up to four players can be played with a single cartridge 
 and four DSes
  (although you can only engage in a straightforward deathmatch mode like this) , four DSes each with 
 their own cartriges, or wirelessly via Nintendo Wi-Fi. If there aren't enough human players, bots 
 with pretty good AI can be added to the game.
  
  Wi-Fi battles are fun, but you can only engage in deathmatch mode unless you've added players to 
 your "rivals" list or your "friends" list using the DS's botched friend code system. Players can 
 also use the DS's mic for voice chat with other people on their friends list.
  
  The graphics in the game are very good, considering the DS isn't exactly the most powerful graphics 
 machine around. Main gameplay works fairly well, although objects that are far away ten to get 
 very grainy. However, the cutscenes in the game are breathtaking. Audio and music in the game is 
 solid, as well.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a solid game with great multiplayer. While it doesn't live up 
 to its big brothers on the GameCube, it's a great addition to the DS library; nothing else quite 
 like it is out there right now. But then again, comparing Hunters to the other installments in 
 the Metroid Prime series would be like comparing a cell phone Final Fantasy game to Final Fantasy 
 VII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime for the Nintendo DS is simply awesome!! So much fun as it retains the Metroid Prime 
 style with strange in-game artwork, creatures and bosses. It has many sound effects and music that 
 can be recognised throughout the metroid series, however, the gameplay is very different to what 
 metroid players are used to...
  
  This is due to Samus not having the ability to lock onto her enemies, leaving the player to use 
 the stylus to aim her weapon. (There are other control methods, but the control method I use is 
 stylus aiming, so im only going to review it on this mode of control) . Using the stylus to control 
 where Samus looks, basically makes the game more focused on aiming. This is both a good and bad 
 thing as; using the stylus to aim simply feels fantastic, as precise as a mouse but for some reason 
 it feels more fluid and generally more fun to use than a mouse. Sensitivity can also be changed 
 allowing the gamer to look around as fast as they want. Usually gamers will slowly adjust aiming 
 speed as they get more used to the stylus controls. The bad point of using the stylus to aim is; 
 after about an hour of gameplay, ur stylus hand does start to feel numb and a little achy after 
 extended gameplay. Personally, i don't view this as much of a problem, because the number of benefits 
 you gain from the stylus out-weighs the negatives you gain from it.
  
  Graphics for the game are really very nice, ive heard people call this game ugly and I really don't 
 understand why. It looks perfectly acceptable and you find yourself absorbed into the world of 
 Metroid and when the gameplay kicks in you find yourself experiencing a game like no other yet 
 created.
  
  Overall what I have to say is: This game is absolutly fantastic. Seriously. However, some hardcore 
 Metroid fans will not appreciate the linear style levels and some gamers see the game as ugly (I 
 have to say this is mainly PS3 fanboys as the only thing they seem to focus on is graphics - no 
 offence intended, this is simply what I have found out by talking to PS3 fans.) I would say, because 
 of the hugely diverse amount of opinions on this game AND because of the brand spankin new controls 
 I would recommend any hardcore gamer that owns a DS to experience this new style of gaming, it 
 is not something you want to miss. This game aint for everyone to enjoy, but by god I think its 
 awesome.
  
  (Those unsure about getting this game, borrow it off a friend or play it at a nintendo booth or 
 sumthin, you REALLY cant miss out on playin this game!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER:
  The first thing you will want todo is switch to dual mode right or left ( which ever you prefer) 
 Then start up single player. As soon you get in the game you will notice that the ds is bieng pushed 
 to its absolute limits in graphics.
  So they do look good, but when you look furthe away it will look like a blop of pixells. The controls 
 are surpisingly good, once you get used to them of course. In the begining you will walk through 
 few doors and meet what looks like green jelly fishes. After you dispatch them the game will push 
 you and give you greater challenges until you meet kanden your first opponent-Kanden.
  The single player can be quit the pain too , because you have to scan things to open doors, shoot 
 the door with the right weapon to open them , get three artifacts to open portals to bosses. And 
 before you do all that you have to make sure you scan all the bosses, and you only get one try too! 
 Some things are hiden so well that i barely found them. I literaly had to go to a world turn on 
 my scan visor and look in every place to find them. 
  But even thouhg i still had lots of fun with it!!
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  The multiplayer alone 
 probably is worth every penny you pay for it. It has seven modes , seven playeble hunters each 
 one is quiet different. You will have great fun .The ai provides a good challenge, you will be suckt 
 in playing it alone for a while, but then you will want your multiplayer expirience refreshed thats 
 where wi-fi and friends come in . When I played with a friend four hours wen by in a flash ( that 
 means i had a lot of fun) . The more friends the more you will love the multiplayer. But if you 
 want to play with other people all the time wi-fi will come in use. People on wifi are very good 
 so play with your friends first ( if you have no friends train on multiplayer with 1,2,3 stars on 
 bots) ,once you become good you will live on wi-fi having a blast!!
  
  LAST THOUGHTS:
  It is a good game and you should at least check it out before you decide its bad. And if you have 
 a long trip to a place or know that you wont purchace a game in a while and need something to last 
 this is a fun fps for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3V0LUT10N
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  What is it with humanities obsession with gunning down their fellow man? Since the early days of 
 Wolfenstein and Doom right through to the present day and even looking forward to the future, FPS 
 games have been an important part of the gaming industry. Seeing great success whether controlled 
 by a keyboard and mouse, a console controller and even a lightgun, many doubtless wondered quite 
 how well the DS touch screen would work when it came to gunning down enemy scum. The first example 
 came in the form of Goldeneye: Rouge Agent, and to be honest, it didnt really inspire much confidence 
 in the DS abilities at hosting the FPS genre. Thankfully Nintendo has showed everyone how its 
 done with the release of Metroid Prime: Hunters, a technological marvel that blends an immersive 
 single player experience with pulse pounding multiplayer action that really shows off the true 
 potential of the DS!
  
  The Single Player mode features a story that, while not particularly complex or groundbreaking, 
 is fully functional given context. Bounty hunters from across the galaxy have received a telepathic 
 message originating from a desolate region of space claiming that The ultimate power lies within 
 the Alimbic Cluster. Wasting no time, Samus heads off to try and claim this power for the Galactic 
 Federation. Her job wont be easy, not only due to the bizarre yet deadly mechanical defence systems 
 found during her mission, but because of the appearance of 6 rival bounty hunters, all gunning 
 (quite literally) for possession of the ultimate power.
  
  When you first start playing through the game, youll instantly be amazed by the visuals being 
 pumped out by the DS. Everything in the game is remarkably detailed, especially when taking into 
 account the DS relative lack of power. Not only that, but for the most part the characters animate 
 nice and smoothly. Then there are the little details, like shooting at lava and seeing it spurt 
 up in response to the blast. An obvious pay-off for the stunning graphics is the frame rate, which 
 occasionally struggles through some of the more intense firefights. Never the less, the majority 
 of the time the game runs smoothly, and really immerses you in the alien locations youll be fighting 
 through during play.
  
  Another thing that really sets the mood for the locations is the music. Its not exactly chart-topping 
 material, but then again it is featuring on a DS game. The tracks really fit the locations they 
 are heard in, from lonely and haunting sounds of Arcterra to the mysterious tracks heard in the 
 ruins of Alinos. In fact, overall the sound is of high quality in Hunters. The guns certainly give 
 off a satisfying sound as they fire off, and the creatures and the Hunters in the game all sound 
 suitably alien. 
  
  The actual style of the single player deviates heavily from the format laid out by the previous 
 Prime games on the Gamecube. There are still Morph Ball and Platforming puzzles, but the exploration 
 element is pretty much gone, the backtracking has been cut back on, as has the scanning gameplay, 
 though to a lesser extent. Instead Hunters chooses to focus on the shooting aspect of the Metroid 
 series, placing the player in levels far more linear than what fans might be used to. Occasionally 
 youll come across a door you wont be able to open until you gain a new gun, but mainly youll 
 just be heading from points A to B in a relatively straightforward trek. 
  
  Most levels follow a similar blueprint. You fight your way through the level until you find 3 artefacts 
 (often fighting another Hunter at some point during the search) at which point you can warp to 
 the boss room and fight one of two bosses. Yes, you read that right. Two. It may sound disappointing, 
 and it would have been nice to see more varieties, but the fights themselves are quite enjoyable, 
 though later fights may seem to drag on. Finally, after defeating the boss and acquiring the octolith 
 (the games equivalent of the Chozo artefacts or Sky Temple keys) , you have to leg it out of there 
 fast beforesomething happens (the games never really clear quite why youre running, but when 
 a timer appears and an alarm sets off thats generally a bad sign) . This is the way pretty much 
 every level in Hunters plays. But what could potentially get dull fast is saved by the clever level 
 design and interesting if rather clichd locations (Lava and Ice worlds, anyone?) . 
  
  While the game retains remnant hints of Metroid Primes unique design, shooting is where its at 
 here, and Hunters supplies the player with an ample variety of targets. There are a few golden 
 oldies here like the Zoomers and the Shriekbats, but the Alimbics robot guards make up the majority 
 of foes. Whats strange is the complete lack of Space Pirate troopers or even the titular Metroid 
 creatures themselves. The game does however attempt standard FPS fights not only with the other 
 Hunters, but also with freaky looking robots called Guardians. And while they arent the most satisfying 
 enemy youll ever fight, they serve theyre purpose. A challenge among the cannon fodder. Another 
 interesting quirk is when you loose a battle to another hunter; they will steal one of your Octoliths. 
 This means youll have to track them down and fight them again (and win) to get it back. 
  
  Controlling your aim in Hunters is like nothing youve ever really tried before. While the 
 touch screen aiming understandably sounds a little clunky and certainly takes a little while to 
 get used too, the end result allows for very accurate shooting overall. The downside here is that 
 prolonged play sessions (even with a DS Lite) result in rather nasty cramp in your hands. But youll 
 be having too much fun to notice. Overall, the single player isnt going to change gaming, but 
 its certainly an entertaining way to pass the time
  
  Of course, while the Single Player is good when youre on your own, there is no doubt that this 
 game can only be experienced at its best when you check out its multiplayer options. Here you can 
 choose to play a variety of modes, ranging from standard Battles to Capture the Flag games (and 
 basically all the main multiplayer modes found in an FPS) . You can play against friends who do 
 or dont have another copy, online with Nintendo Wi-Fi connection (which Ill touch on later) , 
 or if youre on your own, play against some remarkably competent bots.
  
  The overall style of the multiplayer is very similar to the Quake series. There are no vehicles, 
 but often the arenas are littered with jump pads, meaning that there are plenty of exiting fights 
 taking places as you are shot across the map. The levels themselves are all locations from the 
 Single Player campaign, but most work perfectly as multiplayer maps. Overall, fights here require 
 fast reflexes and for you to take full advantage of your hunters abilities. 
  
  The multiplayer really shows off the 7 hunters much better than the Single player. Youll soon 
 come to realise that they vary not only in appearance, but also in their playing style. Each Hunter 
 has a different affinity weapon, meaning when they find that weapon on the map it gets a special 
 ability only they can use. For example, the Shock Coil works the same for Sylux as other hunters, 
 but slowly restores his health if he can keep on the target. Trace can turn invisible when he acquires 
 the Sniper Rifle. Speaking of weapons, theres a nice variety here, from sniper rifles to lightning 
 gun to ice beams and a few others. Not to mention each hunter comes equipped with that classic 
 Metroid gun, the Power Beam. 
  
  Where the Hunters vary most is in their alternate forms. Samus obviously uses her morph ball, but 
 each hunter has an utterly unique transformation. The Alt. Forms range from a spinning top that 
 extends a deadly blade to a bizarre larval creature that detaches the end of its tail as a homing 
 missile and even a guy whose body splits in two, one half becoming a turret, the other a mobile 
 scythe slashing torso. Its clear the designers of this game certainly had a rather active imagination. 
 Not only that, but also many of the transformations hold hidden advantages. For example, one Hunters 
 morphs into a spiky stone ball that not only inflicts damage but can also climb walls.
  
  There are two ways to play online. The first is simply to allow your DS to search for up to 3 other 
 random players. In this mode there is only the option to play a 7-minute battle, first to 7 kills 
 wins. You play the game, and then if you wish you can play them again provided they wish to do 
 the same, or add them to your rivals list (again only if they want to as well) . The rivals list 
 basically shows you the stats of foes youve added, and you can try and find them again to play 
 if you wish. If you do find them then youll find more options open to you in terms of game modes.
 
  
  The other and more advanced way to play is to exchange friend codes with another player. Add the 
 code to your list, and you can try to find that person to play a game. This time though, one player 
 hosts the game and can select from any of the maps and any of game modes, as well as configure 
 other settings. You are also able to chat with your friend, either by message or by using the DS 
 microphone, which really makes the pre-match good fun. The multiplayer really is very fun however 
 you play and is made all the more impressive by the fact its running on the tiny DS.
  
  So, my overall thoughts on Metroid Prime: Hunters. Its certainly an incredibly fun experience, 
 and is not only stunning for a DS game, but also stunning as a FPS game in general. Unless you 
 really dont like this genre, then Hunters is a must own game for any DS owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvideous
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Heres the deal. Metroid Prime: Hunters is bad. Not in the cool and hip way of saying something 
 good is bad, but in the way that hitting yourself in the forehead with a hammer is bad. There 
 are many, many issues with this game, and Im going to be covering them to the best of my ability. 
 Mind you, if you hear a thumping noise while you read this, its just me hammering away at the 
 memories that this game has left behind.
  The first and foremost problem with this game is the controls. They suck. No other word is needed 
 to describe how awful it is. There are actually four different control styles you can use, and 
 they all suck. You can use the stylus (left or right handed) or the face buttons on the DS (again, 
 left or right handed) . I, personally, didnt want to use the stylus to play this game, but I gave 
 it a chance. And, being left handed, I figured Id go ahead and try the style labeled, aptly, left-handed 
 with stylus. Using this style, you use the stylus to look around and double-tap the screen to 
 jump; the face buttons to move, and the right shoulder to fire (this is flip-flopped for righties) . 
 Pretty straight forward so far, right? The problem arises when your stylus accidentally loses contact 
 with the screen for a brief second, and then comes back again. You jump, of course. You want to 
 completely turn around? You jump. You have to pick up the stylus for a second to re-center the 
 damn thing, and when it touches the screen again? You jump. You pick up a slight tremor in your 
 hands from the rage youre feeling towards blowing money on an unplayable pile of tightly coiled 
 processed food? You frickin jump! I found this a problem with both of the stylus settings, so I 
 bravely tried the control schemes that dont use the stylus. For these, the controls are (right 
 handed and the most natural of the controls) the directional pad to move and strafe, the face 
 buttons to look and turn, the left shoulder to jump, and the right one to fire (flip-flopped for 
 lefties) . Again, pretty straight forward, right? Well, the problem with this control scheme is 
 that precision shooting is gone if youre not using the stylus. The face buttons are no match for 
 a good analog stick under your thumbs, let alone a crappy stylus, so aiming is a matter of luck; 
 youll press up until you get in the general area and then lightly tap the button in whatever direction 
 is needed to get the crosshairs in the right spot. This isnt too bad when there are no enemies 
 on the screen. But the minute you have to target something, youre screwed. I also found that when 
 I used the stylus, some of the screen was blocked by my hand. This may be a problem for lefties, 
 since we write with our hand at different angles that you righties (next time you see a left handed 
 person writing, watch how they have to place their hand so that it doesnt drag through the stuff 
 theyd just written. No laughing!!!) 
  The next gripe about this game is the graphics. Theyre fine. Until you get moving. Then everything 
 turns into a huge mess on the screen. This doesnt hamper the game much when youre just going 
 from place to place; you can make out a door, and see where the walls are and such. But when you 
 have to move and fire at an enemy, the enemies will become lost in the background. I found this 
 to be particularly horrible when fighting one of the other hunters. Between this and the control 
 issues, I found it to be almost impossible to get into the game. 
  Another problem is the story. Umm, whats the point? Wheres this story supposed to be going? 
 I know, the first Metroid game had almost no plot. Most of the important plot elements were covered, 
 loosely, in the manual. But this is ridiculous. Why is Samus fighting with these other bounty hunters, 
 to get the keys, to operate the cannon, to open the rift, to free the Gorea, and then kill it? 
 And, for heavens sake, why is the game called Metroid, when there are no Metroids in the game?! 
 The story could have fallen out of the butt of any FPS out there; we expect more from the Prime 
 series. 
  Ive read in many reviews that the multiplayer action is where this game really gets good. Who 
 the hell buys a portable system to play FPS online?! Dont you have an Xbox? Dont you have a PS2? 
 Youre telling me that its more fun to buy a DS, the Wi-Fi equipment, pay for the service, buy 
 one of the few games with multiplayer modes, and sit down and wait for another person that doesnt 
 have Xbox Live, so you two can look at a screen the size of a pack of cards and try to frag each 
 other? I suppose its cheaper to pay for all of that than it would be to pay for the Xbox equivalent, 
 but if you want FPS frag-fests, then you need an Xbox. 
  Im giving the game an abysmal score, because thats what I think it deserves. The game play is 
 awful, the graphics are awful, the sound is alright, but it repeats often, and the value is really 
 awful. I recommend playing the Metroid Prime games for the GC before wasting your time with this 
 garbage. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyvov
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The game could've been absolutely amazing if nintendo didn't allow you to use the morph ball mode 
 or special character moves in the wifi. This ruins the game because you can kill someone and hide 
 the whole game using any character on the game, especially trace, or you can run away as an alternate 
 form. Noxus can freeze you and snipe you in the head. Bungie thought about stuff like that, so 
 they got rid of the aliens camoflage power. Why didnt the producers think of this? Would've retro 
 done a better job?
  
  The story mode is pretty fun but gets repetitive after a while, but oh well, it was focused on 
 wifi.
  
  The game is fun and all but I can't find anyone that wants to play the game seriously like in halo 
 or counter strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters features a single player mode and a multiplayer mode. Single player is great, 
 but is lacking when compared to the other Metroid games. If you are a hardcore fan of the series 
 you may find yourself a little disappointed. Although if you are just picking up this game to kill 
 things, you're in luck, Metroid Prime: Hunters is all about shooting and less about story and puzzles, 
 unlike the other Metroids. Single player is sure fun, but don't go into this game expecting an 
 epic story.
  
  The controls of Metroid Prime: Hunters is amazing. They really did great with using the touch screen 
 capabilities. You can change the control scheme between four different options. You can also change 
 how responsive the touch screen is. The learning curve is about an hour. There are buttons on the 
 touch screen that you may accidentally tap from time to time, but you soon learn where your boundaries 
 are. Even if you do have to look down to see where a button is in the middle of game play, it is 
 absolutely no problem. It only takes a fraction of a second to look down, tap, and look back up 
 and get into the action.
  
  The sound and music are great. Everything you would expect from Metroid Prime. The tracks remain 
 trippy, and give you the feeling of isolation, like you really are this bounty hunter on a Godforsaken 
 planet. The sound effects are wonderful, ranging from blasting guns to screaming monsters to flowing 
 lava to the moving of machines. Every sound and song track is well placed and does its job. It 
 can startle you, soothe you, or just get you in the mood to fight.
  
  The game play is great. It is everything you would expect from a great first person shooter. Occasionally 
 you will experience some slow down at really action heavy parts, but nothing to bad. The creatures 
 in the game act as they did in previous Metroid titles. They move around and attack. The bosses 
 range from other hunters to gigantic bosses. Both are great and alternating between the two really 
 keeps things fresh.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters has amazing graphics. No other way to put it. Everything is clear and crisp. 
 This is undoubtedly the best looking DS game of its caliber. At times, you really feel like you 
 are playing Metroid on a console. The cut scenes look like something the Gamecube would put out. 
 They are absolutely gorgeous.
  Playing Metroid Prime: Hunters online is probably the single best thing you can do on this game. 
 If you have ever played a DS game online before you will know that the online system has been lackluster. 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters changes all that. It gives you stats that you can look at, ranks, and many 
 other options. The system still works with the friend codes, but a new feature is added. If you 
 play someone over the Wi-Fi connection you can add them as a rival. After a match you have the 
 choice of adding them, and when you do, you can see when they are online and set matches up with 
 them. There are fewer limits on this game then any other Wi-Fi game currently out there. You have 
 plenty of different gaming modes to choose from such as death match and capture the flag. There 
 are also many arenas to choose from, ranging from a small size to medium to large.
  
  Although Metroid Prime: Hunters has a great online mode, don't let that keep you from getting the 
 game if you cannot go online. The single player story is great, and if you have a friend with a 
 DS, you can play together on a single cart mode, which is just as fun. If you like first person 
 shooters, the Metroid games, or can go online, get this game. It has so much to offer, and at $35 
 it is a steal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvwatcher666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is great! The levels are long and you get to go back to them. It is a really long game 
 and I spent about 7 hours beating it. As you play agtainst other hunters, you unlock them on the 
 multiplayer mode. You can even set up a computer and play against it. In the game, you are supposed 
 to collect these items. On the way, you face many boses and chalanges. I will admit this game isn't 
 real hard, but it sure as hell is fun! The six new bounty hunters that you can unlock are: Sylux; 
 Weavel; Trace; Kanden; Noxus; and Spire. You can also unlock six guns. Overall, this game is worth 
 buying, but only if it is on sale for about $25 or $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny139
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Why does this game get such great reviews? Maybe I just don't see its charm...
  
  Gameplay is badly done. Controls are iffy and hurt your wrist - badly. Single player is a let down; 
 it's repetitive and Hard. Weak story and the inability to save often, causing you to die and start 
 all over again gets boring fast.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but not at all amazing. Even single player multiplayer is fun, but you (usually) 
 need to go through single player mode to get new players. Characters are good, from sniping soldiers 
 to experiments gone wrong. My favorites are Weavel and Spire! 
  
  Graphics and Sound are great for a handheld, almost on par with its Gamecube counterparts. But 
 its value is low - wait until the price is $20, tops. 
  
  Hope you heed this warning, it will help you out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJG24992
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying the single player in this game is complete crap. You search through 
 4 planets tring to find these things called "Octoliths." The levels are very linear and boring. 
 The scenery is pleasing to the eye but the small areas and dull story make the game extremely boring. 
 The controls take forever getting used to, but do work quite well once you've got them down.
  This game isn't all negative though. The unlockable bounty hunters do add a nice touch. But the 
 online play is what keeps you playing the game. The only issue with the online is the "voice chat" 
 feature is only available if both of the players have each others friend codes, which is really 
 a hassel. To sum it up this game is boring and dissapointing for people who have played metroid 
 before. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Metriod Prime: Hunters is one of those game that either you hate it or love it. I love it... to 
 a point. The single-payer mode is alright, but it does keep you busy when you can't play online. 
 It is challenging but it can get a bit repetitive after a while, but when the other Hunters show 
 up out of nowhere , a rush of excitement comes. The online play is what makes the game, without 
 it, it wouldn't be a game to recommend. Although it takes a while to find an oppoinent (I say one 
 because only once in a great while you find more than that) once you do the game finally picks up. 
 When playing online it is non-stop action and fun. Overall I love the game... only really nwhen 
 playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is one of the best DS games Ive played so far. The game play is good the 
 graphics are great for a handheld and the multiplayer is defiantly one of the main parts of the 
 game. Anyway Ill start off with the controls. The Stylus mode right is probably the best way to 
 do it unless your left handed in which case stylus mode left and it takes about half an hour to 
 get used to the controls. The storyline is the only part of the game that could use some work. 
 It is slightly repetitive but you will get over that quite quickly. The levels are great and some 
 parts are quite puzzling but once you figure it out its usually straight forward after that. The 
 thing that can take a bit to figure out is that you save your game at your ship. The multiplayer 
 is good in all aspects especially since the amount of levels and game variations. The single card 
 play is great I do it with my friends all the time and the only limitations are that the downloaded 
 game has only Samus as a character and only battle mode. The multi-card play is great especially 
 if you have 3-4 people. The only picking Samus barrier and the only battle mode is gone for multi-card 
 play also. The Wi-Fi is the best mode of all. The voice chat with friends and the fact that there 
 is always someone ready to play are only two aspects that make Wi-Fi play great. 
  The rank matchmaking mode is great for people who dont want to play against people that are level 
 4-5 but for people who relish a challenge you are able to turn this off. 
  So overall I would say Metroid Prime Hunters is a good addition to anyones collection with its 
 immerse single player campaign great multiplayer and excellent controls.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game makes up for in what it lacks. The story mode is very boring and short. The boses are 
 annoying and have bad design. And the hunters are just little mini-boses. The only reason to play 
 through single player mode is for mutliplayer.
  
  Mutliplayer on the other hand is very fun. You can choose any of the hunters that you have beaten 
 in the story to fight. Each has their own strengths and weaknesses. Wi-Fi is especially fun in 
 this game. You fight in a party of four in any map from the game. Your stats are recoreded to show 
 good of a fighter you are.
  
  The controles are very precise and there are two right handed ways, and two left handed ways. The 
 standerd controles take time to master and can cause cramps in your hands. You move with the controle 
 pad, aim with the stylus and fire with the left trigger. All while holding the DS
  
  All in all, id say only get this game you should only get this game if you have Wi-Fi or friends 
 with this game or like to play this game or youll find your-self very bored.
  
  P. S. this is my second reveiw, please dont hate me if u think it sux.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGradient
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  At first, Metroid Prime Hunters will feel odd for many people and tempt some into using the face 
 buttons. The use of the stylus is the best control method, though. Your past experience with the 
 DS' stylus in other games will affect how long it takes you to feel comfortable with Hunters. Once 
 adjusted to the controls, you're free to accept Metroid Prime Hunters for what it is: a heavily 
 compromised Metroid game in the same vein as the other two Prime games.
  
  The most notable cuts came in the gameplay department. Only the most basic items are available 
 in this game. You have your Morph Ball with Boost Ball functionality, and bombs to go with it. 
 Other than that, however, there is little left. Your basic power beam weapon and missiles are accompanied 
 by six sub-weapons. Each one has its own unique function. The Imperialist, for example, is a sniper 
 rifle with one level of zoom. Although having a variety in weapons is nice, I would have preferred 
 seeing more of the classic Metroid items in Hunters as well -- particularly the Space Jump, Screw 
 Attack, and Grapple Beam. Metroid Prime Hunters is also missing a couple of visors seen in the 
 past Prime games, but you do at least have access to your Scan Visor.
  
  The enemies in the game are plentiful. There aren't as many as in the Gamecube counterparts, but 
 that's to be expected of slimmed-down portable version. There is still excessive variety, though 
 -- in both design and methods of taking them down. Some have protective shells whereas others are 
 only affected by specific weapons. My only gripe with the enemies is the bosses. There are only 
 three actual bosses in the entire game: the final boss and two others which have varying levels 
 of difficulty despite being the same creature. I did enjoy the final boss encounter. The other 
 hunters in the game (hence the subtitle) are more like minibosses than anything else, as they are 
 typically very easy to take out and you only encounter them occasionally. Each of the hunters represents 
 one of the weapons you can acquire at some point, and they also each have their own unique ball 
 mode. 
  
  It's the ability to play as these other hunters in the multiplayer mode, in fact, is what really 
 makes Hunters' multiplayer so much fun. Adding to the variety are the numerous stages to select 
 from, the plentiful modes of play available to a multi-gamecard session, and the customization 
 options. It feels very much like Metroid Prime Hunters was build around the multiplayer mode. It 
 also features Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection service, which keeps the game running smoothly consistently. 
 Overall, the gameplay is just a great experience.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a DS game, but I wouldn't go so far as to say they're amazing. 
 Textures look great from a distance, but when you get up close you'll notice some of them become 
 noticeably pixelated. It would have been even better to see them be smoother like the textures 
 in Super Mario 64. I really didn't hold this against the game much, though. It's the level design 
 that kept the score from getting any higher. Metroid Prime and Echoes were very atmospheric thanks 
 to all of the subtle details, but a lot of those details are gone in Hunters. What's left is great, 
 but like I said -- not amazing.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters has some great audio. The music could have been better -- in fact, that's 
 why I didn't give Sound a 9/10 -- but the sound effects are consistently dead-on and, in most cases, 
 exactly what you'd expect to hear.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime Hunters is definitely worth purchasing. It's one of the better games available 
 for the DS. But I'd recommend picking it up soon if you're planning to eventually. Come this fall/winter, 
 there will be many more top-notch games available for the DS that could push Hunters out of the 
 spotlight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyo__man66
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend one day. Im usually a fan of the Metroid games (and the upcoming 
 movie) but this was just -- mediocre.
  
  Story: It was okay. But why were they after this crystal thing?
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Uggh. I 
 can't play a FPS on the DS. I already bought Golden Eye on the DS and got ripped off. You just 
 can aim with the stylus. I find it hard. and the fire and Jump buttons are mixed up to confuse 
 a gamer.
  although the Morphball control is good.
  
  Graphics: Alot of games look great on the Ds. Alot of them dont. This game just looks like a grimy 
 mess of pixels.
  
  Sound: I actually did like the sound in this game. It still had that sci-fi feel to the music.
 
  
  Overall: I was excited but soon mixed. I just dont find it appealing. But if you do get sick of 
 the Mario Kart Multiplayer the Multiplayer on this game is surpisingly pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  The good things: Multiplayer chaos, new adventrue party rises.
  
  The bad things: Too bad can't scan what things come out like Sylux's starfighter. No boss rematches
 
  
  Gameplay: Really it's all in both modes it's way too perfect with all 6 hunters with those new 
 weapons that can help you,
  
  Graphics: I must say is really dead sharp and way to true to keep my balance, 5 world graphics 
 and i think it's too awesome.
  
  Sound: Funny sounds but beileve me if you have got the SFX test you sure to love them.
  
  Value: 
 i say it is ok but i like doing it on stylus mode.
  
  Tilt: I'm never gonna stop playing this game, so i never quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rev06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I like it. I recently bought it and have never put it down yet (even though I can't play video 
 games the entire summer) Story mode is lacking some of the vital elements of the first and second 
 Metroid Primes, but still fun to play it. Multiplayer is the best function, especially when you 
 can play against BOTs. Wi-fi connection is really fun to play as well as Local connections. You 
 never know if you can find a person who will totally destroy you or a noob like myself that others 
 just frown at. Overall worth the buy, even if you can't get Wi-fi connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomLarco
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Gameplay here is almost perfect. With the stylus you can aim and look around. The 
 free aim makes the game a little bit more challenging than some other first person shooters, but 
 the intuitive control found in this game will make all those other fps feel out-dated or clunky. 
 With that said however, there are a few flaws in the game itself. There are really not enough puzzles 
 in this game, and the level designs seem a little too linear for it to be a true part of themetroid 
 series. In the past metroid games there were levels that branched off making it feel bigger than 
 it really was.
  
  Graphics: Stunning to say the least, however the framerate slows down during multiplayer frequently 
 when all four players are in the same area. The look of the levels can also get somewhat boring 
 after extended play although most of the time they look fine.
  
  Sound: Nothing great here, but it gets the job done.
  
  Value: Multiplayer makes this game 
 have great value, and if you have the ablility to go online and play this game, you definitely 
 should. But after playing the single player mode once, its just too easy and too short to play 
 it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberAlyMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Now i've played every Metroid game ever, and I enjoyed them all, except the first two, oh well... 
 Anyway, this game's courses are much to, straightfoward, there are next to no multiple routes, 
 you just go fowards, beat the hunter, turn back, and oh look another hunter has appeared, better 
 kill it, oh look a speedy robot, and so on... So single player is good and atmospheric, with rumble 
 and headphones it's very nice, but what's atmosphere without good level design? I reckon it's because 
 Retro Studio's were only "specially thanked" which must mean nintendo totally made this one, and 
 in 3D they lack their metroid course abilities.
  
  Now, multiplayer is brilliant, although it suffers the usual problems of finding a room to play 
 in and all that. Also I always lose, playing online makes you realize how obsolete you are to the 
 rest of the gamers, but oh well, it's still fun, I don't know how the hell you can meet up with 
 your rivals if you can't communicate with them to tell them your email so they can tell you when 
 they're gonna be on, but still, it works when it wants to. There are so many problems with online 
 play that I wont even begin to type them, but it is fun, and that's really all that matters.
  
  Single player is fun now but I bet the it'll wear quickly... As for multiplayer, hmm, nintendo 
 should orginize times when people are encouraged to logon to the friends and rivals section, then 
 we'd have more fun, until then I think that battle mode against random people is the only way to 
 operate, unless you have DS owning friends, then mic chat must be fun, havent tried it yet...
 
  
  So, I like it, you may not, can't live up to the gamecube versions, online play is problematic, 
 END. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MLCkimono2021
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is really amazing when I played this I thought it was really, really, really, G-R-E-A-T!! 
 When it you're tired of playing the single player, the multiplayer makes up for it, and its got 
 great controls AND it's WIFI... The single player has great missions and adds up for the challenging 
 modes. It has great graphics, great gameplay, and even greater multiplayer mode!! For how many 
 years they made the Metroid Prime... they nevet let us gamers down.. BUT there is maybe something 
 missing and I really do not know what.. but I know that this have a great multiplayer and its totally 
 cool!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan192
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is one of the best DS games Ive played so far. The game play is good the 
 graphics are great for a handheld and the multiplayer is defiantly one of the main parts of the 
 game. Anyway Ill start off with the controls. The Stylus mode right is probably the best way to 
 do it unless your left handed in which case stylus mode left and it takes about half an hour to 
 get used to the controls. The storyline is the only part of the game that could use some work. 
 It is slightly repetitive but you will get over that quite quickly. The levels are great and some 
 parts are quite puzzling but once you figure it out its usually straight forward after that. The 
 thing that can take a bit to figure out is that you save your game at your ship. The multiplayer 
 is good in all aspects especially since the amount of levels and game variations. The single card 
 play is great I do it with my friends all the time and the only limitations are that the downloaded 
 game has only Samus as a character and only battle mode. The multi-card play is great especially 
 if you have 3-4 people. The only picking Samus barrier and the only battle mode is gone for multi-card 
 play also. The Wi-Fi is the best mode of all. The voice chat with friends and the fact that there 
 is always someone ready to play are only two aspects that make Wi-Fi play great. 
  The rank matchmaking mode is great for people who dont want to play against people that are level 
 4-5 but for people who relish a challenge you are able to turn this off. 
  So overall I would say Metroid Prime Hunters is a good addition to anyones collection with its 
 immerse single player campaign great multiplayer and excellent controls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACaddict
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer's where Metroid Prime Hunters is at. Sure , you have a brilliant single player mode 
 to play through, but the only reason you'd really do that is because you can unlock multiplayer 
 skins. Single player is fun, it has several planets for you to explore, this gross tentacle eye 
 thing and a bucket of weapons, but it is also more action based. The puzzles are pretty easy and 
 the levels are linear. Still fun.
  
  But multiplayer! Oh, it's wonderful! It's hectic, amazingly fast and there is a lot of yelling 
 over Wifi. In fact, if Nintendo sold MPH multiplayer on its own, I'd still buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bannamanag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has awesome multiplayer! Playing online is almost as fun as a lan party. It's also cool 
 to have your profile. You can also play with bots for practice. You can really see the FPS in this 
 game. 7 hunters you can choose to be on multiplayer, giving you enough variety to choose from. 
 
  This game adventure is not as good as GC ones, but the multiplayer can easily make up for it. On 
 a certain mode of Wi-fi you can talk to your friends that you've gave your friend code to or played 
 wirelessly with. This done by using the DS mic. The sound quality is more impressive than i thought. 
 WHY ARE YOU READING THIS REVIEW? GO BUY METROID!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinefinn
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I have both a DS lite and a PSP and I never thought that the DS could come out with a good graphically 
 fun FPS like the PSP. Well this one is close. It's definetly a fun challenging game. Well the word 
 challenging can be taken loosely. But it is hard enough to keep you interested. It is also the 
 perfect game to pick up and play for for short spurts. Perfect when you are in a fix for a game.
 
  
  Controls take a bit to get used to. In my opinion I think it's worth getting used to the right 
 stylus controls, if you are right handed. The non stylus is slower and less responsive. I gave 
 it a learning curve of 30-60 minutes, but really it's less.
  
  I haven't played online yet, but I am excited to try it out.
  
  All in all worth getting if 
 you can get it cheaper than new. Oh yeah I paid full price but got a rumble thingy. Didn't really 
 add much to the game, but okay.
  Buy it used!
  
  Stark
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where your really don't have to know much about it to play it, but can 
 be very, very challenging. For the story mode, just about anyone can pick this game up and start 
 unloading against hordes and hordes of mindless AI bots, but where's the fun in that? Especially 
 when you could be online fighting some one half-way across the world, or playing against some customized 
 bots just to practice before you completely own your friend in the Lan mode. There are many different 
 things to do in this game, and you won't get bored with any of them... Except maybe story after 
 you've beaten it a couple times. If you've got a DS, then you don't know what your missing if you 
 don't have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPS_ADDICTED
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Since i have my DS ( January 05 ) i've been wondering what this game would be like. What I like 
 the most about the game is the fact that you can chose more then one character, even though it 
 is only in multi-player/Wi-Fi mode. Many different weapons are available, therefore more ways to 
 kill your enemies and of course ... more ways to die. In addition every hunter has a biped form 
 and an alternative form, this allows the hunter to enter narrow passages and make a quick escape 
 from an attacker. It can also be used as an other way to kill.
  
  Every game has its flaws, in this case : The bosses get repetitive and so do the levels. Sometimes 
 you must return to a world you had already completed in the past, with a new weapon. Otherwise, 
 I remember this level in outer space, i got lost and i died about twenty times, but this game gets 
 so addictive. When i really first started getting into it I beat it in 4 days.
  
  I still play Wi-Fi sometimes and with 26 different stages you don't get bored easily ... If you 
 like shooting games or not won't matter, you will love this game, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYLERPOWERS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  this was a pretty fun game... im gunna say it right away though... THE STORY STUNK!! but if you have 
 a few friends that have the game too you can have a heck of a time playing... there are 7 hunters 
 in this game i think lol... there is trace... fast and can turn invisible, there is sylux my personal 
 favorite... fast and drains life, there is kanden which i am not gunna say anything but he is a 
 worm... samus that we all know... weevel the turret hunter... spire a ball type magma dude... noxus 
 the ice dude.... i cant think of anymore right now but i think thats it lol... get this game for 
 multiplayer at least... its not bad for a ds game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldacrazy5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge metroid fan!! I have Prime one and two for the game cube.
  
  I first I thought..." There is know way that its graphics can be that good on a handheld consule.... but 
 man was I wrong.
  
  This games graphics were pretty darn good... the storyline was.. ok.
  
  The other hunters presented in the game were a nice touch and sometimes hard to defet. 
  
 
  You need to make sure that youscan everything though... otherwise you whont complete the game and 
 you will end up with an ugly 75% complete sitting underneath your game file... anyway... its a pretty 
 good game all around.
  
  I would say this is a deffintie buy for all you metroid fans out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusfreak01
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Every since I got my nintendo ds, Christmas 2004, I've been anxiously awaiting the arival of the 
 newest instalment of Metroid Prime. I was extra excited about this one being on the DS. When I 
 bought the game I was shaking with excitement to play it! When I played it.... I almost cried. If 
 you played the demo for Metroid Prime Hunters that came with the original Nintendo DS, you'll know 
 that the game is realllly fun, the controls are great and it looks spectacular on the DS. When 
 you first start playing the game, it's fun! The graphics are nice, it's a new world, and it's got 
 all the feel of a great Metroid Prime adventure. Then after the first level it just goes down the 
 toilet. You do the puzzle's, you take out the bad guys, you kill the boss, and then this timer 
 comes up and you have to reach your ship in a certain amount of time. And then you do, but nothing 
 happens!!!! No explosion of the planet or anything! Even if the timer runs out you just mysteriously 
 die but no explosion of the planet no nothing. You can even get right back out of your ship if 
 you want to! But instead, you take off and another planet will appear. So you start to think that 
 it'll be okay. So you kill the bad guys, do the puzzles, and the boss, is the exact same boss! 
 That's right, there are only TWO and I mean TWO bosses the entire game. Sure there are some bounty 
 hunters but most of which can be killed in a matter of seconds. And after each one of them has 
 attackted you once, it's really reptetive. There are only about 4 or 5 planets total and you go 
 back to each of them at least twice only to fight the same exact boss over and over again. And 
 there aren't any drastic changes to them either! After a few minutes of this game you feel like 
 you're doing the same thing over and over again. The game was just WAY different from any other 
 metroid title, and even the puzzles and boss fights were totally different from the great ones 
 in metroid prime. Nintendo tried something different with an already great game and messed it up. 
 Which sucks, because I was freaking out about playing another great Metroid Prime adventure on 
 my DS, but I guess I'll never get to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifleman91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  im a huge fps fan, halo, bf 1942, bf 2, counter strike, day of defeat u name it ive most likly 
 played it. metroid is one of them that i was so excited about cuz my ds was gettin a good fps. 
 metroid is an amazing series but the leap to the ds missed the dock and fell flat into the river. 
 the graphic of the game were pushed to there limit as u can see in gameplay but the hardware for 
 the ds isnt in it yet. the campaign single player was boring besides the boss fights. the multiplayer 
 online was fun until u got into good matches and fire fights were huge... just like any online game 
 the lag got to it.. constant slow down kept getting me killed.. the glitches were outrages which 
 shows the online was rushed out to make the release. if i were someone who was into fps and just 
 got a ds, dont throw the cash at this game just yet.. wait to see if call of duty or another fps 
 hits the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowHYREN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime: hunters is a spectacular FPS, and the best FPS you can buy for a handheld. the controls 
 are perfect (even for left-handed people like me!) but they do take some getting used to.
  
  Graphics: Incredible for the DS. if your a PSP sortof person, you wont be wowed, but i own 
 both and i consider these to be good for a hendheld and great for a DS.
  
  Sound: quite good, but i still think that metroid prime could use at least a bit of voice acting...
 
  
  Gamplay: amazing controls. easy to use, fun to play, great multiplayer, lotsa good stuff all put 
 into one package.
  
  Value: this game isnt very expensive, and its definately worth picking up. you can get it for about 
 $35 cdn.
  
  tilt: this is the game thats in my DS all the time, i dont even bother takiing it out because its 
 the best there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legochip10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9 out of 10. The gameplay is great on this game. It's pretty much like any other metriod 
 game but a twist with online play and 6 different characters in multiplayer. The only flaw is the 
 adventure mode. It's great and all but the only problem is that you sometimes don't know where 
 to go and you fight the same bosses over and over.
  
  Graphics: 10 out of 10. The graphics are pretty much the best for the DS. You can't exactly ask 
 for much better from the DS. Just minor problems like if you're close to something.
  
  Sound: 9 out of 10. Pretty much all the sounds and music from all the other Metriod games.
  
 
  Online Play: 10 out of 10. Online is something everyone is asking about now with the new WiFi 
 deal on the DS. It is almost perfect. You can choose 1 of 6 hunters in the game each battle. Each 
 hunter has a special character. One has a shock wave, while another has a sort of sniper laser 
 (works like a sniper rifle.) The online play is simple to start up, just find an access point and 
 it'll try to connect. Then, off you go.
  
  All in all the game is valuable to other players and fans. I am just catching on to the Metroid 
 series but, even if you are just discovering the Metroid series, are a fan of it, or if you want 
 a new game for the DS, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supperbig92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have always been a metroid prime fan i would recomend this game. I will admit that this can 
 get boring playing it by yourself but it can be fun at other times. Me personaly think that the 
 graphics are perfect for the ds, and sound is good as well. The part that makes this game worth 
 while is the online competition between other ds owners. This game almost reminded me of like a 
 halo and halo 2 online. It was very funn and compeditive and fast paced. Which you were albe to 
 make friends and keep a list and make a rivals to make it easier to find friends to battle. As 
 for the story of the game is much different than past metroid prime games. Well i didnt really care 
 for the story it wasnt as fun as the other metroid series, with you exploring your way through 
 all the areas. This game is very funn and i think it is worth a buy if your a fan of metroid prime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taytizzle
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Metroid Prime: Hunters a lot recently (because there's nothing else to play) , 
 and I felt that it was time that I review this game.
  
  Graphics: 9.3/10
  The game's graphics much like the other Metroid Prime games are phenomenal, but you will occasionally 
 run into very "icky" textures especially when using the imperialist (sniper) .
  
  Sound: 6.4/10
  The sound isn't really good in this game unlike the other Metroid Prime games. 
 It sounds very fuzzy and at best annoying
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  The gameplay can be very fun at times (multiplayer) but very bland, boring, and... not fun at others 
 (solo mission) . It starts of very slow and it just gets progressively slower as you go along. The 
 game also features a variety of weapons that you can unlock and use, but I never found myself using 
 them (except in multiplayer) because they either didn't work (imperialist) were too alike to the 
 power beam (volt driver) . The game also features a scan visor like the other two games, but you 
 never actually get anything from using it (no endings or artwork, nothing) .
  
  Value: 8.5/10
  You'll get a lot of mileage from the solo mission but not enough (9 hours max) . 
 Multiplayer though will provide you with a lot of hours to make up for the time you didn't get 
 from the solo mission.
  
  Bottom Line: If you're going to buy this game, buy it for the multiplayer because you can unlock 
 all of the hidden characters through multiplayer (so there's no advantage to people who played 
 through the solo mission) , and it's a lot of fun.
  
  My Score: 7.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akodikosako
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is an FPS for the Nintendo DS. Although a step forward for the system, Metroid 
 is just what the Halo series represented: technical prowess and great multiplayer, but nothing 
 much that aside. The single player is linear, repetitive, and extremely difficult. In short, Metroid 
 is for the most diehard FPS fans, but not meant for the casual gamer.
  The story of Metroid Prime: Hunters is... WTF??? I mean, half the time I couldn't understand the 
 story, the other half just frustrated at the game. Something about octoliths, another about some 
 race for power- just too disorderly for actual understanding.
  The content in Metroid Prime is satisfactory, good at best. You get to play as 6 hunters, use there 
 weapons, so on and so forth. There's an adequate amount of variety to keep you going for a few 
 days. Not bad for a shooter, but I had expected more playing Super Mario 64.
  Single player plain out sucks. Most of the time you're running jumping on platforms, and when the 
 time comes to actually use your gun, it's over before you know it. 
  Now multiplayer, there's where this game excels. Hunters is very fun while playing via Wi-Fi or 
 locally. You can have up to 3 other friends joining the fight. It 's interesting to see how it 
 turns out.
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is also one of the best, if not the best, graphical game for the DS. Seeing 
 how the DS is meant to look like Playstation One quality and the game looks like Perfect Dark- 
 just amazing. Sound is droning lawnmower engines. Controls are fluid and just like the PC. If the 
 actual content of the game was improved, who knows how good this game would get?
  In short, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a good-on-the-airplane game. I was really expecting more out 
 of my money, but for those who like FPS's, go ahead and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Good and interesting use of the stylus and touchscreen. Extensive multiplayer modes.
 
  
  THE BAD: Repetitive. Lack of story. Recycled bosses. Confusing map designs.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great first person shooter that has a lot to offer.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
 is good. The infamous Samus Aran returns after a mysterious emergency message is received from 
 the Tetra Galaxy. Her mission is to uncover the source while she battles against unknown foes and 
 dangerous bounty hunters. And that's pretty much the premise of the game. During Samus's journey 
 she will visit 4 main planets and search for 8 crystals called Octoliths before the final fight. 
 
  
  You use one hand to move forward, backward, left, and right while the other hand holds the stylus 
 to aim using the touchscreen. Tapping on the screen jumps and the L trigger fires the weapon. The 
 controls are surprisingly responsive and easy to get used to. There are other control schemes but 
 this works the best.
  
  As you travel around the planets you scan items with your visor, unlock paths, fight a boss, and 
 run back to the ship before time runs out. Rinse and repeat about 8 times and then beat the boss. 
 All this would be a lot of fun except the game feels like a big recycling bin. The many bosses 
 you fight are just upgraded versions of themselves. In addition, as you explore the levels you 
 run into many guardians and hunters over and over again. Furthermore, you will be doing a lot backtracking 
 which can become confusing since the game's map doesn't do a good job at telling you where to go 
 next. Fortunately, the multiplayer mode saves the day because it is just as good as the adventure 
 mode.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. Metroid Prime: Hunters is definitely one of the best looking games on the Nintendo 
 DS. The game is entirely in 3D and has some good CGIs. Although the resolution and polygons could 
 be better, it is still quite impressive. The only bad looking character models are the guardians. 
 They are completely uninteresting looking and unfortunately frequently appear.
  
  SOUND is terrific. The music and sound effects are clear. Each area has a distinct soundtrack and 
 when guardians or hunters appear the music will become very intense. Everything works well together 
 to enhance the game's presentation.
  
  VALUE is fantastic. The adventure mode will take 8-15 hours to complete and will unlock all the 
 playable hunters for multiplayer mode. This is where the game really shines because you can Wi-Fi 
 battle against random opponents, rivals, or friends. In addition, the game also offers local play 
 off 1 game cartridge and even though it's a limited version of the game, it's still a great worthwhile 
 extra.
  
  OVERALL Metroid Prime: Hunters has a lot of value. It has a good single player adventure, and an 
 amazing multiplayer mode. If you can get pass its repetitive nature this is a solid first person 
 shooter all Nintendo DS owners should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielWu632
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game has lots off ups and not a lot of downs although the controls will take a while to master 
 this game has good graphics, great game play, and can be easily mastered so this game should be 
 also recommended to those who like metroid prime and buy tons of its games I feel that this can 
 be a great game for those first person shooter fans. I feel this game will make a excellent choice 
 of games and will make anyone play for hours to come. This game has the most amazing game play 
 of which I ever experienced in all of my games but it is not the best however I feel there will 
 be more games better in the upcoming years, weeks and maybe days and I hope many of you great gamers 
 will agree on this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredACE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  The handheld Metroid Prime definitely lives up to a fan of the Metroid Prime series. For a game 
 that can fit right into your pocket, it can't get any better than this. Even the multiplayer for 
 a handheld game is REALLY impressive. You can even play as other bounty hunters that you encounter 
 during the campaign. Each one has their own style, personality, and looks along with weapons. The 
 graphics are as normal as N64, but doesn't live up to PSP graphics. You won't really pay attention 
 to them because the gameplay definitely keeps you busy in a point and shoot style of combat. The 
 control schemes consist of a right handed stylus mode (using the stylus to point and shoot) and 
 the use of the face buttons (A, B, X, Y) . These controls can also be swiched to a fovoritism of a 
 left handed gamer. The stylus mode is VERY painful for the first part of Hunters experience, but 
 it is the only accurate and most effective way to go. Throughout the game you can pick up new weapons 
 to open certain door ways to progress through the game. Even the morph ball form is available in 
 the game along with bombs, missiles, and challenging bosses alike. 
  Hunters can satisfy a FPS gamer by coming in a small package with a big punch considering decent 
 graphics for the DS, and painful, but accurate control mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampire_lord00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Well it's finally here. After all the months of playing the demo that was included in the Nintendo 
 DS box people have been eagerly awaiting this game. Is it worth the wait though? Let's get to the 
 review to find out!
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is supposed to resemble that of playing a PC FPS using the stylus as your 
 "mouse". There are a ton of different control configurations to suit everyone (well hopefully everyone) 
 and most of them are very good featuring how the DS doesn't even have an analog stick. All in all 
 the controls aren't perfect but the use what the DS has to offer to it's fullest and what comes 
 out is a pretty well controlled FPS.
  
  Graphics- Wow, just wow it is amazing how excellent the graphics in this game are! This game definetly 
 puts the DS's hardware to it's fullest. The enviroments are extremely well done as well as the 
 monsters and other hunter's character models. All look pretty amazing. It makes you think that 
 the DS can produce even BETTER graphics down the road. The visuals in this game will just blow 
 you away!
  
  Sound- The sound is basic Metroid Prime. Yatta, yatta, yatta.
  
  Value- This game will leave you playing for months. The single player isn't exactly long. (clocking 
 in at around 12 hours) You can play through it multiple times and enjoy every time though. Where 
 the game really excels is in it's multiplayer. There are I believe 6 hunters to use and each have 
 their own special abilities that keep the mutiplayer fresh. The bad thing about the wi-fi multiplayer 
 is that without someone's friend code you can only play regular deathmatch with random people. 
 If you have the friend code though you can play all the gametypes online which include deathmatch, 
 capture the flag, and hunters. You can play with people locally and have all the gametypes if you 
 don't have wi-fi. The wi-fi will leave you playing for a long time and you will never grow tired 
 of it.
  
  In Short- This is a fantastic FPS on the DS and just a great FPS overall. The graphics are spectacular 
 and the mutiplayer is incredible and will leave you playing for months. So what can I say except 
 for get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wallace_Green
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The Metriod series continues with another portable game and this time with a very different spin 
 on the series. The main thing about Metriod Prime hunters in the controls which will take a great 
 deal of time to get use to, you aim, change weapons and change in to the morph ball with the stylist, 
 move with the D-pad and shoot with the L-trigger. You can change the controls around to make it 
 so you aim with the letter buttons but that just became even more difficult. With this control 
 set up you won't be able to play for more then an hour for you will get cramps in you hands and 
 wrist. But enough with the bad lets get to the good. In the single player mode has a good variety 
 of worlds and levels with some solid puzzle and platforming aspects. The other Hunters you encounter 
 will bring a great deal of fun to the gameplay, for it feels that you are fighting someone of the 
 same caliber of skill. Other then single player the game greatly expands in to the multiplayer 
 on and offline. Offline you can play friend even if they don't have the game but if you don't have 
 friends you can add up to three bots to battle with three selections of difficulties measured in 
 stars 1-3. Online is were this game immediately shines, with vast varieties of levels and Hunters 
 which always continues to make Metriod Prime Hunters an amazing game and a solid buy for any DS 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superarmcannon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This feels more like a FPS than the gamecube counterparts and the multiplayer is extreme! The story 
 is more like Metroid (NES) where you figure everything out for yourself and not have a buddy to 
 tell you what to do next, making it a bit more challenging. It has a great storyline, which is 
 much like Metroid Prime 3 Curruption and it keeps your attention longer than....... tacos, but doesn't 
 taste the same. But seriously though, its an awesome game and if you're a little sketchy about 
 the controls, using the stylus, it feels like you're playing CS or Halflife or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack001
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun I have had playing any game since World of Warcraft. The total experience 
 has had me hooked since I got it. The different levels are more varied than the other handheld 
 FPS's out there... like Coded Arms where all the levels look the same. Each have their own skills 
 needed to complete the level, and keep you on your toes as the action is always quick and never 
 slows. The only problem I had as far as gameplay is that sometimes the touch pad is a little, well, 
 touchy, and I will jump at inopportune times on accident. As for multiplayer, it is a blast, and 
 the plethora of maps to choose from is staggering. This game is just plain fun, and definitely 
 worth more than the $35 price tag. I enjoyed this more than either MP game for GC, and is my favorite 
 DS game. A recommendation for anybody with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Spartan177-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  If you know much about gaming, you're probably familiar with the Metroid series. If you're not, 
 you've probably been living under a rock or something for a year or so. Now, a few years ago an 
 unknown Texas developer called Retro Studios took the Metroid formula and made it into first person. 
 It wasn't a shooter, but more of a first-person adventure game. Most people were skeptical of how 
 an unknown could take a beloved series and change it. But, Retro succeeded and many hail Metroid 
 Prime as the best in its series. Retro made a sequel to Metroid Prime called Metroid Prime 2: Echoes.
 
  
  This game is no developed by Retro, and feels much more like a first-person shooter than the previous 
 Primes. You're able to play as different bounty hunters in multiplayer mode and the lock-on is 
 done away with.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters fits in between the gap of time between Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 
 2. Unlike in previous Metroid games, you have all of your weapons to begin with. The twist is that 
 you'll get other weapons in which the other bounty hunters use. All this happens on your search 
 for the Octoliths. The Galactic Federation has received a telepathic message that "Ultimate power 
 lies in the Alimbic Cluster." Samus was enlisted to search for this ultimate power and secure it 
 if she (yes, she) can. The Octoliths are believed to be the key to ultimate power.
  
  Unlike other Metroid games, you'll have to pilot your ship two planets and two space stations. 
 The game isn't set on one planet. Since we're speaking of the levels, there is an issue I need 
 to address. The level design in this game is linear, the mistake of most first-person shooters. 
 Backtracking in this game is still required, as in previous games, but there's really one path 
 to go on your way to the boss.
  
  Ah, the bosses. Another problem with the single player. The bosses repeat themselves, along with 
 you having to fight the other bounty hunters again from time to time. You must collect the three 
 artifacts to power a portal to the boss, beat it, and run back to your ship fast as lightning before 
 the security system blows you into little tiny bite-size pieces. This happens after every boss, 
 so it's not really a surprise. And when you get to your ship there are no explosions, no enemies 
 waiting outside, you're just back all cozy and safe. Strange, isn't it?
  
  But not all of the gameplay is bad. The controls are very good. You use the controls in an almost 
 similar way to a mouse on a computer. You move the stylus (this is the default control scheme) 
 and your gun moves and your view moves with it. The problem is this: sometimes you might accidently 
 slide over a weapon or the alternate form. You are able to, on the plus side, aim at your opponent 
 with precision.
  
  Graphics are beatiful. Just beatiful. I would have rarely thought this possible on the DS. This 
 is what happens when time and care is put into making a game. However, sometimes there is a little 
 bit of slowdown when the action gets too heavy.
  
  The music is good, just not absolutely stunning. Fans will be pleased to know that some classic 
 music returns in Hunters. Sound effects are loud and satisfying.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters lacks a bit in the single player. But for where it lacks, it makes this 
 up in the multiplayer. You can play against bots to hone your skills if you wish, or go straight 
 online. You start with three hunters unlocked and a handful of arenas (quite a few different modes, 
 too) . More cna be unlocked later on. To unlock hunters, beat them in a single player game. Unlocking 
 arenas varies in what you must do to get them. MP: H still uses the friend code system, but this 
 time adds a Rivals option. You can add rivals to your roster so you can keep track fo them. However, 
 the other player must want to be your rival to before your added to each other's roster.
  
  You are able to play in a mode with both your friends and rivals. Since a rival can be anyone in 
 the world, you can't use the mic to chat with them. You can chat with your friends via the mic, 
 however. Each person has a Hunter License, which will serve as your profile on MP: H. Your rivals 
 and friends can see this, but if you don't want them to see your record you can put on the setting 
 that says they can't see it.
  
  I cannot describe in words how addictive the multiplayer is. Each bot can have three difficulty 
 levels. so you don't have to worry about them being too hard or too easy.
  
  All in all, Metroid Prime Hunters isn't the greatest Metroid game to date, but it certainly is 
 worth buying for the online play and general multiplayer, which should keep you occupied for a 
 very long time.
  
  The Verdict: Thumbs up. 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I love this game. The action is really fun and I like the way the levels are laid out, 
 it is a lot of fun. Controls are precise and don't take too long to get down.
  
  Graphics: Strong point of game. They are awesome. The in-game movies are dvd quality and the in-game 
 graphics would stand up against the best looking Ps1 titles.
  
  Sound: Not overly impressive, but not bad either.
  
  Tilt: Just a lot of fun to play. I really 
 like playing all the different modes of play against bots, they are almost as good as playing people.
 
  
  Don't listen to other people who say the single players stinks, it is actually pretty darn fun 
 and I would recommend this title to any ds owner, with wifi or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  When I was first introduced to the Nintendo DS I was really amazed of how great looking graphics 
 it was able to run smoothly - but it wasn't before I played the Metroid Prime: Hunters First Hunt 
 I realised what this system was able to do. And since then there's been over a year of waiting 
 until the full Metroid Prime: Hunters game was to launch and I was really going crazy about it. 
 
  
  The key different between the demo and the actual game would be rather many, the general visuals 
 have been improved, sharper textures and so on, new interface, new weapons and the Power Beam does 
 now have unlimited energy and isn't full-auto anymore but bursts and holding the trigger a little 
 longer will charge up the Power Beam like in the GameCube version (s) of the game. 
  
  Something that people seem to not have a too good grip on is the controls of the game. But it runs 
 great if you've held a pen before in your life but it takes a little time to get into in the full 
 game, the demo was a bit more approachable - but for those who find the original DS stylus too 
 small would diffinitly get the Nintendo DS Lite, that will solve some of that issues. The controls 
 is precise, once you've got used to it and the learning curve varies from player to player but 
 for me it took about a hour or two, not the general controls but making more succesfull weapon-changes 
 and aiming around without having to accidently happend to change weapons in the weapon-bar up the 
 screen. 
  
  The story and single-player game itself is horrible, slow and has constant frame-rate issues. Everything 
 will go over and over again, you'll fight the same bosses multiple times but you'll have to do 
 so with the latest weapon you've found which have led you to the boss in any way. There's no real 
 moments when you will actually enjoy the single-player, it's not feeling like an actual Metroid 
 game but more as the cheap Golden Eye: Rouge Agent game for the DS. But there's one thing that 
 is pretty nice with the single-player, and it's not the gameplay but the smaller cinematics in 
 the game which is really high-res and is running and looking awesome - too bad the people working 
 on the cinematics haven't used the 1cm blank space between the screens on the DS but worked it 
 like it was a regular video for any unit, very unproffessional and frustrating. 
  The only real reason why you would like to play through the single-player is if you're not having 
 a WiFi Router at home or accessable closely where you'll unlock charathers for you to use in the 
 Multiplayer game. But if you have a WiFi router or connection at a hotspot you'll be able to get 
 those charathers from winning over the opponent playing with that specific charather. 
  
  Even how awful the Single-Player might be this game is still focused around the Multiplayer. And 
 as they said at the E3 2005 this game is surely the best possible Multiplayer experience for a 
 handheld. It plays really well online using WiFi but runs a little slower over local wireless play 
 and Download Play but it's still a good time. And the new charathers in the game sure spices up 
 the game, seven different charathers all with their unique alternative-forms and affinity weapons 
 but some plays out to be really bad balanced. For example, the most hated and crappy-balanced charather, 
 Sylux, he's stealing life from the opponent while using his affinity weapon and when he starts 
 taking damage he'll probably turn into his Alt-Form and circle around the map with his over-powered 
 alt-form - and more than that there's also Trace which has the affinity weapon of handeling the 
 "sniper"-weapon, Imperialist, which will kill a player with a well-placed headshot and he'll also 
 camouflage himself with the background gaining a even more bad sniping position, and just as Sylux 
 this fellow also have a annoying alt-form which is often used just to "alt-spam" around the map. 
 If those two charathers would have been wiped out of the game or modified it would all be a epic 
 close-quarters fight with outwise pretty greatly balanced, unique charathers. 
  
  With pretty much bad said about this game it's still great - the single-player game is there for 
 those who might like to check it out and the multiplayer offers a varity of different modes of 
 play, new charathers, many different maps, good WiFi support and also offers Download Play for 
 those who would like to play with some other DS owner which haven't bought the game - but with 
 a decrease frame-rate but it's still running fairly solid on 1vs1 games but less good on 4-player 
 games, obviously. 
  
  I would recommend this game to any FPS-loving DS owner and found that Rouge Agent wasn't their 
 thing, even those who might have liked the Rouge Agent for the DS will surely find alot more to 
 do here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfastnin1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  7 characters that you can play that is all good and cool. It has many weapon choices, and each 
 hunter has 1 really good weapon selelction. The multiplayer is great. Specially the wi-fi connection 
 playing is great. You get friends code, and before you start a game, you can talk or chat with 
 them. The graphics we are talking about amazingness. This is probably one of the reason why Metroid 
 Prime Hunters took a long time to come out. When you compare the graphics is the demo to the real 
 gsme, you see many major improvements on graphics. Controlling might be a little problem for about 
 1 and 1/2 hours. This is because when using a stylus, it is really hard to move using when the 
 character is in alt. form, and it is really hard to move really fast and aiming at the enemy while 
 tapping the screens to jump and change weapons. When you use the dual mode, it akes more time to 
 get use to because DS pads are small. Also, when you snipe, there is some difficulty aiming at 
 the right location because if you press a button, it moves certain amount, and can't get it to 
 the enemy. If you lower the sensetivety, you can aim better, but it wll be hard to aim fast. Both 
 way has positives and negatives. the positives are things that I didn't mention. But this is not 
 the games fault because DS always has sort of clunky control option with stylus, and the bottons. The 
 adventure mode is pretty good, great graphisc and many battle allows you to really focus on the 
 game. But some planets/stations seem too short. For example, Arcterra has like 2 big rooms with 
 4 minor big oones and 6 small places. That is lame. Also, the boss is always repeating tself again, 
 but next time when you face it, it is as easy as last one. The music is great. No doubt. 
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime hunters is a great game but has a clunky control which is not the games 
 fault (so I won' take any points off) , great graphics maximizing the graphic use of DS with amazing 
 sound. Minor exceptions on small planet/stations with repating bosses, but still worth it to buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bocko91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  This is the first Metroid Game I have played. I have always heard good things about the series, 
 but never got a chance to pick up a game. So, when I picked this one up, I was quite happy. Though, 
 as Adventure Mode continued, I found myself doing some of the same stuff over and over again, in 
 different locations. True, it's a difficult game and requires a lot of time to complete, but I 
 feel that the Adventure Mode was just too repetetive for it's own good.
  
  The Nintendo WiFi Connection is, without a doubt, my favorite part of this game. I find myself 
 getting whooped time and time again, though I'm encouraged to improve my personal record. And to 
 discourage the sore-losing cheaters out there, Nintendo added a publically displayed Hunter's License, 
 which will show your Wins, Losses, Kill Records, as well as Connection Rate. 
  
  The graphics are impressive. There are chunky parts at times, but for the most part, they are quite 
 awesome. Each missile explosion and fire ball are animated to the DS' standards.
  
  Gameplay is fun, but not if you don't have Nintendo WiFi. If you're going to get the game just 
 for adventure mode, you will be bored, in my opinion. I can't compare it with any past Metroid 
 titles, for I have played none. But for someone who wants a fun game that they can challenge their 
 friends with via WiFi, than Metroid Prime Hunters is a game they should consider picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  As my brother BeamBoy recently mentioned in his review on MP Hunters, it doesn't really have a 
 story. You just play as Samus Aran, who has to get some stuff on 4 planets and a space station, 
 shooting everyone who assumes otherwise. However, a long time ago a people named the Alimbic had 
 some adventures, and reports of that are found everywhere throughout the game. The story sux and 
 it's not very important (nor interesting) but it is there. The more important feature of Hunters 
 is .... of course ... the multiplayer. Though, of course, there is also an Adventure mode (which 
 of course includes the boring story) but Hunters is definitely a multiplayer-focused three-dimensional 
 first-person shooter. Say that three times quickly and flawlessly and I'll give you a cookie.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Okeedokee. Like I said, I don't own a GC, but I can imagine it would have been better 
 with a touch screen. ladies and gentlemen, the Touch Screen is the BEST feature of the DS, and 
 ESPECIALLY in Metroid Prime Hunters. And though there are control modes available that only use 
 the buttons, you just can't play this game without the touch screen. Impossible. Its control is 
 so damn good you just need it to play MP Hunters properly. It's made for it.
  
  GRAPHICS: Maximum. That'll be a 10. Next ! OK then, not. I've experienced some annoying serious 
 frame rate drops during multiplayer, when a lot of players are ... well... playing. Though they 
 don't last long, these drops CAN make the difference between victory or... defeat. But overall, 
 the graphics are very well done, especially in comparison with the demo. This is especially noticeable 
 when you look at the Morph Ball, Samus' alt-form. It's shiny now. Also, the 3D models of the other 
 bounty hunters (especially Spire, my favorite) are just impressive, and MP Hunters proves once 
 again that only Nintendo knows what its dual-screened creation is capable of.
  
  SOUND: Hmmm... the PSP's sound is better, but as long as you don't use the headphones, you won't 
 notice. Besides, MP Hunters has some nice sound effects, and the music really gives this game its 
 well-known creepy ambience... eek ! ... BOOM !
  
  VALUE: This game is really worth your money, and even when you completed the Adventure mode, there's 
 still a lot of replay value with the action-packed multiplayer function.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: To be honest, this is my first Metroid game, but I'm really satisfied with it. 
 I don't own a GameCube, I never bought the GBA games, but I only wanted this one because the demo 
 was good, and I really wanted a nice-looking shooter. But now, I'm a great fan of the series, and 
 if Nintendo would ever get the idea of bringing this to the PC (which I doubt they would) it would 
 be just perfect for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeamBoy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  when i bought my ds i got a free mph demo, and it was great. now that I own the game i can say 
 that i haven't changed my mind. In the single player mode, the 1st level is a bit annoying 'cause 
 the corridors all look the same and when i'm in combat with some "spawners" then i keep moving 
 and jumping and stuff so that i take the same door twice and be back in the beginning.
  
  Never mind that cause i'm now kinda stuck in Arcterra 'cause i have my plasma and don't now what 
 to do. the enemies in the single player mode are different to the ones in the demo. (actually it 
 doesn't look the same) almost everything is changed... like the HUD, the weapons your inventory... etc.
 
  
  the single player mode holds many locks you have to unlock to get a door open and the bosses are 
 very good not that hard but really satisfying when u beat them :D. when you are walking through 
 a level and a cutscene appears or a different music starts, you're about to meet a bounty hunter 
 (like Spire , Noxus, Trace, Sylux....) , who all have their kinds of weapons and kinds of alt-forms. 
 (Morph Ball, Dialanche, Voscythe, ...)
  
  I'm not gonna tell you something about the background story cause there isn't one or it kinda s*cks...
 
  
  the multiplayer mode is to me the best part of the game. my fav hunter is Noxus cause he can freeze 
 you like hell... en when you can't move he fires headshots at you. the different weapons are very 
 good and the snipe modus (witch i have discovered yesterday :D ) is addictive and fun.
  
  the graphics are the best i have seen (on the ds)
  
  the gameplay is superb cause the controls 
 are very well placed (you don't have to get your manual to find out where the fire button is)
 
  
  the sound is amazing especially when you fire a plasma.
  
  I'm a big fan of this game and you must get this!
  
  CONCLUSION: it's worth your money.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cssprofanboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  All got to say is that this game is awesome. I first got it and was like, oh i hope this is going 
 to be fun. (Because I have never played a Metriod game.) Brought it home, played, and could't let 
 go of my DS Lite! I played until the light for the battery was red. Charged it and went off playing 
 until the light was red again.
  
  Graphics - 7.5/10 - Even though they are not the best graphics, is it still awesome!
  
  Gameplay 
 - 9.8/10 - The gameplay does not get boring at all. (It might be 'cuz I love First Person Shooters 
 or not.) And really fun if you have online.
  
  Replay Value - 9.0/10 - If you have Wi-Fi then the replay value is awesome. Enough said.
  
 
  Overall, Metroid Prime : Hunters is one of the best games out for the DS. It is also a must own 
 for any DS Owner!
  
  !~Thanks For Reading~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newcoma
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the game that is going to kick sonys PSP's little behind. Underestimating 
 a console usually ends with you crying because the one you bought sucks. Nintendo is on the verge 
 of becoming number one in every gaming area, especially with the new Metroid for the Wii. The first 
 person gameplay is fun if you can figure out your way of controlling Samus. The graphics are top 
 notch for the DS, most importantly the wi-fi support makes this game all the better. Hunters is 
 a game that will keep you playing your DS until your fingers bleed or you need to charge it back 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo of this game, I was realy impressed by the visuals and just simply how great 
 this game is. Then they said that this game was goin to be canceled. When i heard that I realy 
 got mad because i wanted to get a DS and get this game when it wuz going to come out. then i heard 
 it was a rumor and it was going to come out. the game it self is just what the DS exactly needs. 
 A really great game like this one. The visuals in this game are just emersive and really the best 
 i have seen sofar on the DS. This is one game that any DS owner should not miss. The graphics and 
 sound are just awsome on the DS. the gameplay is very unique especially with the touch screen. 
 the game is just simply one of the best games i have ever played for the DS. The game is lengthy 
 so thats a good thing. This is one game that I think that anyone will like and should get for the 
 DS if they have one or if they are planning to get one. Everything about this game just awsome. 
 the only thing that isnt as great is the levels are a bit bland but that is something that really 
 doesnt matter. Its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retro3d2b
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been with the whole metroid collection for awhile now. I really got into the series during 
 the fusion years. Dont get me wrong. I adored all the games for metroid, But I honestly expected 
 alot more for the ds versionMetroid Hunters". Retro studios did such a great job On creating 
 Metroid prime for gamecube and the whole game had a musical and graphical twist but after echoes, 
 I was a bit down at how the music was not as great as metroid prime.
  Left in this upset, I was hopeing that the ds would serve a whole new dish of music and gameplay. 
 The gameplay did change, consisting of a new stylus touchscreen idea, and it was great, but gameplay 
 was somewhat limited. Enemies were not as ... well.... Cool looking unless it was a boss or someone 
 hard to beat. The world did not even come close to as beautiful as metroid prime. The music was 
 a bit slowed down and boring. Graphically wise I did not expect anything because we all know that 
 ds is limited graphics wise.
  My words may have seemed a bit critical but with all due respect I do enjoy the game and it should 
 be on your list of played games at least. It is a game to buy and spend time on of course and will 
 keep you quite busy and entertained after the first level or so.
  Goodluck.
  -David - 
  A. K. A- Retro3d2b (Xbox-live 360) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterbrunton
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Simply brilliant I was only playing it the other day and it brought back fond memories of Metroid 
 Prime if you liked that game on the Game cube then you will love this.
  
  The levels are full of detail and new surprises new enemies plus bounty hunters to kill and fantastic 
 new weapons to have fun with. 
  
  Also after that there is a multiplayer for those who have DS you can go round to your friends and 
 play metroid together through download play or optionally you could install a wireless network 
 in your house and play all your mates with wireless connections online and beat them up there instead, 
 you can also send them messages before you battle or you can talk to them through the microphone 
 the only downside is it only works one way at a time so you can't both speak at the same time just 
 one after the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Metroid series went from side-scrolling to first person shooting when Metroid Prime was released 
 on Gamecube in 2002/2003. The game was better than anyone would have imagined, and the fans apologized 
 their bad comments on the idea of making Metroid a FPS. The sequel, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes was 
 also top notch and featured more of the same gameplay elements that made Metroid Prime such a classic. 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters story evolves between MP 1 & 2. Samus Aran hunts for eight holy artifacts 
 that together is a powerful weapon. But Samus isn't the only bounty hunter seeking these artifacts, 
 so she must fight all enemies and find them. The bounty hunter has become the hunted.
  
  The Nintendo DS isn't the most powerful handheld console out there, but this game has really pushed 
 the graphics to the maximum. The game is in full 3D and looks just amazing. The enemies look great 
 with a lot of details and with some fine animations. It's impressive how well the game runs with 
 almost no slowdown at all. Metroid Prime: Hunters is the best looking DS game to date.
  
  The sound effects are awesome and you totally forget that this game is on this tiny machine. The 
 music in Metroid Prime 1 & 2 was just breathtaking with possibly the best title score ever! Hunters 
 features great music though not as memorable as in the Gamecube games. It's indeed very good and 
 it creates the perfect mood for this game. It's nice that they haven't used all the same tracks 
 as in the previous games cause this game really stands on its own feet. 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is very different than the other Metroid games. It's a lot more linear to 
 begin with, but thankfully requires more exploration later on. There aren't any new suits nor moves 
 for you to find, but there are several cannon upgrades and planets. The new traveling between the 
 planets is great and it's nice to see that Samus actually is capable of landing the ship and not 
 just crashing. Cause Samus doesn't lose her abilities this time, as she's always done that in the 
 previous games. The new weapons are very cool and there are a lot of expansions for you to find. 
 There are a lot of videos in the game and they are all awesome, the intro movie is just breathtaking 
 introducing all the available bounty hunters. The single player is very good and with last 10-20 
 hours. But this game also features an incredible multiplayer. Online or offline you can fight in 
 several game modes. You can choose between seven bounty hunters in all and they are all very cool 
 and feature their own HUD. The controls in Hunters is very good, though pretty hard to get into. 
 It controls like a FPS on PC which is not how the previous Metroid Prime games was controlled. 
 Your left thumb gets very tired after a while, but who cares about their thumbs anyway! Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters is awesome and is recommended for every owner of the amazing DS. Worth the money? 
 Yes. Worth the wait? Absolutely!
  
  +
  Awesome graphics. The music is very true to the Metroid feel. The sound effects are very good. 
 The single player game is exciting and quite long. The multiplayer kicks ass. Brilliant CGI videos.
 
  
  -
  The single player doesn't feel as magical as in previous Metroid games. No suit upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is my first metroid game... so i dont really know how the puzzles and such work, 
 this made it difficult for me... but its still really enjoyable. The only reason i didnt give it 
 a ten was that the aiming cursor had no happy medium... Either the cursor was jittery and really 
 inaccurate, or you turn slower than molasses
  
  Graphics: Very high res, and the characters dont have a black outline like some DS games... Very 
 impressive
  
  Sound: very lifelike, but the sound that the runble pak makes is a bit disruptive
  
  Value: 
 alright.. I mean the multiplayer is awesome... The adventure game is cool, but difficult, and the 
 fact that it can transmit from all three types of multi player games, single card, multi card and 
 wi fi
  
  Tilt: I just like this game.. it's
  COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
  OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  When I say Tour De Force I mean that:
  It has Rumble Pack option, the best cut-scene graphics on DS, Very Impressive in game graphics, 
 Great use of the surround sound, Voice Chat online, Match Making online, Multiplayer Bots, Single-Card 
 Download play, Fairly deep stat tracking, and Some of the most unique precise controls a FPS can 
 have. (I can snipe on console FPS but with this its an absolute breeze... once you get the hang 
 of it.)
  So now that you know it has impressive features you probably want to know if it puts them to good 
 use? Basically Yes.
  
  There's not much story here, just more reading about a civilation and its demise. I'm not going 
 to lie its not that important, for completeness sake you might want to scan all the things in the 
 game and read about how these people were unreasonably attacked but its not totally necessary. 
 Overall its an interesting single player but once you play multiplayer you'll realize it has so 
 much more to offer.
  
  Controls are precise. Shooting feels spot on with the stylus, you'll just have to do a few bot 
 matches and adjusting their difficulty until you feel ready to take on the online people. If your 
 more traditional it supports a non stylus method where the A, B, X, Y buttons go up-down-and strafe. 
 (select zooms the sniper this way) L always shoots for righties. But you can always revierse the 
 controls so lefty stylus users can be at home.
  You have traditional plasma rifle, missiles, and then 6 special missiles with different effects. 
 While every humter can use every missile, there are special advantages that each hunter gets with 
 a specific missile. Like setting the enemy on fire for further damage, blurring their vision, homing, 
 more powerful snipe, etc.. Each Hunter also has their own alt-form like Samus' Morph Ball. What's 
 suprising is as crazy as all their powers are it all ends up being really balanced. Trace and Sylux 
 seem to be the favorite hunters overall though. If you really spend time with it you'll spend time 
 with each of the hunters and get a feel for who fits you the best. I personally play as everyone 
 of them, but Kanden is my favorite.
  Bots put up a very respectable fight too, and will give you a good challenge, and once you feel 
 like your getting better you can raise the number of stars for difficulty. (1-3 stars 3 being the 
 hardest) If you manage to get that good you can then have all three bots team up and play 3-on-1 
 against you for super tough matches. There's enough maps to keep you interested for a long time 
 too.
  
  Sound and Graphics are impressive. These are very richly detailed levels for DS. Single player 
 boss levels look especially impressive. Cutscenes though are awesome utilizing both screens, its 
 really great and during a select few instances make for a tense experience that other DS developers 
 could learn from. The levels themselves could have been more creative though. Not just the typical 
 fire, water, etc.
  Sound doesn't fair as well however. While the sound effects are great and the use of surround is 
 absolutely perfect as you could get on these speakers (If i can't see a guy and don't have radars 
 on I'm listening for which way the sound comes from.) the music falls way short. While we usually 
 can't expect much from a DS soundtrack the grating techno twang sounds get old. Just turn the menu 
 music way down and hopefully you won't notice it much in game though you can turn it down there 
 too.
  If it weren't for that sound is right on. You can hear guys crisp and clear through Wi-Fi voice 
 chat too.
  
  For what its worth when you play single-card download the sound on the receiving end sounds ultra 
 compressed, but that's the trade-off for having a fast download time.
  Online play is somple just sign on, either join a friend or play randomly. Now you can play people 
 with similar rank, or any rank, and US, or Worldwide. Then your simply thrown into a death match 
 free for all with up to 4 players... and its great!
  The multiplayer essential modes are all there: team deathmatch, deathmatch. capture the flag, capture 
 the base, as well as a few special ones. Like Prime Hunter where one guy is really powerful and 
 fast but contantly loses life, you and the others try to kill the prime hunter, first to be prime 
 hunter for ____ amount of minutes wins. Along with a few other cool ones.
  Its not completely unhacable unfortuneately, but the good news is there are things you can do so 
 cheaters don't automatially win once they hack.
  
  If your into the multiplayer shooters this one is rock solid and the competition is strong. A great 
 choice by any standard and an unbelivable DS game. My Xbox Live account ran out and I have no plans 
 of renewing it because of this game specially. (but all the Wi-Fi games are great.) If you don't 
 own a DS and are on the fence I can safely say if you like FOS you can pick this up along side 
 a DS Lite and be a very happy person.
  
  One last important (to some people) note:
  THIS IS NOT LIKE CONSOLE METROID PRIME GAMES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HisBrother
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game=Hardcore DS game.
  
  First off I'd like to congratulate how MPH uses the DS touchscreen as a camera movement. It is 
 perfect for FPS just like the mouse. The thumb strap is a must have for this game and I recommend 
 you buy one if you have a DS Lite.
  
  Graphics are amazing in this game. Although pixelated upclose most textures look amazing when looked 
 from afar. The weapon textures in this game are awesome aswell. No pixels can be seen in the weapons 
 and are very smooth.
  
  The single player is good in difficulty but bad in story. Its more like playing multiplayer when 
 offline. So if you like a good story accomponied with Metroid do not buy this game.
  
  Multiplayer is what really makes the game shine. It is definitely a portable quake and I reccomend 
 fans of quake to buy this game. This game really requires skill and is a real good test of skill 
 on the DS. You can not just hold onto "shoot" in this game due to it loading into a more powerful 
 shot when held on to shoot. 
  
  I recommend fans of fast paced FPS to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome multi-player, Metroid on the DS, online play.
  The Oks: Music is nice, multi-player doesn't chop other's movement.
  The Bad: Lack in single-player, 
 slow-down, multi-player has very few options on worldwide.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a tiny game compared to the ones on the GameCube but only the single-player 
 is the lack which gives this score 8.9.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters starts in Samus's starship, she receives a message: The Ultimate Power lies 
 within the Alimbic Cluster. *Others have received this message and so, ultimate power, you go to 
 the Alimbic Cluster which has two planets and two space stations. Each is unlocked on the way and 
 then you face Oubliette which is a planet sealed in a different dimension until you unlock it.
 
  
  The *others are other hunters, non-humans. Sylux and Weavel are space pirates, Noxus is a Vhozon, 
 Trace is a Kriken, Spire is a Diamont and Kanden is an Enoema. Each of them have an alternate form 
 (like Samus morph ball) and they all are different. They also have a different affinity weapon 
 which all can be obtained in single-player and they allow the hunter to allow more powerful use 
 to it than others. Besides Samus, the hunters are only playable in multi-player.
  
  The multi-player is cool. With one copy of MPH, you can get three other people playing a bad-sounding 
 battle against you and others. With others that own the game, you can also do six other modes. 
 Battle is a battle for a number of kills against self-destructs, survival is battle except you 
 have lives instead of points, prime hunter is when one person kills another, they are the prime 
 hunter and they must be it until someone kills them or he dies. The winner is the one with the 
 most time/reach the limit. Capture is stealing the other team's octolith and bringing it back to 
 your base, bounty is the same except everyone goes for one and must bring it back to a drop point. 
 Defender is that a person must be the only one is this area for a time and nodes is that there 
 are bases around and each person must acquire them like defender and get points for owning them.
 
  
  The online play is cool as well. If you just want to play against someone, you can do a worldwide 
 or regional match and select if you want to fight people who are ranked near you. Then you just 
 do battle. If you have friends or rivals, you can do multi-card play, mentioned above.
  
  The gameplay is ok, each planet has two eighths of the ultimate power's secret, each which you 
 need to get weapons on the way. There are three bosses, really 10 but 2 are repeated 3 times in 
 harder ways and the other one is another form of the same enemy. One of them is this totem with 
 nodes and you have to shoot them to attack his health. Another is this ball on a wall and you must 
 destroy the panels to attack it.
  
  The graphics are a mix between the 64 and the GameCube. If you have played MPH: First Hunt (sold 
 separately) , you would have had 64 graphics. On this game you have guys more detailed but it lacks 
 in resolution.
  
  The sound is ok but it does double out after a while. The gun shots and the player killing works 
 pretty well.
  
  For $50 at launch, I'd thumbs up it.
  
  In conclusion, if you don't have Wi-Fi, don't get this game. It is the online play that really 
 makes this game enjoyable. Unless you have someone who lives with you and owns this game, or Wi-Fi, 
 don't get this game. It took me six hours to beat single-player 100% and it was kind of enjoyable 
 but not like others. A good recommendation for people who just like playing anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom92
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Once i opened the case for metroid prime hunters for the first time i knew i was in for a blast 
 as i witnessed the hologram on the front cover. That was pretty cool. So i fire up my ds with mph 
 in it and watch the intro video. Simply amazing. But lets talk about the in-game features. 
  
  Single player campaign was a bit of a dissapointment and very repetitive. I guess nintendo 
 didnt really focus on this.
  
  But the main focus is multiplayer. Simply briiliant. Youve got 3 choices once you click multiplayer. 
 Single card, multi card and the highlight, 'Nintendo Wifi Connection'. I wanted to hop right in 
 to training with the game's multiplayer mode so i click multi card play. You can practice with 
 bots in that mode before you hop in to the intesity of playing people online. I could barely get 
 a single kill in the first 2 weeks, but i started noticing i was getting better. 
  
  The controls. You have to get use to the controls as their is stylus mode, and dual modes. Stylus 
 mode is the default controls, where you will be using the ds' stylus to aim by using the touch 
 screen. It feels a bit awkard at first, but i guarantee, you will get use to it in no time.
  
  The Nintendo Wifi connection is the main highlight of the game. You can find a game so the 
 ds searches for random players around the world, or you can hop into friends and rivals, where 
 you can have a game with your buddies, and rivals (which i will explain) and create rooms use voice 
 chat with your friends. When you hop into the find a random player mode, it will search for players. 
 If you liked playing with that player, at the end of the game click the add rival next to their 
 name. A pretty nifty feature so you can play them again. IF you link your wifi id to nintendowifi. com, 
 you will get a hunters license with all your stats. It is great. 
  
  The multiplayer modes are battle, capture, bounty (every man for him self capture the flag) , defender 
 (king of the hill) , nodes and survival. 98% of the time you will be playing battle.
  
  Metroid Prime hunters is the most awesome fps you can buy although you will end up playing a lot 
 of cheaters online. What can you say? They are there in all online shooters. But if you have a 
 nintendo ds, YOU HAVE TO BUY IT because it is simply one of the best games on the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Wow. Just over a year ago we were all playing First Hunt with all the awkward control schemes. 
 Fast forward to a year later and let me tell you; developer NST sure knows how to make a game great. 
 Unlike the other ugly bounty hunters our main girl Samus competes with, the game looks absolutely 
 stunning with some of the best graphics the DS can pump out. 
  
  While I wasnt loving the multiplayer as much as NST wanted me to (The games emphasis was on multi) 
 the online part did its job. There are many modes to choose from and a lot of creative stages to 
 play in. The voice chat may be limited, but it is a step in the right direction. The problems were 
 that the weapons were unfortunately weak, the characters (Like I said earlier) are ugly, and battles 
 were limited to only four players. 
  
  The single player isnt nearly up to par with other Primes, but it gives a great FPS experience. 
 Hunters game goes down like this: you guide Samus through many different worlds, collecting alien 
 artifacts. And even thought the multiple environments and open-ended progression represent innovation 
 the franchise needs, the half-assed execution wont win any awards. After a few worlds of fighting 
 the same bosses over and over, looking for keys, and escaping before the bomb explodes, the game 
 feels like you forgot to save the last time you played. 
  
  The game is still great though, a huge leap for FPS on the DS, and the game is perfect in short 
 bursts, which is probably for the greater good because after about 15 minutes I began to get headaches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quadrafop
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I ended up liking this one a touch more than the GC versions because the stylus control is a natural 
 fit. It rules to look around anywhere in the environment, the response is snappy and fun. What 
 isn't natural is holding the DS, and pressing buttons! Buttons in my case, because I'm left handed, 
 which I think probably doesn't work as well as the d-pad because of the gaps between the buttons. 
 I could work around it in adventure mode, but didn't stand a chance during multi-player. 
  
  The game starts out great, and keeps the fundamentals of its GC brethren intact. It does start 
 to grind to a halt once you realize you're fighting the same boss over and over, with only slight 
 changes. That plus the tedious Guardians and Hunters really hurt the overall fun of adventure mode.
 
  
  If you like the GC versions, you'll want to give this a look, just expect to start fighting boredom 
 around the 50% mark.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codasco09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game shows off the DS in it's 3d capabilities and also in it's innovation. The use of the 
 the stylus to aim gives it almost pin point accuracy but it takes a little while to get used to. 
 This is good because there is no lock on in this installment of the metroid prime series.
  
  The single player is fun but not like the other Metroid prime games, it lacks the back tracking 
 and great puzzle solving with expansive enviorments to roam through, and another downside is that 
 it is fairly short but is fun because you encounter new and interesting Bounty Hunters.
  
  Speaking of Bounty Hunters the game shines in multiplyer where all the bounty hunters, if unlocked 
 in the single player are available to play as. I give this game an 9.3, but without multiplayer 
 I'd give it a 7.9 because if you don't have multiplayer, it's kinda worthless. There are more than 
 a dozen maps to play if all unlocked and about six modes to play including temas and a full on 
 free for all.
  
  I know this was a short review but I gave you the things you need to kow before buying this game, 
 thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orph21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  In MPH (Metriod Prime Hunters) , you can either play single player campaign, or get into the real 
 action with Nintendo Wifi.
  In single player, you play as Samus Aran, one the strongest bounty hunters in the galaxy. You go 
 from planet to planet, trying to find Almbic artifacts; the keys to the octoliths. The Octoliths 
 are said to contain the key to the "ultimate power." On your journey, you will come in counter 
 with many other bounty hunters, who are als looking for the Octoliths, and you will have to fight 
 them.
  The single player game is action-packed, and very, very entertaining.
  The downside to the single player is that you might find yourself tediously backtracking and checking 
 the map, but heck, thats Metriod.
  Although campaign can be very fun, the real action happens on nintendo wifi. On wifi, you will 
 be able to battle people from all over the world in 4 player matches. Also, you can choose from 
 7 different hunters to play as. Each hunter has different strategies, weapons, and a unique alt 
 form. Your score of wins, losses, and even your favorie weapons, charactors, and levels will be 
 recorded in your hunters license. To get to the point: this multiplayer is extremely fun! Asiding 
 that there might be a few bugs that people might exploit, you will find yourself glued to your 
 DS.
  There are two different control schemes that you can use. You can use the regular control by using 
 the stylus to aim and the D-Pad or the button pad to move, (depending if you are right or left 
 handed.) L or R is used to shoot. Overall, the controls are just right.
  
  To conclude, MPH is a very exciting, fun, and entertaining game. If you own a DS, pick this game 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxjames
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its is fun but they could of did a better one player.
  Graphics: very good. they fit the game well.
  Sound: it is great with head phones.
  Value: it 
 is fun only because of wi-fi that is it suck other wise else. this is by far the wost metroid game 
 yet.
  Tilt: personlly i love metroid game. but i was let down by this one it really was no fun.
  
 
  
  there are real dorks on line so be good before you try it on line. they will kick you a$$. they 
 are super anyoing and cheap well if you wanted to by this you see what i got to say so... buy it 
 or no? your choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AManCalledDan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Probally one of the best multiplayer games for the ds yet. with wifi it is the bomb. it kinda plays 
 like halo 2 xbox live if you know what i mean:) . 
  Well here it is:
  
  Gameplay: magnificent very fluid controlls, easy to move and play. a game that you could easily 
 pick up any where and play for hours and hours. great multiplayer, very fun with friends. (but 
 i hate the Friend codes) it should have been like xbox live but oh well it was great anyways.
 
  
  Graphics: some of the best first person graphics taht i have ever seen on the ds. as well the cutscenes 
 were amazing as well it looked like psp graphics.
  
  Sound: very realistic very consolish sounds. like it comes from the console version. I like :) .
 
  
  Value: there is very much value in this game even i only played like 14 hours it seemed alot longer 
 im serious like i played like 25 hours.
  
  Tilt: this game was very easy to get into i enjoyed it the whole time all the way through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  Hmmm.... worth your money you've been told? Maybe you should borrow this from a friend first.
 
  
  For my money, i am a 15, soon to be 16 year old boy and seeing as i am in Australia, we get most 
 games later then the U. S.
  
  I got served a lot of hype for this game and when I saw it, I thought "i am going to get it; it 
 has to be worth it from what Ive been told!"
  
  The Result: Disappointing to say the least.
  
  This game is confusing, doesn't really explain 
 a lot of things going on and it confused the Crap out of me.
  
  If youre into this sort of game where you run around, doing most of the same thing, most of the 
 time where there isn't much real fun in the tasks then go ahead, as for me? A total waste of my 
 money and time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfkunrendered
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have to start by saying that I have always played the Metroid series. This game is pretty good, 
 but compared to the Metroid Prime games on the Gamecube the single player isnt all to great. I 
 know that its a portable game, and for that, its a pretty good single player game, not long or 
 as difficult as the others, but its good. Now the controlles do take a little while to get used 
 to but after you get accustomed to them, then you`ll be going in no time. But the main reason for 
 buying this game is the multiplayer. It is very fun on multiplayer, especially when you have friends, 
 because you can talk to them. That is one of the problems I have with the multiplayer, you cant 
 talk or text to people that arent your friends, and if you like playing with someone you can add 
 them to your Rival list, but theres no way to find out their friend. But any way, the multiplayer 
 is really good, and I suggest this to anyone who is looking for a game with a decent campaign and 
 a really exciting multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The story in this game might not have started off the best, but after a while, like in ice world, 
 it starts getting kind of good since you start to meet and fight with the other bounty hunters. 
 Over all, the story is Ok.
  What makes me want to rate this game pretty high is the multi player. The multi player is just 
 a master piece for the DS. And when you play it on the DS Lite, it look even way better. Whats 
 makes it even better is that you get all the bounty hunters in the multi with out having to beat 
 the game. Sweet!. And when you play with four players, that's a party there that should be celebrated 
 because you will indeed have a blast.
  Another thing that i would like to mention is that the multi player is way better than the one 
 on the Game Cube because you don't just run around locking like an idiot, you actually get to move 
 around while aiming. I prefer using a, b, x, and y to aim and d-pad to move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game ruins the Metroid experience. The game can be played using the stylus, which is extremely 
 difficult. It may require you to build up specific had muscles to enjoy this.
  
  You can play without the stylus, but controls become near impossible then.
  
  Despite the controls, 
 the game still is poor. Metroid Prime is now run-and-gun. Ruins the experience of trying to explore. 
 The GC versions were great, because you targeted enemies, or various other targets, which made 
 it less like a traditional shooter, and more like an exploration game.
  
  The saving grace is multiplayer. Multiplayer is very good, and requires a huge amount of skill 
 to become any good. Graphics are good, and sound is decent. That's about it.
  
  It's not a terrible game, it's just not for everyone. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I got this about a month ago & had high hopes for MPH, but i was disappointed with MPH single player 
 dampaign : (
  
  Lets start with the good points great graphics, Awsome online mode & wicked control system.
  
 on the down side repetitive single player game, & boring boss's.
  
  The Single player does add a little Innovation to the Metroid Series with 6 new main enemies that 
 appear randomly in the levles, these hunters are also in the multi player game as playable charecters 
 :)
  
  All in all the singlla player is good but gets boring fast & the levle design is very poor
  
 
  On to the multiplayer thats where MPH really shines cause of the 4 player deathmatches XD They 
 are very addictive for Handheld multiplayer but there no counterstrike : (
  
  All in all one of the DS's best games & a true joy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker_86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Ive been a huge fan of the recent Metroid Series, starting with Prime then moving on through Echoes, 
 Zero mission and Fusion, and ive been waiting for hunters for ages. Ive had the game since launch 
 day and have finished the game, so thought nows the best time to leave a review.
  
  There are some slight spoilers regarding Single Player and whats available in multiplayer
  
 
  Firstly, this game is hard! Theres no lock on feature, so you need to aim properly, which is especially 
 hard when weapons travel slowly and enemies travel fast. Luckily there are weapons that travel 
 fast that allow you room to experiement and practice. There are several weapons in the game, all 
 of which are unique and work well, meaning you have to be on your toes to know what weapon your 
 using/dealing with and react accordingly. 
  
  The single player game is rubbish. Although it vaguely follows the GC style, its more, find coloured 
 door, find beam to open door, procede. Theres not alot of room to explore, and there are creatures 
 called Guardians that appear ALL THE TIME and spam you in the corner, their attacks are very hard 
 to avoid. Also the bosses are awful, youl fight 8 bosses, although the same 2 models are used for 
 all 8. Lazy! Also the bosses are very very hard, and rather than use skill to avoid attacks, you 
 need to collect enough Energy Tanks to be able to last the fight. 
  
  I havnt played across Wi-Fi yet as im having trouble connecting, weve got so much security on our 
 router I cant get anywhere near a connection! I have played with bots though, and this is the real 
 fun aspect of the game. You can set up a multiplayer game with up to 3 Bots who all play very very 
 convincingly. All the hunters really do feel different, and rather than some half-baked gimmick 
 its very well done, each hunter having a different HUD, view, weapon, and alt-mode. Although techincally 
 each character handles the same, its still great fun to swap hunters and find a favourite. There 
 are lots of different game modes and loads of Maps. Using the stylus takes getting used to, but 
 youl soon realise the briliance of it, be it to cover a wide area with Missles as Samus, Steer 
 Sylux's Lockjaw form or try and steady the perfect sniper shot as Trace. Each hunter has an affinity, 
 which is basically a little extra ability, an insentive to play as them if you will. Noxus can 
 freeze people using the ice beam (Judicator) and Kanden has the ability using the Volt Driver to 
 distort the victims vision for a few seconds. Whilst not a deal breaker its a nice little touch. 
 
  
  So to summarise, dont buy for the single player! If you have access to Wi-FI then you need this 
 game, even if you dont, playing against Bots is still brilliant fun, but you need to decide whether 
 or not its worth .30 to play against bots. This is more FPS than classic Metroid so be warned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  I have always been attached to the Metroid series on almost all the platforms it has been on. This 
 one on the DS is especially good and uses the touch screen capability very well. The games graphics 
 aren't bad but they are also not top of the line, but perfect for the DS. This game also supports 
 Nintendo Wifi which is very fun and you can have rivals online and its just a blast to play. The 
 story mode is nice and long and very entertaining. The gameplay of this game is just great, theres 
 unlockables, multiplayer, and campaign. This game is a great addition to many great games on the 
 Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Man did everyone hype for this game, Metroid Prime Hunters, for the Nintendo DS. Well they hyped 
 and hyped and in my opinion it flopped harde, like a super belly flop. This game single player 
 consists of you and a bunch of other bounty hunters fom different planets, Trace, Kanden, Spire, 
 Noxus, Stylux, and I think thats it. You are all searching for some ultimate weapon to gain power 
 and , ya'know the usual, ultimate power etc. The single Player campaign feels simmilar to a budget 
 price game, barren, and linear, all the rooms and levels play out the EXACT same way, it gets so 
 boring. As for multiplayer, everyone says this is the best part of the game, and is simmilar to 
 halo, "simmilar to halo" lol, this isnt even close to halo. All the multiplayer levels are small, 
 compact, barley any open spaces, it just doesnt feel right. And second of all everyone is too good, 
 ok, thhis isnt a great reason, but serioulst i get pwned almost everygame, maybe because i suck, 
 but it just isn't fun. Another thing about Multiplayer is that there is like 8 modes of multiplayer, 
 but you can only play play one of them on wifi with stangers, that is a seriously "wtf", but multiplayer 
 isn't all bad, it has alot of levels, and some secret levels.
  
  Alright, My usual overall review.
  
  Gameplay 7/10 the controls are hard to learn and master, 
 and creates a discomfort in your hand after about an hour.
  
  Graphics 9/10, fine i'll hand it to you, Metroid Prime Hunters, you are quite beatiful.
  
  
 Sound 8/10, nothing special about it, but its not bad or anything.
  
  Value: 7/10 This game gets extremely boring because all you have to do is play multiplayer and 
 get your ass handed by all these Trace and Stylux abusers.
  
  Bottom Line. Only get this game if you have a ton of friends who has it, other than that , just 
 don'y play this horrible disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10gamer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay if your a fan of the series. I really got this game for the WIFI because not 
 many other games had it and im a fan of FPS. The single player is fun at first but when you have 
 to back track and fight the same enemies and hunters its really repetitive. The multiplayer is 
 the funest. If you dont have friends with a DS on wifi connection theres still multiplayer with 
 bots witch is okay. The wifi is the funnest because you can play with people all over the world 
 and test your skills with other people. So the main reason to get this is the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game is a good all around game. The thing that amazed me was the
  AI bots were fantastic and will keep you coming for more. The single player
  isn't all that great 
 and gets really boring because it keeps repeating itself. I
  like the multiplayer because there are alot of different types of modes my
  favorite is battle 
 of course but there also Nodes, Defender, Capture the **** Bounty, Prime Hunter are all great types 
 of games. This game is worth all the money you paid for it but don't expect the single player to 
 wow
  you that much. This game's graphics are the best the DS can offer and the sound was what I use 
 to track down my oppnents in multiplayer. Gameplay
  is very fast and sometimes hard to keep up with everything. But all around this game is good for 
 your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  everyone says its the best game ever... horrible controlls, bad graphics, boring single player, 
 and just not fun. i bought this game 3 days ago, and its already listed on ebay. thats how much 
 i hated it.
  
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
  MPH IS OVERRATED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the old school 2D metroids and I like shooter so I figured this game would be perfect 
 for my new DS lite. I was very wrong though. 
  
  From the grainy graphics to the akward control scheme this game not only fails as a first person 
 shooter but lacks the nostalgia of the original metroid side scrollers.
  
  I was very unsure about the control scheme when I bought it, and although its better than I thought 
 it still just doesn't function as a FPS. 
  
  Graphically the DS just cant quite support this game. Most of the enemies you will kill just look 
 like small polygonal things buzzing around the screen. You cant really tell what they are... It 
 very much reminds me of shooters I played on my mac back in '95. (thats not a compliment) . The 
 boss fights are also repetitive and kind of bland.
  
  For old school fans the exploration and puzzle solving to navigate throughout the world is still 
 there, but not in the right way. Your scan visor tells you just about everything and each little 
 world thign is very small. 
  
  If you are looking for a FPS on the DS, look elseware. If you are looking for some metroid nostalgia, 
 look elseware. Online play is ok but it doesn't make up for much. 
  
  Althought a nice attempt by nintendo if you want shooters in a handheld you need to get a PSP and 
 if you want the old schoolness get the advance games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  MPH is my most favorite game for the ds. When i played the demo that first came with my ds I got 
 really excited. But then nintendo kept delaying the game and i got mad. But after 6 months or something 
 I got the game for my birthday!!!!! This game is extremely immersive and just like the gamecube 
 versions. Although the puzzles may have been dumbed down a bit I think it is a bit better because 
 i couldn't figure out some of the gamecube ones on my own. Also nintendo has adden some new hunters 
 into the mix for the storyline and it has really gone quite well. The multiplayer is fun but takes 
 some time to get used to. Nintendo WFC worked out ok for me but I just lost horibly. Still pretty 
 fun if you understand what to do.
  
  GRAPHICS: Amazing!!! It looks like the gamecube MP but just on a smaller screen.
  
  SOUND: 
 Good classic Meteroid chimes nothing really new
  
  VALUE: If you like Meteroid or fps games buy this. If not try it.
  
  OVERALL: Great and needs 
 to be bought. NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentalchaos28
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When Metroid Prime was released in 2002 on the Gamecube, it would be an understatement to say that 
 the game got a warm reception. The tiltle was helared as the game of the year for it's unique take 
 on the first person shooter genre, it's extremely well composed score and it's then uncomparable 
 graphics. Nearly 4 years and a sequel later, the series has made its way on to the handhelds with 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters, a game which attempts to re-create the experience but falls flat in a few 
 key areas.
  
  In the game you reprise your role as inter-galactic bounty hunter Samus Aran. Your mission is initially 
 to investigate one planet, but due to your discovery there, in the classic Metroid fashion, you 
 must search other planets to accomplish your goal. This time you must obtain crystal shaped objects 
 called octoliths. To collect octoliths you travel to 1 of 4 planets, and then use a weapon or item 
 you have obtained to open a new passageway. This is the first area where the game is disapointing.
 
  
  In this game, the gameplay is overly non-linear. The objective is always to find 3 artifacts which 
 opens a portal which leads to a boss fight again and again and again. The key selling point for 
 a good single player FPS mode is constantly satisfying action. However, in Metroid, the game is 
 much more adventure based. If you are going to use the Metroid liscense, explorational gameplay 
 is expected. The problem here is that Metroid Prime: Hunters does not necessarily deliver constant 
 on foot action or logical exploration, it lies somewhere in between and the single player game 
 simply disapoints.
  
  But the gameplay in Metroid Prime: Hunters is credible for introducing some interesting things 
 in it's brilliant control scheme. The game has you moving with the D-Pad, aiming with the touch 
 screen, shooting with a shoulder button and double-tapping to jump. It sounds extremely complicated, 
 and for the first hour of play it is, but once you master the controls, it becomes a somewhat viscerally 
 satisfying game.
  
  The graphics, meanwhile, are a whole different story. This game contains some of the most impressive 
 3D graphics on the DS. Additionaly, the environments are all remarkably well detailed and the character 
 models look stunning, as if they were taken from a science fiction comic book. Unfortunately, the 
 graphics do have one problem. The slowdown in this game can be unbearable in certain spots and 
 makes the shooting action of the game become more challenging than it is to begin with. Other than 
 that, the only way to describe the games visuals are superior.
  
  The sound in the game is also fantastic. From the opening theme to the battle music to the classic 
 song played when Samus exits her ship for the first time, Metroid Prime: Hunters sounds fantastic 
 on the DS. It is a little disapointing the the sound is affected slightly by the graphical slowdown, 
 but otherwise, this game's sound is top notch.
  
  If there's any assuredly reason to buy Metroid Prime: Hunters it's the game's great multiplayer 
 action. In the game there are 7 different hunters to play as, each with their own weapons, special 
 forms and abilities. The balance of the special abilitie in the characters is extremely well balanced 
 and helps keep multiplayer fresh, in a rock paper scissors, but with guns, kind of way. There are 
 also dozens of multiplayer maps to chose from and no two maps are truly alike. The online multiplayer 
 is limited to only 4 players but the maps are made in a way that makes 4 players seem just right. 
 And with voice chat capabilities to all the friend code sharers out there, this mode clearly has 
 a robust list of features.
  
  All in all, it would be safe to say that I had high hopes for Metroid Prime: Hunters. When I played 
 the demo i was expecting an action packed fps but instead i got a game that feels like different 
 style of games blended together that just doesn't work that well. But still, those with acces to 
 online multiplayer or any multiplayer for that matter, should probably give it a look. Just be 
 warned, the single player game isn't what you've come to expect from Ms. Aran in the past few years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donaldo1989
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game to add to your collection as it really pushes the DS to new 
 boundaries in terms of graphics and utilising the DS functions.
  
  This game offers a single player mode, a multiplayer mode and a wifi mode. Single Player basically 
 involves you controlling samus as you explore 4 planets in order to collect these relics called 
 octoliths in order to find the power that has been sealed away.
  
  You control samus using the D pad for movement, the touch screen to aim and jump (by double tapping) 
 and the L button to fire. You will really appreciate this game once you have played for about an 
 hour since the controls have quite a learning curve, but once you get used to it, controlling samus 
 feels natural and since there is no lock-on in this game, these controls are great for fast paced 
 action.
  
  However, the single player fails when compared to other metroid games due to the repetition and 
 lack of platforming. You will go to and from each planet beating a boss, encountering the rival 
 hunters and getting back to your ship before the countdown begins which does become very repetitive. 
 The bosses lack variation, its quite easy to get lost in where you are going and unlike other metroid 
 games, there is no screw-attack, spider ball, wall jump etc. which makes this game feel more like 
 a good first person shooter instead of a metroid game.
  Not to say the single player isn't enjoyable, but you would expect more from a metroid game.
 
  The single player will last, but you probably wont play it again once you have completed it.
 
  
  Where this game shines though is when playing mulitplayer and wifi. You get to pick from 7 different 
 hunters, in over 25 different maps, 7 modes (battle, capture the flag, etc.) and compete for 1st 
 place.
  This is where you will spend most of your time and therefore to really enjoy metroid prime hunters, 
 you should have an access point at home.
  
  I gave this game a 9.3, but if you dont have wifi reduce the score to 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris62492
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for the D. S, but the levels, and bosses are tedious. Especially the levels where 
 you have to race to your ship in an alloted time. They also repeat bosses, just with different weapons, 
 and health. The bounty hunters are well designed, but some are better than others. For example trace 
 has a sniper, can turn invisible, and in alt form he can lunge at people, another good hunter, 
 Weavel, can transform into a stationary turret , and the other half have a slashing blade. Also 
 the health is divided equally so you can just go and collect health while the other half fights, 
 and if your half turret is almost destroyed they can just come out of alt form and the turret will 
 teleport to wherever the other half is. While hunters like Samus don't even have a secondary weapons, 
 her charged missiles can kinda home, and she has an almost worthless boost ability in battle mode. 
 This makes battle modes one sided if you pick the right hunter. The online is okay, but it takes 
 a while to get matched up, unlike games like halo, and madden. Overall it is a good game for D. S 
 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeefBoy25
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Its good... but the enemies, worlds, and bosses can get a little repetitive. I still do enjoy playing 
 it as well as the Wi-Fi. The adventure mode is fun, but it could use something else. Great grapihics 
 and sound are alresdy there. I think it needs better weapons and more enemies. So far at the third 
 level there has been about 5 enemies, and the boss and other hunters obviously. It is still fun 
 to play and better than Metroid Pinball or what ever. The Wi Fi is fun even though I don't use 
 it that much, and from what iIve seen they do a good job a keeping noobs with noobs and pros with 
 pros as best as posible. It could, however, use some mini-games... lol. Lastly, the morph ball, 
 though it never played was a huge deal in other metroids, was a little same old and bland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerCookies
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  Metriod Prime hunters is a FPS on the ds. The story mode is alright it could have been better and 
 longer but it was still fun. The movis LOOK FANTASTIC they are short but the are still GooD looking 
 The Multiplayer IS MAD if you like playing online FPS YOU WILL LOVE IT when you strat you will 
 be crap and die alot but once you get the hang of it U will be the one who is WiN ing. over all 
 metriod prime hunters is a good fps. THey chould have made it a bit better. but over all METROID 
 PRIME HUNTERS IS A FANTASTIC GAME AND YOU WILL LOVE IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Remember to read the second paragraph, its my new opinion.
  
  well, I make a lot of reviews, and just some of them are perfect. And this is one of them. This 
 game has a great gameplay. You can FINALLY travel in your spaceship into other planets. it's a 
 very revolutionary metroid game since there are new bounty hunters with which you've to kill to 
 be able to survive. The best part of the gameplay is that you've got to use the STRIP (BETTER THEN 
 THE STYLUS IN THIS CASE) to move your camera as if it was a mouse, and gives you the feeling that 
 YOU ARE REALLY FIGHTING AS IF YOU WERE SAMUS, cause the lock camera sucked and that's why i would 
 put the other metroid games a worse rating. the GRAPHICS are GREAT!!! Specially in the movie in 
 the beggining where the new bounty hunters are introduced :) I loved it. The sound is generally 
 good, but in some parts it could be better... BUT i rated its sound with a 10 because of the ABILITY 
 TO COMMUNICATE VIA THE MIC WITH OTHER FRIENDS OR TEAMMATES BEFORE STARTING THE GAME. this destroys 
 completely the pictochat, which would be great if Nintendo invented a slot-2 compatible pack that 
 made pictochat able to enter into the internet. THE MULTIPLAYER IS THE BEST PART OF ALL THE GAME! 
 You can play lots of modes (7 different ones) including Capture (the "flag") , my favorite. this 
 game's multiplayer is similar to quake 3 arena's one (my favorite game) and it gives you a series 
 of mixed reactions that you'll love. The RUMBLE FEATURE of the game is also cool. you can get a 
 RUMBLE PACK in most nintendo's or videogames shops or by buying metroid prime pinball. BUY IT. 
 PLAY IT. LOVE IT. my friend code. maessage me to tell u mine: 4123-8510-8840 
  
  One thing: Why do you hate Single Player?!?! Its great! I found the other metroid's sp too difficult, 
 bu this one is simply great!!!
  
  too good for me... thanks for reading
  
  All this was written by me a long time ago, i'll post it again. now i'm a 4 star trace player, 
 with anti-glitcher device and leader of the first clan created, i formed a union for it. here's 
 my new opinion: THIS GAME'S GREAT!!! Wi. Fi is AWESOME, tournaments are the funnest things on life 
 (specially capture ones) clan battles: awesome. SINGLE PLAYER: AWESOME TOO! i've played the game 
 3 times without getting bored, even if in the second one i got 99% what made me very angry, but 
 i started again, again. I'm about to reach the 100% now and it's still great. The music is awesome, 
 a masterpiece. Graphics are awesome also, impressive, the best drawings imaginable in a portable 
 device, ppl think i'm playing quake or halo, and cutscenes... WOW! Gorea's (final boss) structire 
 and music is another mastepiece. THIS GOES FOR ALL THE ONES WHO HELPED CREATING THIS GAME:
  you're awesome, awesome, awesome, all here is awesome. This game is the best gme i've ever playe 
 din my life, even better that the OOT, the second best game i've played. Best multiplayer EVER. 
 just plain fun Single player, this game really deserves a 11.0. How did all this info fit in this 
 small card??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyre577
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, to warn you, you will see a lot of bashing of this game, as I am an avid fan of the Metroid 
 franchise (I have played every Metroid besides the spin offs) , and this game was single-handedly 
 one of the worst original Metroids out there. Bosses are repeated over and over, level designs 
 are so bland they get boring, and enemies that just now how to group around you and know nothing 
 about cover. Then ruined online, yes there is voice-chat, but why can't you chat with your rivals? 
 Surely just putting them on your list should be good enough to be able to trust talking with them.
 
  
  Ok, now that I listed the bads of this game, I will describe them in even more detail. The plotline 
 of this game has Samus and some other Bounty hunters travelling to a solar system to find artifacts 
 in order to retrieve the "ultimate power". The story seems good at first, but then you realize 
 how pathetically infused into the game the story is. Say good bye to more than 2 line descriptions 
 of events that happened, and say hello to pointless scanning of stuff that reveals little to no 
 detail about what this "ultimate power" is or how it originated. 
  
  You may be saying, well its a FPS, so why would the story mean anything? Well if you check out 
 other First Person Shooters, then you would see how important the story is to even those types 
 of games. If the game had little to no story involved, the shooting and killing will begin to grow 
 pointless and bland, and most of all, boring.
  
  Now, when you see "Metroid Prime: (insert word here) ", you expect to there to be mind-blowing graphics, 
 right? Well, here is another let-down in this game. The level designs, as I described, are boring, 
 bland, and repetitive. You'd think that the DS could push something 2x this when you see games 
 like FF 3 pushing the DS to its limits, but when you play this game, it would be a very good reason 
 to just finally admit that the PSP has better graphics. Most of the effects in this game, are 2D, 
 and not full 3D, which is also disappointing. The boss designs are not that much different either, 
 and they, too, get boring.
  
  The DS can produce very good and nice-to-listen sound/music, right? Well when you play this game, 
 your ears may hurt from all the bad music, and the fact that the memorable and very good music 
 that is common with the Metroid franchise is sadly non-existant here. This game should've really 
 took advantage of the DS' virtual surround sound speakers, as it could've really helped this game 
 when playing it, and helped the immersion factor.
  
  Metroid Prime is a series/franchise that is supposed to have good and involving single-player, 
 yet, you don't find that here. You go to the same planets, defeat one of two different bosses, 
 take the artifact, and then run out during a timer. But, the game does not give any sense of rush 
 beyond the timer, as the planets don't blow up, or change, they just stay the same, very disappointing 
 indeed. Now, when you go against the two different types of bosses, you will find out that between 
 each version of one, it isn't that much different beyond a different color and an added attack, 
 which then turns what is supposed to be adrenaline-rushing boss battles into repetitive, boring 
 battles against the same bosses over and over. The only reprisal you get is when you reach the 
 end of the game, and fight the final boss. Now why would we have to wait THAT long to have a different 
 boss? Surely they could've put some extra effort into making another boss to at least change things 
 up a bit.
  
  The multiplayer doesn't fare that much better either, with Nintendo STILL being oblivious to any 
 sort of hacking/cheating on Nintendo Wi-fi connection, you will find that the majority of your 
 time is spent looking at a losing screen, as you were once again cheated out of a win. Plus, no 
 chat with your rivals, not even TEXT chat, puts this game off by a mile when comparing it to the 
 likes of Halo and Counter Strike. Now, having friend servers be listed is very good thing, as it 
 enables the experience to be less randomized (MK: DS I am looking at you) , and easier to play with 
 the friends you WANT to play with, not some other friend you didn't even know was online at the 
 time. The random-searching doesn't fare that much better either, and ends up being clunky and useless. 
 When you search under "Match My Rank", you expect to see people who match your rank, yet, you get 
 people who are 4-5 stars when you are only a 1 star, and then frusteration sets in, as they begin 
 to team up on you and defeat you. And yes, I have heard about people saying others suck when they 
 get beaten by a bunch of 2 stars, but, as I continued to play online, I found out that all the 
 people do on there is team up on you or others who are of less rank than you, and thus, get easy 
 wins. Its frusterating, pointless and all of the more reason for you to sell this game when you 
 get the chance.
  
  Now, there are some redeeming factors to this game. The bots are actually good in here, and they 
 can usually play by the rules, but the 3 star coms are WAY too tough for practicing with. Plus 
 the option to play with EVERY map online even in random-search is a plus, but beyond all this, 
 the game does very little to make up for its flaws.
  
  In closing, this game is flawed beyond belief, and is even more flawed by a flawed online service 
 that continues to defy people's cries for a safer online with no threat of cheaters or hackers, 
 but, if this game is showing anything, its that without an anti-hacking service in effect, and 
 without a way to ban people online, NOA, NOE, and NOJ have NO way to get rid of hackers when they 
 play online, and are powerless to stop cheating. I warn all of you to stay far, far away from this 
 game, and, if you want a good online shooter, to just pick up a PSP and play Socom or Syphon Filter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Hunters delivers another great action adventure that you had on the Gamecube on Metroid 
 Prime. In hunters unlike the other prime titles you will be able to travel to different planets 
 and go seeking out for these crystals looking Octoliths. However you are not alone in this search 
 for Octoliths. A total of 6 hunters are also looking for the Octolith. So you will eventually end 
 up seeing them through random areas of the planet. And end up having a sort of mini-boss battle 
 with them. If you lose the battle against any of them you will lose and Octolith and you will have 
 to eventually go and search for him to battle him once again and get your Octolith back. These 
 hunters mostly attack you when you are in times like almost reaching a boss or when the time limit 
 is running. Now that is one of the minor problems of this game, after you go all the way through 
 the planet and fight the final boss you will have to do backtracking to return your ship before 
 the time limit. While is a way to add challenge, it still feels unnecessary. The overall adventure 
 is still pretty much the same thing you did on the Gamecube title by entering different areas, 
 looking for information with your scan visor or open door locks with it, solving simple but fun 
 puzzles on first person or in morph ball. The real bosses that are not the hunters have some interesting 
 designs that is something the Metroid Prime series always been good at. Yet they are not too hard 
 too fight since you basically just need to find their week point. They still have many different 
 ways too attack and can try challenging you. One of them is like a big stone that starts spinning 
 and shoots fire while it spins. It will remind many people of one of the bosses on the first Metroid 
 Prime that if you remember well. They have done a nice job on making bosses on hunters. However 
 the new important aspect of the game is the new controls style. This game offers you to decide 
 to use the stylus mode that is with the touch screen or the dual mode that is with the buttons. 
 With the touch screen you can move your view very easy and move it anywhere you want.
  
  The graphics on the game are quite a big surprise because of how well they implement the games 
 look on the Gamecube and the 3-D style. Surely is not has perfect has the Gamecube one but is still 
 surprising to see on a handheld. Samus and the other hunters have enough details only thing they 
 are not exactly sharp but for a DS game is surprisingly good looking. Still one aspect I really 
 love from the game cube titles is the ambience that I feel like I am inside the game because of 
 the realistic sounds and graphics, however in Metroid Hunters there is a lack of that that even 
 tough I understand that is not completely possible for DS graphics is still something that is very 
 fundamental in the Prime series. Still the overall presentation is fairly nice.
  
  The Audio on the game is still very similar to previous titles in terms of the soundtrack, however 
 the only thing it misses is some really good ambient sounds when going through the singleplayer 
 campaign mode. The sound effects are top notch with no exaggerated sounds or ridiculous ones. Metroid 
 has never had voices before and this game is no exception. Yet you can still hear the voice of 
 some aliens talking that are impossible to understand. This kind of category is not that quite 
 special when talking about a game like Metroid Hunters that is just a handheld title.
  
  The real reason that Metroid Hunters was moved is because they were adding multiplayer wi-fi gameplay 
 into the mix. This got everyone excited because it is the first and only Metroid game for now that 
 is online. In the online player you are able to use any of the hunters you encountered throughout 
 the singleplayer. The good news about this is that each hunter has a different style of weapon 
 and attacks to do making the battles more varied and interesting seeing what other online opponents 
 can do with other hunters. However the problem with Metroid Hunters online is that it feels bland 
 when finding unknown players. Because you simply just search for opponents and start battling, 
 you dont get to know a little bit of your opponents and they are no rooms like we had on Mario 
 Kart DS. Sure they were only a few but something is something. With Friends you can get to know 
 a lot of stats about your friends and when you battle an unknown player you can ask him to be your 
 rival so you can see his stats and battle him some other time.
  
  The online multiplayer offers different styles of play including hunt, survival, Prime hunter, 
 Octolith search and others. Plus there is a ton of multiplayer arenas to play around. The problems 
 with online play is that there is always someone who always uses a cheap trick to kill you instead 
 of being varied the way he kills you and the 2nd thing is that sometimes it doesnt feel like if 
 you were really playing online it felt like if you were battling bots in which you actually can 
 in the game. They could have expanded a few things here and there to make it more interesting. 
 Is still fun and Nintendo is just starting online play so lets not judge them on online play that 
 serious yet.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters delivers the first person shooting on the DS and porting all of his great 
 concepts. Yet the game fails to deliver to be high quality like other Metroid titles. Is still 
 a fun play that most Metroid fans would enjoy, but if you dont like metroid then I really dont 
 suggest buying it. The rest who want to start going into Metroid with this game I would suggest 
 to rent it first or pick up first Metroid Prime on the Gamecube that is bigger and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knucks91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I just got MP: H about a week ago and I got to say it's an pretty awesome game. It had fluid graphics, 
 and stunning detail but what really seperates this from the rest of the wifi games is the multiplayer 
 I gotta say wow. It sure beats the hell out of Mario kart ( no offense) but there are so many options 
 to chose from. I know I had my doubt but this surely washes all of them away. But I will give you 
 this warning: if you have nintendo wifi, you might want to play single player first because the 
 controls will definetly take some getting used to. don't make the same mistake I did. I think right 
 now i'm 4-17 win- loss ratio so make sure you get some practice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptofreak120
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters for the DS follows in the storyline in some position between Prime 1 and 
 2 (I think) . Samus, this time, doesn't lose her equipment at the beginning, and has to face a group 
 of six other hunters for the possession of eight shards on power on four different worlds, called 
 Octoliths. Once collected, the final battle begins versus you and Gorea, an intergalactic being 
 that was sealed by the doomed Alimbics. You have six new weapons in this game (guns) , as well as 
 your power beam, missiles, and alt form. The single player is pretty weak in areas. The bosses 
 are used over again, only just adding a certain new attack to them. The final boss, however, leaves 
 you feeling satisfied when you beat it.
  
  In the mutliplayer, you can play as the seven hunters (Samus, Noxus, Spire, Kanden, Weavel, Sylux, 
 and Trace) , each with unique skills and affinity weapons. Each battle is unique, and there are 
 26 arenas for you to choose from (or was it 27...?) . The game definitely puts in a good amount 
 of time, and multiplayer can even be played online over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  Now, the problems... the single player is, as I've said, weak. The multiplayer actually let me down 
 the most. Out of all the beams (and I repeat, out of all the beams!) that you have, the most basic 
 of them, the power beam, is the most unbalanced. It can be rapidly fired for 6 damage a pop (more 
 when it's a headshot) and is easily and quickly charged for 36 damage (if you keep track of it, 
 that shouldn't even be possible in any game) . The missiles can also be charged up, and used with 
 Samus' affinity (homing charged missiles that go for your head) . And not even experts (and I repeat 
 again, not even experts!) aim as well as level 3 bots do (don't say that you do, because it's a 
 lie) . I've faced good players before, but that's not even possible! Also, I would've even liked 
 the dropping of a single player if we got more arenas (not that there aren't enough, but it would 
 be a nice thought) .
  
  There are several other things wrong with the multiplayer, but I'll let you all figure it out on 
 your own. It's worth a buy, but don't expect to keep a cool head while playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamane_x
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  This game is really cool. The graphics are the pinnacle of ds tech. The gameplay is revolutionary. 
 Using the touch screen to aim and jump works very well. 
  
  Now for the haters: many will say, "MPH is horrible! It's not at all like the gc games!" Well duh! 
 MPH is a new fps that shows how good a touch screen is. Anyone who thinks a game on the DS should 
 be like a huge GC game has problems.
  
  Some will also say that the single player game is bland. That is true. A fingerless rat could probably 
 get pretty far (not really.) But anyone who says, "This game is easy. I cant wait to beat online 
 people" prepare for a shock! Online play is the real challenge. You can play bots to train, but 
 bots arent programmed "altspam until they d/c."
  
  This game is a must buy if you say "Halo 2 is cool. They should have a handheld version."
  
 
  Weavel even looks like Master Chief! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtf-m8
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Adventure mode is horrible. Level design is beyond repetitive and the bosses are boring as hell, 
 to match the rest of the adventure. The adventure can't shake a stick at previous Metroids on the 
 GCN. The game isn't a first-person adventure nemore, its a first-person shooter. And because of 
 this transformation u do alot more shooting and killing rather then discovering. And even tho the 
 game revolves around killing, the single-player lags constantly if there's too many enemies in 
 1 area. The Scanning system is near pointless as nothing is all too interesting. If this game would 
 have released without wifi, it would of been the biggest dissappointment on the ds. Now on to what 
 saves this game from being the worst Metroid ever, Multiplayer. It's got single card local lan 
 play to go along with multi card and of course online play. Single card play is great as its not 
 too limiting to othr players (they have to b samus, but u can play on ne lvl on ne mode) . Multi 
 card plays just as good xcept, obviously, every1 chooses their own character. Online play is pretty 
 awesome xcept the service went down on me the first few days it was released, but it hasnt happened 
 recently and i doubt it will happen much more if at all. Multiplayer has a decently large amount 
 of modes (6 or so im not too sure) to choose from tho i honestly find myself going back to battle 
 mode alot. There's also 27 levels to choose from in multiplayer tho u will have to unlock them 
 to play at them (same thing with othr hunters, u can unlock hunters and levels by either progressing 
 thro the adventure or defeating the hunters online, or beating people at the locked level) . There's 
 voice chat (online only and only before and after matches) and while it isn't crystal clear it's 
 usually understandable, the only major downfall of this is tht u can only chat with friends. Now 
 multi player would b near perfection if it wasn't for the other bounty hunters. Honestly they're 
 so uneven it makes me cry, the developers did a horrible job with making them equal. Sylux is by 
 far the cheapest, his shock coil and lockjaw r some of the cheapest things ive seen and used in 
 the game. There's also the fact tht only four ppl can play on multiplayer, but tht's expected as 
 it's a portable game. This games got quite a learning curve to it but once u get used to the touch 
 screen ull b a sharp shooter in no time. The Adventure will keep u away, while the online play 
 will keep u coming back for more. Graphics are beautiful, for the ds, i dont remember ne n64 game 
 looking even close to how good this game looks, other then the lag in single player, these graphics 
 are some of the best ull c on the ds. My advice is if u dont plan on going online with Hunters 
 then dont get it, i know i wouldnt of bought this game if i didnt have a router. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fox_dude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most amazing games for the ds! 
  
  Gameplay
  
  I admit, controlling samus aran in 1 player mode is a pain at first, but after a while it becomes 
 so natural. To bad they blew it in story mode, i lowsy, stupid, and horrobly made fps mode. The story 
 will keep you going, but only a couple doors, and 1 time you blow something up (other then alien life 
 forms) In game cinnimas make my eyes hurt from the... choppy-ness... but the cut scenes are Amazing.
 
  
  Online Play
  
  Online play is thw whole reason i give it a 9.7, other then a 6.0.
  If you donn't have dsl or comcast, you are done for, you proboly should have bought elmo's world 
 for the game boy color.
  I spent 10 hours on story mode, and 200+ hours online. If you have a tight budget it's the game 
 for you. lets see,$35 for the game, and asuming you do not have a wirless device in the house, the 
 grand total comes to 65 dollars. You must be saying,"i though you said it's good for someone who 
 had a budget?". it is now we do more math. 200/65 comes out around 30 cents a hour... WOW!
  
  
  
  It is definatly a buy... but only if you have online ability! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denroid
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  I must confess, I am a long time fan of the Metroid series, I will even go as far as saying it 
 is my favourite game series. From 2D to 3D, I have played them all, and loved each one. When Metroid 
 Prime Hunters was announced, I was overjoyed that a new 3D Metroid game was coming out. However 
 when I heard that Retro Studios were not making it, and when I heard that the story wasn't going 
 to be that of your average Metroid, I became a bit sceptical.
  
  However, after a few delays, and it finally being released here in NZ, I got my hands on the game, 
 and after playing the game a while my thoughts are skewed. There is no doubt in my mind 
 that this game is great, a fine collection to any DS libraryhowever the game does not hold 
 up in Metroid terms quite so well.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is great. The controls can take a little getting used to at first, and they are by 
 no means perfect, but they do get the job done. Action is fast and furious. Despite this however 
 the game is somewhat lacking in terms of single player. The story doesnt stack up against 
 previous Metroids, and the platforming elements feel a little too basic. The maps are a little 
 bland as well and you will come across many loading corridors.
  
  That said, the game really begins to shine in the multiplayer. This game was made for multiplayer 
 and delivers the action hard. Sadly I do not have access to wi-fi, fortunately though I do know 
 people with the game. Even if you have neither of these though, the game has bots that can be used 
 to practice against which still provide a decent match.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are simply amazing for a DS game. It is easily one of the best looking DS games out. 
 Their is the slight frame rate issue when multiple enemies are all on screen and firing at you, 
 but it doesn't occur very often and is not very noticeable when it does. All the locales look great 
 and are very much what one would expect to see in a Metroid game.
  All the hunters and the bosses are animated excellently and look amazing in their own right.
 
  
  Sound:
  Once again another well done section. The sound is crisp, clear and true to the Metroid styling 
 with revised editions of previous Metroid music as well as new ones which stand out on their own. 
 The weapons sound great and once again very true to the Metroid style.
  
  Value:
  The games multiplayer is very addicting, while the single player offers as an alright distraction. 
 Replayability is limited for the single player section as once you have completed the game there 
 is no options for harder difficulties upon completion. Multiplayer is this games saviour.
  
  Overall if you're looking for one of the best multiplayer experiences for you DS, consider 
 investing in this game. If however you haven't access to wi-fi or don't have any friends you know 
 have this game, I would not recommend getting Metroid Prime Hunters as the single player doesn't 
 hold well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I only played this game for about two hours or so, but thats all I can stand for a day....
  
  The game is fun, and definatly a great Metroid experiance. The graphics are great for a DS 
 title, the gameplay fun... but its not as addiciting as previous games in this francise. Nor was 
 it fun to play. 
  
  What I mean by that is that my hands were going numb from the awkwardness of using the stylus with 
 the c-pad. First my right hand went numb, then my left. Then I had to shut it off....
  
  I guess thats something that comes with the field of playing on the DS....
  
  Story seems good 
 so far, but general Metroid.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean_-13
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  While this game could probably be worth play as itself, the fact that this is part of the great 
 metroid series just makes it as thoroughly dissatisfing game. Compared to the immaginitive, clever 
 and varied metroid prime on gamecube, this is crud. You are forced to play the same boss fights 
 (which pretty linear themselves) over an over. There is almost no exploration or problem solving, 
 and those that do exist take little effort. Multyplayer could be good if it were not for the ease 
 of exploytation of some weapons. You can find youself being continually killed by the same weapon 
 or alt form - boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deafboy1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a good game, but not the best game on the DS.
  
  The graphics are excellent. There is a little slowdown in the game but you barely notice it. The 
 controls are very comfortable and it makes controlling Samus on the DS very simple. The cut scenes 
 are the best Ive seen on the DS.
  
  I enjoyed multiplayer a lot. In single card and most WI-Fi battles, you can only play deathmatch. 
 In Multi card and Wi-Fi battles with people on your friends/rivals list, you can choose from deathmatch, 
 survival, bounty, defender, prime hunter, capture, and nodes. Ive enjoyed Wi-Fi a lot and I think 
 this is the best part of the game.
  
  The multiplayer was fantastic, but single player was not that great. You go around finding octoliths 
 and encounter other bounty hunters in search of them. The level design is ok, but not what I have 
 come to expect from Metroid games. The level bosses are repetitive, but the other bounty hunters 
 you encounter are challenging and fun to battle.
  
  I think this a pretty good game. I didnt enjoy single player a lot, but multiplayer is great. 
 With out it, this game would not be worth the $30 I paid for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAKUREKUSO
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best and ill explain why. First of all it has over 28 levels 6 sub weapons plus 
 the classic power beam and and missles. This game never gets old cause it has alot of replay value 
 and wi-fi is the best part of the game some players might abuse glitches and spams but its average. 
 The graphics are real impressive considering its for the DS and sometimes when your playing any 
 kind of mode it sometimes lags a little cause the creators put to much memory and data plus wi-fi 
 into the game. This game will keep you playing for hours non-stop if your a metroid fanatic the 
 game is a must buy. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  Metriod Prime is the best first eprson shooter that has been released for the Gamecube and the 
 sequel was just as good. Nintendo then tried to make another but for the DS -Hunters- (obviously) 
 and I'm glad they did.
  
  This game is amazing. It is set over numerous worlds which each hold 2 of the artifacts which you 
 need to collect called Octiloths. Metriod doesn't make it easy though as you can only get one of 
 these each time you visit as you unlock new weapons needed to unlock doors on later planets. Once 
 you collect an Octiloth a countdown timer starts for you to escape in but this is easialy done 
 as they give you too much time. It sounds easy but it is made much harder by the 6 bounty hunters 
 that strole the worlds looking to kill you and capture the Octiloths for themselves.
  
  The gameplay on a handheld first person shooter hasn't been this good. You move with the directional 
 pad (you can adjust it so it is left handed to) and shoot with L. This keeps one hand busy while 
 the other uses the stylus to aim at possible targets. When you watch someone play this it looks 
 like it is uncomfortable but it isn't. You can change weapons easily by just one touch of the stylus. 
 (from missiles to the sub-weapons) .
  Morph ball mode is easy to use aswell. You press a button and then just move with the D-Pad and 
 bomb with L.
  Also scanning is back and by scanning everything you learn of the planets history and the mysterious 
 power. 
  
  The graphics are quite possibly the best for DS so far as it has numerous environments like Volcanoes 
 & Ice Lairs each with thier own characteristics. The sound is very similar to the brilliant Gamecube 
 music. It also changes depending on how dangerous the situation is. (when you meet another hunter)
 
  
  By far the best bit about this game is the multiplayer. 4 player multiplayer between DS's by either 
 single-pak play, multi-pak play or Nintendo Wi-Fi. It is pariticulary good as you unlock new areanas 
 and upgrade you Hunter Licence. When you're on a role you won't want to put your DS down.
  
  Overall I belive this game is good value for money and long enough to keep you occupied. It 
 isn't too difficult either so anybody can play it without getting stressed.
  
  If you own a DS it's a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised to see how great and awsome the graphics on the DS is with this game. There isnt 
 even any bugs! Thats flippin awsome! Single player is really cool, it gets hard at times, but then 
 you find out just by blasting around a bit. The online multiplayer with NIntendo Wi-Fi is awsome. 
 Up to 4 people can play against each other and its like energy bullets flying everywheree, and 
 your like, whoa, and the other person is like whoa and stuff. Also, when you register your friends 
 friend code, and when you guys play online, you can talk to each other by pressing the "X" button! 
 Its really cool, and also there is the messageing also. You can add rivils to your list after you 
 fight them after a game and stuff, this game is really cool, any DS owner should have this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_ds_06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  ok ok if you could just cast your mind back to early 2005 when we was buying our ds and we got 
 metroid prime hunters demo with it. ever since then we have been anxiously awaiting the full length 
 metroid prime hunters and here it is.
  
  ok the graphics are great
  
  and so is the sound
  
  and so is the story
  
  if you only buy one fps this year buy this
 
  
  if you have a ds buy this game, if you dont have a ds WHY THE HELL NOT?!!?! 
  
  this is a must have game so get out there and buy it now
  
  thankyou for reading my review 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanng1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters is one of the best DS games around and it is really truly amazing as it kinds 
 of gives you a first person shooter feeling. The single player mode is alright but the boss fights 
 could get kind of annoying as every boss you fight, theres a certain thing to do before you can 
 deal damage to the actual boss. I usually find out how to beat the boss in the middle of the game 
 which is kind of late as you might have run out of ammo and health. The multiplayer is good as 
 it makes up for the single player. Multiplayer mode is truly amazing, as the multiplayer modes 
 are good as it has 7 different modes like:
  
  Battle -Death match.
  
  Prime hunter -When you get enhanced powers and keep them as long as you can.
  
  Capture -Raid 
 the enemy teams territory and steal their octolith, score when both octlith at your base
  
  Nodes -Find and secure node rings and earn points while they are under your control. 
  
  Survival 
 -Eliminate your enemies and be the last hunter standing. 
  Bounty -Fight for possession of the octolith and take it to the drop point. 
  Defender -Secure 
 designated area and increase your timer while youre the only hunter to occupy it.
  
  The only downside to this is that you can only play with 4 players including yourself, which might 
 not be fun. They could have made it to 8 players which will make it even more enjoyable and fun. 
 The controls are really good as it has a good combination using both the d-pad and the stylus taking 
 the full advantage of the stylus controls which is very good, but it could give you cramps from 
 time to time as the its not really comfortable.
  
  In overall the game is good but has its downside but dont let that stop you from buying the game 
 as its a truly amazing game, and its one of the best handheld game online out there. Its a game 
 worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The game metriod prime hunters is a awesome game, but it feels lazy and half baked with the single 
 player experience, Controls are funny once you 1st start ,but after the 1st hour youl'l find they 
 are perfect. The combination of the stylus and the d- pad feels good. The grapihcs are amazing 
 cutscenes give the psp a run for its money. Now even with the bad single player the multiplayer 
 is the best aspect of the game. You get a hunters lisence which tells your stats from favorite 
 hunter to how many headshots you have total the system. The stars tell what your rank in the world 
 is. Unlike singleplayer you play as all the hunters. 
  
  To wrap this up the game has amazing multiplayer, but weak singleplayer this is the best handheld 
 game online ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanj701
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the best first person shooter on the nintendo dual-screens. It has good 
 graphics for a nintendo ds game and it plays like a home console first person shooter. this game 
 is better than some of the first person shooters on other home consoles. It is a challenging game 
 and you should buy it the first chance u get. the multiplayer is the best and the WIFI is better 
 than any other ds game with wifi. The sound for this game is also very good it sounds like u have 
 stereos all over ur room. The single player of this game isnt all that good but the mulitiplayer 
 makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the first Metroid game I have played and I have got to say it is the best 
 DS game which is out so far.
  
  Although the gameplay is quite awkward at first you get used to it after a while.
  The graphics 
 are the best I've seen yet on the DS. The sound is very realistic too. The game has movies which 
 you can unlock by completing levels. The fact that the game uses videos instead of 3D cutscenes 
 works very well since the DS doesn't need much power to play a video of a 3D cutscene rather than 
 the actual cutscene. This also stops the game from having a choppy frame rate. The levels look 
 outstanding on the DS compared to other games. The amount of detail in the levels is truly amazing. 
 The game is not too hard or too easy. It is just right. Some of the bosses are really hard to beat 
 because the game does not tell you how to kill the bosses. You have to work it out yourself.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a must have for all DS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadbrian
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime hunters ds is a good game it is a lot like metroid prime or metroid prime 2 for the 
 nintendo gamecube metroid prime hunters has every thing you want in a metroid game amazing graphics 
 great gameplay and online play i have played the game online and it was very fun the online play 
 will keep you playing for a long time and the new hunters are cool the adventure mode is good as 
 well its long but that's not a bad thing there are some cool boss fights in the game and all new 
 beams for samus you also use the morph ball a lot wich is very cool when playing online you can 
 play on lots of levels so you can play it a long time with out it getting boring if you have a 
 nintendo ds i think that its a buy also when playing online you can talk to other players but if 
 you like the past metroids you will have a good time playing metroid prime hunters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svarthek
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 29, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game seemed like an obvious preorder for many from the first days of the DS. I love Metroid 
 and I feel it a strange duty to keep in the loop with each new and old utterance of each series 
 that I enjoy. This unfortunately doesn't give Metroid justice.
  
  The single player is bland and uninspired. Doing the same thing over and over is hardly what I'd 
 expect for Metroid, especially since the other Prime titles added so much depth and detail to the 
 Metroid universe. Hunters on the other hand just boasts more bounty hunters which seems to make 
 Samus seem much less a unique and fantastic character than she once did. 
  
  There also seems to be an increasing tendency for Metroid to lean towards "magic" instead of science. 
 Things seem to be getting a little over creative, and while at many times this creativity has led 
 to very interesting ideas things like "Silicon based life form" seem a bit fantastical even for 
 Metroid.
  
  The multi player is probably the most flawed online FPS I've ever played. Servers should be implemented 
 instead of the current system they use to get players together. This would solve the constant problem 
 I've been having with sore losers disconnecting. 
  
  Balance is a severe issue as well with the amount of exploitation of certain weapons or techniques 
 of attack that are ever present. Being good at this game should not be based on knowledge of these 
 exploits, but in one's aim, or tactics (spamming of any kind is not a tactic) .
  
  Controls are as good as they could be, but are very uncomfortable. Never have both my hands ached 
 from just an hour of game play. They work well for an FPS, and it's worth just living with the 
 pain.
  
  Graphics are probably the best part of Hunters, but are over ambitious for the DS. Like the controls 
 not much can be done to better them.
  
  Overall Hunters is worth a try especially if you have friends that own it, but I wouldn't recommend 
 it as a Metroid game nor as an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wal0026
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Although i only rented the game, i found that, in a short time, Metroid Prime hunters was very 
 good in the fact that it's a hand held first person shooter.
  
  The controls at first are a bit tricky, in fact i found my self having to pause during the heat 
 of a battle to just align my stylus in case of it falling off the screen. BUt over time you do 
 get used to it.
  
  The graphics are a bit clunky and pixilated, but their solid. The 3D graphics are pretty amazing 
 compared to some other DS games. The game runs smoothly with some minor frame rate problems.
  
  I would reccomend Metroid Prime hunters to anyone who likes first person shooters, mainly because 
 it's hand heald. To people who are new to first person shooters you might want to try something 
 else, but only because the aiming system can take an effort to get used to. But all in all Metroid 
 Prime hunters is a great game, with a great presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is set between Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes.
  
  The story is basically that you, Samus, have gotten a telepathic message that tells you to go to 
 the Amblic system to seek some sort of 'Ultimate Power'. To access this power, you need to collect 
 these weird diamond shaped thingies called 'octoliths'. To get an octolith, you must collect three 
 Amblic Artifacts. After you get three Amblic Artifacts, you step into this portal and face a boss. 
 There are also six other hunters trying to collect the octoliths, so you have to fight them.
  
  This does get somewhat repetitive at times. Collect three artifacts, go to portal, kill strange 
 giant weirdo. Repeat.
  
  The graphics on this game are decent, if a little screwy at times. The environments look great, 
 but sometimes they do slow down at times when there is a lot of action going on. The pre-rendered 
 cutscenes are gorgeous.
  
  The controls are good. At first you might be moving around the place as if Samus is drunk, but 
 you'll eventually notice that the controls are similar to a PC FPS. The d-pad and r-trigger are 
 like the keyboard, and the touchscreen acts like a mouse.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is one of my favourite parts of the game. You can play with 
 up to four players, online and local. There are heaps of modes to play, seven to be exact. These 
 multiplayer modes include nodes, battle, prime hunter, and some other ones. There are about 25 
 multiplayer maps to play on. If only one player has the game, and the rest use DS download play, 
 you can only play battle mode and everyone except you has to play as Samus. There have been some 
 complaints about alt-spamming (overusing your alt form) , and most people consider it a cheap tactic.
 
  
  In conclusion, Metroid Prime: Hunters is a good, but somewhat flawed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Hello there again, and welcome to my second review!
  
  Today we will be covering Metroid Prime: Hunters for the Nintendo DS.
  
  The game has a single 
 player mode which is okay, but not impressive. And the multi-player is where the game has the best 
 replay value.
  
  Gameplay: This control system is amazing. You use the stylus to direct your gun and you cradle 
 the DS around the D-Pad to move and the L trigger to shoot. To jump, you double tap the screen. 
 It took me awhile to get used to the control, but when youre settled with it, its fantastic. 
 
  
  Throughout the single player mode, you have morph ball, boost ball, bomb, charge beam and missiles 
 to start. Instead up getting the grappling beam or other suits, screw attack, space jump and so 
 on, Metroid Prime: Hunters focuses on six unique bounty hunters.
  
  They are Kanden, Spire, Weavel, Noxus, Trace and Sylux. Each of these hunters has a special weapon. 
 As an example, Trace uses an Imperalist sniper rifle. You will venture back and forth between 4 
 planets in the game finding these different weapons. The cool thing about the hunters is when you 
 kill them in the game; you will have access to them in multi-player mode on Wi-fi or versus.
  
  I wish that Nintendo could come up with a better idea, but this one does just fine. Each time 
 you enter the planet, the objective is to collect a mysterious artifact known as an Octolith. 
 These crystals are needed to beat the game. There are two on each of the four planets and you need 
 to reach the end of the level to defeat the boss. 
  
  Once you beat the boss, you grab the octolith and run like a chicken with your head cut off and 
 race back to the ship before the given time limit runs out. You can lose these octoliths when 
 you are killed by an enemy and they will take it. Luckily you can snatch it back easily if you 
 revisit the planet and find the hunter who stole it.
  
  As an end result, you will keep doing the same thing over and over again until you have all 8 Octoliths. 
 There are only two bosses in this game and they are quite disappointing. Also, I forgot to mention 
 that your scan visor is needed for solving lots of simple, but annoying puzzles throughout this 
 game.
  
  Next up is the multi-player mode. I myself am disappointed with the online mode because it offers 
 only deathmatch. Im not very good at FPS, so you can be the judge on that comment. I find that 
 due to my lack of experience on FPS games, that I am not even able to get a shot out before someone 
 snipes me and then Im dead before I know it.
  
  
  Next up is Graphics.
  
  With astounding 3D graphics, MPH is purely eye candy and takes full advantage of the DS. Although 
 some of the environments and enemies might be a little edgy and not fully clean lined, keep in 
 mind that this is the Nintendo DS we are talking about right?
  
  I cant really say anything else about the graphics except that Nintendo couldnt have done any 
 better.
  
  Now its time to make our way to sound! Yay sound, I love sound. Haha sorry 
  
  Anyhow, the sound is Okay and I literally mean okay because Metroid is known for having more 
 impressive music and sound effects. But some of the tunes are moving and get you in the suspenseful, 
 heart-racing mood. The shooting of your gun sounds precise and the dropping of bombs is nice too
 
  
  The Value of this game depends all on the multi-player mode. I feel happy with the purchase of 
 metroid, but Im also disappointed with the short, but fun single-player. The Multi-player mode 
 is great if you love to be slaughtered by cheap people, but keep in mind, I suck at FPSs :P, shhh, 
 dont tell anyone! Its our little secret.
  
  Tilt: The story of the game isnt very moving or exciting. The graphics are impressive though.
 
  
  Conclusion: Metroid Prime: Hunters is a must buy for fans of the series and FPS fans. The graphics 
 are stunning for a DS game and its a great step for future games. The value depends on the multi-player 
 mode; I would not recommend buying this game for just the single-player mode. The price is decent.
 
  
  Overall? Buy this game if your wanting lots of online experience, otherwise, Id stay away.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 28, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  A FPS that is greatly executed on a handheld console has always been a fable to me. Since Coded 
 Arms on the PSP, I have doubted the existence of a decent FPS game for a handheld, so you could 
 imagine how skeptical I was about Metroid Prime: Hunters for the DS. I was shocked when I found 
 that Hunters is actually a pretty well accomplished game.
  
  In Hunters, you take the role of the female bounty hunter, Samus Aran, who seeks an ultimate power. 
 In order to find this power, Samus must go to a galaxy of planets known as the Alimbic Cluster 
 to find eight different artifacts called octoliths. Octoliths are scattered all over different 
 planets and areas in the Alimbic Cluster. Youre not the only one who wants these sctoliths though.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will engage with other bounty hunters who have their own weapons and special 
 abilities. If you become defeated by one of these hunters, they will steal your sctoliths. If you 
 happen to get your sctoliths stolen, you can always track down the bounty hunter that stole your 
 goods in the first place and gun them down.
  
  The thing that really amazes me with this game are the controls. At first, they were very tricky 
 to get used to, but once I eventually got it, I found how efficient they were. You get a great 
 amount of precision with the stylus and the touch screen being used for aiming. You can easily 
 aim at enemies quickly. The bottom screen is also used to switch weapons, check your map, or morph 
 into a ball.
  
  You simply tap the symbols on the bottom screen with your stylus to switch to whatever you need 
 to quickly, although I found the touch screen tapping to be annoying at times. You can never really 
 focus on whats going on in the main screen while using the touch screen.
  
  You can switch what hand you would like to aim with in case youre left handed, and you can also 
 switch the control scheme to that of Coded Arms, and use the four face buttons to aim. The L and 
 R triggers are used to shoot and jump in this Dual Mode control scheme. This method will not 
 give you much precision, and can be difficult because there is no auto-aim feature.
  
  Cut scenes in this game are also pretty amazing. Though they are short, the look of the cut scenes 
 is very well done, especially for a DS game. The in-game graphics are superb. I didnt have any 
 frame rate problems, but the graphics did become a bit chopped looking at times when there was 
 too much action on the screen.
  
  The single player game is a great feat for a DS game, especially because of the fact that this 
 is a first person shooter. The stylus can be the equivalent of a mouse for your computer, and probably 
 is just as precise. Each world you go to has few mazes and puzzles, which were all fairly easy 
 to figure out.
  
  I was pretty disappointed at the fact that there werent that many hidden passages or alternate 
 routes through each world. I felt like the game play was very linear. Constantly tapping the trigger 
 button to shoot became kind of annoying at times when you wanted to attack enemies, and did strain 
 my arm a bit, but you can eventually get used to it.
  
  The downside to the single player experience is the constant respawning of enemies. If you leave 
 a room and come back later, Im sure youd most likely see all of the enemies you previously defeated 
 come back out of thin air and attack you.
  
  After you defeat a boss, the game decides to time you. This in itself is puzzling. You must get 
 off of the planet before the planet self-destructs. On the way out, you will be flooded with enemies 
 and blocked passages. Once you do make it off of the planet, there isnt a heroic cut scene or 
 huge explosion. Instead, the game just acts as if you never had to leave in the first place. The 
 planet never really self-destructs, since you can always go back.
  
  What I loved the most about this game were the other bounty hunters that were introduced. The character 
 designs were all very cool and well done. I can say the same for each boss in the game too. Each 
 rival bounty hunter is equal to you in terms of power, but each has its own different weapon and 
 abilities. Just as you can change into a ball, enemy bounty hunters can as well, but their morph 
 forms are very different from yours. For example, some may change into little critters that look 
 like parasites.
  
  Multi-player is a strong point in this game. Wi-Fi can be either very fun or very difficult. My 
 first time playing on Wi-Fi got me 13 deaths and zero kills. Its clear that I lost. This wasnt 
 just a mindless FPS game. If youre skilled enough, Wi-Fi matches can go on forever. Constantly 
 collecting health and more power-ups throughout the multiplayer matches can give you the lead in 
 a match  and you will need it!
  
  Online Wi-Fi has you playing against local/worldwide players who are either on your rank or just 
 random players. If you are playing against random people, the only available online mode is deathmatch. 
 You can choose one of seven bounty hunters to play as. Levels will be chosen by voting. Whereas 
 the majority of votes will determine the location you will play.
  
  If you decide to play against your friends or rivals, you have more modes open to you. Multi-card 
 play also has more modes. The only downside to single-card play is the fact that all of your friends 
 have to play as Samus, and you can only play Battle mode.
  
  The multiplayer even has voice and a touch screen keyboard to talk to your friends in the lobby.
 
  
  Something very neat about the multiplayer game play is the rival radar. You can turn this option 
 on and walk around with your DS on sleep mode. Anyone else who you come in contact with that has 
 their rival radar on will be added to your DS rival list, so you can have more friend codes on 
 your roster.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a fine example of how to make one genre of game work well on a console 
 its not meant for, and is one of the biggest accomplishments lately for a handheld. The multi-player 
 is also a big step up for Nintendo Wi-Fi games thanks to the voice chat and communication. Overall, 
 this game is a solid DS title, one you will not want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekkerguy
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This is a good solid shooter and sequel in the Metroid Prime series of games. Much like the Wii's 
 motion sensing "Wiimote" will do, the sweet touch screen stylus interface works perfectly for this 
 handheld shooter. Throw in some better than expected graphics and the scifi franchise thats always 
 a sure hit for the big N and you've got yourself one hell'of'a'game. This was my first DS game 
 and is still one of my faves. the multiplayer is great and if you don't have a compatable router 
 for the Wifi take it down t a local McD's and enjoy. With fun shooter action, nifty touchscreen 
 FPS control, and a decent storyline this is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordabay_basic
Rating: 3
Date: May 27, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, i love metroid! but this game is more of a first person puzzle game than anything 
 else.. Aside from the frustrating bosses of course.. 99% of this game is spent trying to figure 
 out what the *$!& you do now, usually being going back to one of the first 4+ planets and finding 
 something thats now available.. Even with a guide, this game is way off base with its singleplayer 
 campaign. Multiplayer.. great, wonderful.. a real gem.. but unless you bought the game to play 
 with others who have a ds.. keep your money.. buy animal crossing or something that won't have 
 you ready to throw your ds against the wall.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keize
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I always liked to Metroid Prime series. So I figured I'd get this one also. (it had good ratings 
 on it also) Its a good game, but you better have some one to verse, because 1 players sucks. The 
 story isn't really the best anyway. But Multiplayer is the best than I've done. Whats really cool 
 is that you can be more than 1 person in 2 player mode. There are alot of stages also, most have 
 a very few selections, but not his one. The graphics and stuff is great, but like I said, have 
 some one to play against. But in all in all, its a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcarazo9
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this is nintendo`s first try to put the prime series on the DS and its fun, just not that fun, 
 the main game as usual is about samus roaming the space in her ship everthing is fine until she 
 recieves a distres call and she has to investigate with litlle information of what really is goin 
 on, youll eventually learn that is all about 8 crystals called octoliths, and that you have to 
 find then but the problem is that 6 other hunters are looking for then too and to find the octoliths 
 you will have to travel to 2 planets and 2 space stations. upon start playing the game you will 
 notice that the gameplay is frankly is lowest point in the game, to move you use the D-pad, to 
 change weapons you tap on then in a square in top of the touch screen and to change your visor 
 you tap and hold on a symbol on the bottom of the screen for about a second and to look around 
 you use the stylus and touch screen, this is really awkward, and even if you get used to it youll 
 always fell like your hand is a weird claw like position, that said there are good things in this 
 game the best one being the graphics this game has one of the best graphics i seen on the DS from 
 the beam the explosion your morph bomb the game also has some nice touches for example when you 
 charge this really cool smoke effect apears but this is really one of the very few effects like 
 this in this game, the sound in it is very good all of the soundtracks are well placed and the 
 sound from samus gun is very satisfaying, there is also a multiplayer mode which is what i can 
 see nintendo has concentrated you have all of your normal modes but this is far better than the 
 multiplayer in MP2 up to 4 players can play either witn their own cards or 1 card and dowloading 
 from one, in overall this game was created with multiplayer in mind since the single player adventure 
 is not bad just not good either so in conclusion if you have played other prime games youll just 
 find a dumb down version of them here, which you wont notice if you havent play other primes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlatinumPilot92
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime was one of the best games in the metroid series that i have played. i especially 
 liked the graphics. The weapons, creatures, and videos were my favorite part about the graphics. 
 I loved the way that when you fired the 'green" weapon in the side artillery it would descend to 
 the ground after a few seconds in the air, making it seem like a real large calibur weapon. My 
 favorite creatures were the guardians, which were some of the many creatures that had perfect graphics. 
 The guardians had an arm cannon like you, and would be fast and snaeky, distracting you and themn 
 coming up from behind. The videos were also good. the videos would be in 3rd person view, while 
 gameplay would be in 1st person view, giving you an insight on what things look like outside your 
 helmet.
  
  The gameplay was pretty unusual when you first try to handle it. Since it's a DS, they make you 
 use the stylus to turn around and face different directions by sliding it over the bottom screen, 
 which looks like a scanning device with a radar that tells you where enemies are. All of the options 
 (different weapons, missiles, radar) are on the bottom screen, while the main view of what your 
 facing is on the top. The sound in Hunters was also good. there were all different kinds of sound 
 effects for the weapons. my favorite sound effect was the red beam scope weapon. At first it's 
 like a calssical long- range weapon sound, and then at the end ther's an added reloading sound 
 for a finishing touch. I thought that this game was a great
  sci-fi first person shooter and would staisfy pretty much evryone.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodawars
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all you First person shooter game lovers out there.
  
  The new characters are great!
  The graphics are amazing!
  The adventure mode is exciting!
 
  The Wi-Fi is thrilling!
  The gameplay fun!
  The sound rocks!
  
  I personaly LOVE the its soo much fun 
  trying to be the top hunter online
  the friend codes 
 do get annoying but i rarely play with friends
  mainly find games
  
  It may seem expensive but its worth it trust me.
  
  Again, If you love First person shooters 
 THIS IS A MUST HAVE!!
  
  Its a little har at first but it gets eayer in time.
  
  Its just a over-all a very fun game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sauron12321
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  First of all: Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game. Especially the multiplayer has kept me playing 
 for about a month now. No other game has touched my DS since this one came out. Exept Mario KArt 
 ofcourse.
  
  The singleplayer of MPH is good, but not great. If you played the cube titles, and expect a similair 
 experience, you're going to be dissapointed. On the DS, the gameplay is much more linear, and less 
 'exploring based' than it was on the Cube. 
  However, the singleplayer is still a lot of fun, and especially the second part, is quite challenging. 
 But I think you won't play it more then once.
  
  The multiplayer, on the other side, is fantastic. The maps and the characters are well-balanced, 
 and you can see that Nintendo put a lot of work in it. The multiplayer is addictive, well balanced, 
 and, most important, just fun to play. 
  
  So, concluding, MPH is just a great game overall. A good, polished singleplayer experience and 
 a fantastic multiplayer, are making this a game you could play for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iownhalo
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was so fun, and, is still fun (considering the online multi-play) .
  I know I wont get tired of it, or sell it back to Gamestop. This is just overall a great game. 
 The thing that really makes it great is the multiplayer. The multiplayer gives the game so much 
 replay value, though, it is lacking a server list, which in the future will be vital for online 
 multiplayer on the DS. I especially liked that wierded out red dude. He was like so tight. It is 
 a bit lacking with all of it's greatness, I give it a 9.7 at least. This game is a must have for 
 all DS owners. This is ~IOWNHALO~ read my other reviews if you think I'm awesome. ~Peace~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagarwal
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the most pro game released from nintendo so far on. Its got everthing from cool characters 
 to powerful punches
  
  I mean if you can find a game with better graphics, more realistic gameplay, huge guns, cool characters, 
 bursting sound, huge maps, pro powers, perfect control, than you must be dreaming as this is one 
 of the best games on the DS.
  
  The only let of this game is that it only supports 4 players in multiplayer. It would have been 
 better if it was 8 players. It also would have been cool if there was more selection of characters. 
 I know there are many, more wont hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratedr123
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the new multiplayer experience on the DS, one heck of a game, no choice 
 this is it. The graphics are in full 3-D and the game looks BEA-utiful, it is the best graphics 
 I have seen on the DS so far. The controls can be a bit clunky in the beginning but after the first 
 10 minutes you will have no problem aiming, moving, and jumping with the stylus. The sound is pretty 
 good but it got some minor problems with the sound of some of the guns and when you step in lava 
 and you start to burn but other than that it is great. Gameplay is nice but, the most fun is when 
 you play on wi-fi with your friends or play with 3 other hunters, that is when the real fun begins. 
 You can use the microphone on some occasions to chat which is sweet. Best DS game I've played, 
 not a rental, don't think, just buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadepin88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped in this game I immediately had trouble with the controls. However with enough 
 practice in the multiplayer I became a pro. Once I learned the controls everything became a lot 
 more fun, even the single player mode, which isn't as bad as people say it is. While it does repeat 
 bosses, it at least gives you a unique metroid experience with plenty of action. Basically, this 
 is a dimmed down metroid prime game, which isn't that much of a bad thing. It's much more simplistic 
 sure, but sure is fun. Speaking of fun, the mulitiplayer is where this game shines. Even if you 
 don't have wifi the unique blend of characters, strategy, controls, and metroid weapons give this 
 game staying power. In closing, if you love a quality FPS with great multiplayer and a good single 
 player with a metroid twist, then you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecterX3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is the newest in the series, and better than the other 2 in many way. Then 
 again this game lacks in many ways too. Ill get out front and say now, the Adventure mode to me, 
 was a giant tutorial, It really wasnt too difficult, it really wasn't that long, and the bosses 
 repeated a lot. It was almost as if they actually made the Adventure mode just to get you used 
 to the control. I actually believe tha to be their intention, and I applaud them for it. This Adventure 
 mode took my multiplayer tp the next level. Not because of the extra hunters, but because of the 
 precision reflexes I got from playing Adventure mode when racing the clock, and the aiming expertise 
 I got from the bosses which seemed to be designed as target practice. I think it was a great idea. 
 Thought the bosses got boring it is amazing that the Adventure mode drew people in, and was teaching 
 them how to play the game without them knowing it, remarkable. Now, since we now have our expertise 
 from Adventure mode, lets move on to Multiplayer. One time, just one time playing this game and 
 it is easy to see it was made to be Multiplayer. There is no other reason to include 7 playable 
 hunters other than it to be multiplayer. The multiplayer is great, wifi is great, multipack is 
 great, singlepack is as great as its going to get. The whole package sums up perfectly. Which brings 
 me to another interesting note to ponder. Did you notice how you always face the other hunters 
 in Adventure mode on multiplayer levels that are identical? Now if you still think it is a coincidence, 
 think again. On my final note, if you hate multiplayer, do not buy this game unless you are a metroid 
 fan. If you are the average gamer and like multiplayer even a little, definitely buy this game. 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters has revolutionized the tutorial experience in my eyes, to everyone else, 
 it's just an alien blasting hell fest, and who doesnt like that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  One answer, yes. While most other Metroid games focused primarily on exploration. This one reverses 
 those roles. Instead the action is at the forefront in every level in Metroid Prime: Hunters.
 
  
  GamePlay: 7 Hunters, only one victor. In Metroid Hunters the story of the game is told primarily 
 through the lores you scan throughout your adventure. But besides the kind of hard to follow story, 
 the action you engage in throughout your quest, is spectacular. However, the boss battles are very 
 lackluster, why? Well theres only really 3 bosses. Two primary bosses which change throughout the 
 story and the final boss, which also has two forms. But besides that, from start to finish you 
 will never be bored with this title, as it has the same addictiveness previous Prime titles have.
 
  
  Graphics: What can I say, but flawless. The enviroment, the characters, everything is lush and 
 gorgeous. Not to be compared to with any N64 games, but more or less, early PS2 titles. The graphics 
 are just that good. Not to mention the opening cutscene, of turning on the game is the best DS 
 graphical thing you've ever seen.
  
  Sound: Clink, clank. Footsteps are clearly heard throughout the story. With eerie music echoing 
 throughout the tight halls where screaming enemies jump out at you. The sound effects and music 
 are very well done and when playing Metroid, have your volume at MAX.
  
  Value: Biggest value about this game is the Wi-Fi Connection. Playing over the internet is fun 
 at times but can get frustrating at times. But where it really shines is the local multiplayer 
 where you can scream at your friends across the room, while your whooping their butss. Just awesome.
 
  
  Tilt: If your a fan of FPS and have a DS, you probably already have this. If you don't, go out 
 and buy it. And it seems that there won't any other FPS coming out soon for the DS, so you'll be 
 occupied for a while in the FPS genre on the DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salasaschka
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  If youre looking for a great overall game, get Metroid Prime: Hunters because it surprises positively... 
 I surprised on the sounds, gameplay and especially the graphics... I couldn't believe it was on 
 DS, but there i was playing it on WiFi with someone...
  
  I have to give 10 from the sounds, because the surround sound feels real and right...
  
  Graphics 
 really surprise your eyes wheter u have played or not the demo... 10 from graphics...
  
  Gameplay is kinda realistic and easy (when u've learnt the way to handle it) , where you point with 
 the "Stylus" there it aims, AND BOOM...
  
  The single player- campaing also surprised me, first i thought it was just a short little time 
 fun, but i found it very long (especially if you're perfectionist) ...
  I liked the scan-visor, because it was just the same as in other metroids...
  
  Multi-player 
 in this game is spectacularly phenomenal... Wheter you play it on WiFi or Wireless, you really 
 are having fun in every department of the game... The connection is awesome in WiFi, I haven't 
 seen any lag by so far... And wireless is as good as WiFi, if you have friends with (or without) 
 the game... You actually don't need to have even friends nearby, you can practice your skills on 
 bots... And the AI of bots really is good... Even if you put bots to the easiest skill, they can 
 surprise...
  
  Difficulty is perfect... Even if you think you're an elite with the game, it might punish you for 
 thinking that much...
  
  Score: 9.6 
  Superb
  
  (I highly recommend Metroid Prime: Hunters to everyone looking for the game of the year for DS... 
 If you don't like FPS- games, you still might find something fun in this game... And if you do 
 like FPS- games and have DS, this is 100% must have production) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I believe this is the best (and maybe only) FPS for the DS so far, It uses the touch screen well, 
 i mean very well, but the multiplayer is the striking point to this game, allowing crazy competition 
 from other noobs across the world, but that isnt really competition either, they just health run 
 the whole game and nobody kills eachother, they also go glitching and cheaply using other characters, 
 so its impossible to win a multiplayer game. The single player is simply awful, its impossible 
 to figure out if your stuck, I would only reccomend this to huge FPS or Metroid Fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southparkmike44
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is now my favorite Metroid Prime game this is because it consists great things, graphics are 
 wonderful for the DS, the story line is very exciteing, and so not like the other Metroids this 
 one lets you plays as different hunters and lets you use their cool abilitys. Talking about ablilitys 
 every hunter have like a weakness and strengh. Like spire is like a rock guy and he has the ability 
 to climb walls in his ball mode. Another great thing is Wi-Fi, wich is when you face many other 
 people world-wide play in an arena and fight each other, in Wi-Fi you can play as many different 
 hunters and you even get a rank and shows things like favorite hunter etc. This is why I think 
 Metroid Hunters is a great and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raver22boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game that I think any DS owner should have. Starting off with the game takes 
 a little while to get used to the unique controls, but once you've got them down you'll begin to 
 play game after game. The single player campaign is very short and a little disappointing, but 
 the terrific capabilities of the online multiplayer completely make up for it. The gameplay is 
 basically what you would expect to find in a metroid prime game, although the single player is 
 much more linear than its predecessors. The graphics in this game are amazing. They are hands down 
 the best graphics on the DS. The sound is solid, but nothing amazing, although there are some nice 
 sound effects for the different guns. Although the single player campaign is very short, there 
 is an abundance of things to do in the multiplayer, meaning you will be able to play it for hours 
 on end. If you enjoy fps games and you enjoy the metroid series, you will love this unique game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glenrocker
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  so, I'll get the few bad things out of the way first. there is slowdown when theres a lot going 
 on, and adventure mode is just all the multiplayer levels bunched together. thats it. thats all 
 the bad stuff I have to say. everything else about the game screams quality.
  its graphics are the best I've seen on the DS yet, filled with detail and coulor. it really is 
 a great thing to see on your DS. the music is also very atmospheric and eerie, and it fits in well 
 with the action.
  now, while the game has a fairly large, half entertaining adventure mode, it's quite clear that 
 the emphasis is on multi player. there are, in total, seven hunters to choose from and 27 maps 
 to fight in, all of which are greatly detailed and well designed. you can use local wireless to 
 blast it up with your friends, single card for four or multi card, or, you could connect to nintendo 
 wifi and fight people all around the world. it's all very tense and blood-pumping, resulting in 
 one of the best handheld shooters around.
  the controls in the game are inspired. you can move your gun around with the stylus and move your 
 character with the d-pad or buttons, which results in very precise and accurate controls that enhance 
 the gameplay, once you are used to them.
  its also worth adding that each hunter has different weapons and alternate forms, which adds strategy 
 to the game, and each hunters visor layout is different on screen, which is a great little touch, 
 which personalises the game. so, long reveiw short, if you don't yet own this game, go get it. 
 you won't regret it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastergamer155
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The first metroid game on the DS (not including the demo) . Samus is back in a first person shooter 
 adventure as she trys to stop other bounty hunters from obtaining the ultimate power. These other 
 hunters come from a variety of backrounds and species. The single player adventure if somewhat 
 lacking the true feeling of what metroid adventures should be like. For example, There are only 
 two main bosses that you face multiple times, This dosn't really feel like a true metroid experience 
 to me (one of the bosses is just a giant stick) . But what the single player lacks, the multiplayer 
 makes up for that. In multiplayer, you can play as any of the six alien bounty hunters or samus. 
 Each with their unique alt-forms and weapons. To be able to play as all the characters you will 
 have to defeat them in single player or beat another player who plays with those characters in 
 multiplayer. Each hunter has stages that suit them and others they are at a disadvantage at. The 
 function that allows you to play other people around the world is Wi-fi. Wi-fi is the reason you 
 should get this game. You can chat with people over Wi-fi if you have their friend code and they 
 have yours, This is a MUST BUY GAME IF YOU HAVE A WI-FI HOTSPOT NEAR YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmotrev
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for 2 months now and it has been the best game ever. The graphics are awesome 
 it's like playing a PS2 shooting game on a handheld. The multiplayer is great going on wi-fi playing 
 people talking in the mic. When you play for the first time it is hard playing if you've bearly 
 used the stylus before but you can also switch the controls so you don't have to use the stylus 
 like me. I took me about 5 minutes ti get used to. So if you are one of those people that like 
 to play shooting or metroid games this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoothe2nd
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  The game takes a little while to learn at first ( I played the demo for hours so when the game 
 came out I was already use to it ) and the single player is good. But it eventually becomes easy. 
 So you should not buy it for singleplayer.. But, if you have a WI-FI compatible router (or something 
 like that) this could be the best game ever. GREAT multi-player and a different enemy every time. 
 You could get rivals, friends and you could chat with WI-FI !!! (but only with friends when your 
 not in game, a little draw back, but hey! I hope your not here for chatting! ) There are 7 bounty 
 hunters to choose from that all have different abilities (cloaking, missile tracking, etc) . There 
 are 2 main weapons and 6 sub-weapons (sub weapons are better because they do more damage and are 
 very special in there own way) . There are 25 maps + 1 bonus when you beat the game. 7 game modes 
 (but you could only change mode when your agaisnt rivals or friends....) . And a fact that might 
 interest some people, YES, there is a weapon that acts like a sniper rifle (with zoom) !!!! So much 
 more to talk about but lets round it up. Single player : good, but gets easy and a little short 
 (story line not very advanced)
  
  multiplayer : SUPER!! Lots of maps (well, thats what i think) and good for quick play because of 
 its 7 minute find a game mode. 4 player online (for map size its ok) .
  
  Try the game once to see if you like it because its not everybody's kind of game (style) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sb682
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm here to talk about Metroid Prime Hunters for the Nintendo DS. So I will start with the gameplay.
 
  
  The Gameplay- It has a ok single player adventure and it tells the main story. Samus, the heroine 
 of this game, has tons of weponds this time round. Doing so, makes a good story. The downfall is 
 that the single player could of been better. The biggest thing about this game is the multiplayer. 
 It is Wi-Fi and it has 7 hunters to choose from and tons of weponds. This game is saved by the 
 multiplayer. The single player is still a good part of the game so play it once and awhile.
  
  Graphics- The Movies are the best part of this game (I would rate them 10 hehe) but I need 
 to talk about the in game graphics. The in game graphics are ok but they could of did better. The 
 lighting effects are good. Overall this game graphics are one of the best I seen so far.
  
  Sound- All I can say is the sound is perfect.
  
  Value- Nintendo made a good price on this 
 game because I would of said more because of the overall mark. So, this makes the value high.
 
  
  Tilt- Metroid with Wi-fi on DS. Won't say anymore but that.
  
  Overall- This game is cool. :) Read the text.
  
  Ask me if you want to use this review. Users:
 
  Gameguy682 (Gamedude682 on fourms) - Nintendo (nintendo. com)
  sb682- gamespot (gamespot. com)
  Message me on those if you want to use the review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  B escric aquesta crtica noms acabar-me el joc, me lhe acabat aquest mat, estic parlant evidentment 
 de laventura monojugador, lapartat multijugador no lhe provat, per com ja sabeu no soc partidari 
 de jugar jocs en format multijugador. 
  
  Comencem... per lapartat grfic, realment bo, s el primer joc Metroid que jugo, i mha semblat 
 molt bo el disseny general, tant de nivells com de bsties. Em sembla que els 2 jocs Metroid de 
 la Gamecube son igual de bons grficament. La nica pega s la qualitatgrfica tant de textures 
 com de definici, per aix ja s cosa de la mquina. He trobat a faltar ms enemics que no fossin 
 Hunters, s a dir ms cucs i ocells varis. Els enemics de final de fase sn molt correctes per 
 molt repetitius, em sembla que noms nhi ha 2 de diferents i sobre aquests se nhan fet diverses 
 versions a cadascuna ms dificil. Mha agradat la sensaci de laberint general de les fases, perqu 
 no tarribes a perdre mai del tot. A ms la modalitata de tornar enrere per poder obrir una porta 
 amb l rma que acabes de trobar tamb est b, la veritat s que han trobat el punt idoni per a 
 que no es faci pesat.
  
  Ja que parlem de dificultat puc dir que en general est fora b, al principi els Hunters costen 
 bastant perqu tens poca vida, per aix que en tens ms no es fan tant complicats. Al no tenir 
 nivells diferents de dificultat no sabia en qu em trobaria per al final tamb crec que est ben 
 trobat el nivell, ... b per a m. A ms a ms crec que la dificultat del joc t molt a veure amb 
 com juguis ja que agunantar la Ds amb una m t el seu mrit, ja que amb laltra apuntes amb el 
 cursor, b s aquesta la manera de jugar que jo recomano, ja que apuntar amb els cursors es fa 
 una mica impressis i a vegades fa falta que siguis molt precs, sobretot en els jefes finals.
 
  
  El tema dels puzzles est b nhi ha pocs i correctes, els he fet tots bastant rpid noms mhan 
 costat un parell per que amb el seu corresponent descans de jugar els he resolt (sempre recomano 
 descansar quan estic encallat) .
  
  El que no mha agradat s que amb el visor es pugui entrar en una modalitat de exploraci, que 
 no est mal, per el que no magrada s que et vagi avaluant el tant per cent de exploraci que 
 has fet de tot el joc!?
  
  El so molt bo la veritat, i t una modalitat de so envolvent bastant ben aconseguit.
  
  Se 
 mha fet curt la veritat per com he dit abans no en trec tot el suc al no jugar en multijugador. 
 He fet el segon final tal i com diu als trucs i he desbloquejat el men de msica del men de so.
 
  
  En general el valoro molt per poder jugar a un bon shooter a les teves mans, s la primera vegada 
 i espero que no sigui la ltima. 
  
  Vaig a veure aquests Tetris DS que diu... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e10mgs
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  You put the game in and select it from the DS home screen. It turns black a CG cutscene ensues, 
 a bounty hunter hits the screen, slams to the ground and pulls out a sword. A bounty hunter slides 
 on what looks like a hoverbike. Another rises from a swarm of creatures.......... Welcome to Metroid 
 Prime Hunters. 
  This is the next installment of the Metroid series. Your sent out on a dangerous mission to gather 
 artifacts from various locations, your only clues are mysterious telepathic messages which indicate 
 an all-powerful weapon and to no surprise your not the only one hunting it down. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay will be familiar to those who have played previous metroid games. You 
 have one gun in the story mode however this weapon can also fire different types of bullets such 
 as missles which you will find later on. Throghout the game you collect powerups for this gun and 
 your suit allowing you to store more health and ammo, this adds a neat level-up like scheme which 
 works well and makes finding secret passage ways very rewarding. 
  The game shooting is very easy to control, thanks to the new touch screen controls, at first this 
 may feel a little arkward, but soon you'll be gunning away much more accurately than other standard 
 shooters. This system feels like the point and click of a PC. For those who can't adjust to this, 
 there is also standard modes for right and left handed players. 
  The general gameplay is the normal FPS affair, run, jump shoot however MP: H keeps this varied with 
 puzzles and platforming. The platform differs from jumping on ledges to rolling around in a ball, 
 sliding through small openings. Also in each level is a boss, the bosses are well placed throughout 
 and keep the gameplay fresh. Throughout the adventure you'll meet other bounty hunters, these play 
 as sub-bosses and are very challenging. After defeating them, you unlock them for multiplayer.
 
  
  Graphics: 
  Simply the best on the console, outstanding. The game is full of CG cutscenes which look beautiful 
 on screen. the bosses look superb. 
  The general graphics look nice, the different eneviroments have an individual feel and the screen 
 always stays colourful. 
  
  Sound: 
  The tracks are well placed and have the same sort of feel as the console games. They are well placed 
 and generally play their part in adding tension to the game. 
  
  Multiplayer: 
  This is where Hunters shines. With 7 modes, maps (small, medium and large) and 9 hunters to chose 
 from you'll be playing this for months to come. Aswell as the standard modes we've all come to 
 expect (deathmatch, capture the flag and holding the base) there are also some more inivitive modes 
 such as Hunter, where one player is the hunter and has enhanced abilities, the rest have to kill 
 him to gain the role of Hunter. 
  The different players have there own ball modes which adds a lot of variety to play. 
  Online, 
 single cart and multi-card modes are available. 
  
  Lifespan: 
  The single player can be knocked off resonably quickly if your an experienced player but the multiplayer 
 will keep you occupied for months to come. 
  This an essential for DS owners. the single player is great fun, the graphics are superb and a 
 fast unreal tournament like multiplayer mode which will last for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P2L5NM
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a great game, but not without it's major flaws.
  
  Gameplay - Generally good, the control scheme works well and there's not many times in the game 
 which will frustrate you because of them. The Multiplayer is excellent especially with friends 
 online. There are plenty of characters to choose form each with their individual skills. Using 
 those characters in FP are the same but it changes when your in 3rd person. It's easy to use and 
 switch between the two versions. The letdown is the frustrating level design and repetitively of 
 the single player game. 
  
  Graphics - Excellent, best looking game on DS so far. There are areas which look really pixilated 
 but most DS games do, but this game has very few issues graphically.
  
  Sound- Almost as good as the Visuals. The scoring could of been more varied and the sound effects 
 are sometimes irritating but for the most part this game sounds very good.
  
  Value- Great multiplayer and if you can Access ONLINE this game will last you for months. On your 
 own though you'll not be playing this game much unless obviously you play with other people. The 
 Single player game doesn't have enough quality or anything to go back to it more than once (if even 
 once)
  
  Tilt and Overall thoughts - Metroid Hunters is a great multiplayer game and purchase worthy for 
 anyone looking for a FPS on a portable. It's got a great simple online system, it's free, easy 
 to use and you will have a lot of fun with it. 
  
  There is one downside to this game. The single player in this game is not even average; it's very 
 poor even compared with mediocre games. Sure the first couple of hours will seem good because it 
 plays like the Prime GC games but after that the level Deign gets frustrating and boring to some 
 extent. Even worse the bosses REAPPEAR over and over again with no variety of enemies. The "run 
 away" from the level gets ridiculous to a point where you just give up. I did manage to complete 
 the SP game but I was bitterly disappointed. Want to know why it got 8.6 at GS? That's the sole 
 reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played any of the metroid prime games on the gamecube, then you will probaly know 
 what to except from this game. You play, of course, as Samus and you mission is to travel from 
 planet to planet searching for enemies and destroy them. You have tons of weapons at your disposel 
 and you have a lot of cool ability to preform. For example: You can transform into a ball to get 
 to lower places which in your normal form you can't reach. The other cool feature in this game 
 is that now, that there are 2 screens, you can play the game on one screen and on the other screen 
 you will get an alert everytime someone attacks you or if there is an enemie around. In the game, 
 you have tons of little challenges that a few of them are really challenging and the only problem 
 I had with the game is the save point. If you are in a king and you want to save before, you can't. 
 You have to get back to your ship and then save which is suck.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are actually pretty amazing for a Nintendo DS game. The areas 
 look awsome, Samus never looked better on any handheld game and the huge variety of animations 
 are unbelivible. The cool aspect of the graphics is when you get heard, the screen that you are 
 playing with is foggy which is kind of cool. The last thing I want to say about the graphics is 
 that in bosses or in cutscenes you have the rumble feature which is pretty awsome.
  
  Sound: If you played any of the Metroid prime games on the gamecube then you will probaly know 
 what to expect from this in terms of sound. The music are pretty awsome and the sound effecrs are 
 fantastic.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The game is very long and challenging 
 and you have one of the biggest features in a handheld game which is WIFI connection. Now, you 
 can play with people all over the world with 8 different kinds of battles like king of the hill, 
 CTF and dominator. Altought the WIFI connection only have 8 kinds of battles, if you want to play 
 one on one not Wifi connection then you have almost 20 kinds of battles which is pretty awsome.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is one of the best games that ever come out on any handheld 
 console and if you own a Nintendo DS then you should definitely want to go and try this one out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkzFisher93
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo DS was first anounced they said a new Metriod Prime game was going to come out 
 as a launch game. Then they said it would come out a little bit longer then the DS. About half 
 a year later the game finaly came out. We were all thinking it would be great. WRONG! Okay, the 
 game is not that bad, is what you are thinking right. I have some news for you, it is that bad. 
 The games graphics are not that bad at all I will say that much. However the games gamplay is realy 
 bad. It is not that it is easy to get lost but it is easy to not know were to go. The levels are 
 so big and there are so many doors you will find yourself going around and sercals thring to find 
 that one gun to open the door. The game does have a very good multi-player. botem line only get 
 the game if you will only play multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drek101
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  my im screen name is derrick4nb. im me if u wanna play me. this is so far one of the best ds games 
 ive played. i rate it a 10.0. its just the best game so far. especially on wifi. but remember my 
 fc is
  1074-4196-2945. im me if u wanna play. derrick4nb. rememebr on aim if u have it. i usually play 
 during the wekends. i have no connection at my house so i might play around my mall. theres a hotspot 
 where i go and i cauld be online. luckily they have aim express. or if u want u can meet me at 
 ds-play. com. either way well be chatting and getting fc's. otherwise its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters121
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Now im not even going to start off saying some crap like "I remember those days were i just sat 
 and played this for hours". All i can say is this is one of the best games the DS has to offer. 
 This reminds me of many games, 3d person shooters, and metroid games. This is like a Quake 3 Arena 
 and Metroid Echoes game mixed together to make a ultimate game. You must get this game if you own 
 a DS. I just hope they come up with another one for the DS. This is like the perfect Metroid game. 
 Its not a dream, its reality. It is definatly # 1 in my DS games list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters of course is a game for the Nintendo DS based on the Metroid Prime series. 
 This time, it's taken a route that makes it more of a standard First Person Shooter rather than 
 a First Person Adventure game. There are more fights it seems, and the online mode certainly makes 
 it clear that the main focus in the game is a Quake 3 styled mode in which 4 people can play in 
 an FPS frenzy. There is an adventure mode, and it is meaty, but it's nowhere as good as the ones 
 on the Gamecube Metroid Primes. However, for DS standards it is pretty good, and it is pretty fun 
 to me.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is a first person shooter on a handheld. And it surprisingly handles well. There are multiple 
 control schemes that work well, and users can change sensitivity of the touchscreen to suit their 
 needs. Cramps may happen if you have big or small fingers, I have long thin ones. The game is based 
 on a Hunter vs. Hunter thing, where hunters hunt for artifacts and other hunters try to take them. 
 Each character has special moves, Samus has a homing missle, Trace has invisibility while sniping 
 and stationary, etc. They also have different alternate forms, Samus has a Morph Ball while the 
 Space Pirate Cyborg has a 2 part turret/vehicle. The characters aren't really balanced however, 
 which may be a problem if your favorite is in the lower tier. The single player mode is pretty 
 repetitive in some aspects. Even though there are 4 worlds, the objective is pretty much the same 
 each time, though the puzzles and enemies and layouts are all very different. Read Gamespot's review 
 for more on single player. For multiplayer, the game feels very Quake 3ish but not at the same 
 time. It's very unique with the special abilities. Totally unexpected from a handheld game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Pretty much the best 3D on the DS. Enough said.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound in 
 the game doesn't sound as good as in Metroid Prime 1 or 2, but they do sound good. The soundtrack 
 fits in well and the weapon sounds are great. 
  
  VALUE
  
  If you have Nintendo WiFi access, this game will last you a very long time. Even if you don't it 
 will. The single player adventure is long, and there are many things to scan and discover. And 
 you can play in local games with or without BOTs, which are not dumb as posts fortunately.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: olie4olie
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  this left me speechless after i played it. if every game in the gaming world was like this the 
 video game world would be making more than oil companies. so this game has many features like adventure 
 mode , which is a blast and wi-fi my favorite. it also has multiplayer to play with your friends. 
 their are 6 new characters which each have a special wepon and cool alt forms. awsome game never 
 been a better one in this seris if you dont get it, it is a waste of your ds. get it. this game 
 is a bit hard to get yoused to the playing but it get better after a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manatassi
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Now this is more like it!
  
  Atlast nintendo have shown us the way, MP: H is a spectacular demonstration of what the DS is capable 
 of on nearly every front. The controlls feel sublime to use rivaling those of a mouse and kb. Graphicaly 
 this game realy stands out on the DS some how managing to realy feel like the GC games rather than 
 a ported N64 game. Obviously I'm not saying that it looks like a GC game but it does an extremely 
 good job of fooling you into thinking it.
  
  The single player mode is classic Metroid with a little extra shooting thrown in for good measure 
 and realy feels at home on the DS. For a portable game its lengthly and very rounded out with plenty 
 to do and see. 
  
  However the real crown in MP: H's crown is its multiplayer. With its wide variety of maps and game 
 modes, a good selection of playable characters all with diferent abilities, online play and that 
 controll scheme the multiplayer game is worthy of recognition as one of the best first person shooters 
 on any platform let alone handhelds.
  
  To sum up, if you own a DS and dont already own this game then go and buy it, you will not be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cItYoFtHeDaMnEd
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is very frustrating, but I don`t mean in the gameplay aspect. The tilt is 
 always amazing in any Metroid game, but certain inconsistancies in the game I can`t ignore drop 
 the rating lower. Its hard not to love the game, but as a vetrean gamer, I see the entire image 
 of the game.
  
  The first thing you notice, as soon as you turn the game on, is the in game videos. They are very 
 well put together, it pretty much blows your mind that graphics this good can be fit onto such 
 a small machine. The videos are legnthy and detailed, probably the most entertaining part of the 
 game. But where Hunters has strengths, it also has weaknesses. The in-game graphics don`t match 
 up to the video graphics. Don`t take this the wrong way, the graphics are pretty solid no matter 
 where you look, but you can really see the difference between the two almost immediatelly. There 
 are a few edgy images in the gameaplay. 
  
  The whole idea of the Metroid Prime: Hunters gameplay map is well conceived. Basically you travel 
 in your ship to different worlds and encounter diffrent bosses and enemies. The enviroments are 
 insane in the games. The fire world of Alinos looks pretty cool. Its like a normal Metroid map 
 when your on the surface of the planet. You just explore the level, or planet your on until you 
 find a new obstacle, which is different from the last Metroid Prime game, where you received transmissions 
 from you ship alerting you of new hostiles. 
  
  A really cool feature of the game is there is a totally new arsenal of weapons, You still have 
 the traditional beam and missiles, but there a new line of weapons available for use. The weapons 
 vary in color and do something different to hurt the enemy. Some of the weapons, lob, bounce off 
 objects, fire long range, and other means. Its pretty cool, unfortunatalely, it feels lacking once 
 you obtain them all. There isn`t a very substantial difference between the weapons. They are mostly 
 just shoot and hit an enemy. There really isn`t anything that stands out. But exploring the new 
 weapons is definitely the best part.
  
  The controls of Metroid Prime: Hunters were interesting. I like Nintendo`s adaptation of the touch 
 feature combined with the controller pad in the game. It takes a while to get use to the standard 
 controls. To be able to move around and manuever with speed takes practice. But once you break 
 them in, its one of the fastest controls in the series. It gets pretty frustrating in the beginning 
 of your playing when you get stuck on a wall during a boss battle and can`t figure out how to get 
 moving angain, but like I said it takes practice. 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters still has the unexpected uniquness of the boss battles. Like in the other 
 games, you face different stages of one boss as the game progresses. There is a boss that is basically 
 this ball in which a worm emerges and tries to grab you. Its pretty fun to play, and see how the 
 boss gets stronger in different stages. The final boss was truly an experience, but I`ll let you 
 find out for yourself. Unfortunatelly, there weren`t actual Metroids in the game. 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters was a good experience, and I think fans of the series will enjoy it. But 
 the graphic difference was hard to ignore in the game. Another impossiblly annoying part of the 
 game, is refacing the Hunter bosses you face. It really sucks to run into to these creatures called 
 gaurdians that just roam around trying to kill you, or reface hunters. They reappear in random 
 areas after you beat them. These factors were hard to ignore, and almost ruined the game. But the 
 final boss battle saved the quality at the end. I would reccomend this adventure game to all owners 
 of the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wario264
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  this game nearly blindined me the first time i saw samus aran's ship
  clearly i had my doubts as the demo version seemed a little flawed and the tapping the screen to 
 jump hurt (ow my wrists)
  
  this is gonna be a short one as there is no way i can describe how cool this game is so 10 this 
 is my favourite game on the ds and the mulitplayer is soooooo cool (even if i get beten by all 
 u hardcore hunters out there :P)
  um i have to use up words so here a really long one
  
  mo mo mom mo mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom momm mom mom mom mom mo mom mom mom mom mom mom mom 
 mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom momj mom mom mom mom mom 
 mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom mom ommo
  thanks u LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a good first person shooter for the Nintendo DS or another game to use with 
 the Wi-Fi connection, look no further than Metroid Prime: Hunters. The Metroid Prime series hit 
 the video game world by storm with the first two Metroid Prime games on the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 Hunters is the first of the series to be featured on the DS, and fans of the series will probably 
 find themselves enjoying this game. Apart from the other two games this game has a shorter story, 
 one that is not as in depth and interesting. The story is based around an ultimate power in which 
 you need to find in the Alymbic Cluster. There are also six other bounty hunters much like Samus 
 who are all after the same prize. Through much of the game you will encounter these hunters and 
 will have to defeat them, after a while however they will become pretty easy. For each planet you 
 need to recover three artifacts so you can gain entrance to the final boss who is guarding the 
 octolith. The octoliths are collected throughout the game and there are eight in total. The story 
 of this game is about ten hours long which is pretty good for the Nintendo DS. But the main reason 
 to get this game is not the adventure mode, it is the multiplayer. The multiplayer in this game 
 is amazing, like other DS games you can play single card and multicard play which offers many different 
 hunters and modes to choose from, but this game also has the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. The Wi-Fi 
 works really well obviously because you can have fights with people from around the world and it 
 works just as well as the other Wi-Fi enabled games. So check this game out if you are a fan of 
 the series or are looking for another great Nintendo Wi-Fi enabled game.
  
  The graphics in this game are somewhat average for the Nintendo DS. At some times they can look 
 fuzzy or unclear, but on the other hand the worlds and levels including occasional cut scenes are 
 all beautifully designed.
  
  The sound in Hunters is what you would find in typical Metroid games. You have the sound of shooting 
 and scanning. It comes along great and adds good intensity to the game.
  
  This game has quite a bit of value to it. For the price of a regular DS game, Hunters is definitely 
 worth the money. First off you have the ten hour adventure to play through and also hours of multiplayer 
 that you will end up playing over the Wi-Fi connection.
  
  Overall Metroid Prime: Hunters is a great game. So if you own a Nintendo DS and have the Wi-Fi 
 connection you should buy this game immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshOMEN
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Metriod prime hunters is a great game with some of the best graphics seen on the ds and most precise 
 controls . The Single player campaign is quite long but can get a little samey because the bosses 
 are mostly the same and look like penises or eye balls each one has 4 forms to it gettin harder 
 each time. Then after each boss there is a count down u must find your way back to the ship with 
 out and teleporters this is quite clever as it makes you remember the path this can get a little 
 samey because u have to do this about 8 times. As you go along the single player mode u find new 
 items like new wepons and missile expanions and ammo expansions. and u must find artifacts like 
 in the original gamecube titles. The Multi player mode it good to with single and multi card play 
 with your friends or u can play online via the nintendo wifi conection There are 8 different bounty 
 hunter to choose from aswell each with different abilitys. also the game boasts some great cut 
 senes utiliseing both the ds screens to display different angles. u unlock these as u progress 
 through single player. Over all i say metroid prime is a great ds game and i highly reccomend u 
 add it to your ds game collection ill give it 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrrr69
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  The very first time I picked up a DS, I remember the first game I played- a demo game called Metroid 
 Prime Hunters: First Hunt. I was shocked at how well its control scheme worked. It was very fluid 
 and very close to the feel of the metroid prime games on the GCN. I had a blast with the little 
 time I played it, and couldnt put it down. 
  Well here we are over a year later, and I must say (and im saying the truth here) im a bit disappointed. 
 Yes the game is excellent, but does it live up to my expectations? No. Does that mean its a horrible 
 game? Of course not! Many Nintendo fan boys are probably wondering why I think so, and if you would 
 like to know, read on.
  The graphics are breathtaking, especially for the DS. The environments are not at all bland or 
 boring. The are rich with detail, pipes, dents in the wall, electrical doohickeys. The environments 
 are very expansive, but they are old fashioned metroid prime levels (lava planet, ice planet, space 
 station) . There is only five planets in the single player campaign, and they dont have too much 
 exploration. The enemies are also typical metroid. Something that really amazes me is the cut scenes. 
 They are near- PSP quality, and you really must see them to believe them. The planets have a certain 
 mood in which the sound and graphics work simultaneously to create a certain mood for each environment.
 
  The sound, for lack of a better word, sucks. Normally I love the music of metroid games, but since 
 this game is a far cry from past metroid games, it has to be different from those games. What I 
 do love about the game is how the sound and mood go hand in hand. If there is a threat nearby, 
 drumbeats start to kick in. Once you have uncovered that threat, a beautiful score kicks in. If 
 youre just walking around, however, a repetitive theme music drags on and on and on and on and 
 I think you get my point. The sound effects are pretty boring as well, though it isnt horrible, 
 it isnt excellent either. Though it is neat I can hear the difference in footsteps if samus is 
 walking on metal flooring or snow, there isnt much that exceeds my expectations. All in all, the 
 sound is very disappointing, just like its controls and storyline.
  The controls are much better than they sound, but I still find some flaws and annoyances in it. 
 Basically, you use your right (or left hand, depending on whether your right or left handed) to 
 look around, the D- Pad to move, the L button to fire your weapon (or scan your visor) and to jump 
 you can double- tap on the screen or use the R- button. It all works very well, and is very fluid, 
 but to tell you the truth I found it repetitive. Hell, the whole single player mode is repetitive. 
 I will explain it plain and simple- move around, shoot enemies, find rival hunters and kill them, 
 find artifacts by scanning things and killing things, occasionally use morph ball, and finally, 
 fight boss and get the hell of the planet. Really, the only refreshing thing that changes up the 
 gameplay is the morph ball modes. The platforming controls just like in the other metroid primes, 
 just less interesting and effective. Yet another problem I had is when I look around, I suddenly 
 go into morph ball mode or change my weapon because of the annoying interface. The boss fights 
 are repetitive, and so are the hunter fights. 
  Some of the new changes in the gameplay are the fault of the new storyline. Ive read many interviews 
 with developers in charge of this game, and so many have said they want it to be different than 
 other metroid games, and it truly is. Samus Aran recieves a telepathic message about the ultimate 
 power and its location in the alimbic galaxy. Ive thought about it, and I think alimbic stands 
 for Olympic, like the bounty hunter Olympics or something of the sort. Anyway, samus heads over 
 to the alimbic galaxy to find she is not alone. Obviously, other bounty hunters want the ultimate 
 power as well, so samus must fight them to unlock the ultimate power. The rest relies on collecting 
 lore, bits of information scattered around the planet in which you need to scan them and read them. 
 This is pretty annoying since lore is hidden, and can only be found while in scan visor mode. So 
 really, youll be traveling from planet to planet without knowing what the hell is going on unless 
 you collect these little buggars. Even when you do collect them they are hard to understand, like 
 little bits of riddles you have to piece together. All in all its just horrible. Its also happened 
 in the past metroid prime games, and I really wish it would stop. I want a metroid prime game where 
 samus can talk, or at least have some Mexican lady yelling in my ear a la perfect dark zero (reviewer 
 note: this was not intended to be a racist comment, because there really is a Mexican lady screaming 
 in your ear In perfect dark zero) . But enough with my complaints, its time for the best part of 
 the game- the multiplayer!
  The multiplayer gameplay is wifi, and its works so well it can even compete with the multiplayer 
 gameplay of most FPS console titles. One really neat thing is that voice chat is included, but 
 only before and after matches, and only if you have that persons friend code, which is understandable 
 (as evidenced by the annoying chat communication on the halo 2 online community) . Also, messages 
 may be sent. The number of options neat, with 7 different gamplay modes (battle, survival, bounty, 
 defender, prime hunter, capture and nodes) and tons, im talking TONS of maps (though many you need 
 to unlock) . You can play as any hunter you find in single player, and as samus herself. Its really 
 amazing how well it works and its defiantly the best multiplayer in the DS. So all in all, so so 
 and disappointing single player, breathtaking and addictive multiplayer, a heroin bounty hunter 
 and future weaponry? Ummmmmm, PDZ, anyone? If you dont have wifi, its not really a good choice 
 to get this game. If you do have wifi, then pick it up NOW. That ends my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProfessorRaine
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has always been an amazing franchise, and, following Fusion and Zero Mission, Metroid Prime 
 Hunters is another outstanding handheld Metroid title, this time taking on the guise of Metroid 
 Prime.
  
  Story 9/10
  Story hasn't been a big part of the Metroid series (except Fusion) , and this is no different. A 
 telepathic message is sent across the galaxy, saying, "The key to ultamate power lies in the Alimbic 
 Cluster.", and our resident heroine, Samus Aran, is commisioned by the Galactic Federation to find 
 and/or destroy this "ultamate power" to stop it from falling into the wrong hands. The twist is 
 that six other bounty hunters have arrived in the Cluster to seek out this power for their own 
 ends. After this, you're set off to the Cluster to find power ups, destroy bosses, and collect 
 special keys. 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  For a handheld FPS, the graphics in this game are phenominal. A little pixelated and grainey, but 
 that's to be expected of a handheld title. Characters are original, and they all animate nicely. 
 The unique transformations to each hunter's respective alternate forms are cool to watch. Overall, 
 very good on Nintendo's part.
  
  Control 10/10
  The control setup is unique to anything I've ever seen before. Doing away with the standard Prime 
 lock on control style seen on the Gamecube, your movement is now controlled by the + D pad, you 
 shoot with the L button, and everything else (aiming, weapon selection, even jumping) is controlled 
 with the stylus on the touch screen. After a short learning curve, the control soon feels as smooth 
 and easy as a keyboard/mouse combo. Aside from a few hand cramps while getting used to it, the 
 control style is perfect.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Good music, but not great. Once again a product of the limitations of a handheld. The sound effects 
 are very good, and everything sounds exactly how it should. Other than that, there really isn't 
 anything to say about the sound.
  
  Multiplayer 10/10
  There was a touch of multiplayer in Prime 2, but Nintendo has finally got it down pat in this installment. 
 Seven different hunters, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, multiple weapons, and many 
 different arenas and play modes will keep anyone interested for long after the single player story 
 is over. And, to top it all off, it's online. What could be better?
  
  Rent or Buy? Buy buy buy buy buy. This is the killer app for the DS, and one of the best games 
 this generation for handhelds.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you consider yourself a Metroid or FPS fan, you owe it to yourself to try this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_WIG
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been through the whole single player game, as well as played at every multiplayer arena 
 and on Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. The single player starts out fairly easy, but gets challenging 
 as you go along. The final boss in single player is Gorea, and there are many different tactics 
 for that battle. There are four levels of adventure, and you visit each one twice. My personal 
 favorite thing about Metroid Prime Hunters is the multiplayer play, with twenty-six different battle 
 arenas, seven hunters, many weapons, and Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, this will probably be one or 
 the greatest multiplayer games ever. Each hunter has special abilities, like one hunter turns invisible 
 when sniping, and another can climb up walls. Each weapon is also designed for a specific hunters, 
 and if you charge up that weapon, it will do a thing, like freeze the person or blur their vision 
 for a few seconds. Many of the levels are based on areas from the single player adventure mode. 
 This is one of my all time favorite games for any system I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_hawk117
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I love the Metroid Series. The Metroid Prime series for the Nintendo Gamecube was great. MP1 was 
 one of the best GC games ever, and MP2: E was a great game too. MP2: E did not live up to the hype 
 unfortunately. on the otherhand, THIS GAME IS EVEN BETTER THAN MP1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This game had one thing that stood out, the multiplayer. Sure, MP2: E had a multiplayer, but not 
 like this. First off, MPH supports an excellent online mode. You can go against friends by exchanging 
 friend codes, or just go online and challenge people accross the world! A new aspect is the feature 
 of Rivals. You can go on somthing called rival radar and find rivals within a close radius. Or 
 after matches between people on wifi, you can ask them to be your rival. If they accept, they will 
 be added to your rival list. The Friends and Rivals mode is when you can fight your registered 
 friends and rivals only. 
  
  Another BIG aspect to the multiplayer, is the choice between 7 different hunters. You can unlock 
 them by either facing them in the single player mode, or by facing them through local matchs with 
 friends. So now you can specialize 7 characters and not just 1. There are also the feature of Affinity 
 Weapons. Speicial weapons such as the Imperialist, which functions like a sniper rifle, or the 
 Battlehammer, which functions as a mortar like gun. There are also a lot more stages than MP2: E. 
 You start out with 9 and can get up to 27!
  
  The SIngle Player was very good too. They dont go into much detail with the story, but overall 
 still great.
  
  The only problem i could think of, was that in the singleplayer, the game creators used the same 
 enimies over and over again. Such as the Psychobit. There was Psychobit Version 1.0, Version 1.4 
 and many more. not that big of a deal though.
  
  Overall, this is an EXCELLENT game. This is by far the best wifi on the DS so far. This game is 
 like a handheld HALO!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredatorKostas
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Nowdays most of you gamers that love first person shooters would love to see net enabled at such 
 great games like Metroid! Some of you have played Echoes for GC and for that reason you would love 
 to see through that game! Moreover it is a great game that combines futuristic weaponry with the 
 classic style of First Person Shooters. That means that you will feel like playing Unreal tournament 
 on your handheld.
  
  
  Furthermore the Wi-Fi service gives a lot of credit to the game. I mean I haven't finished the adventure 
 mode cause i've been playing on the net! Well the Wi-Fi has also added more types of communication 
 like last i talked with the Volp service to Canada and just think that i come from Greece and there 
 were no glitches in his voice! Anyway chatting with a keyboard in froont of you has also been added. Through 
 the multiplayer games you get ranked. Ther is Bounty ,Super ,Elite ,Legendary and one more rank. And 
 this all so that you can check with which player you are going against! There is also the available 
 choice of adding someone to your rival list after a random game in the net and that just for you 
 to see their stats and they yours!
  
  
  The wireless game consists of single card play and multi card play! On both you get to play on any 
 level or stage you want but on single card the guest doesn't get to choose a hunter, he/she only 
 gets to experience the famous Bounty Hunter Samous Aran! Any wireless game you play updates your 
 Hunter License or even better your profile.
  
  
  More about the adventure mode.............. it is just the way anyone would expect it to be................. alien 
 enemies on unpopulated planets and haunted space stations where other hunters go to find the same 
 thing you are searching! Through the game you will experience the greatest quest ever for Samous 
 cause you will see dozens of new enemys and Hunters! The only bad thing about the adventure mode 
 is that you get to travel to the same places twice and even for a third time!!!
  
  
  In conclusion i have to add that it is worth the wait and worth the 45euros or dollars you are 
 going to spend for it. But you better also play on Wi-Fi and experience the ultimate HUNTING!!!!! See 
 ya in my next reviews!
  
  (PredatorKostas) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychic
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  This game is very like one of the best games on DS that any DS player should have. The actual game 
 play is great especialy if you are playing multiplayer with someone else. The graphics might be 
 a bit low incomparison to other consoles like PSP and others but who cares, what i care about is 
 the game as long if its good. The sound effects are fantastic and the actual multiplayer is far 
 alot better than on Metroid Prime 2 Echoes. The only troublesome thing is to control the game, 
 once you know then get on and kill 'em! Voice chat is very usefull especially if you are playing 
 team with somebody so say that you are having free telephone on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: an awesome multiplayer wi-fi component with up to 4 players and good graphics and sound 
 for a ds game.
  
  The Bad: the singleplayer isn't so hot and the graphics is still good but could be a bit better, 
 but that isn't a huge problem at all, it does have some problems but not effect me or other peoples 
 i think but still some problems 'cause we all know that there is no game that is perfect
  
  you should buy this game for just the multiplayer wi-fi online component not for the singleplayer, 
 however if the singleplayer maybe a little bit good or something, you should anyway sticking with 
 the multiplayer wi-fi component 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters on the ds is innovative, revolutionary and addictive!!! when i got my ds 
 more than a month ago, i have been thinkin of what games would i get, geeez, i got mario kart first ( 
 i got the bundle) and kept playing for at least 1.5 hours a day, everyday... but i got tired of 
 trying to beat my own time trials, beating people online, and just watching people bunnyhop online 
 when they're desperate so after a week, i got money to get nintendogs and vj: double trouble, then 
 i saw metroid prime on the shelves and said" it's online!!!" i rushed up on savin up, and BAM!!! i 
 got the game in no time! ive been playin for about a couple of days now and im near 2 star rankin, 
 i know, but i dont get to play wi fi that much so i play with bots all the time.
  
  the gameplay...
  the gameplay is solid with a mouse/keyboard like setting, its pretty solid for 
 the ds system.
  
  the graphics...
  graphics.. WHOAHHH!!! am i playing a console or pc game? but some times the action gets slow but 
 its all good!
  
  the sounds...
  the sound effects are pretty good too coz of the steps, beam sounds and attack grunts of every 
 character the sounds get a 9!
  
  the value...
  okay... value... at $34.99 at most retailers its pretty reasonable coz games that are on the same 
 category ( maio kart ds, animal crossing) cost the same too so it gets a 9.
  
  TILT...
  i got me this game days ago, and ive been playin for hours each day... T-I-L-T that?!
  
  OVERALL...
 
  -MY REVIEW LEADS ME TO A............9.5 (YEAH)
  
  "ITS SUPERB BABY YEAH!"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nasty_butler16
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Im too lazy to write a full review, but you really should get this game. Now. Im serios, git yer 
 but off that seat and drive to your nearest retailer. Now.
  You really shouldn't be reading this sentance, if you are you are waisting your time.
  Are you 
 still there!? Go! Begone! Get that game! Don't waist your life!!! And while your still here i'd 
 like to recomend that you play this game with the thumb strap, it feels a million times more natural 
 then that dumb stylus, and you should allow an hour to get used to the game, i know tapping the 
 screan to jump is dumb, but you'll get it, i promise. Well that it, im done now, I think i'll go 
 listen to Stadium Arcadium, another underated piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeb1uk
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Well first off I'll start with the gameplay:
  
  The controls are much better than the GC versions of the game. A total of 7 different bounty hunters 
 to play as made the game so much more than the GC versions. Each with their own different weapons 
 and alt-forms. The story mode was great, even though there was a bug in the storyline which I won't 
 spoil for you. Some people say the story mode was too easy and short, but others still find it 
 difficult. The bosses are repetitive, with the 2 kinds of bosses, you fight each 4 times as a total 
 of fighting 8 boss battles. The differences when fighting the same boss again and again is that 
 it may have an extra attack, moves differently, or is placed in a different part of a room and 
 that it also needs a certain weapon to kill it. Although it sounds very repetitive, to me I enjoyed 
 fighting the bosses but of course I'd prefer a variation of bosses. There is also the final boss, 
 Gorea, it may take a bit of time to figure out how to kill him, even though the battle may be intense, 
 it was pretty easy for me, and then you get to fight Gorea again but this time the arena is different 
 and he uses a different attack. In my opinion Gorea 2 was easier than Gorea 1but more annoying. 
 The story mode features lots of difficult battles, hard puzzles and mazes, especially the 2nd half 
 of the game, it's alot harder and longer.
  
  As for the multiplayer, it is just fantastic, best multiplayer features for any DS game so far. 
 I'll start off by mentioning the different multiplayer modes. Single-card play, up to 4 players 
 altogether (including host) but the downloaders can only use Samus and you can't add bots, you can 
 still choose any of the 26 arenas but no team play either. I might've missed some but ah well. 
 
  As for the multi-card play, you can add bots, do teams, do any of the 7 types of game (battle, survival, 
 bounty, defender, prime hunter, capture, nodes) . And finally the wi-fi multiplayer, like MKDS you 
 can battle random people from around the world, and then after battling them, you can add them 
 to your rivals list to play again sometime later. Like MKDS you vote for an arena but unlike MKDS 
 you can choose any of the 26 arenas. No teamplay though. But if you want to play against friends 
 and rivals, you'll have to register your friends the same way as always, friend codes. Once you 
 do that, you can organize a match with your friends and create one. I've played with friends from 
 across the world it's great. And like multi-card play, the host chooses the level, the settings, 
 the mode of play, the teams but no bots. It was great for me because when I was just playing with 
 2 of my friends, we got a full match by one of my rivals joining the game. Now here's the great 
 part... you can voice chat and text! That's right, and the voice chat works amazingly well, I don't 
 text, I just talk. Unfortunately you can't do that with rivals
  
  As for the graphics, they are the best I've seen for the DS so far. Although slightly laggy if 
 a match becomes busy they're still amazing.
  
  The music for the game, I love it. Especially the Oubliette theme (multiplayer arena) and one of 
 the Hunters battle themes, I forgot who's. 
  
  This game is definitely worth buying, especially since I got it off eBay for 23 The most I'd pay 
 for it would be 40 if I was desperate but yeah, definitely worth it
  
  Overall the game is just amazing, I recommend anyone to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothgod
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the BEST hand held game ever. The graphics are unbelievable and the music is awesome 
 when you go against the final boss you get so pumped he does not have a chance. The storyline is 
 not very complex just a bunch of bounty hunters trying to kill each other so they can get the ultimate 
 power. The multi-player is better then a PS2 or Xbox game because you fight your friends or bots 
 with a number of cool characters or you can battle people you have never met on wifi. Finally, 
 the game play fun as heck, it is hard to win but not too hard. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxasg
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Absolutely brillant. If you are looking for a good game. Metroid Prime hunters takes advantage 
 of the Nintendo Ds's two screen capability and shows movie clips throughout the game. With a large 
 supply of Arm cannons and alternate form capabilities; Samus is ready to obtain the ultimate power. 
 But not just Samus Aran. There are many more (7 total) characters that are put into this game each 
 with unique affinitiy weapons. Incredible online multiplayer with hunters license following your 
 ranks. Also added in this handheld game- You can chat online via the nintendo ds microphone to 
 a friend whos Hunters license you Keep Track Of ! You can have rivals and friends but overall the 
 quest is to become the best; most Prime Hunter of ALL.
  
  - I am a five star Player *Master and you will or have seen me on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supotnik123
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I had never been a fan of first person shooters, but Metroid Prime Hunters converted me into a 
 fan. I love the game. I just got my DS a few days ago. Because there are no other good games in 
 the store (I won't mention which) , I decided to buy Metroid Prime Hunters. I got interested because 
 of the reviews, and got curious because it is about five dollars more expensive than the other 
 games. The moment I started playing, I was speechless. I've never played a first person shooting 
 game this good in my life. The first time I put my DS down since playing, I was all, "Wow!" and 
 "That was awesome!" Here is the rest of my review:
  
  Gameplay
  It's a huge step for Nintendo. The controls are easy to get used to. There are even options for 
 left and right handed players. The adventure mode is great. The only annoying thing any player 
 might find about it is the back trackings, like, how you should go to some other room to get the 
 required weapon before you can open the door right beside you when you start. The multiplayer modes 
 are great. You can play DS to DS using only one card, you can play with as much cards as there 
 are DS units, or you can play online with the Nintendo Wi Fi. If you're the host, you set the rules. 
 You also earn ranks when you win. The multiplayer mode is just awesome. It's almost as much fun 
 as the adventure mode.
  
  Graphics
  It stands out in the graphics department. I mean, 3D on a handheld? Impossible, right? Not for 
 Nintendo. The visors do not distract the point of view. It's almost perfect. The game does not 
 require a vivid imagination that the player is actually wearing Samus' helmet. Graphics are great.
 
  
  Sound
  Sound is good. What makes it better is that Metroid Prime Hunters is a science fiction game. The 
 player would never know if the sound is realistic or not. All I know is, it's good. There's one 
 thing I hate about the sound, though. When you're energy meter gets to the red level, there's this 
 repetitive sound that would drive you nuts, but all in all, it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_JoGamer93
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best multiplayer experiences on the NDS to date!! Many multiplayer modes 
 and characters to choose from it can be a real blast if you have friends to play with. The single 
 player adventure on the other hand is intresting but not very fun to play through. Still you will 
 want to probably play through it to unlock the all th characters and tons of arenas for the awsome 
 multiplayer experience!!!!.
  Gameplay: 8/10
  OK single player adventure but amazing multiplayer!!!
  Graphics: 9/10 Stunning graphics for a 
 handheld except the fact that the game slows down sometimes which can get annoying.
  Sound: 9/10Every thing you 'd expect
  Value: 8/10
  As long as you got friends who also have 
 a nintendo ds this will last a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 8, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Being that everyone who bought a DS got a demo copy of Metroid Prime Hunters it's no surprise that 
 there are a lot of folks out there who were excited to play the real game especially with the promise 
 of online play and given how well Mario Kart DS turned out with this cool feature it's definitely 
 something to be excited about. But, after more than a year after the demo was first released it 
 appears that Nintendo has proved that while miracles do happen, sometimes a sure-fire hit can become 
 a flat-out failure no matter how sure success can be.
  
  It seems Samus is doing her thing and exploring the galaxy further when she is... well, to tell 
 you the truth the plot here is insanely simple and wholly unmemorable, so much that I forgot it 
 pretty much completely other than your, Samus, you're collecting the crystals and to the opposite 
 of about a thousand warnings she gets, seems to be gradually unleashing an evil so powerful that, 
 instead of anything that would make even minor sense, made it easily accessible to anyone willing 
 to go through the same damn process about 8 freaking times.
  
  And by the same, oh boy, do I mean the SAME. Instead of following the path of the other great Metroid 
 games they decided to dumb it down to incredible lengths. As opposed to the other Metroid games 
 where Samus somehow loses all her gadgets and has to go through the process of re-collecting them 
 and other new toys to fiddle around with, a process that we LIKED THE WAY IT WAS, Samus has all 
 her abilities right from the start and what do we get instead of fun new abilities to play with? 
 Well, it's the equivalent of getting the same type of missile about 6-7 times so this time instead 
 of getting the green laser, you get the blue laser and in the next level you get to have to PURPLE 
 LASER. Sound like fun? You be the judge because in my opinion, Nintendo just destroyed the entire 
 point of the Metroid series. Really, I should just leave it at that, "Nintendo Destroyed The Entire 
 Point Of The Metroid Series", but I still have yet to you how Nintendo screwed up on this game.
 
  
  And then there's the bosses. Everyone loves Metroid bosses as they're fun, creative and they really 
 make you think on your toes to boot. Nope, this time they decided, "why bother when you just make 
 the player suffer even more and then we won't have to work as much!" as, no seriously, you fight 
 the SAME TWO BOSSES four freaking times in a row. One's a tower that you shoot the nodes of off 
 to make him reveal his weak spot (oh that's original) and the other's a big sphere that you do 
 pretty much the same thing to except is flies around to frustrate you and piss you off. They're 
 the same each time around except they have at least on different phaser they fire at you and a 
 different color they don't like each time and you have to figure out which. Real nice job guys, 
 that's some really hard work you're doing.
  
  To try to break up the horrid monotony of each level there's also the "hunters" gimmick where you 
 fight other bounty hunters who like the shiny crystals you're collecting and they fight you for 
 them in a heated no holds barred match. That is, unless you just use your morph ball bombs and 
 finish them off in less than ten seconds. So then you're just back to doing the same thing. Find 
 three artifacts to open the portal to the same two bosses, beat them, and then escape before the 
 timer goes to zero. For what? Well it couldn't be for the planet exploding because it sure doesn't 
 once you escape. It's that 8 times in a row folks and it gets boring before it's even halftime.
 
  
  So, to try and make up for it they incorporated the "Nintendo Wifi" online play into the mix. It's 
 good... if you haven't played any FPS multiplayer within the last ten or so years. It's bland, boring 
 and pretty much broken to boot. And because Nintendo is just so insanely kid-friendly, they made 
 the interface stupid as all hell and, in a disappointment that's worse than any of the others this 
 game holds, the new VoIP talk function is only available between friends and the only way to get 
 them is by searching around some random message board for friend codes. So, instead anything actually 
 cool out of multiplayer they decided to give the game the "rival radar" feature instead where you 
 turn in on and in the 0.2 percent chance than you actually pass by someone who has this game and 
 just happens to be using this dumb-ass feature they'll automatically be added to your "rivals" 
 list for future online play. Yup, that's worth having a dumbed down version of any online game 
 out there.
  
  Graphics and sound meh, meh and meh. Nothing to note about except the kinda cool looking cutscenes 
 in the game and nothing else in fact, you know what? Review over. It seems that the boys at Nintendo, 
 fresh off from making the sequel to the fantastic Mario and Luigi suck hard enough to prove that 
 there's no sane god, decided to make another great looking DS just completely let everyone down. 
 Well, good thing there's more than enough other actually good DS games to play like Advance Wars 
 or Mario Kart while you leave this stinker on the shelf for the rest of it's miserable existence. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8TD1
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I finally had the chance to go online with this game .
  When I first played it , I got my "Butt" handed to me!
  I take 5 Samus sized steps forward and 
 looked up ,
  All I seen was a Big Long Red Beam come strait at me and turned me into a Blue Puff of Smoke !
 
  
  I laughed out loud so hard I nearly dropped my DS.
  
  But now that I've had some time with it ,I'm a little better at it .This game is way cool ,but 
 there is a few bugs ,the Nintendo web-site has a thread about it ,such as issues with the matchmaking 
 service .
  
  Playing this game , I've found it to be quite fun . Especially while playing multi-player Online 
 through Wi-Fi . I also suggest that you get a good wireless router . I'm using a westell VersaLink 
 , which allows very good connection .With upcoming Next Gen systems , using a Wireless router would 
 be the best way to go if you like playing with others online .
  
  There would be too much for me to write on MP : Hunters to fit in this review .If you haven't got 
 this game yet , I recommend that you do , you won't be disappointed , and the controls are fairly 
 easy to use and you'll get used to them quickly . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoePoeJoe
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Story Mode- Sort of fun, but it seems very much like your doing the same stuff over and over again. 
 The coolest thing about story mode is the very distinct planets. But the bosses and bounty hunters 
 are no real challenge.
  It would probably take the average person about three days to beat.
  
  Graphics- The visual 
 in all is very good for DS. But it feels for some reason as if a N64 game could do better. Mario 
 64 DS showed that DS has the potential. 
  
  Wi Fi- This is probably the highlight of the game. fighting actual people is allot more challenging 
 and fun the versing the computer. The bad is you can't talk to other players. So there is no way 
 to contact anyone, so it feels like your fighting a comp.
  
  In all the game is satisfactory. If your in to 1st person shooters, I definitely recommend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daigakusee
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 6, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but it becomes very repeatitive in the single player mode. The reason is simply 
 because the whole mission is to find "key locks" that you must scan using your visor to open the 
 next section and if you cant find them then you'll be running around in circles for a long time. 
 The sound is so-so and the controls are better then I tought and you get used to it soon enough. 
 However quick shooting isn't so great and when you go against rivals, their dificulty will be based 
 on how much jumps it makes because the more an enemy jumps, the harder it is for you to aim with 
 the stylus.
  
  I enjoyed the game but there was too much running around trying to find the last lock to go to 
 the next section. This waste of time killed the enjoyment of the game for me. I'm sure the multiplayer 
 is a lot better but if you are looking for a single player game then move on or play the console 
 versions.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonfb
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  ai skirmish mode! know one knows but you can do bot battles like starwars battle front! it rocks! 
 personally i HATE the single player campain. it sucks. but if your alone, want to play a shooter 
 on ds, but you hate the campain on mp: h, thats okay! go to multiplayer mode, go to multi-card play, 
 choose a game, map and options, and a hunter on the last screen in the bottom right corner, theres 
 a "add bot" button. choose between the team, hunter, and skill of the bot. it is TOTALLY AWSOME 
 check it out! and also, if you ARE doing a actual player game. press x to talk! dont be surprised 
 if youn say "hi, ready to get yerass whooped?" and you get a "fnhyrjgergrjbghjgvbhjbgfrhg" remember, 
 ur playin people from all around the world:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  With the combination of the stylus and the d-pad its a bit hard to get to grips with it, but once 
 you do it is good fun especially when you realise that someone finally had the initiative to utilise 
 the full potential of the stylus. Its a good shooter with solid visuals and sound. The array of 
 hunters you can play with also makes it fun as they each have different abilities. . The further 
 into the game the better it gets as initial levels seem slightly tedious but after that point it 
 is quite addictive. A fun game which is great for multiplayer but if someone has only had the game 
 for a little while you may end up thrashing them as they awkwardly stumble about whilst trying 
 to aim at you in vain but once both up to the same level good, good fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph_hart
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  my friend rented this game and then bought it soon after. its amazing. the graphics are the best 
 on the ds so far, i was playing single card with him and we found out that i could only play as 
 samus so he just kept on pwning me with the sniper and his special, turning invisable when he stands 
 still holding his weapon. there is 7 charecters. samus, the neutral one, her special is a homing 
 missle, trace, the sniper, i mentioned his special above, kanden, this big green guy , i think 
 his special is that when he shoots you with his gun, the volt driver, it makes your screen all 
 fuzzy so you cant see very well, noxus, hes a blue icey kinda guy, his special is that when he 
 charges up his gun, (everyone can charge thier gun by the way) if he hits someone he can freeze 
 them, spire, hes a rock/lava guy and can roll up the walls in his morph ball form and his gun special 
 is i think it might ricochet because its like a grenade launcher, weavel hes a space pirate and 
 uses the same kind of weapon as spire just the special incresus the blast radius i think. there 
 is 24 differant arenas to play in multiplayer. you unlock the charecters in story mode or play 
 people on wi-fi or another kind of multiplayer who has them. this is a great reason to have a ds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shp2400
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Even if you do think this game has a lackluster single player story mode (which I don't) , the multiplayer 
 makes up for it, and ads many countless hours to the game. 
  
  If you swap friend codes with other people that constantly play, or have a lot of friends with 
 Hunters, then this game is well worth your purchase. The online system for friends is great, while 
 searching for random matches pretty much is the same from Mario Kart. If you have friends, you 
 can create games, or join your friend's game. You just click "Create New Game" and choose the settings, 
 then just wait for your friends. Inside a gameroom, you can voice chat with your friends by holding 
 down "X" and speaking into the microphone, or you can just type in text.
  
  The game is great at most times, but you still might have framerate issues. When playing with many 
 objects on the screen, the framerate of the game will slightly drop, sort of like lag in an online 
 game where you are the one lagging. Other than that, Hunters looks to be the most beatiful game 
 on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBros
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait. You got a demo when you bought the DS (if you bought it fast enough) 
 and now it's here.
  Everyone knows the story so, I'll just get on with it.
  
  Gameplay: 9 
  This has some shweet gameplay. The controls are just like the demo but easier. 
 There are 4 control schemes. A lot find the controls frustrating but I don't. o_O
  The shooting is awesome, and Morph Ball puzzles are fun (but can get VERY frustrating (difficult) ) . 
 Some of the puzzles are... lacking but this is an FPS so...
  
  Graphics: 9
  Some of the best graphics on the DS so far. The enviroments are pretty, the enemies look cool, 
 the Hunters are just awesome.
  The cut scenes (full motion, not in game) are GORGEOUS, up to par with Meteos's opening cutscene. 
 Samus is pretty.
  My only complaint is in-game Samus is... blocky.
  
  Sound: 9
  Some nice music here (Hunter presence, Hunter battle, Spawn battle, Final boss) you just want to 
 listen to. Nice remixes of classic themes, but mostly original compsitions. Sound effects are great.
 
  
  Value: 10
  Multiplayer. V
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  THIS is why MP: H is awesome. Addictive.
  Playing as all 7 Hunters with unique weapons and alt. 
 forms is really fresh, the arenas (while mostly locales from single player) are well desinged. 
 Wi-Fi is just plain cool (except for haxx0rz and alt. abusers) can get very fun with the 7 modes 
 of play (but with friends and rivals only) and stays fresh.
  Voice chat pwns. 
  
  Final score: 9.2 (buyitbuyitbuyit) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters
  
  Ever wanted to go out with a girl who is a real strong and adventurous? How about a gun slinging 
 girl with a bad ass attitude? Well do I have the girl for you. Samus has been charming the hearts 
 of gamers since the Nintendo system and is now back in the best multiplayer version of Metroid; 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters. 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is your basic Metroid game. In this adventure, Samus must go to different 
 worlds and compete against 7 other hunters in order to obtain a relic said to give great power 
 to who ever finds it. OK, the story is a bit lacking in originality and really isn't the main focus 
 of the game, but you can play multiplayer! The story mode is a bit lacking in length as well, most 
 experienced player well be able to finish this game in less than 8 hours. Now that's not bad for 
 a handheld game, but still a bit short for Metroid. Some major gaming down sides are: the fact 
 that there is NO auto aim or lock on aiming. You have to do all the work and target everything 
 yourself. Also the controls might be hard to use at first, so try using different button mapping 
 than the default one to make things simpler.
  
  As far as a tech aspect, Hunters has excellent graphics for a game running on such a small screen. 
 Videos and cut scenes are really amazing due to the fact that you get a different camera angle 
 on each screen. One of the in game problems that players might have to face is that due to the 
 DS's low resolution you are more than likely going to have trouble recognizing objects that are 
 far away. The controls can also be clumsy at times and the use of the stylist is a bit hard and 
 you can sometimes activate the wrong weapon and end up depleting a weapon you didn't intend to 
 use in the first place. The sound for Hunters is simply one of my favorite features of this game. 
 Amazing weapon sounds and environmental background sounds make the gaming experience really nice.
 
  
  Well here is a big highlight of hunters, the multiplayer aspect. One of the things that I found 
 is that even playing against 4 players there is barely any lag what so ever. You can play via multicard, 
 local play or four-player online. Loading time is good and the fact that this is a multiplayer 
 version of Metroid is just plain awesome. In Multiplayer you have your choice of several maps to 
 pick from as well as a variety of different skins so you don't confuse Samus for Samus. Most people 
 will tell you that the big down point of the multiplayer is that the only way to do a random match 
 against anyone is to use battle mode. So in other words even though this is an excellent multiplayer, 
 Nintendo still has some work to do. 
  
  The only question remaining to gamers is y did this game take so much time to get released? Hunters 
 was first shown at E3 in 2004 for the DS so then y the HELL did it take 2 more years to release 
 it? Y?!?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltaition
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  The game play is really good in metroid prime hunters. The graphics are really great for a hand 
 held 3D game but the sounds are kind of an ok-ish quality. The thing that made metroid truly successfull 
 was its amazing multiplayer. Dont have friends play online. No Wifi play with bots. The bots in 
 this game are fun to play with even though its much better to play with real people.
  
  The single player is great to. Its coolto run around saerching for some crap and suddenly this 
 guy pops up shoot ing the living hell out of you. The only thing is the levels in single player 
 dont feel like a metroid game and the the enemies are repetitive. The bosses are also repetitive. 
 and the games too short. and this is called metroid but were are all the FREAKIN METROIDS.
  sorry.
  
  anyways its a good game other than most of multiplayer and if you want to buy it 
 you should have Wifi connecntion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  We all were in aww when we saw the First Hunt Demo that came packaged with the DS way back in November 
 of 2004. Especially if you played multiplayer with four buddies. Then almost 2 years after that 
 the wi-fi connection is introduced and Prime Hunters hits shelves.
  When I first turned this game on I was highly impressed with the amount of polish on this videogame. 
 The graphics are just completly striking and they demand your attention from the first bullet fired. 
 The graphics are excellent in the character models and in the textures in the background. But the 
 animated blood is nowhere near the amount that is seen in Halo 2, this leaves your kills feeling 
 sort of empty.
  The single-player mode is actually pretty good but pales in comparison to it's Gamecube counter-part. 
 Basically you have three goals at each planet you go in collect the three artifacts to open the 
 portal and then face a rival hunter then get the octolith. But this is ruined by completely well........ stupid 
 bosses that repeat themselves often. 
  The multiplayer is where this game really shines in. The online play is top-notch and is even comparable 
 to some of the best in the bussiness like SOCOM and HALO. While Hunters is still a far cry from 
 these great shooting titles it presents a robust multiplayer and a decent single-player, let's 
 just hope they can improve upon these mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The 'Metroid Prime' games are known for being two of the best Gamecube titles currently available. 
 Now a new title has been released for the Nintendo DS: 'Metroid Prime: Hunters.' 'Hunters' retains 
 a lot of the good things from past 'Metroid Prime' games, and adds a new and improved multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  The single-player campaign in 'Hunters' is not all that complicated, and it's not that long, but 
 it has a pretty solid storyline and impressive cut-scenes. The structure of the levels is somewhat 
 linear, but still has its share of puzzle-solving and hordes of creatures everywhere to increase 
 the game's challenge. There are really only two bosses (aside from the final boss) within the levels, 
 but they eventually come back a lot tougher and more beefed up each time. There's collection to 
 be done, puzzles to be solved, and items and enemies to be scanned; the campaign lasts around 10 
 to 12 hours to complete.
  
  The multiplayer in 'Hunters' is very in-depth. There are a variety of different modes, there are 
 tons of weapons, there are various arenas, and there are multiple Hunters to choose from.
  
  In my estimation, the graphics in 'Hunters' are the best I've seen on the DS. Sometimes some 
 textures may look a bit blurry, but that's due to the DS's limited capabilites. Despite this, however, 
 the graphics are still nothing short of amazing. The music and sound effects fit the game perfectly: 
 the music is very good and sticks to each level's theme; and the sound effects are effective and 
 impressive to listen to. The controlling takes some getting used to, but it doesn't cause much 
 of a problem. All in all, 'Metroid Prime: Hunters' is a worthy DS title, and anyone with a DS should 
 at least try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spuddge
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a game that is worth buying just for the multiplayer capabilities. Although 
 it has a rather boring single player mode with tedious boss fights, Metroid Prime Hunters in my 
 opinion, has the best online wifi play of all the DS games out there. Before battles with your 
 friends, you can utilize the DS microphone to voice chat, or you could talk to eachother by means 
 of text messaging. Metroid Prime Hunters has many differant maps to battle on that will keep you 
 busy for a long time. It also has amazing smooth-running graffics with seven differant bounty hunters 
 with their own unique abilities to choose from. Along with great sounds, the replay value of this 
 game is surprisingly good. The only downside of Metroid Prime Hunters is is like I said before, 
 the single player adventure mode. The boss fights are quite repetitive and boring and there arent 
 nearly enough enemies to fight. But aside from that, Metroid Prime Hunters for the DS is a phenomenal 
 game that is worth every penny spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarsandBars
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  This is truly a great add-on to the Metroid series. The game is very fun throuthout the whole campaign, 
 but gets a little bit stale before the end of the game because it is so linear and you feel like 
 you've recovered the same artifacts before. Another drawback is the way the enemies respawn if 
 you leave the room and come back into it. That got annoying when the game started to have better 
 challenges because you cant leave a room if Gaurdians or Hunters appear. One final draw back to 
 the game is that Gorea was too easy, even in second form. I can overlook these minor details and 
 still have fun. But one thing that I cant overlook is the great multiplayer. Which can make for 
 some hectic and awesome moments if you can have a four player match. The only problem with it is 
 that if one person quits during the lobby everybody is booted and have to start over to find a 
 new match. This is one of the best games on the DS so if you own a DS this game is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The First Hunt demo that came packed in with the DS was my first experience with Metroid... so I 
 was eager for this title to finally come out, I just finished it.... so here is my review starting 
 with the basics:
  
  Graphics: Really nice, looks better than most N64 games, very fluid movement. I didn't notice any 
 chugging or pop-in. Animations are nice, and the movies in the game are also really cool. I was 
 suprised to see the DS pull off this level of detail, level designs are very Metroid Primey, enemies 
 as well.
  
  Gameplay: I used left hand stylus with the thumbstrap, and I never had any issues at all. Never 
 once did I turn into morph ball, or select a weapon by accident. I had my sensitivity fairly high, 
 around 13. The control for me was natrural at all times. The games plays as the story suggests, 
 typical Metroid Prime feeling with fast paced battles spread out across the game. Gameplay is great. 
 And you have a few options to select for control.
  
  Story: The weak link here, there could have been more meat to the scanning, but what's there isn't 
 bad - just a little light. And the whole 'Ultimate Power' seems overrated.
  
  WiFi: Great, now that it's working. It's always been easy and quick, the ability to add rivals 
 is cool. WiFi is a good way to pass time, the battles are always fast and intense, unless it's 
 you and one other person - then it just gets old. And you can chat with friends..... and it works 
 good.
  
  Obituary: Repetitive bosses, made me not really interested in playing at some points. The countdown 
 timer after beating one is pointless and at times frustrating, I don't know why they put that in 
 there.... F for that.
  The duel ending thing is old. When I finish a game, I want to finish the thing, not have to do 
 special things to get alt endings... it's just beat, and honestly I didn't care to take the time 
 to get the 'other good' ending, mostly because the story line did not lead me to think it is worth 
 it. 
  
  Overall Impressions: A must have for any Metroid / Shooter fan with a DS. The game is very impressive 
 and plays quite nicley, the WiFi just adds tons of value to this title. Although at times it is 
 a bit repetitive the game is alot of fun. I highly recommend this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepat117
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has been around for years and last time I checked has never been as big a hit as this installment 
 titled Metroid Prime Hunters. Lets face it the adventure mode is good and all, but the main idea 
 for this game is it's great multiplayer modes from both online and off-line alike. The main story 
 of this game is Samus Aran is up against the worlds greatest bounty hunters for respect as the 
 best. These hunters are Samus, Kanden, Spire, Trace, Sylux, Noxus and Weavel. In multi-player mode 
 you can play with any of these charachters and their unique but astounding abilities. The newest 
 "thing" about the multi-player is the single card play. This play enables you to play with someone 
 who posseses a DS but does not own a copy of the game. This I have to say is very useful, I use 
 it alot. Now moving on to the Wifi capabilities. In Wifi as you probably already know gives you 
 the ability to play with people from around the globe which is very exilirating. Also there are 
 ranks in your wireless or Wifi play with one-star being bounty hunter, two-star being Super Hunter 
 (Which is the rank I am) , Three-star being Elite Hunter, pant, pant, four-stars being Master Hunter, 
 and the best of the best are blessed with five stars being a Legendary Hunter.
  Now for some gameplay and graphics, well lets make it short and sweet the graphics are good and 
 the gameplay is addicting and it' a game ill love forever. I give it a five out of five 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime hunters is a solid first person shooter for a handheild, which usually goes wrong 
 ( codded arms, ghost in the shell) . this nintendo ds title borught the touch screen into play which 
 usually isnt done in most ds games. this game supports the ds's new wi fi multiplayer which is 
 done pretty good but not to great. the single player is alot of fun. if you liked the prime series 
 you deffinatly like this game, if you didnt like the series (like me) you'll still love this game. ds 
 hasnt had much great games coming along but ds is starting to pick up with great titles like this 
 one. if youre looking for a ds game pick this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I'm reviewing MP: Hunters from the perspective of the single player campaign. I don't do multiplayer 
 much, so the single player aspect was most important to me. 
  
  The "Adventure" mode of MP: Hunters is a mixed bag. First the negatives. Compared to the GameCube 
 Prime games, Hunters is pretty weak. You still find the Metroid basics of missile expansions and 
 energy tanks, but the power ups are few. Instead of hunting down the morph ball, double jump, grappling 
 hook, and so forth, you have all the items at the beginning of the game. Instead, the items you 
 find are all beam variations, such as an electrical beam, a "super-cooled" plasma beam, and so 
 forth. This leads to a rather one-dimensional item hunt that lacks the traditional depth of Metroid 
 games.
  
  Also on the negative side are the boss battles. There are two, TWO boss designs in the entire game, 
 out of about 10 total boss battles. The designs are progressively variations that are more difficult 
 to defeat. Still, this part looks rushed.
  
  Lastly, the countdown timer starts after every boss battle. This is really unnecessary and kinda 
 unfair, as beating the timer can be really tough after exhausing your fingers beating the boss. 
 It would be nice to have more save points too.
  
  Okay, now the positives. This *is* Metroid Prime on a handheld! The scan visor is there and the 
 scanning paradigm works exactly as in the GC games. The beam variations are satisfying and require 
 strategy to use effectively. The environments are typically Metroid, excellently detailed, and 
 have good variation. Morph ball puzzles are in the game and work exactly like the GC versions. 
 The great Metroid Prime map system has been included in Hunters. The graphics are fantastic, and 
 the game engine is smooth as butter.
  
  There's new stuff as well. The idea of running into rival hunters on the various planets is a neat 
 addition, and hunting one for revenge is fun. The control system, especially using the thumb stylus, 
 is as close to WASD/Mouse as possible, and works great. 
  
  If you're buying Hunters for the single player adventure, I would recommend it, especially for 
 those who enjoyed the Cube games. It's certainly a step below Prime and Echoes, but that's too 
 be expected for a handheld. A bit more depth would have made it fantastic. As it is, it's still 
 far better than most adventure games out there!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm ... what can I say about this game. It's great, I love the multiplayer - with WiFi, just playing 
 with friend, getting tortaments on with this, etc. When I brought my DS 1 year ago I got the Metriod 
 Prime Hunters Demo and that totally rocked .... and for so long I've been waiting for this game 
 and I wanted so bad so I went the day it came out in store and they didnt have it :- ( So I went 
 the next day to get it and they had it and I've been playing it since. This game is great and it 
 is totally worth the wait. This game was great on gamecube .. wow its even better handheld. But 
 for some reason I dont think they got it all in this game .. I just dont no why, but still that 
 dont hurt anything still a great game. Good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matisyahu_queen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away. If you are a fan of metroid prime or if you are looking for a good first 
 person shooter then this game is an easy recommendation. Although the single player is week and 
 you will get tired of fighting the same bosses over and over the multiplayer more than makes up 
 for it. I am a big fan of the metroid prime games for the gamecube but i was a little worried about 
 this game. There have been other attempts at a first person shooter but this game far surpasses 
 them all. 
  
  The single player mode is not the same as the gamecube games. You have received an anonymous message 
 saying that the secret to the ultimate power lies in the alimbic cluster. You go to the cluster 
 and you must find the 8 **** but while you are there six other bounty hunters are also trying to 
 get their hands on the **** in the search for ultimate power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarmaster96
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a solid fps for a handheld system, Metroid Prime Hunters is the game to get. 
 The default controls take a bit of time to get use to, but it provides presise shooting. This game 
 probabliy has the best graphics on the ds. This game took the ds to its limits. THe graphics look 
 a bit grainy up close, but its not a problem. Compared to other Metroid games, the single player 
 was a little unpolished. THey seemed to focus a lot more on the excellent multiplayer. THis is 
 game worth getting, and any ds owner needs it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeforrrhymes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok i really have waited for this game since june 05 and for the most part it is totally worth it
 
  
  ok heres the down low
  Gameplay: Just great fluid precise controls great aiming with many control options for left or 
 right handed people great controls for a FPS on the DS
  
  Graphics: Stunning for the DS even better than the graphics for the demo the first person weapons 
 look great while other characters probably could have been improved on
  
  Sound: Not much to talk about here good gun sounds and music is ok
  
  Value: Amazing. With 
 online, multi, and single card play this game will keep you occuupied for a good long while
  
  My Tilt: I am having a superb time playing this game. The Online is great with many options. 
 Theres also bots to practice with which is great. Although the online can be incredibly cheap with 
 some of the players you're up against, it is still good online
  
  Overall: I love this game. It is defianatley one of the best ds games. With great single and multiplayer 
 options it is one if not the best games on the system for the time being 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tycerion
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, let's first look at the transition from a console to a handheld... HOLY COW did 
 they do a good job or what?
  
  The gameplay for this game is just too good to be true. I know I know, you're saying..."It's a 
 Nintendo DS, what did you think it would be like?"
  
  Well, I've played a few games on DS, and let me say , not all of them are up to snuff! And very 
 few are on par with Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  So, to start this review off officially... I'll say this: what this game MIGHT be lacking in storyline 
 depth (I say this loosely, for it's actually interestingly deep in its own right) , is made up for 
 by the huge multiplayer universe that the DS has opened up. And with seven different hunters to 
 choose from, you get to customize your gaming experience a little bit. Yet, with certain weapons 
 at your disposal and each one with its own special set of abilities, you can basically set up your 
 own strategy on each level and multiplayer mode to suit your specific fighting and battling style..... so 
 it's actually got a HUGE amount of individual customization available.
  
  The Metroid universe has gotten a huge upheaval in popularity over the past few releases, and with 
 Metroid Prime still hanging in the overshadows, this game does an EXTREMELY good job at stepping 
 out on its own and making, what seems like, an almost solo appearance into the Nintendo scene.
 
  
  Now, as far as controls go, with the stylus, you have to get a good five minute orientation into 
 them, but with a bit of good hand-eye coordination, and a good understanding of the controls from 
 previous titles, this game's handling is like a dream. If you decide to go with the dual gird controls 
 (using the A, B, X, and Y buttons to aim) , You'll quickly be go over to using the stylus, due to 
 the not quite precise maneuvering of the first person view when in dual mode. Other than that, 
 I give the controls a brilliant two thumbs up.
  
  I LOVE the older Metroid NES throwbacks within the sound tracking, yet with the same amazing feel, 
 and mood setting sound that you loved in Metroid Prime 1 and 2.
  
  And as far as what this game has to offer... endless fun. And with friends, with DS-es, with the 
 game, there are no holds barred!
  
  Multiplayer action is AMAZING! It might slow a bit, but it's not anything that can't be over looked 
 for anyone who's played multiplayer games and had the streaming rev out for a few seconds.
  
  So, stepping back and analyzing this game.... its magnificence and almost impeccable sense of 
 search and destroy, makes it once again, a great title put out by Nintendo, and another must have 
 for any DS owner. Whether or not you're planning on multiplaying, you can still AI three hunter 
 bots and have fun with that aspect.
  
  So all in all WONDERFUL GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  One simple word for this game: INCREDIBLE! The single player offers a lot to begin with, but the 
 real hit is online play. Metroid's multiplayer has had a big change from the not-so-great Metroid 
 Prime 2 multiplayer. There are many different maps to choose from, so you will almost never get 
 tired of it. You can play up to 4 players via Nintendo Wifi Connection, and each of the seven bounty 
 hunters you can chose from each have special abilities which are connected to their affinity weapons. 
 Samus for instance, can charge her missiles for a homing effect. Graphics of this game are great 
 and the music ihas a nice eerie and dark tone to it. Overall, this game is the best handheld game 
 I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is so great. it takes a little time to get used to but after that ur himpnotized playing 
 it. the graphics are great! anyone that likes the metriod prime games and has a ds ........... well 
 get it. its a great multiplayer and if u hav peoples friend codes u can talk to them between matches 
 using wifi in the mic. very sweet! u can hav two on twos and there are like 7 different modes including 
 like capture the flag. even if u just like good shooters u should get it. it even has 6 new hunters 
 added that were in none of the other games!............... i am addictted and you will be too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, here we are, you want to get the game, and I say get it. End of story. No, not really. I 
 really suggest that if you dont have wifi, or other friends to play it with, you do not get it. 
 That is all there is to it. I would say that the controls are awesome, like a mouse FPS, you can 
 be very accurate. There are new hunters, and a new affinity system, which are great. The frame 
 rate can drop drastically though, so be careful of that, but I dont say it hinders the game in 
 any way. In otherwords, if you can play multiplayer, get it. If you cant, you might want to reconsider 
 (although it is still a great game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pastapiggy99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and will take your breath away. The adventure mode is alright but the repetitive 
 bosses will get to you and so will the fact that it is a short game. The multiplayer is where th 
 real game is with its single=card download and multi-card play and the wifi. The wifi is alright 
 but during 3-4 player battles, it starts to lag. A LOT. The graphics are great and the sound is 
 
  awesome. I cant give this a 10 because the adventure mode was in my opinion horrid, it seems like 
 the developers got lazy with the bosses. The concept and plot is there but it was'nt executed to 
 the full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden813
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my first review so its going to be bad :) i
  
  Ok lets get to business the wifi/multiplayer is just amazing you can play local wifi with one card 
 or you can play with four cards at once!! Or if you dont have friends like me you can play with 
 with bots. And on wifi you can play with anyone local to you or around the world but to down side 
 to that is you can only play battle mode. But if you have rivals you can play any of the seven 
 mode that is avalible in the game. Plus the new chat thing that letsyou talk to peolpe before your 
 match. But now i will go to the single player mode. The single player mode isnt as good as the 
 mutliplayer but its still fun. In it you are Samus Aran a bounty hunter who is looking for artifacts 
 that have ultiment power but you are not the only one looking to other bounty hunters are looking 
 for them as well. The single player is to short and the places you go look kinda blocky. And the 
 bosses are way to easy and they are just used over and over again.
  
  So over all this game is amazing with its great multiplayer and well good single player its a buy 
 to any one with a DS and who love to play games over the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi6745
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is perfectly one of the most funnest DS games i have ever had! I play it all the time and 
 it is really fun! This game is perfect for anyone who loves a first-person shooter. The story is 
 a bit short. But it has lots and lots of hidden stuff that you can find or scan. Its a bit hard 
 to get 100% game completion but much easier than the other Metroid Prime games. Other than that, 
 the multi player is even better!! You can be various hunters and each has their own special ability. 
 For me, i like Kanden the best. I recommend him. The Wi-Fi is also great! You can play with up 
 to 4 players total, as usual, but there is tons of people waiting out there to play with you! You 
 have to get 7 kills in 7 minuted. If you do good in these Wi-Fi matches, you get what is called 
 ranking points. If you get a certain number of these you go up in rank. You want to go up in rank 
 as much as you can. In the play with friends and rivals section, you can send messages back and 
 forth to each other. You can also talk through even a mic! Overall, this game is one of the best 
 DS games out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  So, yah, you're a big DS fan. You've probably been waiting for this game since the demo was released 
 way back in 2004. You were ticked off when it got delayed. You waited patiently, patiently, patiently. 
 And then it was finally released. You said during the checkout, "This better be good..." and was 
 it? YES!!!!! With sweet multiplayer features, a cool, but short, story mode, Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 was everything you were hoping it was. Ok, so there may be some cons, like no non-gun weapons and 
 not being able to use the other hunters except in multiplayer (might I add NO bots...) , but, hey! 
 That's what Metroid Prime: Hunters II is for, right? :) The controls are superb; I found myself 
 used to the touchscreen movement in minutes. I love the pin-point capabilities that the DS stylus 
 offers that the PSP pad thingie does not. The graphics are totally up to par with the specs of 
 the DS, and I have had no lag times yet. The levels are entertaining, and the multiplayer maps 
 bring back unrelated memories of playing Perfect Dark 64. The sound effects and music are sweet, 
 and the menu music is probably the best metroid track ever. So, in the end, was it worth the wait? 
 If you say no, well, I guess your mom must've dropped you on your head when you were a baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiblam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime hunters would have to be the best game up to dat on the ds! Single player is fun but 
 a little short but it gets backed up with wi fi. With over 20 unlockables you hardly put the game 
 down. Wi fi is great you can get rankings and different rewards. You can play with fruiends, rivals 
 or just find a game with another person. The most innovating thing is the mic you can use to talk 
 to people its a blast you can ask people if we should wait for others to join the game or to let 
 it start now. Metroid prime hunters is the best game up to date so u should definately get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necorium
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  
  Metroid Prime Hunters makes every single portable first person shooter that came before it obsolete. 
 You see, Metroid Hunters for the Nintendo DS takes full advantage of the units touch screen abilities 
 which has translated into fast, accurate gameplay. I really cant emphasise the controls enough, 
 they are perfect! They rival the mouse and keyboard for accuracy, this isnt joystick nonsense 
  this is total control over a first person shooter in the palm of your hand. The controls take 
 about half an hour to an hour to get used to but after that you will be fraggin those bots with 
 frightening accuracy. The sensitivity of the controls can be changed and there are right handed 
 and left handed modes. There are also a number of options available for you control-wise. You can 
 play using only console buttons (old skool) , you can use the stylus or you can use the thumbpad. 
 I highly recommend the stylus or the thumpad. I just couldnt decided which one to choose when 
 I first got the game but I finally settled on thumpad because I feel more accurate with it. Basically 
 there is a control scheme here for you, so onto the fun stuff.
  
  The graphics are drop dead gorgeous! This is the best looking DS game out to date. The levels are 
 massive and very detailed. Contrary to some reviews I have read, you will be doing quiet a bit 
 of exploring. The enemies look good and the game runs at a stable framerate. The enemies are all 
 well modelled; from the little spikey creatures, to boss security systems and giant magma beings. 
 The single player adventure mode is very well done. There are several planets for you to explore 
 and you will be flying between them regularly to unlock new areas and secrets. The story involves 
 this hypnotic message which is being broadcast throughout space speaking of some ultimate power. 
 Samus must visit these planets to gather ocoliths to find out what this ultimate power is and 
 to destroy it if it poses a threat to the galaxy. But Samus is not the only bounty hunter in the 
 galaxy receiving this message. 
  
  There are seven hunters in all including Samus. They each offer a unique challenge as they all 
 play differently, have different morph forms and different affinity weapons. The hunters are Samus 
 Aran, Weavel, Noxus, Kanden, Spire, Sylux and Trace. You will run into these hunters during your 
 adventure multiple times while traversing the levels. Once you get used to them they pose no threat 
 for your accurate thumb attacks of doom. If they do beat you they are gonna steal an ocolith - 
 so best not lose. 
  
  Multiplayer is even better than adventure. (And adventure was brilliant!!) Multiplayer reminds 
 me of Quake 3, its a fast, frantic deathmatch frag-fest. This is where the different hunters come 
 into play. After you beat a hunter once in single player adventure, you can select them for use 
 in multiplayer battles. This takes the Quake 3 style deathmatch terror and adds an extra level. 
 Totally unique characters that utilise certain weapons better than others, and have crazy morph 
 form characters too. Kanden has this crazy little Stinglava form which you wiggle around the stage 
 dropping off regrowable tails that hone-in on their targets. Noxus becomes the Vhoscythe which 
 has a huge spinning blade to chop his opponents. Spire turns into a red hot boulder with spinning 
 rocks at your control. You can kind of see how crazy these battles get. Trace turns into a dashing 
 Triskelion and he can also turn invisible when he stands still. Oh and his affinity weapon is the 
 rail gun (called Imperialist) . So that comes in really handy.
  
  There are several weapons for you to discover and utilise. Samus starts off with the usually energy 
 blaster and rockets but you will find guns that shoot exploding boulders, guns that shoot ricocheting 
 flak and several other guns that all have unique properties. Most weapons also have a super charge 
 attack and Samus can charge her rockets to make them super homing rockets.
  
  The sound is great  classic Metroid music and sound effects. If you have played Metroid Prime 
 or Prime 2 on the Gamecube you will feel right at home. There are also lots of beautifully rendered 
 cut scenes throughout the game which ooze quality. The intro movie is very impressive and sets 
 the standards for the game that follows. Metroid Hunters is the best game I have ever played on 
 my DS and its also one of the best FPS games Ive ever played. I would highly recommend this game! 
 The single player adventure is a joy to play while the multiplayer section boasts fast and fun 
 gameplay, with years of replayability. 
  
  Reviewed by Necorium (www. grim-design. com) on 27 April 2006
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fhaid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First off all I want to make it clear that this is my FIRST Metroid title ... haven't tried the 
 gamecube game nor the other DS game .. !! But I have to say this game owns !! So Listen :-
  
  1- If you don't have internet (U dont :s ?) lol just rent it !! because its sweet but comes 
 short (Or maybe I think it is) anyway I cant judge the game's length for it is my first metroid 
 title ! but all in all i think its short. 
  
  2- If you have Internet (yeah now we talkin'n) of course you have, Otherwise how come your reading 
 this haha ... yeah ok .. Back to the subject !!
  The online multiplaying is great people are great and the game is just amazing !! I got this with 
 my new DS Lite (Which ROCKS.. Big TIME !) so maybe im just so into the new handheld or the game 
 is so freakin' addictive ! 
  
  3- I never ever never ever NEVER loved FPS games (I owned Xbox and haven't bought Halo 1,2.. I Have 
 X360 not lookin forward to Halo 3 :p) anyway its great game but not my type (FPS in general) .. 
 AGAIN back to the subject, I loved the controls of this game ! with the stylus I mean it is really 
 great !!!
  
  4- I'm Left-Handed (SMART haha) but even SO there are two types (as you would guess) for right 
 or left handed peeps. if you're right handend you hold the stylus in your right hand and use it 
 as a .... i dunno what it is, You know the thing you look around by.. and use the arrows to walk, 
 If left handed vice versa (with the A, B, X, Y, for walking) , god its my first FPS that i like ;D.. 
 
  
  
  5- OVER ALL :-
  
  IMO This game is one of the will-be Classic for this Handheld, If you like FPS you'll love this, 
 but if you don't .... Well you'll love it as well ! .. i guess... maybe... ok it differs... .. JUST 
 KIDDIN' , seriously its great !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is back and now on the DS with a quite an extraordinary multiplayer. Once again you take 
 on the role of Samus Aran, the best Bounty Hunter in the galaxy, until the Galactic Federation 
 receives a message stating that the ultimate power is in the Alimbic Ruins, the message reaches 
 far across the universe and many swarm to obtain the power for their own purposes. Now, the single 
 player experience dwindles a bit since Metroid Prime and MP 2, with a linear level design and not 
 too many secrets (but not as much bactracking) which hurts the game a bit, but the multiplayer 
 is the main focus this time, with 7 different playable characters (including Samus) in about 27 
 courses. Too bad the only way to get other hunters is to kill them in single player, or WIN against 
 someone using that particular character in Wi-Fi or wireless LAN. The controls are very difficult 
 to learn, depending if you use the touch screen to aim. The graphics are also nice for a handheld 
 but the framerate suffers a bit in high-action sequences. The sound could also be a little better 
 but it does the game justice. Still, even though with a somewhat weak single-player experience, 
 the multiplayer makes this game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hionspeed64
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When the DS launched, a demo for Mertroid Prime Hunters was bundled in with the system. The game 
 everybody has been waiting for is here, and its sort of a letdown. MPH has two modes to play: 
 Adventure mode and Multiplayer mode.
  
  In adventure mode, you travel to four different planets to collect special treasures called Octoliths. 
 There are eight octoliths and once you collect them all, you gain the ultimate weapon.
  
  You may be thinking, 8 octoliths, but only 4 planets? WTF? Well, yes, you will be backtracking 
 to older planets to older planets to access new areas that you couldnt with your old weapons. 
 Youll be surprised by how every room looks different from the other, and that everything in the 
 game has been meticulously detailed and looks great. The controls take a little getting used to, 
 but once you master them, which takes about 30 minutes, youll be playing like pro. However, the 
 process of going back to the same planet get tedious at times, and quickly goes from fun to more 
 work to do.
  
  On to multiplayer mode. The multiplayer in this game was what a lot people were really looking 
 forward to. With an announced 7 hunters, dozens of maps, playability over Nintendo WiFi, and pregame 
 voice chat, this game sounds amazing. Unfortunately, the developers didnt fix a certain flaw, 
 and this mistake kills the fun.
  
  The flaw Im talking about is the imbalance of strengths in the playable characters. Each character, 
 in addition to their standard power beam and missile weapons, have an affinity weapon. Affinity 
 weapons are weapon upgrades available to every hunter in the game, but when the hunter gets their 
 personal affinity weapon, the weapon is even more powerful than if it were in another hunters 
 hands. Sorry, theyre a little complicated to explain, but you can go the official website, Metroidhunters. com, 
 for more information. Anyway, some of these affinity weapons are much too powerful. For example, 
 Sylux has the affinity weapon called the Shock Coil. This weapon has the ability to drain the enemys 
 health and give it to Sylux. It also has an insanely long range, and it is possible to continuously 
 siphon health across certain small maps.
  
  Each character also has an alternate form, in which the character can turn into a small, fast, 
 mobile form of himself or herself. The problem is that some of the alt. forms are different from 
 others. For example, Syluxs alt. form is substantially faster than everybody elses. Weavels 
 alt. form is capable of splitting Weavel in half, the bottom half being a turret and the top being 
 a dangerous, cutting thing. You can walk around with the top form, and leave your turret behind 
 to cause major damage. However, Weavel can drop his turret on an energy orb, and every time the 
 turret is low on health, the energy orb will respawn and youll be invincible. This is very unfair, 
 and its impossible to win in many cases. 
  
  On top of these problems, you have the disconnectors who will quit after realizing that they have 
 no chance to win. Nintendo has added a feature on the stats screen for MPH, called the Connection 
 Rate %. If its at 100%, the player has never quit a game. If its lower, then the player has quit 
 games before. This is a useless feature, because it doesnt punish the disconnectors. The fair 
 players are not even rewarded for staying in the game.
  
  This game is pretty easy and it shouldnt take more than 10 or 11 hours to complete. You can play 
 the multiplayer as long as you want, but you may quit like me if you cant put up with countless 
 cheaters. Graphically, the game pushes the DS hardware to the limits, and does a great job of creating 
 a vast atmosphere in all four planets. The gameplay is identical to the Prime games on the Gamecube, 
 but the unique point-and-shoot system makes for a fresh experience. The big letdown is that multiplayer 
 is unbalanced. If it wasnt so easy for cheaters to win games, the online experience wouldve been 
 much more enjoyable. This game couldve been a lot better if a few changes were made. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  if ur looking for a good muiltiplayer game than this is the game for you. you can play with your 
 friends or you can play with people from around the world with the wi-fi feature. you can even 
 make them your friends or ur foes. there are many different hunters to choose from. to be exact 
 6 new hunters tht hhve their own special abilities. also brand new weapons to get. there are 6 
 of them each for one of the new hunters. there is the shock coil, imperalist, volt drive, ice beam, 
 magmul, nd the battle hammer. this game is a must hve for a fps lover!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biobug
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Great from beginning to end. The single player is short but action packed, which i like alot more 
 than previous Metriod games. Scanning is still vital and if you finish with 100% you unlcok extra 
 content. The multiplayer is fantastic! So much depth and replayabilty. Once again im amazed what 
 they can cram into those little DS karts (and wonder why they didnt make them bigger) . With 6 unlockable 
 hunters each with thier own advantages, makes every wi-fi match different. The way they use the 
 touchscreen works flawlessly and is a great platform that other developers should look at and adapt 
 to their games. Over all worth the 35 bucks it costs. My favorite DS game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oginsnfox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well lets start off with the controls, They can be a little hard to get the hang of but they flow 
 fairly easily when you get the hang of them. The levels can be fairly linear at times but nothing 
 that will make you vomit. There are really only three bosses in the game, two of which are used four 
 times with only the attacks changing. Graphics wise they are certainly good for what the DS can 
 do but they tend to look a little fuzzy at times and there is slowdown at times of intense action (or 
 a lot of enemys on screen) . The music sounds nice and fluid and sticks with the metroid theme. Sound 
 effects arn't amazing but certainly sound nice (the weapons have there own unique blasts and each 
 character sounds differently when getting hit or attacking) . The single player mode wont take you 
 too long to beat but the multi-player picks up the slack. Having bots in the game makes it all the 
 easier to enjoy multi with or without friends. All in all buy this game if you have friends with 
 a DS (and hopefully this game) or a wi-fi router, It'll be worth it trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRay8to
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game well before the DS even came out. Some nights I was up to the 
 wee hours just looking for some new cool info. Was it worth the long wait? 
  Yes!! They have done a great job porting the Metroid Prime look and feel from the Gamecube to the 
 DS, with one or two bad points.
  
  The game is controlled in a two real ways, one with the d pad or buttons to move and aim and one 
 where you move with the d pad or buttons aim with the touch screen. If you plan on doing any multiplaying. 
 Start getting used to the touch screen system in single player mode. Or well... you will just get 
 trashed.
  
  There is a single player mode and the multiplayer modes. 
  Single player follows a simple story line that is just a way to get all the cool bounty hunters 
 into one spot and fight. It is both really easy, and sort of a simple outing. You never are really 
 at a lose as to where to go next. There is only 4 differnt uniqe areas that you go back and forth 
 for the whole game.
  
  Along the way you fight other hunters and enemys that you will know from the Gamecube games. You 
 still find power ups in the way of new wepons that let you open new path ways and from the health 
 and missle ups. But there is no real need to look in every little area as the power ups are all 
 really easy to find and are really on the path you will take at one point or a other.
  
  There are bosses, but they are the same ones over and over with little changes. Like what will 
 do the most damage to it and how much damage it can do to you. 
  
  Single player was a let down to me. And that is not that big of a deal. As the game is a multiplayer 
 game no qustions asked.
  
  The real true meat of the game is in its multiplayer system. There are many ways to whoop on your 
 friends. From the norm battle untill someone has a set number of kills too a bounty mode where 
 you get points for takeing a object to a base.
  There are 25 maps that are all differnt and well done. You get every thing from large opens spaces 
 to tight fire fights with no where to hide.
  
  This game follows the same path as other DS games with the Friend Code system. Some love it some 
 hate it. But it looks like its going to be with us for the DSs run. There is a total of 60 spots 
 for your friend codes. 
  And if you dont have any friends you can do a random battle.
  
  In random battles you dont get to pick what mode you play in. You only get the Battle mode. And 
 if that is all you do the game can get boring. So do your best to get friends to play with. Then 
 you can do all the other great modes over wifi.
  
  The hunters are all cool in there own rights all with a alt form. And it seems that everyone of 
 them have "cheep tricks", one can become really hard to see when they are sniping and a other one 
 can just run around and spam morphballs to kill people. But as I said, they all have cheap tricks 
 so that makes them more or less really balanced.
  
  This is not a must have game for DS owners. If you dont like the FPS type game, this will not change 
 your mind. But if you are a action fan and just want to reach out and slap someone this game is 
 your best bet.
  
  One side note, Nintendo WiFi has a really good score keeping system in place. Keeps track of things 
 like wins, head shots, alt kills, and shots fired. Best system in place for a DS game by far.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  We've been waiting for a REAL Metroid game for the DS, and now it's here. This is Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters. The story takes place in space like all the other Metroid games, but this time Samus isn't 
 the only Bounty Hunter. There are six new Hunters all trying to get the same thing: An Alymbic 
 cluster which provides "ultimate power." Huh, where have I seen this before? Oh yeah! In every 
 action game I have ever played! In single player, you play as Samus, traveling from planet to planet, 
 fighting rival Hunters, beating the crap out of bosses (which sometimes beat the crap out of you) , 
 and looking for clues on this "ultimate power." The controls are suprisingly very smooth, since 
 they look very complicated, but sometimes they are. As you know, the Metroid Prime games have puzzles 
 which involve using the Mrph Bll. Luckily, the good ol' Morph Ball is back again and ready for 
 some action. Single player is deffinately the highlight of the game. There are three ways to play 
 multiplayer. Single card play, Local Multi card play, and Nintendo WiFi. Single card and Local 
 Multi card play, are exactly what you would imagine. Yes, once you defeat a Hunter, you can play 
 as them in multiplayer. The online play is not Halo 2, but it's okay... hey, it works. Kinda. Well 
 I give this piece of little Alymbic spaciness, a 8 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supafroman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Now as i stated before the biggest problem with this game is that it can give you hand cramps. 
 After playing for about an hour the hand i held the stylus with hurt alot. Now you can get around 
 this by using a different control skeme but none are as precise as the stylus. If you play metroid 
 prime this game is gonna feel like more of the same, but not in a bad way. There is also far less 
 backtracking. This game has great graphics considering its a DS, and delivers the best portable 
 1st person shooter experience ive ever had. Its simply a must buy for any DS owner. The Wifi play 
 is good however people tend to use cheap tactics to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The new child in what is one of the most popular game series of all time, "Metroid Prime: Hunters". 
 Is a rather different animal then that of its predissecors. It tries not be like any of the other 
 games, even the "metroid Pime" games that it souly emulates. However, it really doesnt deliver 
 anything beyond its fun, but not ground breaking multiplayer. And the amazing single player experience 
 that is always know of the Metroid games, isnt wholy here. At times it can be fun, and some times 
 it can be very interesting. However, the hand numbing controls, irrelevant story, and a hog pog 
 group of other problems take "Hunters" down. Away from the success that it strives for.
  
  The gameplay is set up by four different control scemes. Two of which are without the touch screen 
 and do to the slugish controls and need to continuously go to the touch screen to switch weapons. 
 Make it more work then it needs to be. The only control scemes that work, are the ones that will 
 crush you hands. By using the touch screen, you will get the aining precission that you need that 
 does make this game feel more like a FPS then the previous "Prime" games. And the fact that you 
 can quickly switch between weapons. All this joy though comes at the cost of any sense of confortable 
 controlls. After the first hour threshhold, you will get used to the controlls. However, it never 
 feels comfortable.
  
  The basic gameplay of "Hunters" is a "Prime" game at heart. And fans of the series will definitely 
 enjoy it. However, there are many proeblems that get in the way of the single player campaign being 
 truely compelling. By driving a story that makes no sense of joy. You will be quickly avoiding 
 anything that makes you read text about its world and the history behind it. The puzzles in "hunters" 
 are very fun and inventive. Yet, you will be doing the same puzzles through out the game. As well 
 as fighting the same enemies threwout the game. Making every new area, though different in theme, 
 the game in content. The mission set up is, you hand to find three artifacts, go fight the boss, 
 and get the octelith ( in which there are eight in the game ) . Then go to the other planet, and 
 the process repeats. Giving the game no freshness, unlike the games before it. However, the game 
 can be serve to be very fun. However, when you return to the game, the controlls fill your hand 
 with pain. And you have to get used to them all over again.
  
  The presentation "Hunters" is quite great for the DS. The graphics are in full 3D enviroments that 
 look amazing on the DS. As well as the amazing looking CG animations. However, sometimes the graphics 
 look very good and sometimes they can get very grainy and muggy. As well as the fact that the game 
 is hevelly pixelated. All these really cancell out the games flawless technical achievement. Yet 
 the game still loks good, just not perfect. The sound is amazing though. Sounding just like the 
 console games, every sound "From the battle attacks to the soundtrack that fits every area" is 
 quite amazing on the DS. And they cross over quite well.
  
  The game has a few extras and bonus unlockables. However, the multiplayer is amazingly the drive 
 of a game that is supposed to be know for its single player campaign. Though some quirk reside 
 here also. The gameplay is lag free and amazingly fun to fight people in the game. However, if 
 you fight online random people you cant play any mode except deathmatch. If you get people on you 
 friend list. You can play up to several different modes that are all very fun, and emulate console 
 games such as "Halo". You can every voice chat using the DS microphone with players before and 
 after matches. The voice chat is a fun feature that sounds amazingly static free and fluid on the 
 microphone, sounding just like talking to someone on the phone. Without any interferance. The game 
 also has four player multi-cart, and four player single-cart. All these features really help sell 
 the game, away from the disappointing single player campaign. And the multiplayer is the selling 
 point of the game. And is a great addition to the Nintendo WI-FI service, that is growing quite 
 well.
  
  "Hunters" is a fun game, that will please fans. However, the single player experience, and the 
 cramping controlls almost ruin the package. Its fun, yet nothing up to par with the console games 
 that it emulates. From technical experience its amazing, yet not perfect. Yet the extras are amazingly 
 the driving point of the game. "Metroid Prime: Hunters" is a good game, that will please fans. 
 However, its nowhere near perfect.
  
  "Metroid Prime: Hunters" is a good game overall. Yet, its disappointing single player campaign 
 and its hand cramping controls take away greatly from what could have been a brand new beginging 
 for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slashdot89
Rating: 4
Date: May 2, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  I will start off by saying this game was terrible. Not much of an opening sentence to a review, 
 but this game was not much of a game by Nintendo. It seems to me that the fans biased reviews shows 
 the level of hopeless emotions towards this handheld when it comes to First Person Shooters/Adventures. (I 
 will say shooter because ... what adventure?) I read a lot of, "this is the best game of them all, 
 and shows that FPS's CAN be done on the DS!". Ok, well when I read that line or similar, I get 
 the feeling that those people are being incredibly vague on the topic. First "this is the best 
 game of them all" shows that one: they have not played many other games. Or two: other games suck 
 more or less then Metroid Prime: Hunters. And when I read something along the lines of, "shows 
 that FPS's can be done on the DS", well it is correct it CAN be done, but that says nothing about 
 it could be done great to the extent of holding on to some-non fanboy/girl/it-interest for a decently 
 long period of time.
  
  I have given this game to 5 others that I know and all agreed that this game is a flop to them 
 when it comes to controls. I spend too much time thinking about my hands condition then thinking 
 about the game itself. Cramps are all too often, and I almost seriously believe that I could aquire 
 a long term problem if I were to persist in playing this game. I have been told by others about 
 their opinions when it comes to games and how developers spend too much time on the graphics and 
 drasticly less time on the gameplay/story. When it comes to this game (which is supposed to give 
 amusement, which fails to do so. [keep reading for more information on this topic] ) , there is no 
 excuse to why Nintendo have half, half! arsed this game. One could have said that the developer 
 had to work with the hardware provided, but, Nintendo made that hardware! How could they have not 
 foreseen the immense controversy over the thought of having an FPS for the DS? The touch screen 
 is a fun idea, but not for a fast pased first person shooter. At least one analog stick (on the 
 right side ;] ) would have increase the fun factor. I don't believe they spent anything more then 
 a few days mulging over the problems that could arise with games like these. Anyways, I don't want 
 to get into a DS review, I want to stay on track.
  
  I have played the single play for several hours, and I have a feeling that I lost a good portion 
 of my life playing a Diablo hack and Slash type of game. (in this case a shoot and cramp) I have 
 not played other Metroid Prime Hunters games (and I am glad, or else this review might have been 
 waterd (hosed) down.) , but reading others reviews reveals to me that this game almost does not belong 
 in the Metroid universe. Something about Metroids being non-existant in this game, which has the 
 title Metroid in it, but I seriously was too bored with this games story to even want to go further 
 on reviewing it. Other then grabing some new characters, if you have the dough, pay someone who 
 has an IQ no greater then a sponge to play this game to the end. (Just kidding, but not really, 
 but really not.) So as to have the thought that at least one person did not suffer through the 
 playing of this game.
  
  The multiplayer part of the game was a fantastic idea for the DS, except none of it was. It sounds 
 great on paper, but, as cliche` as it sounds, it really isn't. The voice over IP was a nice little 
 afterthought to the game, but thats all it was (IMO) .. an afterthought. As I wrote before, I spend 
 too much time thinking about my hands then on the game. It cramps up incredibly quick and I don't 
 see a reason why Nintendo could not have chosen a better alternative. Actualy, come to think of 
 it, there is not many other alternatives that are much better then the one that Nintendo has chosen 
 as the standard controls, but at least an option to customize a control scheme from the ground 
 up then to be forced to choose 4 (really 2, both are just interchangeable to a left or right hand 
 style.) different ones might have kept me onboard. This is where the DS fails me and others.
  
  In conclusion, I hope this review has helped those who are drowning in biased opinions towards 
 this game. I don't believe this is a biased review for if you were to play this game for a few 
 hours, you will feel where I am coming from as well. If I have to say anything for a closing comment, 
 is that wait till the download a demo is released to supporting game retail stores and make up 
 your own mind on whether this game is really hyped up as others say it is, because IMO your money 
 might as well be used to smoke a wet pack of PRE-smoked cigerettes then on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbomber64
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is part of a continuing series of great DS games for 2006: Age of Empires, 
 Tetris DS, Metroid Prime Hunters, Brain Age, and coming soon, New Super Mario Bros.. It is tough 
 being the best one of the group when there are so many good DS games. This doesn't stop MPH from 
 being a brilliant game, yes, a brilliant game.
  
  There are many control schemes for Hunters, but I only use the traditional touch screen scheme. 
 This may be precise, but it is sort of slow during Wi-Fi play. That's a small flaw for Hunters, 
 since its controls need a little bit of getting use to. Obviously Hunters is all about multiplayer, 
 but it also brings in a great singleplayer campaign. You go around a solar system collecting artifacts 
 for a few dollars more (of course) . On your journey you meet several other bounem some tense battles. ty 
 hunters, and they carry with them some tense battles.
  
  There are a pretty good diversity in enemies, but Hunters fails into deliver a diverse range in 
 bosses. Those bosses look great, but playing them over and over again kind of makes it lose its 
 appeal. The graphics are the best found on the DS, and is even not too bad in relation to the PSP 
 (I can easily distinguish everything in the game) . There is a great arsenal to choose from like 
 the Imperialist (sniper) and the battlehammer. Each bounty hunter has an alternative form. Some 
 are a little more worthless than others.
  
  Now Hunters seems like it is having, in some way, an anachronistic issue between many critics. 
 Some people say it is not as similar as many other Metroid games, others oppose. I also oppose 
 this. Look, the first Metroid game came out in the mid 80s, twenty years ago! You see, every franchise 
 can't always have an enormous nostalgic feel to it every time you play it. Heck, Super Mario 64 
 didn't do it, Wind Waker didn't do it, why should Hunters do it, considering it is on a handheld 
 that suppose to have innovation. Face it, times are changing. Yes, there will be games full of 
 nostalgia, but you can't expect it every game. Anyways, Hunters has some sounds and music that 
 comes from past Metroid games, so don't say that they didn't try either.
  
  Lastly, Hunters main focus, the multiplayer, offers a great time. Many, many arenas (some reminiscing 
 Quake with all the jumps) , and a good crew of bounty hunters make for a diverse battle. When four 
 players are playing, it is a hectic great time, but it may fall short due to slowdowns frequently. 
 The structure of its Wi-Fi is very organized, especially with friends and rivals.
  
  Overall, Hunters is a great game, both single player and multiplayer. A good length of single player 
 with fun hunter fights mixed with intense Wi-Fi make Hunters a Metroid of a different breed. And 
 in this case, it is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballisticbob3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the nintendo DS video's i was so excited, and one of the first games shown as 
 a tech demo for the system was Metroid Prime Hunters. With all of the waiting for this game, i 
 was fairly dissapointed when i got into the game and found that there were only four planets that 
 you could visit. However, after seeing all of the different environments and level design for multiplayer, 
 i'm very happy with how it turned out. There are lots of maps and i'm quite impressed with the 
 overall size of the game, and the combat. Especially online! This game is so good at what it does. 
 You have options for the sniper rifle of zooming in. And they really nailed the feel of the weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon790
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is   
 The single player can be hard sometimes though, mainly the bosses. The hunters were all easy. The 
 multiplayer is the best part of the game! Multi-card is amazing, single card is good too (exept 
 for the people being samus!) . The wifi dosen't slow down ether. 
  But let me tell you one thing about the wifi! People are creap with Kanden! They stay in sting 
 larva the whole time! Wtf whats that? Sylux's shock coil is damn cheap but fun to use! Trace's 
 sniper owns though, it's the best part of the game! 
  
  Good: single and multi-player.
  
  Bad: Hard bosses! So damn  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Aresnal7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I find this game fun althow I am really picy about the controlles I just find them hard to get 
 use to but overall I find it pretty good my self perfere's the multiy player I have found the graphics 
 amazing but I find sometimes the screen has it's tilt but I don't notice it that much. The sound 
 I thought nintendo did a pretty good job on the sound it gives the game that afect when you play 
 it. The value well nintendo did a scertenly did a good job on the length of the game! After reading 
 my review you probly know what I gave the game but one thing is for sure nintendo never fails us! Thanks 
 00Aersenal7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revo_gamer275
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid Prime Series has been one of the most well known series known this generation, and 
 it was about time a handheld version was to appear. MetroidPrime: Hunters is deeloped by in-house 
 Nintendo developer Nintendo Software Technology, with help from Retro Studios, the makers of Metroid 
 Primes 1 and 2 on the Gamecube.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters takes many different options than the original GCN games. The game uses the 
 touch screen for aiming, housing the radar, weapon-changing and Alt-Form options. This makes aiming 
 so precise in this game, equally as much as PC first-person shooters. But sometimes these controls 
 can be TOO precise, especially with the stylus. The game does not fell natural with the stylus, 
 and using the option of aiming with the face buttons is just not precise enough. So I personally 
 prefer the thumb-tack on the wrist-strap on the DS, which helps the problems of the stylus, but 
 raises problems like thumb-cramps and messy marks on the touch screen. The Alt-Form option is a 
 nice change from other First-Person shooters though as it changes the run of play sometimes when 
 used properly, and is unique to any First-Person Shooter. New Weapons also make ths game like other 
 Shooetrs, and flsehes out gameplay. 
  
  The games single player option is also quite different from the original GCN Primes. The story 
 takes place in the Alimbic Cluster, a group of 4 planets, Celestial Archives, Alinos, Vesper Defense 
 Outpost and Arcterra. All these planets have the Substantial Fire (Alinos) and Ice (Arcterra) enviroments, 
 with the other two planets being more futuristic, like the Sanctuary from Metroid Prime 2. A telepathic 
 message has been sent from the Cluster to all corners of the universe, including the Galactic Federation, 
 who sends Samus to these planets to find Octoliths, which hold the key for harnessing the "Great 
 power", whick is described in the message. You will face the other Hunters in the game, who are 
 looking for the power for their own planets and themselves. These Hunters are Kanden, Spire, Sylux, 
 Trace, Weavel and Noxus. Each ahve their own Affinity Weapons, like Samus' Missiles, and Alt-Forms, 
 like Samus' Morph ball. The game has its quirks, though. The boss batlles are repeated for every 
 planet, which is very repetitive and tiresome. This mode is also very linear, with very few multiple 
 paths, against the huge roaming mode of the GC Primes. Also planets have the same enviroments everytime, 
 and there is very little change as you play through the planets a few times. Also Missile Expansions, 
 Energy Expansions and Ammo upgrades are very few and far between, not even close to the level of 
 searching done in this games predessors. All these reasons may be due to limitations of the DS 
 hardware, but if the single-player was a litlle bit more fleshed out, it could have at least comapaed 
 to the GC games. Also I am not a fan of the Ammo restrictions since Metroid Prime 2, and i dislike 
 how it has been added to the game. Single Player should take you about 16 hours at most to complete, 
 even less without the searching for expansions.
  
  The mistakes in Single-Player mode, however, have been made redundant by the stellar multiplayer 
 mode. Single-Card and Multi-Card modes are availiable, with a few limitation being made in Single-Card, 
 as in the players without the game must play as Samus. The multiplayer mode has 7 game modes, including 
 a few takes on other modes made famous on other shooetrs, with a Metroid Twist, including Battle 
 (standard Deathmatch) , Survival, Bounty (Single Player team capture the flag) , Defender, Prime 
 Hunter, Capture (like capture the flag, but with octoliths) and Nodes, made famous from the Unreal 
 Tournament PC games. Most of these modes can also be played in Team modes, and some hve to be played 
 by teams (Capture and Defender) There are over 25 maps, from small places to large sniping maps. 
 Many options are avaliable, and all Hunters are avaliable in the mode once you beat them in single-player, 
 or online. All the affinity weapons are availiable, and Alt-Form modes can be used freely in this 
 mode. You may also play against bots in Multi-card Mode, or to fill up places in actual matches 
 against friends.
  
  Also availiable is the online Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection mode, which is also a huge bonus. You can 
 radomnly play anyone either in your region or around the world using the "Find game" Option, but 
 you can only play Battle Mode, and the rules cannot be changed. But you can play any option inthe 
 game through the Friends and Rivals mode. You can Add Rivals after playing them in the Find game 
 option, or by using the "Rival-Radar", which finds other people using the same option around your 
 vicinity. Freinds can be made using the exchanging of friend-codes. This Friends and Rivals is 
 exactl the same as the Multi-Cart mode. 
  
  The Graphics on this game are absolutely awesome, the best for the DS console, and compare heavily 
 to PSP games. The games graphics may be considered a bit grainy, but that is expected with the 
 power of the DS being fully used. The frame-rate is quite smooth, but can chop up in huge fire-fights.
 
  
  The Sound is something that is expected from a Metroid Prime Game, very atmospheric, there are 
 a few remixes from the Prime Games, and is good and very well composed. The weapons in the game 
 make nice sounds, and all the sound effects are also very well done for a handheld game.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is absolutlely must-buy for DS owners. Although having that lacklustre single-player 
 campaign, its has the best multiplayer and online options for any DS game. Once you get this game, 
 you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me state that this is another great metroid game. Metroid Hunters' Single Player 
 and Multiplayer has non stop action. The thing that truely amazes me is the great controlling on 
 the ds. It feels like a pc. Well think about it. Your using the pen and letting it aim like if 
 you were using a mouse. Yes nintendo has revolutionize handheld gaming once again. Anyways metroid 
 prime hunters single player is alright but has its flaws. Like for example, the boss fights are 
 repeative. They only have 2 types of bosses. Well you fight 8 bosses in the game but what I mean 
 they have 2 types of bosses is that they look the same, the only thing that gets different is that 
 they get tougher when you go through the game. You'll know what I mean once you play the game. 
 And the other thing about the single player mode is that once you beat the single player you won't 
 feel like you want to get 100% on single player and you know why. Because once you beat single 
 player mode you will go straight in to the multiplayer, o yes that's where metroid hunters gets 
 to the good part. First off, you get to pick your hunter such as kanden, trace, weavel, solux, 
 slyux, spire and samus. They each have a special power with there weapons and ther morph ball modes, 
 and it makes you find which hunter is your best character. My best character is weavel because 
 his morph ball rocks. Anyways, metroid hunters online is unbelievable. I mean 25 levels, up to 
 4 players, and killing noobs. I mean what more would you want from a FPS in a handheld. This game 
 is definitely a must buy ds game. You won't be disappointed metroid fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much that you will not believe it. Amazing multiplayer with a choice of 7 different 
 charactors to play as. The adventure mode is great aswell. Metroid Prime: Hunters is definatly 
 the best in the whole long series. Plus did I mention 6 different hunters than Samus Aran all in 
 which you get to play as in tons of arenas. Wonderfully craphted with great sounds cut scenes and 
 graphics that you'll find abnormal for a DS game. It definatly is up there with Mario Kart DS and 
 Super Mario 64 DS. Amazing Just amazing.
  I do think you shouldn't have to scan everything in site to complete the game with 100% though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumaxe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a very different handheld game, you'd be suprised how much stuff they fit on that little 
 cartrige. The graphics are top of the line [for the DS.] And it is about the best game ever made 
 for a handheld. 
  
  But what makes this game so awsome, is the multiplayer. The First Person mode is cool too, but 
 the multiplayer makes you glad they took another year, or however long it was delayed to add Wifi 
 . Even though I havn't been able to play on wifi. I can tell how awsome it is by playing with the 
 bots. It is worth it just for the multiplayer, honestly. 
  
  Now the story mode is realitivly short and kinda repetitive, but this is metroid were talking about, 
 so it is really fun too so don't get me wrong. There aren't as big of epic boss battles any more, 
 it is more like a free roaming game, instead of having more of a story based game, with everything 
 put in order so you need ceartain items to do ceartain things. It still has some of that but it 
 feels different when you play it. Also the other Hunters you meet along the way make it all the 
 better.
  
  I find the best way to control it is using stylus mode. I think that dual hand mode is to sluggish, 
 especially with battling other hunters. But if you like dual hand mode [like I did in the Demo: 
 The First Hunt] then by all means use that one. Also the ability of moving your arm cannon and 
 moving separetly is a lot better than in the previous Prime games. The only problem with stylus 
 mode is that it can hurt your hands and you may have to take breaks every once in a while. But 
 maybe on the new DS lite it will be a little easier on you hands.
  
  So if you like Metroid, like multiplayer, like Wifi, or want to develop arthritis to get insurance 
 money. (Just Kidding) Then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggshnyne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm going to tell you that I'm not that big of a Metroid fan, don't get me wrong I think 
 the whole Idea is cool for a game, but I really couldn't get into the series for the longest time. 
 The only one's I've played before were the one's for the GCN, and I think the whole reason I couldn't 
 get into them was the fact that it automatically aimed for you. I thought that just took all the 
 fun out of the games. But the good news is they got rid of that in this one, and I think that's 
 one reason why I really liked this one so much. Not to mention the graphics are phenomenal. And 
 I thought they looked good when I played it on my original DS, but when you play this game on a 
 DS lite the colors just stand right out. And trust me I saw my friend playing it on his lite.
 
  
  Game play is solid. The controls may seem a little tricky at first, but when you go to the control
 
  options you are surly to find an option that's most comfortable for you, whether it's the touch 
 screen or the buttons, left hand or right handed. And you can adjust the sensitivity as well. As 
 for the single player, personally I thought it could have been better, and I'm sure that goes the 
 same for a lot of the fans of the series. There weren't enough shooting moments to keep you excided, 
 and that made the levels seem really long. Especially when you have to go back to a level that 
 youve already beating just to find a weapon that you couldnt get the first time around. And a 
 lot of the times that made me say ugh... But it is still pretty interesting at times, like when 
 you bump into one of the other hunters in the game that seek of the Alimbic Cluster which it is 
 said to have the ultimate power with in it. Of course when these new hunters rushed from there 
 home worlds in search of this secret power, Samus Aran was called for this job. The new hunters 
 in this game are Sylux, Weavel, Trace, Kanden, Noxus, and Spire. And all these new characters have 
 there own unique abilities.
  
  But what really makes this game is the multiplayer, I mean once you taste it you can't get enough. 
 And I believe thats extremely important for a FPS. And whats really cool, is that you have a 
 friends and rivals list for when you play online, and the way you make friends is by entering there 
 12 digit code. And how you add rivals is after you play a match, (if you went to find game.) Right 
 below there name theres an option that says add rival, if you add them and they add you, you both 
 will be added to each others rivals list. (The best way to get someones friend code is to become 
 a member of Game Spot and to exchange codes with other members.) And when you both add each other 
 to your friends list you can talk to them, or you can send them a message before and after each 
 match.
  
  Plus the game has a lot of fun modes in VS, such as battle were you set the kills and the time 
 of each match, and you can even add team play if you like. Then theres survival were you set the 
 amount of lives you want, then fight tell youre the last person standing. (This mode has team 
 play as well.) And theres the mode bounty, were you have to find the Octolith, then take it to 
 a specified location. And thats just a few from the seven different game types there are in the 
 multiplayer. As you can see this game has a lot to offer with an ok single player, and with great 
 online play. Plus the game has single-card play, and multi-card play. Single-card allows you to 
 play with a single game card with up to four friends, but the people with out the game can only 
 choose from Samus. And youll only be able to choose one of the game modes, battle. But if everyone 
 as a game and you select multi-card youll be able to choose from the modes to the characters. 
 And if your wondering how to get your DS online, go to Nintendo WIFI .com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Man
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the next game in Nitendo's Metroid series. In the game, you take on the 
 role as Samus Aran, who has been asigned to track the source of mysterious messages coming from 
 the Alibic Cluster. Now Samus must find the Octolith whic conatain messages. The Octolith carry 
 some ultimate power that some other bounty hunters are after.
  
  You adventure off into planets with in the area. The planets contain artifacts wich help you get 
 to the boss. Once you collect the three artifacts, you enter a poratl where you will go past a 
 2 huge doors and fight the bosses. When you beat the bosses you gain a Octolith, which the other 
 hunters will try to take from you, by killing you. You'll go through 4 planets, each containg 2 
 Octolith
  Your mane weapons are your Power Beam and Missle Launcher. Along the way you'll find more weapons 
 that each have there own perpus. Alongside your guns, you have Morph Ball Mode. Samus roles up 
 into a small ball and lays bombs.
  The controlls are fairly simple in the game. First off, there is dual-mode left ,where you use 
 the D-Pad to move your gun/look around , the face buttons to move and R to shoot .Dual-Mode Right 
 is the samething as left except everything is reversed. Stlus Mode Left is where you use the the 
 stulus to move your gun/look and the face buttons to move. Sylus Mode Right is the reversed version 
 of Stylus Mode Left.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is crazy fun. When you do Download Play, the only game option to do is 
 Battle. In Multiplayer or Wifi, you have a verity of games such as Deffender, Nads and good old 
 Death Match.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is a game which will take you about a few weeks to beat if you play an hour 
 or two a day. This game is well werth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzer15
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  ok ...... metroid prime is the best thing that ever happened to metroid ....... but then you realize 
 that lock on aint as good as the mouse (for multiplayer) ... and then nintendo hits you with metroid 
 prime hunters ..... innovative aiming..... using the stylus!!!!!!! its the best thing that happened 
 to an fps!!! and a seperate screen for the unrealistic HUD (you dont have a weapn chooser in your 
 helmet....)
  metroid prime hunters has done everything possible to make it the best game for ds and if u have 
 a ds and dont have this game u suk!!!
  the graphics : ok i know you guys probably think ds graphics suk but take one look at this game 
 (not the demo!!!!!!!) and all you're misconceptions will vanish.
  multiplayer is obviously the main attraction of the game but single player is no less than metroid 
 prime on gc. ofcourse its shorter cz it s on handheld but its still holds up the metroid type gameplay 
 storyline... like you have to return to the same place after having you're arsenal upgraded.... 
 you stil have the morph ball puzzles..... but this time there are more bounty hunters with you!!! 
 this makes the game very competitive . because if u lose an octolith you have to get it back from 
 the hunter who stole it from you.... chasing him down in the galaxy. plus you finally get to see 
 the inside of samus's ship!!!!!!!!!! the bottomline is this game is a masterpiece and nintwndo wifi 
 will keep you hooked and asking for more....... the day your name is in the leaderboard ... you'll 
 know.... you're the prime huter!!!!!!!!
  
  HAPPY GAMING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblem_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best DS games to date.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  You can change your control settings on how would like to control your Hunter besides using the 
 touch screen
  
  Graphics- 9
  Its almost identical to the Prime games in the GC version. But the only flaw is less texture in 
 the background
  
  Sound- 9
  There is nothing to say about sound, although I could careless about voice acting. The background 
 songs seem to fit in the mood on different levels
  
  Value- 10
  I garanteed that you will be playing this game for a longtime, because its wifi enabled and you 
 will be hunting people across the globe with 25 maps to play in
  
  Revier's Tilt- 9
  Many people will enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmdawg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  this game made me play my ds all day. the lvls r great, multiplayer is the highlite if u hav a 
 long frends list! multi player is at its hi est 4 this game. believ me on this ppl, hunters is 
 the game 2 buy if u own a ds. the story is also immersiv. somtimes i 4get im at home! 4 shame if 
 u dont hav this masterpiece and u own a ds! chasing other hunters 4 stolen artifacts, bosses, xploring, 
 or just going online via wifi 2 show off ur skills 2 the random freaks that think their all that 
 an more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irelandboy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is the best game for the DS so far easily. The single player is good but the real action is 
 in the multi player. The best part about the multi player is the different characters, it's good 
 the way you don't have to stay as Samus, she's great and all but, you get to choose between 6 other 
 characters each with different morph modes. It uses the touch screen perfectly. You move the stylus 
 on the touch screen to aim or you can choose to use the face buttons but the touch is more accurate. 
 The graphics ar the best so far seen on the DS. Overall this is the brilliant game that the DS 
 has been waiting for!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360gamer46
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer, great graphics, Awsome gameplay!
  
  The Bad: Horrible single player : ( I would rather die than play the single player!
  
  Hello! 
 To start out, Metroid prime is a FPS for the nintendo ds! THis game is really innovative and fun 
 to play (IN MULTIPLAYER) ! The single player is the worst. The only reason i did the single player 
 is so I could unlock the characters. That is also a downside: unlocking characters. This game would 
 be a lot better if you had all the hunters from the get-go. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. From shooting the ground to holding your blast and the smoke coming out 
 of the top. These graphics really show the power of the nintendo ds!
  
  Also, the multiplayer is the best multiplayer I have played since halo 1 and 2!
  And that is 
 saying a lot!
  
  The talking feature when playing with friends and rivals is also amazing! who knew you could talk 
 to each other through that little thing? AMAZING!
  
  In conclusion this game has a horrid single player, but the multiplayer really makes up for it! 
 I would reccomend this game to anyone who has a ds even if you are not a metroid fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters may be considered as a flop by many Nintendo haters who apparently has never 
 played the game, but however the Single player and the entertaining multiplayer adds value to the 
 original package, making it the best DS game ever made up to date.
  
  Single Player: Many people may argue that the boss battles gets repetitive after a while, but the 
 addition of new attacks and enhance abilities make each battle seem like a new one. As the original 
 free roaming aspect of the Metroid series has been left down to a more fps like game the original 
 appeal is still their.
  
  Multi player: whit the addition of five new hunters and many other weapons and levels and modes, 
 the Multi player has a halo-ish feel which is not a bad thing. 
  
  The game is easily the best fps in the hand held market and who knows maybe a certain Metroid Prime 
 Hunters 2 may change this statement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstorm58621
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters may be the best DS game out there right now. It has a great story mode, 
 all the different hunters changes the way the story is made. You have to know the map and pay atention 
 to everything in the room. The graphics are unbelieveable not as good as the gamecude but alot 
 better than the N64. The multiplayer is to good to be true, you can have bots, there 26 lvls to 
 chose from, you downlowd the game to people who don't have it and there is Wi-fi play. The only 
 bad thing about the game are the boss battles (not the last boss battle) . But still this is a must 
 buy, if you don't have DS should buy it for Metroid. If you like the game then open your eyes and 
 wake up. Just buy buy the game and you will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawnboi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Metroi Prime Hunters is the most recent of many metroid games. Metroid games have a lot of reputation 
 (good reputation) . Hunters has a lot of pressure on it because of the fact that all Metroid games 
 are wicked.
  
  This game bassicly has no story. The hole game you are running around
  trying to find these crystals things. The basic point to this game draws me away from playing it 
 much. I hate the fact that all the puzzles at freakishly easy. 
  Ecept the boss fights can be hard since their is no aiming. Wich leads me into my next paragraph.
 
  
  The controls are not very good at all. From what I hear on the boards people love the fact that 
 the controls are simple. Well they have one thing right they are simple, but that does not make 
 the good. It took me est. 45 minutes to get used to the games controls, by that time i was half 
 way through the game. You simply touch the rocket icon to use the rockets and so on for other weapons. 
 The thing that tickes the hades out of me, is that I always accedentily slide my thumb onto the 
 rocket button, because the only way to aim is to aim on the touch screen.
  
  The graphics are okay. They do not amaze me in any way. there are some choppy moments. The cutscenes 
 KICKED ASS! they are so detailed and good looking it makes me actuly want to play more of the game.
 
  
  The extra six bounty hunter is not that apealing, since you kill them all half way through the 
 game and none are harder then the metroids .. O wait there are no metroids!
  
  The real only kinda fun part to this game is the Wi-Fi play. The added a voice talk on it wich 
 is rad. I could play with the online forever.
  
  6.9 is a resonable reveiw do please consider all the great games the DS has to offer, because this 
 game might look like tones of fun but its not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Mario
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It has everything the DS has on offer, and also uses them features 
 exceptionaly good. 
  
  Multiplayer fun is where the core of the game lies and the multiplayer is great. Download play, 
 DS to DS play and most importantly online play are the three multiplayer types. The online play 
 is amazing. Its a pick up and play multi player, which you can play for as short time or as long 
 time as you want. There are plenty of guns and upgrades to collect while your battling which can 
 keep the game moving, very fast. After all this, there is still six different game modes to choose 
 from. These different games are all fun and different. they offer alot of fun and keep you playing 
 for a long time.
  
  Then theres single player. The visuals and gameplay are amazing. This was my first metroid game 
 ever and i thoroughly enjoyed the game. Theres a mix of all different gameplay options. The two 
 that really stick out are: Plenty of puzzles mixed with a lot of action.
  
  If you have a DS then you must have Metoid Prime Hunters
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  A LOT of FUN! Not so difficult that you have to spend the rest fo your life learning how to accomplish 
 a level or stage. The graphics on these DS-LITE hand helds is awesome and I highly recommend this 
 game. New to the Metroid franchise, I can only compare to PSP and XBOX 360 titles. Gameplay is 
 smooth and predictable. The controls and features are fairly easy to learn but, I haven't finished 
 the game yet and expect there to be some serious challenges. The weapons seem appropriate for the 
 stages and available ammo and life is there when you need it IF you've used what you have appropriately. 
 I'm not a youngster BUT like to play and can't spend hour after hour learning a game but like a 
 good challenge and like to be able to accomplish something with a realistic amount of effort. This 
 is a MUST have for the DS-LITE or DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Metroid has been a great series but Metroid Prime Hunters turned the Metroid series into FANTASTIC! Metroid 
 Prime Hunters is the best first person-shooter for the DS right now so even if your not shooting 
 fan and you have a DS or you are buy this game its got great Wi-Fi which icludes voice chat and 
 local play!!! The ghrafics are great and the charecters are fine ,but what i didnt like was the 
 single player mode it was okay but it got very frustrating but still i recommend this game!! Also 
 if your not a Metroid fan or a Samus fan its okay youll still have alot of fun playing trust me 
 im not a Metroid fan but i still love the game so go get now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I got this game just for the Multiplayer mode. I played it on single card and is pretty good. I 
 still yet to play on Wi-Fi mode. I will soon be getting the Wi-Fi Adaptor to do it. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the DS. Not really as good as Gamecube versions, but too bad. 
 I like watch the cut scenes especially the intro toward the title screen with the other Bounty 
 Hunters. So the graphics do work pretty well.
  
  The sound, I was a little disappointed with it. I was kind of hoping it would be as good quality 
 as Metroid Prime on the gamecube. I still kind of recognize so music, which is fine. Good thing 
 it was not so terrible I could not stand it. The game sounds could have been better too. The creators 
 for this game could have boosted the sound quality a lot more, come on! it is not like they are 
 that poor.
  
  The gameplay is good in the game. The single player is pretty dan bland to me. I wish it set the 
 mode for exploration then just completing the objectives. I also wished I could have learned more 
 of the bounty Hunters in Single Player, it just does not give you that time. The multiplayer is 
 really great. I love being the ohter Bounty Hunters other than Samus. My favorite one is the cyborg 
 where you go in the "Ball Form" that you get the half Turrent which is really useful. This is the 
 very reason I still own the game is the Multi-player mode.
  
  The value is that it is worth it playing the multi-player mode on it. The single player is really 
 bland, but you do at least can earn more Bounty Hunters and Multi-player maps from it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordcarbo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters has been on the horizon ever since the DS's release. It contained a demo 
 version of the game, one I honestly wasn't fully impressed with. Despite that, I expected Nintendo 
 would still manage to make this game the Metroid game everyone wanted enough to warrant a purchase 
 from me.
  
  I turned the game on in excitement and watched the awesome cinematic introduction, and let me tell 
 you, those were some of the best graphics on the DS at the moment. To an extent, the graphics from 
 that opening could put quite a few games on the PSP to shame. Well, I finally got through the introduction 
 a second time, still with my jaw dropped, and I set my controls.
  
  Now, if you were to try to create a FPS and make the controls extremely fluid, you probably wouldn't 
 do a good job, but that's where the DS's touchscreen comes in. There are two control modes, stylus 
 and dual mode. At first, stylus mode might feel extremely uncomfortable and awkward. So I switched 
 to the dual mode (the "regular" mode, where you don't use the touchscreen to aim) . Well, let me 
 tell you, the dual mode is horrible. You can't aim for your life on high sensitivity, and on low 
 sensitivity you can't turn fast. It's not anyone's fault, though. It's just hard to pull off like 
 that.
  
  I'm used to the mouse-and-keyboard controls for computer shooters. If you've ever played a shooter 
 on a PC, you'll know that these controls do better than any controller could ever do (assuming 
 the game you played on the computer didn't have bad controls) . The DS uses the touchscreen as a 
 mousepad and the stylus as a mouse and makes the best controls for any FPS, seconded by the indomitable 
 mouse-and-keyboard. You drag your stylus around the touchscreen to aim and double tap it to jump. 
 There are buttons on the touchscreen to switch from different guns, and this is where it can get 
 tricky. If you're not careful, you may accidently touch one of those buttons instead of moving 
 or whatever you were trying to do, so instead of getting the final shot with a missile, you may 
 accidently fire a power beam shot. Hopefully, though, you learn fast and this won't happen to you 
 much. So far I have went dozens of matches without ever making a mistake like that if you exclude 
 missing the button that morphs the hunter into an "alt-form".
  
  In Metroid Prime: Hunters, you take the roll of a bounty hunter named Samus. You explore the galaxy, 
 planet by planet, in search of eight artifacts called Octiloths. While on each world, you will 
 face other hunters out to kill you while exploring the worlds full of a variety of creatures. This 
 story takes place between the events of the current Metroid Prime games for the Gamecube.
  
  The single-player experience is really cut short by a lack of depth in the level designs and 
 a loss of the Metroid feel. Instead of an entire world that has an open-ended feel to it, you have 
 four planets (technically two planets and two space stations) you will visit throughout the game. 
 You play through the level, and after you face off against a hunter and explore through the quite 
 small area, you face the boss, take the Octiloth, and escape the area before it "explodes". Yes, 
 every stage is like this, all eight (you get to visit each planet twice) . The levels aren't exactly 
 what you'd call long or deep. In fact, when the level is about to detonate, you will always have 
 a fixed amount of time; the highest being 8 minutes, 30 seconds. This might seem okay to you considering 
 there are eight planets, but it really isn't. The numbers drop to 5 minutes, 4 minutes, even 3 
 at a few points. Don't forget, that's the time you have to escape the planet so you're expected 
 to clear out of the stage, avoiding and demolishing added enemies, in less than that time.
  
  Despite the drawbacks, single-player isn't that bad. I highly doubt anyone would want to play 
 through it again unless they were really bored or didn't have any other games they haven't beat 
 ten times already. It's pretty much a linear version of any other Metroid Prime game with too much 
 focus on fighting the computer controlled hunters.
  
  One thing you'll notice while playing the single-player game is the multitude of recycled sounds 
 from other Metroid Prime games. You know that little tune that plays when you get out of your spaceship 
 or just open up your saved file, right? Well expect to hear it in this game. You'll hear other 
 sounds, such as the noise made from scanning something important. While this might not be a bad 
 thing and not all of the sounds are recycled, it's safe to point out. The music also has a good 
 Metroid feel to it, which is definately for the better if you like the soundtrack from the Metroid 
 Prime games.
  
  The graphics also resemble a Metroid Prime game, definately for the better. The cinematic graphics 
 are breathtaking, and you'd probably expect it, but the gameplay graphics are equally a treat for 
 your eye. There's really no other way to put it than to describe it as some of the best graphics 
 on the Nintendo DS, even better than graphics on the Nintendo 64. The enviornment are beautiful 
 and well constructed. The only miss is that sometimes when the area gets too cluttered, the framerate 
 will slow down. Also, each hunter (I'll get to that in a second) has their own interface, which 
 is presented well. Although each one is different, the basic positions of everything are still 
 in tact, from the radar to the buttons that switch your weapons. The only acception is the health 
 bar which is sometimes on the top, and other times on the left side.
  
  Hopefully you didn't buy this game hoping for your money's worth simply from the single-player 
 mode or else I would of urged you to buy both Metroid Prime 1 and 2 for the Gamecube. Heck, you 
 could get both games combined for $5 more than MP: Hunters costs alone. In Hunters, multiplayer 
 is where it's at.
  
  Anyone who has played any FPS boasting good multiplayer will know that Metroid Prime 2's multiplayer 
 wasn't exactly the best there is. It was decent to an extent, but there were definately others 
 out there that were better. Hunters reinvents the multiplayer experience for the Metroid series 
 and makes it truely enjoyable. All of the weapons and controls that were in the single-player mode 
 are now open for business and butt-kicking in multiplayer, except with the addition of six more 
 hunters at your disposal, all having different effects with their affinity weapon and alt-form.
 
  
  There are six affinity weapons in this game, along with missiles and the power beam, all at your 
 disposal. The power beam is your main weapon. It doesn't use any ammo, so in return, it's weak, 
 even when charged up. Missiles are the power puncher. They fire slowly in a straight line and can 
 be charged for a nasty bit of damage, and in Samus's case, they home in on targets. The six other 
 affinity weapons vary in how they work out. The Shock Coil, for example, is a weapon suited for 
 constant charge. The more you have your enemy in range and on target, the more damage you do and 
 the faster you do it. When Stylux uses the Shock Coil, he heals whatever damage he does. On the 
 other hand, the Imperialist is a sniping weapon that gets a one hit kill with a headshot and has 
 a zoom feature, although it is extremely slow and uses up a hefty amount of ammo. In the hands 
 of Trace, he is almost completely invisible when he stands still with the Imperialist in hand. 
 Each hunter also has an alternate form, called an alt-form, where the player goes into a third 
 person view and controls the hunter in a different form. For Samus, her alt-form is the Morph Ball, 
 a speedy ball that can drop bombs.
  
  It's my honest opinion that the developers did a good job at balancing the hunters out. All of 
 the hunters have potential and none of them are completely overpowered. Of course, there are extremely 
 unfair tactics like an "instakill" where you freeze your enemy at close range and switch to the 
 Imperialist and kill them, or immediately rushing for the Deathalt, an item that temporarily puts 
 you in your alt-form and makes it so whatever you touch will die. Sometimes these things are avoidable, 
 like when your opponent's alt-form lacks the ability to reach high places, but there are times 
 these can be unfair, such as in a 4-player deathmatch and everyone else doesn't know how to run 
 away from the Deathalt.
  
  The arenas are all layed out nicely, well, they are for deathmatch and survivor. Some of the larger 
 courses with high grounds that are nearly impossible to treck if you don't know how are unfair 
 for a balanced round of Prime Hunter, a mode where you have to be the "Prime Hunter" for the longest 
 to win. The game designers also didn't do a perfect job with the Defenders and Nodes games, where 
 in some levels, there are only limited ways (or one way) to approach the area that needs to be 
 secured. On WiFi, though, when you aren't playing an organized match with someone on your friends 
 list, you can only play battle mode, a regular deathmatch-type game. The player selection also 
 isn't the best there is. If you've played Mariokart DS, just imagine the same slow-paced selection, 
 although the ranking system is much more balanced. And one of the most annoying things are the 
 maps people pick. Now, I know people prefer certain maps over others in games, but in Hunters, 
 it's ridiculous. I usually just play the same three or so maps (out of twenty-four) all the time 
 because people constantly choose them (not to mention one of those maps has a Deathalt, which if 
 you haven't learned by now, is a game breaker) .
  
  So do I reccomend Metroid Prime: Hunters? If you have WiFi capabilities, yes. This game is definitely 
 worth venturing into if you have any means of connecting onto the Internet wirelessly, otherwise 
 it's worth a rental at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a huge game packed into a tiny little Nintendo DS cartridge. The graphics 
 are a major step forward for the dual screen handheld and while using the stylus to look around 
 while balancing the DS with your left hand does take some getting used to it won't be so bad as 
 to spoil the fun.
  While the world maps turn out to be surprisingly large in size they also leave one feeling like 
 they are holding your hand and leading you to where you need to go. My only gripe with the game 
 thus far is that the sense of exploration has largely been skipped by the developers in favor of 
 an edgier, more fast-paced adventure. First person shooter? Not hardly. Locating artifacts is still 
 the main mission while shooting up baddies takes a seat in the back however, defeating other bounty 
 hunters after the same treasure has made gun battles a more important aspect of Hunters than the 
 console Prime games.
  As with the other Prime games the boss fights are exciting and engaging requiring fast thinking 
 and a steady aim. The other bounty hunters attack you at various intervals in the game and, if 
 they defeat you, they take your bounty. The difficulty of the other hunters varies with each one 
 having their own special weapon and morph mode.
  The multiplayer is by far the best found on any handheld game, with an excellent variety of game 
 modes and a huge assortment of well-designed maps with various sizes.
  Finding opponents on Nintendo Wi-Fi is fast and easy, I have not tried the VoIP chat yet so I can 
 not comment on its functionality.
  This game is a must have title for DS owners and if you don't have one, it is another good reason 
 to go out and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  As you may all know Metroid Prime was a classic hit on the Gamecube and mixed adventure with fps 
 action in a single package. Only flaw of that was it focused only on Singleplayer and didn't even 
 include multiplayer till its later sequel Echoes, but that wasn't really anything I would call 
 decent.
  So here we are at last the game we all been waiting for since the launch demo that was received 
 by those who purchased the first gray units. To tell you the truth it was actually worth the wait! 
 Not only does it have a decent single player mode but it has the one thing the Gamecube games didn't. 
 That is multiplayer, and it executes it very very well indeed.
  Controls in MPH works very well and feels just like a keyboard and mouse though it will take some 
 time to get used to it especially if you use the stylus but most will stick to the thumb strap. 
 The precision you recieve when you aim is flawless and can only be achieved through Nintendo's 
 touch screen technology. This all adds to the experience while playing online or single player 
 as you'll play just like you do in CS on the PC. The game also presents itself well giving the 
 whole future, space kind of look even while you play the game itself. As each hunter will have 
 their own unique HUD, alternate form, and specific advantages with their affinity weapons for only 
 that character. Unless though online probably one of the most used character I've seen is Sylux.
 
  While playing multiplayer though you're only choice if you play Wifi is battle mode, which basically 
 is deathmatch, and it can be quite difficult to find players that are equal to your skill especially 
 if there aren't many playing than. An alternative way to this is to go on the forums online and 
 search for other players and trade each other friend codes. But doing so sometimes you'll run into 
 a couple of problems which usually deal with the other persons or your firewalls. Than we got story 
 mode in which you travel to different planets and revisit a couple to recieve octoliths and weapons. 
 The way MPH deals with weapons is that on your 3rd planet you'll have to find it and it also is 
 neccesary to recieve these weapons as certain doors will only open if you shoot it with the corresponding 
 gun.
  Graphicwise MPH definitely pushes the DS to its max and is one of the best looking games to date 
 on the DS. Suprisingly there aren't many bugs and you'll likely not find any unless you look really 
 really hard but they don't even affect gameplay at all. All that eye-candy with a smooth framerate 
 is definitely a must and the game delivers on all fronts. But like any other game it will slowdown 
 just a bit if there's a ton of chaos. The feel of the weapons also are great and sound just as 
 good which packs a punch. Thanks to Nintendo's Wifi Service this game can last you a long time. 
 That is until everybody stops playing it but that'll likely not happen.
  Overall this game is definitely a must-buy for FPS fans or anyone looking for an action game. People 
 looking for depth in the single player may be a little dissapointed but much can be found on Wifi 
 and using different tactics or combinations. For those that loved Metroid's non-linear gameplay 
 and adventures won't find what they are looking for but still is worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've had Metroid Hunters in my collection since about... two days after it came out. I heard 
 nothing but great things and as soon as I saw it I rushed right out and bought it, this is my story.
 
  
  Gameplay: Great... for about 10 minutes. 
  
  I loved the stylus controls, the only problem is, after playing it for around 10 minutes or longer 
 my left hand (the hand you use too shoot with if you're right handed) started to cramp up, then 
 after I stopped playing my hand started shaking (way more than normal, like my nerves were shot 
 or something) and didn't stop for almost 2 hours. So I figured what the crap, maybe it was a one 
 day thing trying to get used to it, well, I never really got used to it. 
  
  Plus the stylus controls can't really keep up with the fast paced hunter fights.
  
  Graphics: 
 pretty good, but they aren't going to win any contests. I've seen way better graphics on the DS 
 (Mario Kart) 
  
  Sound: Sounds like a Sci-Fi game, the guns have that "futuristic" sound too them.
  
  Value: 
 Normally I would rate it lower, but it seems everyone with a DS is trying to get a copy. 
  
  Tilt: I give it a 7 out of 10, I just dont think it lived up to the hype. Plus the stylus controls 
 cramped my hand up something bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a DS game where you are a space bounty hunter named Samus Aran. You are 
 trying to get these things called Ocoliths or something like that. The bad news, so is Kanden, 
 Spire, Weavel, Trace, Sylux, and Noxus. With these guys, it adds some extra tension to the game 
 because you never know if you are going to see one of these baddies around the corner. It is a 
 race to the finish.
  
  Gameplay- The adventure mode is kind of complicated but the online multiplayer was really good. 
 It is kinda like Socom for the PSP. A short single- player campeign and an endless Wi- Fi shoot- 
 out. A new thing to the Metroid series is that multiplayer, which is fairly new, well you can selet 
 a bounty hunter. Each hunter is good for another gaming mode and each hunter has an alternate form 
 like Samus and her morph ball. They also have special weapons that deal heavy damage. Each hunter 
 has there own way of fighting, so master one and just dominate as him. Master all of them will 
 take a while. The worst thing is the bosses you kill you play again later in the game. Kinda takes 
 some of the creativity out of it. The multiplayer brings it up though.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are really good for a DS game. The graphics make it feel more like a first 
 person shooter. The fully detailed enviorments make it feel real so that adds onto the tension 
 alot. The graphics are one thing most people look for in video games and graphics are not lacking 
 in Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  Sound- Like all the other Metroid games it has very realistic shots and thankfully this game includes 
 some of the old classics. I heard a little bit of the track Zebes. That is everyone's favorite 
 for some reason.
  
  Value- For a new release, and how good it is, it is worth paying the $35. And any game with internet 
 play has good replay value because you never know who you are gonna face. I once played my friend 
 and we were not doing friend codes. It was kinda freaky. But, the internet play makes this game 
 never get old. Without Wi- Fi, this game would be terrible.
  
  Conclusion- To sum it all up. Buy this game for high multiplayer action and alot of tension is 
 single player mode. The select a character is not avalible in single player, just tellin ya. Well, 
 go ahead and get this game and you won't be finished with this game for a while. It is because 
 of the Wi- Fi sign at the top of the box. Oh, and saying this is the best in the series is pretty 
 big seeing how Metroid is the 3rd biggest Nintendo franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperknuckles18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Let me say one thing: this game is not worth it for the single player mode, environments are somewhat 
 bland, repetative, but they are also hard. This difficulty doesn not come from hard hitting bosses 
 but by the fact that the designers throw enemies at you in great swarms when you have minimal defences, 
 the game offers 7 energy tanks, 7 ENERGY TANKS FOR CRYING OUT LOUD!!!
  The game does not stream you in the direction of another energy tank, so you could be faceing 3 
 Guardians (the most annoying creatures in the Metroid series) with 1 energy tank and be wiped out 
 in seconds. On each planet or space station, there are only 2 oppertunities to save your game, 
 when you encounter portals that will lead back to the ship, instead, a checkpoint system has been 
 added that temporarily saves you game when you stop and wait for the next section of the map to 
 load.
  Multiplayer is worth shoveling out the 50 bucks just to blow the heads off players all over the 
 world, I've experienced occasional lag where players have dissapeared for a second and managed 
 to get behind me, but this is more likely the result of long-distance connections, or just crappy 
 ones.
  Finally Retro has added more than 4 weapons to choose from, access is very easy from the touch 
 screen by draging the stylus to the desired weapon.
  Anyone who's a fan of Metroid Prime will be very satisfied after the upset of Echo's multiplayer.
 
  Play on and I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llyod_aurion
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. Nintendo used the 1 gigabit card pushed the DS limits. The sound is 
 awesome and the gameplay is good. By being one of the only FPS's on the DS, this game is very unique. For 
 every FPS fan who wants good graphics on a portable, you have to get this game. The story made 
 is not so much like other Metroid games but the multiplayer makes up for that. Online is fun and 
 the voice chat is a wonderful idea. 6 new bounty hunters is just the thing a new Metorid game needs. 
 More variety and more characters means more fun. This game is in the same leage as Mario Kart DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidjoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  For a handheld, this game is awesome! Its mostly like the Gamecube Metroid games. The Adventure 
 Mode is exceptional. Its fun, but the planets get a little repetitive. The multiplayer is a great 
 feature. If you get bored, you can go to multi card play and play against bots. There are also 
 plenty of modes for you to play. The Wi Fi connection will allow you to play people and make friends. 
 I loved the chatting feature with the keyboard and microphone. The real bummer is that you can 
 only chat with your friends. It also takes a little longer than usual to find opponents. Dont 
 you think it would be more fun, if you could have more than four people playing? I think so. Samsus 
 also yells almost every single time she is hit. That gets annoying. I really liked the touch screen 
 controls. Its sort of like using an analog stick. You get to unlock six hunters with unique abilities 
 as you progress through the game. The graphics are pretty good, even though you can sometimes see 
 a few pixels. Just buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  
  METROID PRIME HUNTERS 
  REVIEW
  By:- Stevenscott14 
  
  
 
  The Good:- 
  
  Brilliant touchscreen aiming; great sense of exploration; excellent environmental puzzles; spooky 
 and ethereal atmosphere; vast, free-roaming single-player; of course, the Wi-Fi capability.
  
  
  
  The Bad:- 
  
  Campaign 
 can sometimes be a little overwhelming in scope; the control system can initially seem a little 
 awkward; morph ball platforming can be infuriatingly fiddly.
  
  
  METROID PRIME HUNTERS: AN INTRODUCTION 
 
  
  
  So... it's been a long time coming, but after what seems like an age since the demo First Hunt 
 was released, the full version of Metroid Prime Hunters is finally here, and may the Earth suddenly 
 fall off its axis and crash into the Sun if it isn't one of the best DS games thus far. 
  
  Thankfully, Earth isn't going to do such things, because I can tell you straight off that Hunters 
 delivers on all fronts and is a faithful conversion of the Prime series from GameCube to DS. And, 
 even better, it's Wi-Fi enabled, meaning Samus Aran has now ventured for the first time into an 
 explosive multiplayer universe, full of rival bounty hunters and a never-ending crossfire in equal 
 measure. 
  
  
  SAMUS ARAN SCALED DOWN: THE GAMEPLAY
  
 
  
  Weird thing is, even for its superficial similarities with its GameCube counterparts, Metroid Prime 
 Hunters feels a little bit like a PC shooter. The touchscreen aiming system is very accurate and 
 it has more in common with a computer's mouse than a thumbstick or a D-Pad. This looser method 
 of control can't be called anything other than brilliant, and it must be the best implementation 
 of the DS stylus yet. The touchscreen is very responsive and always throws your crosshair in the 
 right direction. There are a few problems, though. This excellent touchscreen control can result 
 in some awkwardness in the left hand. The right hand will be holding the stylus, but the left hand 
 has to hold and support the DS while simultaneously using the fire button. The best way to get 
 around this is of course to set the handheld down on a surface, but isn't this meant to be handheld? 
 But anyway...
  
  Something the Prime games are renowned for is their sense of exploration, and even with scaled-down 
 system capabilities, the DS manages to deliver a game that can fit the description "first-person 
 adventure" as well as "first-person shooter." To call Hunters a shooter is almost degrading the 
 game; it isn't intended to be another Quake, Unreal, or Doom, regardless of any similarities. 
 
  
  What Hunters is intended to be is, indeed, a first-person adventure. Gameplay can easily be described 
 as run-and-gun - there's barely any strategy involved in it - but the game has far more to it than 
 shooting. Most of the game focuses on exploration, puzzling, and the euphoric sense of discovery. 
 There's many environmental puzzles and traps stored in the single-player that could trip up Stephen 
 Hawking, and they require far more than thought to unravel; there's a lot of skill needed to get 
 to the right places. Sure, this isn't the strongest platforming in the world, or even on the DS, 
 but it's a small price to pay for some time-sapping puzzles. 
  
  At first glance, the levels can seem linear, but after your first hour of play, you've only scratched 
 Hunters' surface. The game opens up to reveal four planets and you can travel between each at will. 
 Each hold their own myths and backstory that Hunters delights in revealing using Samus' brilliant 
 scan visor, and most important of all each hold Octoliths that other bounty hunters are after. 
 Most of the game revolves around exploring to find these Octoliths, and only after you've found 
 the right weapon or object on another planet can you explore the others and find previously locked 
 areas to be completely open. 
  
  The GameCube games also had a very good atmosphere set in place, and Hunters continues that tradition. 
 Every planet in the single-player, especially Celestial Archives and the Vesper Defense Outpost, 
 have their own signature atmosphere. It's very abstract; a quiet, obscure, spooky and ethereal 
 scent in the air that really fits in with the quest. 
  
  The single-player perfectly captures the feeling of being a bounty hunter, from the intense firefighting, 
 to the information gathering, to the mystery unravelling, the freeform exploration, and the sense 
 of discovery that only Metroid Prime Hunters can deliver. 
  
  And then once you've endlessly combed the single-player for missed scans and Octoliths, then you 
 can venture into Hunters' multiplayer universe. You can group up with a bunch of friends or take 
 the game online via WiFi, where you can find thousands of other bounty hunters waiting to take 
 you on. Metroid Prime Hunters' multiplayer forays will keep you going long after your initial purchase 
 or completion of the campaign, and the wonderfully designed arenas house some great shooting antics 
 with all eight of Hunters' brilliant weapons. The friend code system is again in place for you 
 to go competing online all over again.
  
  
  A VISUAL TREAT: THE GRAPHICS
  
 
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters, simply, looks astonishing. There's just no way around the unavoidable fact 
 that Hunters is a visual masterpiece. Sure, you'll get the odd glitch, but these little niggles 
 don't ruin this undeniable achievement. 
  
  I never did once think that a first-person shooter/adventure would look this good. Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters has some fluid animation in both enemies and other movements. The framerate is consistent 
 and even after 10-12 hours of playing the game I have never seen it once falter. It's very sleek 
 and even when the game opens up and shakes off all feelings of claustrophobia there isn't one bit 
 of slowdown. Environments are intricately detailed and lighting is brilliant for a handheld. Cutscenes 
 are also of an excellent standard.
  
  
  AUDIO DELIVERY: THE SOUND
  
 
  
  The quality of the sound from such a small handheld is mind-blowing. Games have always had great 
 music on handhelds, and Metroid Prime Hunters is no exception; there's some soaring orchestral 
 shifts and weird beats in here. It's just that the assorted sound effects and noises are of a brilliant 
 standard. 
  
  Take Samus' footsteps, for example. I wouldn't have even expected this sound to be audible, or, 
 if registerable, then they would be just be jagged buzzes of noise. But no, the DS renders them 
 crystal clear. Guns also sound pretty great, and the enemies are pleasantly quirky. 
  
  
  JOIN THE HUNT: A CONCLUSION
  
 
  
  Let me just outline three things:-
  
  If you have a DS, you should find it within yourself the desire to buy this game.
  And if you 
 don't, then you should find it within yourself the desire to experience the first genuinely brilliant 
 handheld shooter by buying a DS and this game.
  And if you own a PSP, then forget the copy of Coded Arms or any other shooter and go buy a DS and 
 this game. 
  
  It doesn't matter which rule applies to you. Just make sure you follow the corresponding statement.
 
  
  
  Have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leverish
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  At E3 2004, Nintendo revealed the Nintendo DS. One of the first games they showed off for it was 
 Metroid Prime: Hunters. Now, after what feels like it has been a very long time, it is finally 
 out. Unfortunately, a boring single-player campaign and some strange restrictions and flaws in 
 online multiplayer leave a lot be desired.
  
  The Adventure mode takes place between the original Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes with 
 everybody's favorite bounty hunter, Samus Aran, going into the Alimbic Cluster looking for artifacts 
 known as octoliths that supposedly contain the ultimate power . This time around, Samus isn't the 
 only one looking for them; along the campaign you will find several other hunters looking for these 
 octoliths that you must defeat. The other hunters each sport their own unique weapons and abilities, 
 and can be unlocked in the multi-player mode after you defeat them. If you happen to be defeated 
 by one of these hunters, they will take all of those octoliths you worked so hard to get, but if 
 you defeat them later, you will recover all of the octoliths you lost before, although, its just 
 easier to turn the power off once you die, so it really isnt as much of a problem as it seems 
 to be.
  
  The controls in Metroid Prime: Hunters are hard to get into, but if you are willing enough to master 
 them, then you will have near perfect control over your hunter. The game has two different control 
 schemes; one where you move the stylus over the touch screen to aim and the D-Pad to move forward 
 and another where you use the D-Pad to move forward and use the buttons to imitate another analog 
 stick to aim. The stylus control gives a much more precise aiming control, which makes it feel 
 a lot like the aiming mechanics used for modern first-person shooters on the PC, than the typical 
 dual-analog control seen on consoles, and overall it's much better than the other mode. It should 
 be noted that this a portable game, so the standard mode with the D-Pad and buttons can come in 
 handy when on a bumpy road. Also, left-handed people need not worry, because both modes have a 
 left-handed version, as well.
  
  The controls aren't perfect, though. To change into morph ball mode, switch weapons, and to scan 
 objects, you have to tap icons on the bottom screen, which could accidentally be pressed when aiming. 
 This can be frustrating, but it actually doesn't turn out to be too much of a problem, after you 
 get used to controlling the game.
  
  The superb control mechanics don't automatically make the single-player campaign good, though. 
 Unlike the previous Metroid Prime games, the planets you will explore are very linear. Sure, there 
 is some door you'll have to open with a weapon you get later in the game, or an easy-to-solve morph 
 ball puzzle here and there, but mostly everything is pretty straight forward. Also, many of the 
 planets are structured the same way. It's almost pretty much land on the planet, defeat a hunter, 
 reach the boss, defeat the boss, get the octolith, and then reach your ship before the time-ticker 
 clicks to zero . This and the recycled boss design make the single player very repetitive, and 
 the single-player campaign pretty much not very enjoyable.
  
  The multiplayer component holds up just a tad better than the single-player, but it also has its 
 fair share of problems, too. The game features single-cart, multi-cart, and online play, over Nintendo's 
 relatively new service, for 4 people. The single-cart has almost every feature the multi-cart play 
 has except the people downloading content have to play as Samus, you are limited to battle mode, 
 and you can't add bots if you can't get a full game of 4 people, but this is really little loss, 
 since you are having to share game content. Also, in multi-cart mode it's very noticeable that 
 you have a wide variety of options, for example, you can choose whether or not you can see your 
 opponents on the game radar.
  
  Playing online with friends turns out to be better than with random people. You can view what friends 
 are online, and host or join a game. You will also have access to all of the modes and change the 
 options like multi-card play. You'll also be able to use the system's built-in microphone before 
 and after the game, but for some reason, you can't use this with anybody else. The voice reception 
 is pretty good and I ran into few flaws with it. Overall, the online play with friends can be very 
 fun, but one has to wonder why most of the benefits could only be accessed with them.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters has a very impressive presentation. It starts off with a trailer that in 
 almost every way shows off how powerful the DS really is, and there are a lot more cut scenes like 
 it in the single-player campaign to be awed at. In game, the planets look pretty good and they 
 have some neat effects. One minor problem is that sometimes its too dark in one are making seeing 
 things a big challenge. In multiplayer, it can be hard to see your enemies from in long distance 
 battles, but thankfully the game has icons to show where the person is, which helps out a little 
 bit. On the other hand, this game sounds great. There is a lot of classic music from other Metroid 
 games, and the weapon sound effects are great. Some of the hunters sound effects are a little 
 annoying, though, mainly there cries when they get hit, because they are too loud and youll hear 
 them too often in multiplayer.
  
  This game doesnt offer too much value. The single-player doesnt have enough incentive to play 
 through it once, let alone multiple times. One could go through just to get all of the multiplayer 
 characters, but those can be earned by beating someone in multiplayer who is using a character 
 you need to unlock. The single-player should last around 10 hours, and maybe 6 or 7 if youre really 
 good. The online multiplayer adds some sort of extra value, but really the strange restrictions 
 and flaws do not let that last too long. Most of the value comes from the local multiplayer, but 
 to get the most out of that you need at least two friends with a DS.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters leaves a lot to be desired. It is a game that was delayed, so online multiplayer 
 could be added, but that didnt turn out as well as hoped. Maybe that time could have been used 
 to make a better-developed single-player campaign, which is what the Metroid Prime games were focusing 
 on to begin with. Ultimately, Metroid Prime: Hunters has good intentions, but its filled with 
 flaws that only hold it back from what it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The Metroid series has always been about exploring and solving puzzles, but Metroid Prime Hunters 
 is more focused on shooting and killing. Although there are some tricky puzzles found in MPH, it's 
 not quite enough to be considered a true Metroid game. In fact, you do not encounter a single Metroid 
 in MPH, let alone the Metroid Prime. Not even Ridley, Kraid, Mother Brain, or even the Space Pirates 
 make an appearance in MPH. This game would have been much more successful if it was a new franchise, 
 and not in the Metroid series. 
  
  As long as you can get past the fact that Metroid Prime Hunters has almost nothing to do with the 
 Metroid universe, it's actually a pretty good game; as long as you have WiFi. Otherwise, just leave 
 this game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmjavier
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  For a handheld, this game is awesome! Its mostly like the Gamecube Metroid games. The Adventure 
 Mode is exceptional. Its fun, but the planets get a little repetitive. The multiplayer is a great 
 feature. If you get bored, you can go to multi card play and play against bots. There are also 
 plenty of modes for you to play. The Wi Fi connection will allow you to play people and make friends. 
 I loved the chatting feature with the keyboard and microphone. The real bummer is that you can 
 only chat with your friends. It also takes a little longer than usual to find opponents. Dont 
 you think it would be more fun, if you could have more than four people playing? I think so. Samsus 
 also yells almost every single time she is hit. That gets annoying. I really liked the touch screen 
 controls. Its sort of like using an analog stick. You get to unlock six hunters with unique abilities 
 as you progress through the game. The graphics are pretty good, even though you can sometimes see 
 a few pixels. Just buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Good: Its a 3d metroid game on a handheld. Multiplayer can be great with or without friends. 
 Controls are great for right or left handed players.
  The Bad: Some of the multiplayer maps are badly designed. Single player mode is a big letdown and 
 breaks away from the usual metroid storylines. Levels and bosses look the same sometimes.
  
  I have been wanting this game ever since the DS was first released I even stood in line for 
 4 hours just to make sure I got the Demo free with my DS because I understood that you only got 
 it with initial shipment of DSs so when I got my DS opened it and put MP: H demo in it at first 
 I was amazed at how good the graphics where and how well the control system worked and this became 
 the only game in my DS until Mario kart DS came along after that I forgot about metroid for a while 
 seeing that the game had been pushed back so many times and I started to loose hope but all was 
 not lost.
  
  Things started to happen in march there was a trailer for the game and as soon as I had finished 
 watching it (and drewling) over it I pre-ordered it and thought Nintendo had worked so long on 
 this game that couldnt be rubbish, I mean how many fully 3D action shooters are there for the 
 DS that look this good and I wasnt to be disappointed
  
  Lets get down to the review
  Gameplay: To be honest one word really describes the Gameplay and that is amazing yep it really 
 is amazing, there is nothing that comes close to the Gameplay this game has got. The whole control 
 system is very clever and works amazingly well, you move with the D-pad and aim using the stylus 
 and touch screen and you can aim with amazing precision this metroid game is more FPS than the 
 gamecube versions but it does make the game a whole lot faster and to honest Im not really sure 
 weather this is a good or bad thing if you get the game you will have to decide. The way you change 
 weapons has changed from the demo all the weapons icons are at the top of the touch screen and 
 there is one button you click to choose from the 8 sub weapons this is great but it does take some 
 time to get used to.
  
  Story/Adventure Mode: I know what you are thinking and unfortunately no it does not live up to 
 any other metroid game you have ever played the main reason being the whole story is not that interesting 
 and its not a story you really want to follow but you find yourself playing anyway there are 4 
 planets that you can fly to in your gunship (and no gunship flying is not as good as you think 
 it is) and each of these planets is a decent size but they consist of the same designs in the I 
 mean in the first level there are 3 rooms that are almost identical which is one of 2 problems 
 of the story the other problem is the lack of dialogue and cutsceens that describe I say there 
 is a lack of story cut scenes infact there are no story cutsceens. Still it is fun going round 
 the different planets and you wont want to just play multiplayer anyway.
  
  Graphics: Im afraid its another one word description amazing actually they are more amazing 
 for the DS than anything else the graphics are nothing like you will ever see on a DS but this 
 amazing beauty takes its toll on the hardware all of the multiplayer maps are recycled story rooms 
 with bits added in and bits taken away but even though Im saying this and it may sound bad it, 
 Its not it seems that the multiplayer was built first and then the story mode was made to fit in 
 with the multiplayer maps so erm people who dont use the multiplayer might be disappointed but 
 hey who doesnt want to play multiplayer.
  
  Sound: The sound stays true to the metroid series and you will hear all the music you are used 
 to and more but some is not as nice as other music all of the music keeps you moving steadily through 
 the game without stopping and the music changes to wherever you are and to what you are doing. 
 The multiplayer music is hard to notice especially when you are playing online but this is not 
 bad. You can unlock all the music to listen to when you finished the game (another reason to play 
 and finish the story) which is nice if you have got nothing left to do or you cant get on the 
 wifi connection.
  
  Overall: Its a great game that every DS owner should get and to all those people in the UK waiting 
 for the game to release should get it imported from lik-sang. com because everything works as if 
 it was the UK version I know because I live in the UK and I got it imported. Yep as I was saying 
 it is a great game with a few flaws (all of those are in single player mode, but if I was you Id 
 play it anyway) that dont go un noticed but they dont get in the way too much the more you play 
 the more you are rewarded with extra maps, hunters and more. Go out get the game and take on the 
 world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotaxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  ok... now that I have you're attention I want to make some complainments:
  
  There is many people in this page and all around the world that get the attention that is not what 
 they must get. I don't mean bad companies that make bad games, I mean gamers that are totally ignorant 
 about nintendo and videogames and get fame by all their biased game reviews and the way they play 
 3 games. the only titles that they have only played in their lives.
  I have read many reviews of people that mark their games 10 just like that and write something 
 like this: WOW!!!!!! This game is so way cool and perfect!!!! graphics are exelent and sounds 
 are fantastic, a really gret game!!!" and I just dislike this attitudes. that are not reviews, 
 but noobs trying to be what they are not, EXPERIENCED GAMERS. For you people that do this, tell 
 me one thing: have you played the whole game first?, Have you ever thought about what a REWIEW 
 is? well If you havn't start squishing your're brains out before writing something useless.
  Who am I to write this? When I was 3 I had my first controler on my hands, a NES (yes, a Nintendo 
 Entretainment System) it was just awsome, I loved it. from then on I became a good gamer. Today 
 I am a very strict critic of games (and I'm only 14) . And no one has read one.
  So for you bad revewers I give you homework. Investigate more about nintendo (Who is Shigerou Miyamoto, 
 What dod nintendo do before it was a videogame company, what is the color of the original zapper) 
 and try improving 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMango
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I bought this game hoping to satisfy my FPS needs on the DS, and i was surprised by how well made 
 this was.
  
  Gameplay- Controls are fantastic, just takes some getting used to. Your hand may get tired after 
 holding the DS for a while (try resting it on your leg/knee) . Single player is a bit more linear 
 than expected from a Metroid game, but its good to play when you cannot access WiFi.
  
  Graphics- Some of the prettiest graphics seen on the DS, amazing cut-scenes, and good menu screens. 
 However, some characters DO appear a bit blocky/grainy when you are having a battle far away, and 
 the FPS (frames-per-second) rate drops when there are multiple enemies on screen.
  
  Multiplayer- Amazing, amazing, amazing. The best use of WFC by Nintendo yet. Allows you to add 
 rivals, which are like friends, without needing a friend code. You can also create your own matches 
 on WiFi, and have your friends/rivals join. If you dont have WiFi access, you can play offline 
 with bots, and if your friends have a DS, but not MPH, you can do single-card download.
  
  The multiplayer alone will keep you busy for hours. It does a good job of keeping track of your 
 stats, such as kills, headshots, favorite hunter, etc. If you own a DS, you definately need to 
 check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has become known these days as trying to take steps towards innovating gameplay in our 
 games today, instead of just using a generic formula but with their own characters. There have 
 been games that have failed completely, but there have also been great games created from Nintendo's 
 attempts to be original. Metroid Prime Hunters is Nintendo's attempt to take the First Person Shooter 
 franchise and recreate it in a way where it could be played not only on the go, but by using a 
 touch screen to give you a similar accuracy that you get when playing FPS games at home. While 
 it takes some getting used to, Nintendo has given us a new way to play a FPS game that works great 
 in the end.
  
  
  
  As stated before, Metroid Prime Hunters is definately not a game you are going to pick up and feel 
 familiar playing with. Pretty much everything this game has to offer is going to take A LOT to 
 get used to. The game has a very steep learning curve, but once you get past it you have a game 
 that just works great overall. The games controls are pretty dead on. You use the stylus to aim, 
 the left or right top buttons to shoot, the D-Pad to move, and you double-tap the screen to jump. 
 The only real complaint I have about the controls is the jumping. When in the heat of battle, especially 
 online, having to double tap the screen to jump to maybe avoid an enemy's attack can be very distracting 
 and sometimes make you lose track of where your enemy is. It's nothing too major, but if there 
 is to be a sequel I hope that is something that they fix. Aside from the jumping issue, the rest 
 of the game's controls are pretty much perfect. You'd be surprised how accurate you can be with 
 the stylus. A lot of times you feel as if you were using a mouse, so Nintendo definately did something 
 good in using the stylus. The online play here is great too, with up to four players being able 
 to duke it out (4 may not seem like a lot, but it's a handheld, so that's pretty amazing) . The 
 campaign part of the game can get a bit old and repetitive, and is nowhere near as fun as online, 
 but it is a great place to learn the controls and get half decent at the game. All in all the gameplay 
 here is pretty great.
  
  
  
  If you want a game to show off what the DS can do, here is your chance. The game's graphics amaze 
 me still. The graphics here give some PSP games a run for the money (*cough*coded arms*cough* ) 
 and are just flat out amazing on their own. They really prove that the DS isn't a weak system and 
 can actually play 3D games. Not much else to say, they are just perfect.
  
  
  
  The sound is pretty good. The 
 sound effects in the game are great. Every weapon has its own unique sound and every enemy does 
 too. The only problem I had is with the music. The music is average, but it's nothing special. 
 It won't really annoy you, but at the same time it won't get you pumped. All in all the sound is 
 pretty good though.
  
  
  
  For $35, you get a game with a pretty good single player campaign, and completely kickass multiplayer. 
 Honestly if you aren't going to be playing online, this really isn't the best deal for $35, but 
 if you have a wifi connection, buy this now. Stop reading. Go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_frek1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, don't hate me on this review. You may notice by my name, that my metroid reviews maybe biased, 
 but trust me, it's not. First to start out, Graphics. They are un-believeble for a DS game. Never 
 the same environments, and all ways different. Theres some special details, but just not as much 
 as Metroid Prime for the GCN. Then comes Sound. Average. It sounds decent, but not EXTREMELY unbelieveble 
 like the other Primes. There should be a cool boss music everytime you fight a boss, there is, 
 but then it doesn't sound original or metroidy. Theres just alot of re-used sounds for the game. 
 I noticed where i was walking on snow, it sounded like that, but once i jumped onto a platform 
 of snow, it sounded like normal concrete foot steps. Stuff like this makes the sound grade lowered 
 than it should, being compared to the metroid prime on the GCN. Then comes gameplay. It feels like 
 a metroid game, but more FPS than FPA and it will hurt the h3ll out of your hand after long hours 
 of play. The controls are okay, but the people that never played the demo, will feel kinda weird 
 at first. The Dual mode with the stylus will hurt after a while (I'm used to it so I NEVER get 
 hand pain :) ) for people that aren't used to it, and the non-stylus version just sucks. The aiming 
 on it SUCKS. The touch screen controls are pretty precise. The touch aim is pretty reliable, but 
 sometimes also sucks. The main reason for that is that the touch screen is really sensitive, and 
 since your hand ALWAYS moves it's a pain in the @$$ to long range with anything except the Imperialist. 
 All in all, the single player is a OK buy, just a little linear compared to the other Metroid games. 
 Then comes multiplayer. JESUS! This is where the meat of the game is! It's the bomb, and once you 
 get to Wi-Fi, oh man it's so awesome. Like other DS Wi-Fi games, it takes quite a while to play 
 with someone else thats a random pick, and you can only talk with friends. The pain of that is 
 the stupid noob spammers that stay in alt form FOREVER, and the morons that d/c on you! God i hate 
 them. You can only choose other battle modes with friends only, so if your friends dont have this, 
 prepare for pure battle, just the way I like it! The voice part sounds cool, AND it works pretty 
 good :D . Well, atleast the multiplayer is the best part in the game. The multi player... It's 
 so addictive! All in all, this game isn't a must buy for a DS owner, but a must check out for every 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuenbre
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 2 weeks ago and I've been addicted ever since. If it wasn't for school, 
 I would easily have 100 hours in this amazing experience. 
  
  Graphics: 10, There is no way I could give this any other score. The attention to detail is amazing, 
 especially on the DS, and Nintendo did a remarkable job on the animations and effects. Also the 
 cinematics are breathtaking. This game looks much like a PS2 game.
  
  Gameplay: 10, It is a Metroid Prime with less back tracking, need I say more?
  
  Sound: 10, 
 The music in this cartridge is phenominal along with the gun sounds and explosions. This game sounds 
 nearly as good as its Gamecube counterparts.
  
  Value: 10, The single player on this game is lengthy and worth while. You can unlock tons of things 
 which include new multiplayer maps and characters (Trace, of course, being the best of them) . The 
 multiplayer is highly addictive and the stat tracking is definitely an added bonus.
  
  This game is an amazing experience and you should put that controller down and pick up a DS to 
 play this thing, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagle321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  First off Single Player rocks. The graphics are the best on any game for DS. The sound is very 
 good. The game play is better than I expected but sometimes I accidentally hit the change weapon 
 button. The Developers put a ton of thought and time into this so Thanks to the everyone who had 
 any part in the making of this game. Sorry if this review is from one subject to another. I might 
 have an undiagnosed case of ADD. Anyway the Multi-Player is the best ever. The wireless is awesome. 
 The wi-fi is above and beyond my expectations. It is flawless. No guys jumping from place to place. 
 And to top it all off you can play bot matches. Cmon this game is huge. Well this is the best all-around 
 game ever. Go get it. If you don't I will hunt you down and... Just go get it. And again Thanks 
 to the People who had any part in the creation of this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn_CeNa_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  There a very few words to explain the gameplay of this game and that is just plain fun. Even though 
 there are some frustrating parts in the storyline, the game is one of the best out for DS. Even 
 if you don't feel like going through story mode over and over the multiplayer and wi-fi play is 
 great. I have yet to get any lag and I have had so much fun playing online. Nintendo has also made 
 great use of the Touch Screen as well.
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  The cut scenes is what makes this game's graphics so high. When I first turned the game on and 
 seen the intro I was amazed at what the graphics looked like. The in game graphics are also really 
 good and I don't think I have seen one glitch yet.
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  The sounds and music they have put in the game are one of the main peaks of this game. The intense 
 music before you reach a boss is great and the sounds of victory after destroying it. I don't think 
 there are any faults in the sound at all.
  10/10
  
  Value:
  This game is worth what you are paying for it. You will get a great amount of hours going through 
 story mode and playing wi-fi. I have really enjoyed this game and I'll probably never put it down 
 and let it collect dust.
  10/10
  
  Final Review:
  This game is one of the best games I have seen so far for DS. It has got everything you need and 
 want in a shooting game and has great replay value.
  10/10
  
  Rating: 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Highcom1177
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game is very amazing graphics really do make the game alot better, the characters are very 
 cool and all have different weapons and such, the storys ok but I think the multiplayer rules its 
 great fun theres voice chat so you can talk with friends and such this game just totally rules! 
 Not to mention all of those maps too! Great makes remind me alittle of Halo gameplay. I love all 
 the alternate form things as well, they seem to cause much more damage than the first person forms 
 but oh well. Anyways I havent seen really any glitches in the multiplayer or anything like that 
 besides just the commen lag, the thing I like about this game if you cheat in by shuting the game 
 off it adds these things called bad points to your profile, if people see that you disconnect alot 
 they might not want to play with you this is a great way to weed out cheaters, I personally think 
 its great. The controls could be better but I really think this game deserves a good rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, plain and simple. The single player is quite enjoyable as is. Even though 
 the bosses repeat themselves, the plot line entices you from the begining and the controls are 
 great. The stylus and aiming is great. Honestly I found it hard to play some of the origianl metroid 
 prime games because the way you had to rotate the view and aim. This make the game fun. Something 
 I do miss in this game however is the ability to get power ups. I know it made some reviewers mad 
 that you lost all your powers at the begining of the game and find them again, I liked this, but 
 the game does a good job of adding a variety of weapons, even though they take a while to play. 
 The single game can seem small but anything lost there is made up in multiplayer. It was a little 
 disspointing that you could only play one mode on wifi but it is my favorite mode. The ability 
 to choose your hunter also makes wifi priceless. Its a portable first person shooter, but it, play 
 it, love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2good2betrue
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  In metroid hunters, you are Samus and you have to collect the octoliths to know the mystery of 
 ultimate power. In your way are several bounty hunters that want the same goal. All these hunters 
 are really cool and have their own unique weapons and huds and alt forms. The hunter's back srories 
 are pretty cool to. 
  The single player is fun ---for the first few missions, then it all gets reppetitive, especially 
 the bosses (Chretaphid and slench version 4!!) . The repetitive bosses are the only major problems 
 i don't like. These bosses are cool when you first fight them but then it is again and again. They 
 only get new advancements and take different weapons to kill them. Also the escape parts after 
 you get an octolith arent that great but it isn't as big of a problem. Also the planets don't change 
 when you return to them, even though they are supposed to blow up. It gets boring going to the 
 same planet up to three times and it dosn't even change. Thankfully you have multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is so cool. 
  You have over 25 maps to fight, very cool and unique weapons (even though you usually use your 
 affinity weapon) and the new hunters are very cool with neat alt forms. Most characters are balanced 
 each with pros and cons but some characters can be a little cheap. Like trace, but luckily, he 
 has a bad alt. form so he balances out. wifi is where it is at. You could have friends and rivals 
 which are people you meet that you could plat again with. Which is very cool is the voice chat. 
 It is surprisingly easy to hear. To bad y ou could only talk to people on a friends list. What 
 pisses me off is sometimes you get a hacker. They stay in one spot and never die, even with 6 imperialist 
 headshots. No matter what game you have you have glitchers. 
  Thankfully, the most important paart is all here. The gameplay. It is just fun to play and it is 
 hard to find a good FPS for handhelds. This is a DS treasure. The graphics are also really good 
 for the DS. They say that seeing things at a difference is hard to see, but it isn't so bad. 
 
  In the end this is a must own for every DS out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmericanSk8land
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is deffinately one of my favorite DS games. It has everything you'd want in a FPS. Its 
 got Online Play, Long story, text AND voice chat, multiple characters to play as, and ect. You 
 may get lost in some of the missions because there are a lot of rooms and places to go (which is 
 a good thing if you want a long challenging story like i do) . this game also has controlls that 
 may take some people to get used to but you can change the controls. The online play also keeps 
 track of your stats which makes it so everyone on the internet can see how good you are or how 
 much you **** All in all this game is by far my favorite game for DS which will keep you playing 
 for hours and hours a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuamcc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the third Metroid Prime game we've seen come out since it's debut in 2002. 
 As a first person shooter, this game definitly holds it's own on the handheld market. Yet the single 
 player design and puzzles that sets Metroid apart from other games seems to be watered down in 
 Hunters. Instead of finding new attachments to Samus's suit that give you access to new depths 
 and heights in the world, you receive different beams that simply open a colored door that you 
 couldn't before. You wouldn't think it's such a big difference, but one of the fun elements in 
 previous Metroid games is exploring your environment to find out ways to apply your new toys and 
 skills to reach new areas. With that said, the single player adventure is still solid in the form 
 of a FPS, with a touch of morph ball gameplay that keeps you interested. 
  The multiplayer is definitly the shining gem in this game. With the ability to play other friends 
 through the wireless LAN, and those across the globe through Wi-Fi, you have a wide selection of 
 gameplay elements at your disposal. The multiplayer experience I've seen so far has recalled the 
 good ol' days of playing Unreal Tournament with my friends. If you enjoy any form of FPS multiplayer, 
 you won't be dissapointed with Metroid Prime Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acecombat154
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game feel like the previouse metroids for the Gamecube. I have 2 say that holding the stylus 
 and holdign the DS will make your wrist hurt. The story mode is ok but i wish there was a bonus 
 mode also. The wi-fi is good also but it does feel a little limited and the max people u can have 
 on wi-fi battles are 3 people (thats only if u fight wirelessely online on ninteno wi-fi) and i 
 think there should be at least 8 people every game. But overall soem of it is a little dissapointing 
 but the wi-fi will keep you trigger happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. You wouldn't expect a DS game to be this great. The multiplayer itself 
 was definitely worth the wait. There are a few different modes in multiplayer you can play. But 
 most people prefers battle. You can choose to play as any of the 7 hunters. There is Samus, Noxus, 
 Kanden, Spire, Sylux, Trace, and Weavel. Before and after your matches with friends you can talk 
 and/or type with you friends. It is great. Trust me. 
  
  The adventure mode is pretty sweet also. It's like the basic metroid. Storyline and battling enemies. 
 The storyline is basic. Its a race to get the eight octoliths. Crystal like objects to secure the 
 power they harness. 
  
  Go buy the game. Save the galaxy. And have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I love it. The graphics could be better but hey, it is a handheld system and what do you expect 
 from a handheld system. I think though they have good gameplay and the multiplayer online is one 
 of the best out for Nintendo DS right now. Matches and levels make the game more addicting and 
 more fun to get home to and get on to play and also it makes it so you want to play it a lot more. 
 They made a good choice in making this after having it for the Nintendo Gamecube. The controls 
 are harder to learn but once you get them down than you are good to go. So I think that this game 
 is a game to get it you have the on-line or want or love shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Metroid makes it's first appearance on a the DS and it couldnt look any better. If you have played 
 the demo, you may be surprised to see that it has gone through a bit of a graphical layout. The 
 gameplay is great and pretty east to get a hang of . The single player mode however is probably 
 the downside of the game, with a short and easy game. The highlight of the entire game is the multiplayer, 
 if you have wi-fi this game will never leave your ds because you will most likely be online 24/7. 
 Overall this is a must have for DS owners but the single player mode could be better and like all 
 games multiplayer wont last forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasentee
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok I will agree this is an amasing game but honestly if you are going to make a metroid game with 
 this much hype GIVE IT A STORY LINE!!! and could we please have a little bit of variety in the 
 boses I don't want a game where you face the same two boses 8 times!! Honestly this IS the one 
 of the best multiplayers for DS it's right there with mario kart and yes one of the best multiplayers 
 out there Great controls and graphics. The level design was even fantastic but what realy lost 
 me was the story lines and the boses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicsthebest
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game rules! Perfect control, you play as if you use a computer mouse! The graphics are wonderful! 
 Single player mode is perfect! You have over 8 beams and over 9 gun sprites! Travel on a ship between 
 planets! Battle cool bosses! Use both first person view and third person view! Choose from 7 (maybe8) 
 characters (OMG different models) . Battle on WIFI, battle on local, battle on single cart, battle 
 with bots, have plenty modes! 
  
  WTF do you want else?! If you own a D. S. and not this game then your a pathetic loser! 
  
  
 Since I have nothing more to say ignore this: 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahn34
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is all you could want out of it. IF YOU ARE A METROID FAN. otherwise you might like it 
 you might not but if your just getting it because you like halo and then have a bad response to 
 it you have to think about this. This game was designed primarilly for the metroid fan not the 
 halo fan. They want a game that their fans would enjoy so they werent trying to impress the halo 
 fan. If they were you would probably like it. But to the review. The game has multiplayer and single 
 player aspects but it is mostly revolved around the multiplayer. The single player is a good one 
 though I'm just saying that the multiplayer is fantastic. The single player revolves around an 
 "ultimate power" of the universe located in a place called the alimbic cluster where a once powerful 
 race just disapeared and left behind artifacts that are the key to unlocking this ultimate power. 
 But your not the only one after this power. Their are 6 other bounty hunters after the power to 
 each with their own weapons and alt. forms. These hunters are Spire, Trace, Weavel, Kandan, Noxus, 
 and Sylux. Each hunter is after this ultimate power also so you must face each of them to get the 
 ultimate power. So thats about it for single player. Now for multiplayer. The multi player is single 
 card, muti card and wi-fi. The only game mode available in matchmaking is the standard deathmatch 
 but in multi card single card, or custom games online their is CTF, King of the Hill, Juggernaut, 
 territories, survival, and Slayer so have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendopsycho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  It is soooooo cool, it is a complete action game!!! I think anybody should buy this game! Some 
 places you have to think, some places you have to shoot the hell out of your gun!!! Just the coolest!! 
 In multiplayer you can choose cool and innovative different Hunters!!! Each are cool, but Trace 
 and Weavel are the coolest!!! OMG!! Each have their different guns and alternative forms!! This 
 game is so awesome, I had to buy the Official guide from Nintendo on it, to know the specs of each 
 of the Hunters and multiplayer options. It features new maps and new guns. The only thing I marked 
 down was the sound quality which is recycled from past games. The cut scenes ARE THE BEST!!! The 
 graphics in the cut scenes look almost better than the Gamecube!!! And as you can see, I love this 
 game. JUST BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_like_pizza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  First things first, this is the best handheld FPS created to date. Granted, there have not been 
 many handheld FPSes, but this will still be considered the greatest handheld FPS by many a few 
 years down the road.
  
  The gameplay in Metroid Prime: Hunters is similar to that of the other two cube brethren in the 
 Metroid Prime series. It's designated to be a first person shooter by many, but it's more similar 
 to a first person adventure, really. There is more action in hunters than in the other two Primes, 
 but the game is still mostly about solving finding various items and powering up in order to fight 
 the final boss, which is the classic layout of any adventure game. The touch screen controls are 
 beautifully executed, and anyone complaining about hand cramps is either extremely weak, or they 
 are simply holding their DS incorrectly. My hands have never cramped, and never even tired at all 
 when playing this game. The sensitivity settings are excellent. I like to have mine at about 10 
 (ranges from 1 to 15 I believe) so that I can get 2 full revolutions on a swipe across the whole 
 screen. Either way, there is a setting that any gamer can find and feel comfortable with. Aiming 
 is simple, as you simply need to line up your enemy with the crosshairs. Overall, the gameplay 
 is very solid, but an auto aim or lock-on function would have been welcomed by many (myself not 
 included) .
  
  The graphics are simply amazing for a DS title. There was never a 64 game that looked this good. 
 The DS is truly showing its power in this game. I have heard of some experiences of laggin in rooms 
 with a lot of enemies, but I have not experienced this yet, so I cannot comment on that. The environments 
 are very well done, and although they are quite linear, they really are nearly as expansive as 
 their console counterparts. Hunters is a great handheld adaptation of the Metroid Prime universe.
 
  
  The sound disappointed me more than anything else about this game. I found nothing to be new or 
 original about the sound, and none of it sounded any better than many of the other DS games I have 
 played. For such a high-quality title, they seemed to have put little effort into the sound of 
 this game.
  
  This game is worth every penny. Like so many other DS multiplayer games, it offers infinite playback. 
 The adventure is linear and quite simple, but the multiplayer will always present a challenge. 
 
  
  Overall, this is the finest DS game to date, and with the new experiences that this brings to DS 
 owners, expect great things to come out of this little handheld in the next couple of years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I got metroid prime hunters at the same time i got oblivion for the xbox 360, so obviously this 
 game got undershadowed and had less time spent on. However it was a game i had big hopes for and 
 was looking forward to being a metroid fan. Especially after hearing that this game would rival 
 metroid prime on the gamecube really makes ure blood boil but while it easily shows the true potential 
 of the ds and pushes its limits without sacraficing anything at all, but this game is still obsolete 
 to the gamecube versions. This game has plenty bang for its buck with a 20 hour long campaign mode 
 plus a revolutionary handheld fps multiplayer which is available with bots offline or with people 
 through wifi connection. The multiplayer is nothing like that of metroid prime 2 for the gamecube 
 and is actually the best aspect of this game. The graphics in this game are unbelievably great 
 for a ds a game with even cutscenes and a video gallery to watch them in. The sound is great from 
 the different weapons, firing, getting hit, getting shot, jumping, scanning and alternate forms 
 are just great. The music however is a little cheesy for metroid standards but still maintains 
 the right atmosphere appropiate for the situation. The controls are tacky but not as bad as everyone 
 makes them out to be but will definitely take some practice. One thing that may piss u off is the 
 various tabs u might accidently hit while moving ure character around because they are all cluddered 
 around not giving you much room to maneuver. They should of made use of the face buttons such as 
 the a, b x and y buttons instead of making u use the touch screen to do everything from looking, 
 switching to scan visors, changing beams and missles and switching into morph ball mode. Although 
 i have not even come close to beating the campaign mode it is not as strong as the 2 previous metroid 
 prime games but just as lengthy. It does however get repetative in some cases but the combat is 
 more fun but harder and all the puzzles still remain and a few power ups but lacks the whole upgrade 
 system in which the player finds new suits and weapons which is honestly the heart and main incentive 
 of all metroid games. The weapons are nice to use and the levels are big and some what various. 
 But the multiplayer is where it really shines. It setups up games very nicely, using the new and 
 various bounty hunters are very fun, and were created very well, the maps, weapons, power-ups and 
 game options all make this game fun entertaining and definite pick up for ds owners, metroid fans 
 and fps players. FPS players will be more than satisfied and and metroid fans will be too, just 
 don't set ure expectations too high, because they might not be met. This game has a great value 
 package from multiplayer to the single player modes, and i don't even have nintendo wifi and i'm 
 still enjoying it. All in all though a great portable game to add to anyones collection but time 
 to go back and play some oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboycawley
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  First off all ds owners should think about adding Metriod Prime Hunters to their library of games. 
 The graphics are simply the best that I have seen on the handheld so far. The sound is of course 
 bearable, but nothing special. The gamplay is fantastic. After you learn the ropes the stylus offers 
 more control to a fps than a normal analog control. Sadly the story mode is'nt what I hoped it 
 would be. Repeated bosses start getting annoying fast, and you find yourself doing the same thing 
 in every world. Where the game really shines is its multiplayer. There are many multiplayer modes 
 in which to play, and many different hunters in which to choose from. Each hunter has their own 
 strenghs and weaknesses of course. After you expieience the thrill of multiplayer, you wont want 
 to put the game down. Hands down Metriod Prime Hunters is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamakaz2088
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  metrois: hunters is innovative for one sole purpose: it's the only good handheld FPS!!!!!!! it's 
 not without it's problems though. The graphics are very good with great animations and character 
 models. The levels are varied, considering there's only four but there is a little repetion there 
 being a ice planet and a frozen space station...... its the same damn thing nintendo! The sound 
 is ok, but not that great. The controls are my only true grudge against it. There are two real 
 control types, one where you use the stylus and one where you use all the buttons. The stylus one 
 has more precision, creating the illusion of a computer mouse or a analog stick but the problem 
 is the pain. When using the stylus, you only have one hand to hold your DS while you can use the 
 pinky finger hand your holding the stylus with to wrap around the corner of the DS. This sounds 
 all nice but it ain't. after a half hour of play your hand holding the DS will start to grow tired 
 and your pinky finger will hurt like hell later. This may sound really bad, but I've only had the 
 game for about 2 weeks at the time of this typing and maybe my hands havn't adapted fully to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  All consoles have their special shooting games, X Box has Halo, PC has Unreal Tournament, and Gamecube 
 has Metroid Prime and so on... But who knew that the DS' Metroid Prime (its Special shooter) would 
 have Online Play! This Metroid game famous for: The best handheld shooter ever, one of the best 
 games on the DS, its cut scene graphics are nearly 'real like', good controls and so on... 
  
  You take the role as Samus: a sexy, Bounty Hunter, who's a number one hunter. You've got to 
 defeat each Bounty on each planet. But be careful, other Bounty Hunters might be after the same 
 bounty! And you might have to fight them. You land on one planet and you've got to go and get the 
 boss key. In each stage there's a mini boss, usually a Bounty. You've got to kill them to get their 
 jewels. Sounds Evil but it's satisfying. 
  
  The controls are easy (Once you've gotten used to them) . There's a Dual Mode and a Stylus mode. 
 The Stylus mode is where you use the touch screen to turn around, morph into a ball and jump. And 
 Dual is where you don't use the Touch screen, at all! There is right hand and left hand (Those 
 with the demo should know) . Right hand Stylus is where you move with the directions and use the 
 touch screen to turn around and stuff. Right hand Dual mode is where you move with the D-Pad and 
 turn around with the controls. Left Hand Stylus is where you move with the Controls and use the 
 touch screen you turn. Left Hand Stylus is where you move with the controls and rotate with the 
 D-Pad. So the controls are for everyone!
  
  You've got a boss in each Planet. All of the bosses feel the same, like you're repeating the game. 
 After each boss you've got to escape from the planet immediately (in a time limit) going to all 
 the places that you've been through. You've got to do this all the time, yes all the time! It does 
 get tedious and annoying. Sometimes there are Hunters trying to fight you! You've got to kill them 
 to proceed out of the planet. Then you've got to go to you're ship. Jump on top and walk towards 
 the door. It's hard, but it's satisfying. You can't save the game in the spot; you've got to go 
 to your ship, which is all the way in the beginning. So you can only save after a planet. This 
 really sucks if you're on the go.
  
  The best part of the game is the online play! This makes the game stand out from the other Metroid 
 games. If you're online you've got seven modes to play from. Bounty, Death Match, Survival, Defender, 
 Prime Hunter, Capture the Flag and Onslaught. In Bounty you've got to find Octoliths and return 
 them into the goal. And prevent others to do the same. Death match is where you've got to have 
 the most kills to win. Survival is where you fight three other hunters and you've got three lives. 
 Defender is when you've got to occupy a central ring and prevent others from going in. Prime Hunter 
 is when there's a Prime Hunter and you've got to kill them to be a Prime Hunter. Be the Prime Hunter 
 'till the end of the match to win! Capture the Flag is where you've got to capture the other team's 
 Octolith, it doesn't use flags. Onslaught is where you've got nodes and you've got to claim them. 
 Make a line to the enemies Power Core and destroy it! Online you've got a variety of weapons and 
 you can do Headshots, this is amazing. This game's a winner! You must buy this whoever you are...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSerker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is definately a must-have for anyone thats got WiFi, but the single player 
 campaign isn't worth your money if you don't feel like hanging out at McDonalds for internet. The 
 campaign gets boring around finishing 30% of it ( Where I stopped, because I'd killed every hunter) , 
 at which point it gets monotonous, facing the same bosses, over and over. The Wifi games on it 
 are what this games strong point is, though, and is what is best about the game. You'll get addicted 
 very easily :D. Oh yeah... The music is annoying. They shoulda just kept the Metroid Prime music. 
 There are also no metroids in this game. The demo may be slightly misleading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  What... a... great... game...
  Here are my specs:
  
  Graphics-truly shows the full potential of the DS's game engine, AI animates nicely, very fluent 
 graphics with lag only when you are facing more than 3 enemies at once in a large room.
  
  Gameplay-very addictive, keeps you guessing when you will run into a bounty hunter or a few guardians.
 
  
  Sound-a different take compared to the Metroid Prime's before and after this game, it can take 
 some getting used to also, very good music that you'd expect from a Metroid Prime game.
  
  Controls-hard to get used to (stylus mode) but like so many people said it is very precise, the 
 jumping sometimes doesn't work too well, and you sometimes press the wrong thing on the touch screen 
 when playing.
  
  Value-worth playing, and for 35 smackaroos (American currency) it's bargain.
  
  I highly recommend 
 this game for any Metroid Fan, and first person shooter plan, and even possibly someone who likes 
 RPG's because it has a story if you scan and read the many things in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Too many times does an overhyped game hit the market. Everyone buys it, and they beat it in 2 days 
 tops. It was just too easy. But with MPH, that has all changed! This is hard and challenging, giving 
 a rewarding feeleing when you solve a hard puzzle.
  
  In this game, you play as Samus Aran. She is exploring 4 planets to search for 8 mysterious artifacts 
 called Octoliths that will supposedly give her the ultimate power. Each planet has 2 octoliths. 
 But Samus is not alone. 6 other bounty hunters; Sylux, Weavel, Noxus, Trace, Spire, and Kanden 
 are also hunting these octoliths. If one kills you they steal one of your octoliths. But if you 
 kill them, you get to play as them in Multiplayer mode. Trace rocks!
  
  Each octolith is guarded by a boss. However, the bosses are pretty repetitive. There are two types 
 of bosses: Cetaphid and Slench. The bosses are just Slench v2, Cetaphid v3, etc. They are essentially 
 the same bosses with minor tweaks to make them harder. When you kill a boss, you steal the octolith. 
 Then a security countdown ticks down to when you die. You have to race out of the planet, sometimes 
 with another Bounty Hunter in your way, or worse (and more annoying) : Guardians. Guardians hunt 
 in packs and are REALLY annoying.
  
  The graphics are not the best, but you remember that the DS isn't known for having Xbox 360-esque 
 graphics. These graphics are as good as DS graphics get. The cut scenes have pretty good graphics 
 though.
  
  You can hear every step you make and cries of despair when a Bounty Hunter is terminating you. 
 Every gun shot sounds wonderful, giving this game a perfect sound score.
  
  WONDERFUL MULTIPLAYER! You can also practise alone with bots to hone your skills before you join 
 the big dogs at Wi-Fi.
  
  This game surly ranks up there with the Halo games and StarCraft. If you have a DS, there is no 
 excuse not to pay 35 bucks for this treasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echelon_One
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters was fun for a demo and showed off the DS very well.
  
  WIth the full verison out the same issue still flagged me. Mainly the controls
  
  Metroid Prime 
 Hunters is an excellent game. The game has done what no other handheld FPS has done before. It 
 goes toe to toe with console FPS games and surpasses most of them. For those familiar with Metroid 
 Prime Hunters will feel more FPS than Adventure. No a bad thing just different. 
  
  The real draw to this game is the robust multiplayer. Nintendo WiFi connection works like a charm. 
 Having the MIC for chatting after games is nice but after playing on Xbox LIVE for along time. 
 Peace and quite and no trash talking is nice.
  
  The only issue I really have with Metroid Prime Hunters is the control. Getting used to the stylus 
 aiming takes a little getting used to. But Being able to hit the A B X Y buttons is the hard part.
 
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is just another reason why the DS is more than just a gimmick. 
  
  Action on the go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve2911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  The short review: Near perfect.
  
  There is very little wrong with this game from the incredibly graphical cutscenes to the great 
 multiplayer. The story is simple and a good way to set up the game.
  There is no doubting this game is the best use of WiFi yet. As long as you have friend codes the 
 possibilities are near endless. The microphone chat feature is surprisingly clear considering the 
 mic isn't all that special.
  Now, the very best part of the game: Controlls. This game is the perfect FPS. The touch screen 
 allows for flawless controll and makes aiming much easier.
  
  In short, if you like FPS's, buy this. If you like the previous Metroid games, buy this. If you 
 like multiplayer madness, buy this. There is little excuse not to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto-freak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  This game was great. The first few times I played it in adventure mode were just sweet. I loved 
 how the touch screen was aiming, you can get some pretty accurat shots in, and what i especially 
 liked was the different guns. The best part of the though, was by far the multiplayer mode. In 
 this game you get to choose between 7 different modes of play (Battle, Capture the flag, etc.) . 
 You also choose characters and what the time limit, number of kills etc. The wi-fi was great, it 
 almost felt like the people you were playing were right next to you. Some drawbacks that I saw 
 in the game was the level design, it was straightforward and not as creative as the GC games. I 
 also didn't like how the bosses repeat themselves; half the battle is figuring out how to kill 
 them. I Generally liked this game, it had solid graphics, very good sound, and the replayability 
 for multiplayer is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikosuavee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  all i need 2 say iz go n but it. u would definetly b worth tha money. i jus got it n hopped online 
 n got my azz romped, but u lose sum 2 win some... if u wanna pla (cuz i need pratice) heres my friend 
 code; "3050-1128-7819".
  
  so far all have played only a small portion of tha adventure cuz tha m. p. aspect of tha game iz 
 so addictive. even if u keep losin (which happenz alot 4 beginners) u still go at it. it kinda gives 
 u tha halo vibe on a handheld device. so all-n-all this game iz a total must 4 fps fans, metroid 
 fans, n oh yea N E BODY WHO HAS A NINTENDO DS. u would b n idiot if u didnt get it cuz tha satisfaction 
 iz all there. graphics, sound, MULTIPLAYER, n overall feel of this masterpiece iz enough 2 cramp 
 ur writing hand 4 weeks cuz ull neva put tha shyt down. go get it n meet me online so u can probably 
 beat my azz all n good fun though.\
  
  n7l { () 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  From the old side scroller to the new 3d games Metroid has to yeat let a old player down. This 
 game takes the Game Cube game expands on it turning it into a better game. This isnt to say that 
 the single player is a let down, because its not. Geting into this game will warp you up and make 
 you . The thing so far that I can say I liked are the other bounty hunters in the game. It gives 
 you the sense of being hunted.
  
  For a hand held, for a Nintendo DS game I must say this is so far the best looking and best played. 
 The whole touch screen gives you better control over your guns and lets you feel a little more 
 interactive. The sound could of been better but is still good as it is.
  
  This game is worth the money for those thinking about geting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly sweet. Beleive all the hype you see or have seen. thats all i have to say. 
 if you want to be in a clan, though, my gs mail is chilihead7. send me a message and tell me if 
 you want to be in my clan. We host matches everynow or then. My friend code is 2019-3169-7388. 
 put me on, and look for games i might create often. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a fun game. But I felt Nintendo focused too much on Multiplayer! The stroy 
 wasn't that good but the gameplay was easy to get after about 1 hour. Multiplayer was really fun 
 Rare put in Download play. Multi-Card play and Wi-Fi. I thought Multi-Card was the best!!!
  
  The graphics are amazing! :D :D :D They were shocking for a handheld. Some of the best graphics 
 of 06 on a handheld. The Video by Act like the opening cut-scence had 360 like graphics on the 
 Handheld that could. ActImage did terrfic PERFECTION!!!
  
  I wasn't shocked by the sound. but the sound is pretty good. But nothing special.
  Lives up to 
 the Metroid name. The Prime name too!
  
  The sound hurts tilt bringing the score down to a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v7cK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my 1st Review ever on GS so its not going to be that great.
  The gameplay on wi-f in this game is great which gives it a great replay value cause if you ever 
 get bored you can always play people online. 
  The Voice Chat=9.2 (skips a little)
  Lag Rate=Barely Any 
  I like how if your friends are on you can see which one is on at all times. 
 
  
  Every other metroid game i played i didn't like but this was such a good game it changed the way 
 i think about metroid. I like how on multiplayer you get to pick from different hunters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Footballteen58
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a a very interesting game. The level design is nice the graphics are good, 
 the multiplayer is good, graphics are amazing, and characters are cool. In the game you play as 
 Samus Aran (who didnt see that coming) and your on some kind of quest to collect these large crystals 
 called Octoliths. The levels start with you landing your ship in a docking bay then you exit that 
 room. The story is basicly told by scanning random objects throughout the  
 I am more than halfway through the game I still have NO idea what is going on. Every once in a 
 while on the levels you run into a hunter. There are 6 other hunters hunting for the Octoliths. 
 I like to count these as miniboss battles and by beating them you unlock them to use in multiplayer. 
 After you find all these sheild keys and artifacts a portal opens up and you get to go to the Stronghold 
 Void......... thingy. You fight a boss you beat the boss then you get an octolith. You leave the 
 boss chamber and then a countdown begins to get out of the level. Oddly I do not know what the 
 point of it is. Obviously the planet or base thing does not explode because you go to each twice. 
 Multiplayer is great. Nintendo WFC makes the online play fantastic. Its like the DSs Halo 2. If 
 you get somebodys friend code you can also do voice chat with them too. 
  
  Now I do have alot of criticisms for the game. Each level is extrmely large and you may be walking 
 around thinking"where are all the bad guys?" I have been thinking the same thing there are hardly 
 any bad guys in each level and they are rather dull. The only ones that give me trouble are the 
 crash towers and the Guardians. None of the enimies are hard to take out either. Bosses are difficult 
 too bad theres only 3 different bosses. Cretaphid, Slench, and Gorea. Cretaphid is a wooden pole 
 that spins and flashes lights and shoots some lasers. Slench is a giant floating eyeball that attaches 
 itself to wall. You have to fight these bosses (except Gorea) 4 times. YES I SAID FOUR TIMES! I 
 dont know what Gorea is like because I have yet to beat the game. Very few chances to save you 
 can only save the game at your ship which is a pain considering there are only 2 portals to get 
 to the ship in each world. That will get on your nerves because it means you will have to play 
 the story mode for extended periods a time. 
  
  Overall the game is very good but it does have a few downsides I can see why GS gave it an 8.6 
 so stop complaining. 
  
  Oh yeah one more thing. As soon as you get the game DO NOT play online as soon as you can you WILL 
 lose because there are some veterans online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WFCHurricane
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  I imported this game because I really liked the First Hunt demo. I see this as THE Nintendo DS 
 game at this moment. Awesome graphics and even better gameplay. 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is just awesome. Specially the online matches when you have friend codes. The voice 
 chat works very well and its just fun to play this game online. The only problem is, multiplayer 
 is way too much fun. I don't feel like completing the single player mode now -_-
  
  Graphics
  When I got my DS with the demo (I played the demo so much) I really liked the graphics. 
 And that didnt' change. The graphics are very nicely done (especially in the movies) the only thing 
 is: Every planet and space ship has the same doors. I would expect every planet has its own 'style'.
 
  
  Sound
  The sound is just right, nice music and sound effects.
  
  Value
  I still didn't figure out what value means 0_o
  
  My tilt:
  I'm kinda addicted to this game, 
 I only play multiplayer. Too bad I suck : (
  
  Overall:
  If you are looking for a nice DS game with nice graphics and good online play you should get metroid 
 prime hunters. Its by far my favorite DS game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultttimaa
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Left, Right, Up, Down, Shoot!
  Want a game where you can pwn bosses, monsters, other bounty hunters, and players across the world? 
 
  Then Buy this game. 
  
  Let's start off with the controls. 
  Well, you have two choices. You can either moves with the plus pad, aim with touch, shoot with 
 L. Or, you can move with plus pad, aim with XYBA, and shoot with L and jump with R. Pretty simple, 
 right? Well... It can be. However, the second choice is much harder. Your better off unleashing 
 mayhem by aiming freely with the stylus. 
  Controls Rating: 8/10. 
  
  Well, lets move onto Gameplay. 
  Well, you've got Adventure, where you can obliterate bosses, 
 enemies, and other hunters. You've also got multiplayer, where you can destroy your friends nearby, 
 or destroy your friends far away, or blast people across the world. What could be more fun? Well. 
 Adventure mode lets you go across planets and find the octoliths before the other hunters do. Multiplayer 
 lets you and your friends or other people go across your favorite levels and blast each other until 
 one is declared winner. So, it's your choice. Adventure? Or Multiplayer?
  Gameplay Rating: 10/10
  
  Graphics.
  Well, the graphics are wonderful. awesome 3-D. Everything 
 is awesome. 
  Not much to say here. So, well, let's get onto the rating already, right?
  Graphics Rating: 10/10
  
  Sounds.
  The music and sounds are great. The music is great, and 
 really fits the scene. The sounds are pretty real too. Its awesome to here yourself blasting the 
 other players and such. 
  Sounds rating: 10/10
  
  Rent, Or buy? 
  Buy of course!!!! Why even rent? If you do, you will be hooked, and want to buy it imediatly. So, 
 i definatly say buy.
  
  Overall rating: 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzunited101
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  first off, i really REALLY like to thank the makers of this game. they made the ds alive again. 
 this single player is kinda fun........ the other good part is Samus didnt lose all her abilities!! 
 you get to start with them and get more good, stronger supweapons. you can fight bosses and other 
 bounty hunters!!!...... it has a lot of cutscenes that really rocked!! (which you can watch over 
 and over 'till youve seen enough) ...... and when you play multiplayer........ YOU WOULD THANK YOURSELF 
 FOR BUYING THIS GAME!!!... you could play with other bounty hunters youve beaten/unlocked 
  i STRONGLY recommend buying this game for all ds gamers out there..... so dont wait 'till tomorrow.... 
 buy this game right now!!...... or else you know what will happen..... ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_aka_link
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned on my DS and saw the cinematic I thought 0_0. Sure the actual graphics werent 
 like that but is it possible? I was greeted with the same sound that Metroid Prime is known for 
 and it sounded better than ever. In the adventure mode I found it boring at first, not being able 
 to kill anyone. But soon after that definitely wasnt a problem.
  
  The worst thing about single player I could spot was the lack of planets to choose from. You can 
 only go to four until you get all 8 octoliths. Then to Dubliette and fight Gorea. That being said 
 online play is what you should buy the game for. The fact of having the ability to fight players 
 around the world is a really good addition to the DS. Your hunter license is just a bonus.
  
  During online play your battery life dies down pretty fast so make use of your time. The worst 
 part of online play is when those sore losers disconnect while playing so they dont have to lose. 
 Other than that it is good to be able to give and get hunter licenses. As I said before the wifi 
 is what you buy the game for, everything else are bonuses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetfoolkev
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters was worth the 2-year long wait. Let me start out by saying the graphics look 
 real good for a portable system. The sound is not so great but ok. The best part is the multi-player 
 action. If you thought 4 players is to little, think again!!! There is so much action and the shooting 
 never stops. The arenas are pretty darn good and you can play non-stop on Nintendo Wi-fi for at 
 least a couple hours. Another great feature is that there are 6 more hunters. Each of them have 
 an alternate form that makes them special in some sort of way. The story mode is a little light 
 on the levels but then again it is still pretty hard to beat. This game is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paintbuster0001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over! A game that got as much anticipation as Star Wars III finally came out, 
 and boy is it fun. The singleplayer is your classic Metroid style game, with all the technology, 
 weapons, and enemies that you would expect. The controls are a little akward at first, but you'll 
 soon get the hang of it. The graphics are amazing for the DS, and the sound is great too. The inclusion 
 of six new hunters also gives this game a nice twist, adding some new spices to the mix. The singleplayer 
 is a little more straightforward than other metroid games, not too much of the searching, but to 
 find a level's second octolith, you'll have too do a good bit of seacrching. A nice addition is 
 the ability to pilot your ship, which serves as the one and only save point via portals throughout 
 the level, by plotting coordinates of your planet. Where this game stands out is the multiplayer. 
 I am so glad they delayed it to put Wi-Fi in because it is sooo much fun. Some solid game modes, 
 fun maps, new beam weapons (sniper beam) , and the ability to play as other hunters you have unlocked 
 makes this the best multiplayer for the DS. I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coleorionjordan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  After the nearly 2-year delay, Metroid Prime: Hunters finally comes out, but the single-player 
 expeirience is less-than great. I will seperate the review in 2 parts: Single player and Multiplayer. 
 Oh, and the graphics surpass the DS's hardware capabilities, the touch controls are precise and 
 there are these fun pointless cutscenes!
  
  Single player game:
  Well, I cannot say that it does not provide any enjoyment, but the single player game gets a little 
 too repetitive for it's own good. To start off, you get to choose one place, and more get added 
 when you progress into the game. Though there is the usual Metroid backtracking, and signature 
 upgrades, the levels are too linear for it's own good. So it becomes a little like Halo, or the 
 newer Doom games. Sure, the hunter battles are a good addition, but soon, you can kill them off 
 the just a couple headshots or charged missiles. The real bosses are incredibly repetitive. I can't 
 see anyone wanting to play the same boss 4 times, but each time it is a little harder. Like the 
 Cretaphid (Pillar-like thingy) : Version one shoots a laser, Version 2 shoots plasma pellets that 
 follow you, Version 3 does both, Version 4 does both as well, but moves around as well. The Slench 
 (weird eyeball-based flying thing) : Version 1: Shoots power beam-like shots, Version 2, Shoots 
 volt driver shots, Version 3, Shoots Magmaul shots and rams you, Version 4, Shoots ice shots (that 
 freeze you) , rams you, and rolls around. These creatures would have been fine if you went against 
 them once, but it just isn't fun after the first or second time.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Well, I cannot say the this is the same. The multiplayer game is really the beauty of Hunters. 
 You get to choose between all the hunters you see (providided you actually see them in the single 
 player experience) and all the beams, once you find them in the multiplayer stage. I really can't 
 delve in anymore than that! 
  
  Conclusion (Resum) :
  Hunters provides a great game, the single player is a bit lacking, but WiFi and the regular multiplayer 
 more than makes up for it. Great graphics and great gameplay, Hunters will provide a lifetime of 
 enjoyment. I recommend it. So there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Yet again a Yes and No answer.
  
  Lets get the good points over first! :)
  
  Firstly this game comes into its "prime" (ho ho pun city) when you play its multiplayer. Fast and 
 frantic.... quite alot of characters to choose from and nice enviroments to subsequently blast you 
 opponents in.
  
  Sound wise and Graphically this game is quite an achievement on the DS. With Goldeneye Double Agent 
 or whatever it was called released a year ago, we can diffently see th eleap in graphics for shoot 
 em up games for the DS in this title.
  
  There is still some pixelation but still you have to always realise this game is TRYING to imitate 
 in a way a game which was for the gamecube... so its trying.
  
  Anyhow, bad points:
  
  Firstly, single player story line wise... oo nice cutscenes... sets the scene... immedietly themost 
 annoying aspects like: What to do next? Or general confusion and repetitivness of game events like 
 being attacked by a boss or the fact theres only FOUR worlds to choose from and you have to revisit 
 them again kind of confuses th eplayer into what your actually doing.
  
  Then the bosses are repetiveness. Generally i think its like they repeated alot of aspects to save 
 memory on the game card so that it didn't not work when it finnaly came out.
  
  Also when battles have more than one differant type of mini boss, the frame rate goes sluggish... which 
 is bizzare and yet again pointing towards the game card's memory and space capacity.
  
  Other than these bad points, the enviroments are pretty god damn cool for a DS game... very atmospheric 
 for a DS game, though i prefered the Super Metroid SNES's atmosphere.
  
  Generally a good effort cause lets be honest its not every day you see a 3D shoot em up with quite 
 large enviroments on your DS.
  
  However, unfortunatly the bad points just happen to out way the good... so its a balanced reaction 
 you get from it. Also i have never really been a fan of the 3D styled metroid... i was always a 
 fan of the past series... mainl yfor its atmosphere hence why i downgrade this slightly... so slight 
 biasm there sorry.
  
  Anyhow, for everyone else, worth the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuddyMarvelous
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime was an excellent game, but it brought the series to 3D, not perfect it. A realistic 
 game demanded more than simply the every-other-screen-block enemy of the previous games. If the 
 series were to thrive, more action needed to be incorporated without losing the adventurous aspect 
 that made the games classic. Metroid Prime Hunters lacks in the way of map intricacy which we all 
 have come to know and love about the series, the way everything comes full circle at just the right 
 time and is, essentially, what made backtracking actually fun, rather than a chore. The map is 
 depressingly straightforward, which makes for a linear nature uncharacteristic of the series. That 
 said, the extra action which accentuated the adventure part of the game, made much more exciting 
 by the presence of worthy opponents in the six other hunters, creates the urgency and walking-on-eggshells 
 feel of the game. This has been achieved in other Metroid games, but never to this extent. The 
 game has the perfect feel that will make this and future Metroid shooters among the greatest shooters 
 in history, and added length and level complexity are the only real ways to improve on the single 
 player aspect of the game. The multiplayer, on the other hand, is as close to flawless as I have 
 seen. it is fun, and the many levels keep changing the experience every time. Also, the more accessible 
 Wi-fi connection has been adapted to perfectly by this multiplayer. The only drawback is that Wi-fi 
 games are limited to battle-mode. Some mode diversity for online play would have enhanced the enjoyability 
 considerably by breaking the monotony that, although long in coming, is inevitable in a one-mode 
 multiplayer. All-in-all, it is the best game I have yet played for the DS, which, given the platform's 
 library of excellent titles, is saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_of_goldoa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game as soon as I could, only 2 days after its release date, and I was almost shaking 
 with excitement when I got home, because I had been tracking this game for a really long time, 
 waiting for it to come out.
  
  When I started the single-player, I had a blast, and when I tried out the wi-fi, I had even more 
 of a blast. The single-player mode gets a little repetitive after a while, partly due to the fact 
 that you fight some of the same bosses several times, albeit on a higher difficulty level each 
 time. But the multiplayer wi-fi is so incredibly fun, I can only describe it as "portable Halo".
 
  
  This game is the opposite of Metroid Prime 2, which had an incredible single-player mode and a 
 pretty good multiplayer - Metroid Prime Hunters has a pretty good single-player mode, and a more-than-incredible, 
 and incredibly addictive, multiplayer mode.
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone who likes action, FPS's, or has a wi-fi connection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Metroid prime Hunters is the Best game yet (next to metroid prime) in the metroid series it shows 
 great gameplay and it has awsome multi player.. Even though it might get a little choppy sometimes 
 the game through out the game is Amazing the rumble pack is active in the game it really works.. and 
 the bounty hunters i must say the cheapest has to be TRACE with the triskeleton.. Even though u 
 can go to nintendowifi. com to see your profile ( witch is not right for somereason ) u can also 
 check it your self... the levels are amazing compared to any other DS game to date.. so if u have 
 a DS BUY THIS GAME!!! my overall score 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhundley
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was pretty dang amazing. I have never played any Metroid games before, but 
 Hunters has opened a new door of gaming for me. My friends and I have started a Metroid revolution. 
 We are always using the single card download play to face each other. The handling of the game 
 itself is amazing. It is very easy to use. Also, the use of different hunters and wisely using 
 their special ablilities is amazing. The many weapons you can use is amazing. Overall, this whole 
 game is amazing! It is definitely the best game out now for the Nintendo DS. Certainly, it is a 
 game worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yigisina
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Your missile is fully charged. Shots ricochet off the ancient wall youre using for cover. The 
 shots are getting louder as is your breathing. You are wounded, but so is he. The red dot on your 
 radar is getting closer. Now is your chance! You perform a stunning jump and unleash that charge 
 missile into the terrified face of your foe and another one bites the dust.
  
  This will be the same adrenaline rush youll get each time you place that tiny grey cart into your 
 DS, you know? The one that says Metroid Prime Hunters on the front. 
  
  The controls work like a dream and fit the fast paced action of the game. The default scheme sees 
 you moving the stylus/thumb strap on the bottom screen to aim your weapons, while you use the D 
 pad to move forward and backward or strafe left and right. Thats right; this basically means the 
 lock-on is dead. Instead we have fast moving and aiming that are typical of a first person shooter. 
 This game without doubt will be the blue print for all DS first person shooters in the future. 
 Not only does the touch screen play like a basic C stick, it betters it by having computer mouse 
 style accuracy and sensitivity. The only downside to the interface is that in order to switch weapons/visors 
 or change into your alt mode you have to touch small panels on the touch screen. It's possible 
 to accidentally drag your stylus/thumb strap over these areas and accidentally switch to a different 
 weapon or form. 
  
  In the single player game you take the role of everybodys favourite sci-fi, bounty-hunting heroine, 
 Samus Aran. The adventure begins with you receiving a telepathic message from the long dormant 
 Alimbic Cluster, within the Tetra galaxy. Once home to a mighty race of the Alimbics, it is now 
 a wasteland covered with the ancient artefacts of its past inhabitants. This message promises an 
 ultimate power and is transmitted to thousands of other worlds in thousands of different languages. 
 Six other bounty hunters are enticed by this promise and make their way to the cluster to receive 
 this power. Each have unique motives, some want it for their planet, others to prove themselves 
 as warriors and some merely came due to their desire for power. Only one Hunter can triumph, the 
 rest will fail. To receive this power one must collect all 8 Octoliths which are scattered across 
 the Alimbic Cluster. The Galactic Federation supplies Samus with the mission to stop this power 
 falling into the wrong hands and be the first to collect the Octoliths. 
  
  Getting these Octoliths is no easy task. You must travel through the cluster onto different planets 
 and space stations facing typical puzzles and foes that have been cleverly designed by the master 
 minds of NSTC. Upgrades for health and ammo are still here along with the classic Metroid Prime 
 style gameplay, which includes some back tracking and the ability to scan enemies for weaknesses 
 and information. There are also a wide range of very new beams/guns (such as the Imperialist which 
 has the properties of a sniper) . Each level even has a crazy sequence at the end where it becomes 
 highly unstable after you defeat the boss. You are left with a very short space of time to return 
 to your ship, during which you may encounter a hunter or other enemies which slow you down greatly. 
 I for one love these intense run-throughs and am glad that they are implemented on all the planets. 
 
  
  The planets look gorgeous; graphically a lot of detail has gone into them. The same could be said 
 for the enemies most of which have been designed from scratch and have never been seen in the Metroid 
 universe before. The developers use of sound in this game is amazing. Eerie music builds up tension 
 as you walk through a lonely corridor and when you encounter a hunter quick and loud music is played 
 to get your heart beating like a kettle drum. It really adds to the atmosphere. Each creature that 
 roams a planet also has its very own cry. Small details like this are what make Hunters so special. 
 Sadly the single player is a short adventure that lasts roughly 12 hours or so for the average 
 gamer. Another downer about this game is the fact that the same two bosses are used again and again 
 with minor variations each time. I felt NSTC were being a bit lazy here. After all they spent so 
 long making the enemies and hunters unique, why not the bosses? Besides that and the short lifespan 
 we have a very solid single player experience, but the fun doesnt end there.
  
  This game supplies players with what is so far Nintendos best attempt at online gaming, (but lets 
 face it that wasnt very hard.) You can play people around the world in death matches thanks to 
 the wi-fi service, choosing to be one of the hunters that you have unlocked from the single player 
 game or by defeating them in a previous wi-fi match; however thats not all you can do. The real 
 fun comes from adding friends and rivals. After a match you can agree to become rivals with each 
 other. Rivals can join and create their own games choosing whichever multiplayer mode they prefer, 
 and let me tell you there are quite a few. 
  
  Battle: Standard 2-4 player death match, teams are available as are bots
  Survival: Same as battle, 
 but with limited lives
  Bounty: You race other players to an Octolith and bring it back to a fixed location on the map
 
  Defender: You must defend a designated area
  Prime Hunter: The first player to kill gets this title. Only the Prime Hunter can collect kill 
 points. The Prime Hunter becomes stronger and faster than other Hunters but his/her health runs 
 out and he/she isnt allowed to pick up health. 
  Capture: Capture the bag style play but with Octoliths instead 
  Nodes: The aim here is to capture 
 landmarks by standing on them and to see who has the most at the end. 
  
  By exchanging friend codes you are able to do all the same things you can do with a rival, but 
 with the addition of voice chat, before the game begins and after its finished. The chat is clear 
 and easy to use. All a player needs to do is hold down the X button and talk into the DS microphone. 
 The game boasts 26 unique maps and comes with wireless play for up to four players be it single 
 or multi-cart. The only disadvantage is that you can only play as Samus in single cart. Though 
 some say this isnt shame, it means you wont be able to use any of the other new Hunters with 
 their very own unique abilities. Another great feature is if you dont have any friends you can 
 set up your own kind of game with bots in their play. The bots come with a difficulty of 1 star 
 (easy) , 2 stars (medium) and 3 stars (hard) . 
  
  Overall Metroid Prime Hunters is great first person shooter, with solid shooting mechanics, stunning 
 graphics and atmospheric sound. This game only falls short of being a complete classic due to the 
 fact that the same bosses were recycled and the single player game was a bit on the short side. 
 I felt that this game put some of the Gamecubes first person shooters to shame. With amazing multiplayer 
 options and bots, it seems to have a lot of replay value. I also witnessed a steady frame rate 
 with no lag. What an amazing game. I certainly hope this is a good sign of things to come on the 
 Revolution and for the DS in the future. Keep at it NSTC.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeddimaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start, this game had me in awe. The graphics of the opening cinematic (that's right, 
 a REAL cinematic on the DS!) are absolutely incredible. The sound to match is equally as impressive. 
 Needless to say, the game had my tight in its grasp before I even got to the game menu. When I 
 began to play, I was not disappointed. The graphics rocked, and I got used to the control system 
 fairly quickly. A fairly simple story-line (kill the bad guys and save the universe) was short 
 enough to let me jump right into the action, but interesting enough to keep me intrigued about 
 an ending. Many hours of gameplay later, I stand here having completed the game and very content 
 with what I just experienced.
  
  First up: Gameplay. The unique feature here is the controls, which have a lot of people wondering. 
 There are a few options as far as this goes, depending on your preference. I chose the stylus, 
 and despite what some others said I got used to it within an hour of playing the game. The gameplay 
 is very strong, but gets a bit repetitive at times. Killing metroids isn't as fun in 3D as it was 
 on previous 2D Metroid games, but battling against the other surprisingly intelligent hunters is 
 very entertaining.
  
  The graphics are top-notch for the system. By far the best on the DS, and quite possibly the most 
 impressive on any portable system. The developers used some very clever tricks to render upcoming 
 rooms and view objects around you.
  
  Sound is also top-notch. Every hunter is very unique in their character, and are equally unique 
 in their array of sound bites. While the sound effects are near perfection, the music could have 
 been better. And some of the sound effects get repetitive.
  
  The campaign is great length for a portable game. I take my time with games, so I got around 14 
 hours of play. The majority of gamers will get around 10. Unfortunately the campaign can get repetitive, 
 returning to places you've already been before, and fighting almost identical bosses over and over. 
 Then once you've beat the campaign (or adventure mode, as it is called) there's always online play. 
 This is where the game really shines. Unfortunately only 4 players can battle at a time, but the 
 real "meat" of the game is in the online play. It's very exciting and keeps your entertained for 
 hours on end. There's even an option to battle against bots, who, by the way, are very well-done. 
 This way you can practice playing each hunter and see which you like the best.
  
  I feel a bit bad tilting this game down. it's truly a great game, and a must-have for the Metroid 
 or FPS fan, but there's something about it that makes it lose its appeal. At first the game is 
 very captivating, but after battling the same hunter on a different planet for the third time, 
 it gets old. Online play is loads of fun, but to be honest there isn't much skill involved. Too 
 many weapon and health power-ups make it a game of foraging, and is based too much on luck. Another 
 downer is that your hands get very tired after a while of using the stylus control method.
  
  This game is worth getting for the online play alone. It offers a very solid and enjoyable 
 experience that I think every DS owner should experience. That being said, it has its share of 
 flaws, mostly due to the limitations of the system. But what I think it best about this game, it 
 really pushed the limit on what can be done with a portable system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan606
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Though this is the first Metroid game I have really ever owned, I must say that I am impressed 
 greatly with the Metroid series. This game has helped me look forward to Metroid Prime 3 as well 
 as downloading older games from the Virtual Console on the Revolution. Anyways back to the review. 
 I am really impressed with this game's single player mode. The touch screen makes it easier for 
 me to aim as well as look at my surroundings. It is easy for me to shoot, jump, etc. with this 
 game, making it easy for me to love it. So far I am at my fifth octolith and have just become a 
 Super Hunter online not too long ago. Well to the Multiplayer part of the game. When I got into 
 my first match online, I got owned in an instant... well I guess I deserved it for starting off 
 playing on WiFi instead of learning the controls. But I got better of course and now I am having 
 a blast on WiFi. This game allows you to speak to friends you have in your friends list before 
 and after a match, making it easier to know what modes to play or how long a game should be set. 
 Of course if you are shy at times like I am, you can always just send a message instead of speaking 
 into the mic. Well now after typing this review, I feel like playing some more MPH... well I guess 
 I'll wrap this up then. If you are a DS owner, I recommend buying this game. You won't be dissapointed.... well 
 at least that's my opinion but trust me on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jloaded55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Aurgrauwgrah.... to take a quote from none other than homer simpson. Let me start by just saying 
 that this game was totaly worth the wait. Tight controls, amazing cinematics and really great single 
 player and multiplayer, truly a ds owners dream. IM gonna give the gameplay a 10 just because aside 
 of the good single player, the multiplayer is where its at with tons of different game type and 
 having such a balanced and varietied set of characters that really make it a extremely enjoyable 
 experience. And ya some of the enemies do look kinda sketchy from far away but really when these 
 full cinematics come zooming out at you, you just forget about all the minor flaws and get lost 
 in it. Sound value is great and its really crisp with the classic music you've come to love from 
 the series. And for valued and tilt.. i mean as i said before its the first succesfull fps on a 
 portable so thats why i gave value a 9 and tilt 10. So in other words buy it, love it, and enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaplaya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the money. It has some of the best graphics I've seen yet on the DS. I picked 
 this game up about a week ago, even though I don't really care for metroid games that much, because 
 I'm crazy about multiplayer games (especially if you can play them online.) It turned out to be 
 a great game like everyone hoped. There are, however, some things that Nintendo left out of the 
 game that I think it seriously needs (i. e. sniper rifles, shotguns, more worlds in adventure mode, 
 a few more playable characters.) If you like fps then you should get this game because there don't 
 seem to be any new ones coming out for a while, and as I said, it is a great multiplayer game, 
 whether you're playing online, wirelessly with some friends, or even if you download playing. This 
 game is a must have for your Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Metroid sure seems to be Nintendos go to series as of late, especially for a series that would 
 only get a single game released for the entire life of a new Nintendo system. In the past four 
 years alone Nintendo has released six Metroid games for their GameCube, GameBoy Advanced, and 
 Nintendo DS consoles. Their newest Nintendo DS game Metroid Prime Hunters will be the seventh.
 
  
  Like every Metroid game before it, Metroid Prime Hunters revolves around a lone female bounty 
 hunter named Samus Aran as she ventures through the universe in her spaceship, searching for bounties 
 to collect and cash in on.
  
  While readers familiar with the gaming industrys interpretation of women may envision a young, 
 attractive, and overly endowed female in the lead role, Samus is actually one of very few female 
 characters to be portrayed in a positive light. Despite her preference for action rather than talk, 
 when she does speak her repertoire always involves important matters going on in the game and disregards 
 the prissy one-liners and fluff that other generic female characters seem to possess.
  
  The coolest aspect of Samus is her bulky armor that she wears on hunts. The armor not only completely 
 encompasses her from head to toe, but it also makes her sex ambiguous to gamers that are unaware 
 to the fact that she is female rather than illogically suiting up a skintight outfit of armor for 
 fighting. This armor makes her stronger, allows her to jump higher, absorbs damage, allows her 
 to roll into an armored sphere, and can even hold various weapons that are shot with the aid of 
 her arm cannon.
  
  Just think Boba Fett from Star Wars fame, but take away the susceptibility of being beaten by 
 a blind man with a stick.
  
  The game itself resembles both previous Metroid games on the GameCube as it plays as a first 
 person shooter rather than the conventional side scrolling method of yesteryear. However with the 
 Nintendo DS possessing no analog sticks and only one D-Pad, the big difference between the two 
 versions is the control scheme used to play the game.
  
  Gamers aim Samus arm cannon by moving their stylus around the Nintendo DS touch screen. Wherever 
 the stylus touches on the screen corresponds to the arm cannons position and will allow gamers 
 to line up accurate shots. Other tricks with the touch screen include double-tapping the screen 
 for jumps and being able to change weapon types with a simple poke. The only other controls used 
 in Metroid Prime Hunters include the D-Pad for movement and the left shoulder button for shooting.
 
  At first it may feel quite unorthodox and confusing for a game of this type, but within a matter 
 of minutes it really becomes second nature.
  
  The only real complaint with the game is the redundancy of how the game is played. A typical level 
 will require gamers to search for artifact keys, fight a mid-level boss, search for more artifact 
 keys, fight the same boss to the death, and then run all the way back to Samus ship before the 
 timer runs out.
  
  It is fun the first couple of levels, but it really sucks the adventuring aspect out of the game 
 and substitutes more action in instead.
  
  Beyond the single player mission, Metroid Prime Hunters includes the ability to play online multiplayer 
 by either the system link option or over Nintendos new Wi-Fi Network. Its not exactly the most 
 in-depth multiplayer experience gamers have come to expect nowadays, but it certainly holds its 
 own when the single player mode has been completed.
  
  Despite being a tad repetitive, Metroid Prime Hunters is a great addition into the series. It 
 uses the Nintendo DS to the best of its ability and comes away playing wonderfully in both single 
 and multi player modes. As long as fans dont expect Super Metroid quality fun, they will be 
 pleasantly surprised with this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  As a metroid game its good. As a DS game its great! This is a good metroid game by any standard, 
 and has some of the smoothest, must fluid controls ever! There is nothing like the kind of control 
 the stylus gives over this sort of game. There are tons of places to go, and things to do, and 
 more importantly things to kill. The multiplayer is awesome, and the wi-fi is utter pwnge. This 
 is probably one of the best DS games to date, and one of the first great action titles for nintendo's 
 little duel screened beauty yet. The graphics are almost console quality, with some grainy images 
 as you get closer. This game isn't as good as Metroid Prime 1, but probably better than Metroid 
 Prime 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Bear
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Great singleplayer and even bettrer multiplayer. Best DS game yet, and another 
 great title from the triumphtant metroid series. If you taught FPS games would not succeed on handhelds 
 this game will proove you wrong. The controll system is made better than any other nonPC shooter. 
 The characters are great all with unique aditudes, weapons and traits. The Wi-Fi is perfectly smooth 
 and loads of fun. New Hunter liscence feature works towards a better on-line comunity and less 
 disconections than any other Wi-Fi Title. Plenty to unlock... 
  
  BEWARE EXTREMELY ADDICTIVE!!!
  
  You will be glued to your DS as soon as MPH boots up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacoJelly
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'm a diehard Metroid fan. And over the years I have gotten used to metroid games being few and 
 far between (totally skipped N64) , as such I feel obligated to be the absolute harshest critic 
 when it comes to a game featuring the metroid title... but this doesn't dissapoint.
  
  Unlike some fans, I welcome change (as long as it's for the better) . Some complain about the structuring 
 of the campaign mode, but if you keep in mind that it's a handheld, the sturcture makes more sense. 
 I honestly love the fact that this game gets you in fully armored. It still has that metriod feel 
 with the weapon and upgrade collection, but it keeps the pacing high enough so you can play for 
 short increments and still make progress in the game. The use of bosses is a little dissappointing, 
 but the hunters make up for that. 
  
  Control wise, this is the best game yet for the DS. So far we've seen games that use the touch 
 screen for gimicky purposes (Warioware) and we've seen alot of games that change the way we think 
 about controls (Trauma center, Kirby's Canvas Curse) but this actually takes a control concept 
 we know and IMPROVES it. I mean, say what you want about the PSP's power, but if someone actually 
 takes the time to get acquainted with the controls of this game, they'll never even look at PSP 
 shooter again. Really the control setup that rivals this is the keyboard-mouse control (since REV 
 isn't out yet) , and that is hardly portable.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking to long time DS owners like me; who knew it could look that good? 
 Maybe even too good... see, when you get into fights with gaurdians and hunters (like 5 enemies 
 on screen plus the massive environment) it slows down noticably past its 30 fps mark. it's not 
 as bad as some games, and really there have been situations where it helps in battle, but it's 
 still an annoyance and is really the only thing that hurts this score.
  
  Sound is extraordinary. The score isn't as strong as the gamecube prime's but that's still like 
 comparing a good John Williams score to a classic Bernard Herman. Effects suck you into the game 
 nicely, I especially love the sound of Kanden changing into his stinger-thing (i could spend hours 
 just changing into and out of his alt-form) .
  
  Story again not as strong as Prime 1 or 2, but this is a handheld... If there was a good story, 
 you'd probably skip over most of it anyway.
  
  Overall an excellent game to show exactly what the DS is capable of.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phalanx-2k6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The answer to that is simple, yes. Wether you're playing Single Player or duking it up over Multiplayer 
 theres something for everyone, long time fans or newbies - there will always be a place for you 
 here. While this game does boil down to hardcore fans, anyone who's played an FPS before will have 
 no trouble getting to grips with this truely outstanding DS title. 
  
  In Hunters you recieve a telepathic message informing you of a great power, however - you are not 
 the only one to recieve such news, other Hunters with the same goal as you, scattered throughout 
 the universe heard the message too. While some Hunters wish to find this power for the means of 
 destruction, others are there to stop unworthy hands from ever touching it. Now its only a race 
 of time to see which of the 7 bounty hunters will triumph and find the key to this 'Ultimate Power'.
 
  
  The gameplay is enough to leave you plaything this solid for several hours, that is... unless you 
 suffer from hand cramps along the way, the way they expect you to play this on the DS can be quite 
 hard to grasp at first - but people like me who got used to it playing the demo shipped with the 
 DS early last year find it quite easy, there are simple ways of getting past this - just lean it 
 on a table or your knee, most of the time when your hand begins to hurt is because you're holding 
 it in the air using both hands. There is so much to do in the story, still tons of back tracking 
 like the GC titles - lots of puzzles and definately heavy use of the morph ball, speaking of which 
 has been polished right down to the point where it even shows reflection of light as you roll around. 
 Aside from the Single-Player component, there is: Download play, Multi-card play, or WiFi. In multi 
 card play theres a nice surprise, being able to play against bots - also being able to set them 
 to one of 1 difficulties, and boy - the 3 star bots do put up a fight.
  
  The graphics were jaw dropping, seeing such great graphics on the DS was amazing, this, however 
 suffers from quite a few noticeable slowdowns - and I mean quite alot. When you enter a big room 
 with a 2 or more enemies, the game will start to slow down dramatically - it will amost feel like 
 matrix slow motion, we've all experienced it every now and again in Mario Kart LAN play but this 
 takes it to new levels. Setting aside this drawback the graphics are stunning, highly detailed 
 models and surfaces do justice for the overall feel of the game.
  
  The sound is where it went a bit stale, we'd all heard the power beam and missle shots from the 
 demo - and I guess they're here to stay, they weren't changed a bit since the DS launch. But again, 
 this is only a small part and I guess you can't really complain with a nice variety of other weapons 
 added in. Some things don't make sense though, like how spire getting hurt sounds the same as Samus... 
 what...? - oh well, nevermind, most of the time you're too into the gameplay of mowing down your 
 enemies you hardily notice.
  
  The WiFi is definately where this DS game stands high above any of the other titles currently out, 
 being the first game to feature the use of the DS built in microphone to actually speak to people. 
 While this sounds fun and all, (trust me it is) - this can only be done before and after matches, 
 so don't get your hopes up that you'll be able to gloat about a lucky headshot during matches. 
 When you do get the use the mic however, is very good - the sound comes in crystal clear and you'll 
 hardily ever find your self asking for the person to say again. Unless they're stupid and talk 
 with their mouth on the mic. Over find game the gameplay is really just a pick up and play feel 
 - mainly because its just fixed to Battle mode (Deathmatch) . While this seems disappointing, think 
 of it as a way of encouraging you to add friends and fully utilize every feature Hunters has to 
 offer. With over 20 maps to play on, 7 hunters to choose from, and plenty of people to own - this 
 is definately a game you shouldn't think twice about picking up.
  
  Its really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BejiitaSaiyajin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Nice controls, good graphics, nice sound, and awesome multiplayer... what bad is there to talk 
 about this game? Besides for the hand cramps that you can get playing with the stylus. But besdies 
 for that, this is another awesome game that Nintendo has released for their handheld. I'm only 
 into the second level of the storyline, but already it's fun and has a good storyline. I don't 
 know why, but it's really fun to scan everything in this game. And for being such a small device, 
 the sound is really well done.
  
  But of course the real reason to buy this game is for the Nintendo Wi-Fi. Though sometimes it can 
 be tough to try to get into a game sometimes, but when you do, the action is intense and fun. The 
 different bounty hunters are nice, and welcome addition to the fun as well. If you own a DS, and 
 are a fan of the Metroid game, this is a must have for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  so when i first got this game i was pretty skeptical about how it would turn out. i played the 
 demo like all the time and just thought it would be the same... my mistake! its waaay cooler, the 
 touch screen has a working radar and theres a bunch of different weapons and yeah its awesome. 
 the online play is incredible too. if youve ever played xbox live, youd be suprised how awesome 
 this is. althought you can only play up to 3 other people at the same time, its pretty hardcore 
 for a portable and totally puts the PSP so shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkdragz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  metroid prime hunters is an awesome game. its has truly superb graphics for the ds and the cutscenes 
 are amazing and has a good multiplayer (more on that in a bit) . the story is decent and the amount 
 of collectable weapons and health, ammo and rocket expansions will keep you searching. if u want 
 2 get 100% uve got 2 remember 2 scan anything and everything. these 2 things, if ur a perfectionist, will 
 keep u coming back and lengthen ur total play time.
  
  The new hunters that are brought into the story are playable in multiplayer, wich is either local 
 or wifi playable. the local has more options but the wifi is just plain fun. the hunters are unlocked 
 by beating them in either story or against someone online or local.
  
  i supppose the only bad points 2 the game is the repeated bosses and the pointlessrunning from 
 the planet/station as they dont blow up and u have 2 come back. otherwise its a great game some 
 areas are frustrating but what game dosent have parts like that
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOC_Pikachu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of good things I would say about this game. First of all, the Multiplayer is awsome. 
 The fact that you have so many levels and 8 different hunters to do battle with is amazing. The 
 other details that is in my opinoin is good is the fact you can talk to your friends while you 
 slaghter them (or vise-versa) useing the DS's microphone and speakers (or headphones) . Nintendo 
 out did them selves trying to perfect the Multiplayer. The graphics once again impreased me for 
 the DS, proving once again that the DS does have 3-D capibilateys (take note third party developers) . 
 Even though the multiplayer is extrodenary, the single player seems to lacking... things. For example, 
 you basicly have two different bosses, you just face different variations of the same two bosses. 
 The different arm cannon upgrades are great, but I always end up useing the power cannon and missiles. 
 And the story seems redundent. Land on the planet, get the artifacts, defeat the boss, get back 
 to the ship before the time is back. Lastly, saving is horribly set up, you can only save on the 
 ship, meaning you will be useing the sleep function a lot. To sum it up, it is a great rental unless 
 you have a boat load of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelastmen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  this game is great just got it yesterday, and i must say i am surprised i was going to buy another 
 game, but they didn't have it so i pick this one instead since everybody is giving it good reviews, 
 so i started playing i didn't understand how to control it for a few minutes but than everything 
 was cool, for me is easier to control than a console first person shooter, the graphics are great 
 for a nintendo ds, i like how you go to different world instead of being just one, the worlds are 
 short so thats something bad, so too bad that when i beat the game i won't be able to play online 
 cause i don't have router, anyway if you are thinking of getting a game for the ds and you don't 
 have this one, than get it cause the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KartRacer54
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is was worth waiting for. this game is good for shooting. the bounty hunters are cool 
 too. Sylux is one of the annoying bounty hunters. he just keeps using that lightning attack. I 
 also like the nintendo wfc for hunters. you get to talk to people on the game. its just like xbox 
 live. i won like 5 death matches and lost 1 match. i played prime hunter and i had stayed prime 
 for like 5 minutes longer than anyone in the match. nintendo has out done them selves again with 
 a new game and adding a new feature to the nintendo wi-fi center 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say... Damn. This game is so good it almost takes over my life. It has great 1st player 
 but multi is were the points add up, the 1st wi-fi game that is like the big screen online games, 
 you can talk through the mike!!! The graphics are amazing and the story is great. Probably the 
 best DS game to date let alone portable game. I love this game and HIGHLY recommend buying it NOW. 
 You won't be sorry once you see how addicting this game gets. If you like longer games, this would 
 be alittle more than medium, giving it alot of possible play time. This game is perfect for anyone!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afly727
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  gues whos back back again samus is back so tell a friend guess whos back guess whos back gues whos 
 back. yes can it be tue metroid is back and its not so similar than the prime games on the g cube. 
 yes metroid prime hunters might have a similar name to the g cube version but nintendo being nintendo 
 had to make the game petheticly easy. forimstance every other metroid game took me about an hour 
 to find out where to go and how to do 1 missly puzzle this game you are practcly walking forward 
 whih isnt bad its just you will be disapointed that you beat the game 4 hours after you bought 
 it. but wait can it be true can nintendo actually use there brains yes there is online play. yes 
 the online play almost aves the game from the short single player after nintendo lerned from the 
 terrible online play from mk they added useful stuff like voice chat and send messages thank you 
 nitendo but honestly teh online play is not that great . Overall
  overall this game should not be bought for the single player only for online play if you can play 
 with friends online trust me if you can than and you will be playing it online for a long long 
 time so if you cant play online with some friends avoid the game if u can play online with your 
 friends get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloRules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Really an awesome game It is like Metroid prime In your hand. really long Single player, and Never 
 ending Multiplayer, It is probably the best ds game so for and It will always be the best ds game 
 out. I recommend that you buy this game If you have A DS it is the Best. There are also Alot of 
 unlockables. It has really good graphics and Great music. It really feels like you are playing 
 A metroid prime game. Especially when you reach near the end of the game. I think It gets better 
 and better as you proceed through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidstebbins
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has not been very good with games. Some games were okay, some were indescribably 
 bad. Some games were WAY overrated, such as Mario Kart DS and Advance Wars: Dual Strike. But Metroid 
 Prime Hunters, the long-awaited game that was first unveiled at E3 2004, is finally here, and it 
 saves the DS.
  
  This is undoubtably the best graphics on the DS to date. They were just as good as they were when 
 the game was first announced. Hell, they're SO good that the framerate can drop occasionally, although 
 this is rather seldom. I'm not going to comment on the sound, since sound is one of my weak points 
 in reviewing. To me, banging on pots and pans off-beat is music, so I wouldn't know if the game 
 has good sound or not.
  
  Of course, it's the gameplay that makes a game, and this is something that Metroid Hunters has 
 in spades. Gamespot complains about the awkward way of holding the DS when using the stylus mode 
 of control, but that goes away once you rest the other side of the DS on your knee. If you're neck 
 starts to hurt, pick it up and hold the left side with your left hand and the right side by resting 
 it on your wrist. If you do this, the controls become comfortable, and the touch screen aiming 
 mechanics offer pin-point accuracy, the kind you'd expect to only find with a keyboard and mouse. 
 The icons for scan visor, missles, and alternative form offer on-the-spot changing. It starts out 
 tough because you have to look down at the bottom screen, but eventually you memorize the locations 
 of the icons just the same way you memorize the button layout of a controller and it becomes second 
 nature.
  
  Of course, the best controls in the world are nothing if you don't have fun with the game. This 
 is where Hunters falls in the gameplay catagory. Unlike previous Metroid titles, where the exploration 
 is the most exciting part, in Hunters you find yourself walking down a very linear path. You walk 
 accross a room, scan something, beat monsters (by the way, the monsters' attack patterns are extremely 
 predictable) , move to the next room, and do the same thing over again. The race back to your ship 
 feels intense for the first two or so levels, but it soon becomes more like "argh, gotta get back 
 to the ship now." Some people may flame me for lowering the score of the gameplay catagory for 
 one thing. Well, for me, tens are only supposed to be given out to catagories that are perfect.
 
  
  The multiplayer is where's it's at here. Unlike previous Metroid titles, the primary focus of this 
 game is the mulitplayer. Even the commercial for the game advertises it as "multiplayer gaming 
 at its most deadly." You can play against friends locally with either multicard play or a watered-down 
 version if your friends don't have the game. Then there's online. This is what the game was delayed 
 until March 20 for, and for something that a game was delayed a whole quarter of a year for, it 
 is rather dissapointing. I can only talk to my friends, even with text chat. Why Nintendo has refused 
 to allow me to at least text chat with at least my rivals is beyond me. After all, half the fun 
 of having rivals is the competition part, and if you're going to have competition, you've got to 
 be able to talk a little smack. Unlike Mario Kart DS, Metroid Prime Hunters is rated T for Teen, 
 meaning little kids aren't supposed to play it. I don't know why Nintendo is trying to keep something 
 family-friendly that isn't family-friendly to begin with.
  
  But still, this game is great. Multiplayer is still fun, even if you're not getting to trash-talk 
 the ones you're owning, because it provides a challenge greater than the stupid-ass bots that the 
 game provides. I'd definately reccomend* this game. Hell, as you can see, I reccomend* it with 
 an astrick! However, don't buy this game for the single player. The only reason you'll feel pressured 
 to complete the single-player is so you can unlock all the bounty hunters. But still get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddeeaann
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game for the ds at this moment unless you want to go about 10 years to the 
 futre and get a better game, but untill then this will be the best game going! and i havnt got thism 
 game at the moment but ive been going on my freind`s and this is my favourite game but ive ordred 
 it and it hasnt even came out where i live yet (uk) , so alls i want to do is get the message across 
 that this is the best god dam game ive ever played on its just sooo good and for a hand held game 
 aswell this is just a breakthrough of gaming technoligy and as im a gaming freak who owns all the 
 gameconsoles exept for the ps3 im getting that next year soon and my brother owns a games 4 u shop 
 in a town close to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAran
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this game still didn't feel like a FPS. It felt more lke a side-quest Metroid game 
 with manual aiming. When the game started, I instantly got used to the controls. The game now feels 
 like I'm playing a 2-D metroid in the third dimension, which of course, is beautiful. 
  
  As I started through the game, I became very grateful for wearing headphones. The music was where 
 it was to be and got more exciting right on time where the game picked up the speed. I could never 
 have better timing with the music and the game going on their own tracks. The sound effects are 
 suprisingly pleasent to listen to, although the "voice acting" from the other hunters seemed a 
 bit off. Fortunatly, the music's superority makes me not care. There is also a sound test on the 
 game; it makes me more happy.
  
  The environmental graphics are done by pixeletiting. This was also done for Metroid Prime, so MP: H 
 gets a gold star on this. The downfall is that there is plaenty of lag for everyone, although it 
 doesn't have a popping effeect. Stuff like animations are top-notch. The Morph Ball and Gun-in-first-person-view 
 looks almost exactly like the Gamecube.
  
  After beating the game through once, which takes about 10 hours, you can't go off life without 
 doing it again. And again. And again. The multiplayer itself is too much for one character, so 
 you get a too much amount of stuff to do * 6. You also have Wi-Fi's RPG elements in this game, 
 so you're even getting more money out of the bank. 
  
  There is one pure dissapointment with the game. There is only one world in nature. All the othre 
 ones are in a metro point of view. Tallon Overworld is the greatest computer-created thing ever. 
 Now the closest thing that comes to Tallon Overworld is the final world. Super Metroid blew me 
 away with Crateria. Echoes blew me away with the Hydrodynamo Station. Adding water to a game make 
 is very fun to play around with, and all we get is ice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters for the Nintendo DS is a great game and works well on the DS. 
  
  First the controls for the game are great! You pick what controls you want. You can either use 
 the stylus or the D-pad to move it on the touch screen to move Samus Arans arm cannon. The stylus 
 give you more control over Samus arm cannon. Either method can be set to right or left-handed 
 people. 
  
  The graphics for the game are very good, compared to what the DS can do. The music is the classic 
 Metroid music, some has been redone to fit the game and some may be new. The overall game play 
 for the game is good. The game is not to long or short. The point of the game is to guide Samus 
 as she looks for the octoliths, the key for finding the ultimate power As you look for the octoliths 
 you explore four sets of planets. On the planets you explore you have things to scan and beat to 
 unlock doors. You collect new weapon upgrades from the hunters you beat. You also find energy tanks 
 and missle upgrades. 
  
  Some bad things are you may accidentally switch to your morph-ball or missiles by mistake. This 
 can happen when you are using the touch screen to move the arm-cannon. You may accidentally move 
 the stylus over one of these and switch to one when it is not needed. It is also bad to take your 
 eyes off the top-screen when a battle is taking place. To have this not occur you should try to 
 memorize the placement of these buttons. 
  
  The single player is more straight forward then pervious Metroid games. There are fewer things 
 to explore and look at. You use your hunter class ship to travel from each planet. To go to another 
 planet you must beat one first. The boss fights are straight forward also being very easy compared 
 to pervious Metroid boss fights. You may find it a little redundant because you fight only two 
 bossed the entire game, only that you fight upgraded and stronger ones as you go along. The final 
 boss is the exception. 
  
  The multiplayer of Metroid Prime: Hunters is very good. You can play with your friends in Single- 
 Card play where you can only play in like Battle Mode, where the playing is limited. You can also 
 play with local Wi-Fi against your friends who have the game. This allows you to play with different 
 hunters and other modes. And by using the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection you can play against friends 
 on your friends list. You can have voice chat with your friend only in the pre-fight room before 
 the battle. You can also do a just jump in and play mode where you play against other players waiting. 
 You also have Rival-Radar. This allows you to put your DS down until you come across someone who 
 has the game and also is in Rival- Radar.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a game every DS owner should have. The game offers a lot and is very 
 fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhovey
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I was really expecting this game to be great, but not near the greatness of Metroid Prime. Well, 
 I was wrong. I love this game, it is perfect. I started playing the Adventure mode and started 
 loving it right away. But when i got to do some Wi-Fi matches, it blew me away. Let's get started 
 with the review...
  
  Gameplay- 10 out of 10
  I loved the gameplay in MP: H. It was to fun to put down. It might not have been a long game, but 
 it had so many cool things in it you couldn't not love it.
  
  Graphics- 10 out of 10
  The graphics were trully amazing, especially for a hand held game. The amount of detail was awesome. 
 Sadly, I actually died when i was looking at all the things and their surroundings in the game.
 
  
  Sound- 10 out of 10
  I have always liked the Metroid series' music. I was so glad when i heard the same sound effects 
 and music in this game that are found in all the previous ones.
  
  Value- 10 out of 10
  This game had all the things, like life expansions, missile expansions, etc., that the previous 
 games had, which made this game great for replay value. This is one of those games that I will 
 definately be playing in the future, whether it's Adventure mode or Wi-Fi.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- 10 out of 10
  Of course, as you could already tell, I'm addicted to this game. 
 It's a must get for any DS owner. I can't stop playing Adventure mode and online with everybody 
 else. The Wi-Fi is very smooth and easy to use. It's a big step up from the Metroid Prime 2 Echoe's 
 multiplayer and just as good, if not better, then MK DS' multiplayer. So, if you have a DS and 
 haven't picked this game up yet, then what are you waiting for? GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  OMG this game rulez it is the best on the DS. It is flippin awesome. The graphx really show what 
 the DS can do. But some parts it looks like crap. But who really freakin cares the game rulez. And 
 the sound is just awesome it just rulez.. The gameplay is a little hard but you will get used to 
 it. The single player campaign mode is interesting but the thing you will notice that the bosses 
 repeat. There is only two bosses and they repeat but they have different weapons, I mean come on 
 we need to be suprised like no formula of their attacks. But still who cares you keep the game for 
 a long time with the awesome multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  OK, for the older systems, it was side scrolling, for the GC it was lock on targeting. But for 
 the DS, they tryed something a bit different. They decided to put up a crosshair to enable headshots 
 and such. Which, in the long run was an idea for the better.
  
  First, the graphics. While it may not look increadibe, this is only a handheld. And for DS games 
 that do look good, they are limited on what you can do. They pixels are visible and may be a little 
 hard to get used to as some smaller enemies seem to blend in with the backround from far away. 
 But overall, they get the job done.
  
  For the sound. These are some VERY well done SFX for a DS. The weapons sound like a futuristic 
 weapon really should sound like. And the background music is no slouch either, they are not the 
 best you have ever seen, but still, very well done.
  
  The controls may take awile to get used to, but using the touch screen as a second analog is something 
 you feel proud of once you have mastered it. But one problom i do have with the controls is that 
 it can sometiimes be a little tricky to get a bead on something. But it's something as simple changing 
 the sensitivity.
  
  The online is great... for the most part. For some people like me, it may take well up to 10 minutes 
 or so just to be matched up with 1 person. But when you are playing friends matches it is a blast. 
 using the mic to talk to your friends is a very cool feature that, unfortunitly, can only be done 
 in the lobby. also, there have been instances were the person either has terrible lag, or is using 
 mods. I have heard numerous reaport, and have had this happen to me, where the person is not taking 
 any damage and other common hacks found on the consols. But the odd thing is, that it usually seems 
 like the person is "modding" when your only playing with one person... wierd...
  
  Overall, this game is worth getting, even though single player is kinda boring. As there are NO 
 SAVEPOINTS!!! if you wanna save, you gotta go ALL THE WAY back to your ship... but overall very 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Famicomman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is ,if not the best, one of the greatest WIFI games (even though their are only 5 :P, 
 oh well) . As I said above the story line is some-what disappointing to the rest of the Metroid 
 Prime series. Their are really only 5 differnt bosses that really just come in differnt forms. 
 Now you do fight the other hunters in "Story Mode" but I just want to know how do they keep comeing 
 back !?! I mean if it's not really following a story protocall if you have dead enemys comeing 
 back and still being exactly the same as you fought them before. However I think the multi-player 
 options makes up for the lackluster story. Their are classic first-person-shooter battle modes 
 (with names changed to set themselves in the Metroid Universe) . They have a charcter to match any 
 stratgy (ex: Trace = Snippers Noxis = Sub-Zero from Mortal Kombat wanabes etc. etc. etc.) This 
 is also the first Nintendo WIFI game to give stats along with your pra... I mean competeteres. The 
 rivils system is eaiser then in Mario Kart and if your friends and/or rivals are online it will 
 actully tell you. I also like the fact that you can use the MIC. function to talk with your friends 
 so you can save your typing skills for more import things like homework or more realistickly MMORPGs. 
 I would suggest this game if you and your friends live close and both have a DS and are pineing 
 for a first-person-shooter or if you have WIFI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkablood
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since day one. ( When I got the DS ) 
  After playing the demo, I expected this game to be a real hit.
  I was right.
  
  GAMEPLAY
 
  
  The gameplay is real cool. You control your aim with the stylux while you move the character with 
 arrows. It's a pretty cool mix ( As good as mouse/pad )
  
  As a second option you have arrows and buttons.
  
  The negative point is: everytime I play, 
 my hands hurt after 30 mins or more.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Best one on DS. Your eyes will shine on the presentation video and will be filled with wonder while 
 playing. Everything has been done perfectly. It's awesome, really.
  
  The negative point is : sometimes, in certain room, the game lags.
  
  SOUND
  
  Really cool, 
 but not the best.
  - The musics are really cool but the sound is strange sometimes. But, nothing to worry. It stays 
 super cool.
  
  MY OVERALL OPINION
  
  I got this game 1 week ago and I've spent many hours on it. 
  The campaign is cool even if it's 
 not the best one. It's a little too easy and it's always the samething. ( Looking for an octolith, 
 killing the boss, escaping before the time ) However, the fun is there. You will enjoy it for sure.
 
  Multiplayer is amazing. The singlecard/multicard play is perfect if you have friends with this 
 game.
  Fortunately, if you don't have friends ^^ , you can still play on WIFI. And THAT'S the biggest 
 positive point of this game. 
  WIFI action is awesome and easy to use. There are a lot of characters, a lot of mods and a lot 
 of maps to play with. We really see devellopers' work there.
  Unfortunately, WIFI isn't perfect.
  The option 'find game' is slow and filled with bugs. You 
 can't even choose the mod ( Only characters and maps can be choosen ) . Most of all, you cannot 
 chat and voice talk in this mod. ( But you can add your opponents as Rivals after the game if you 
 wish )
  The friends and rivals one is cool but you will have to visite some forums ( gamespot one is great 
 ) and get many friends code. There, you will be able
  to prepare your game with many options like the number of kills, wich map, wich mod, etc. You will 
 also be able to voice talk and chat ( You cannot with Rivals though ) .
  
  So, after playing this game for a week now, I'm able to tell you : Run to the store and buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake696
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  In your DS: if you have bought it, you hold the very first successful first person shooter to come 
 out so far. The game totally drives away from the old formula of only being able to aim will holding 
 the right trigger and hands you a more free roaming view point on a glistening silver platter. 
 This gives the game a more precise aiming feature which in turn makes the puzzle solving a bit 
 less tiresome. The gameplay has some flaws with only four worlds to explore and the bosses only 
 go between two variations but each time you fight, they are just stronger. The multiplayer is the 
 only good reason to pick it up because it gives you a bundle of modes to play. The other good reason 
 would be the excellent graphics with some frame rate issues and awesome audio production. This 
 is a game for the hard cores fo the series and anyone who is willing to pick it might get some 
 fun out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  This is simply the best first person shooter on any handheld system. It is not a Metroid Prime 
 game like Metroid Prime or Metroid Prime 2 Echoes was though. There is less emphasis on exploration 
 in this game, and more emphasis on action, not that it's a bad thing by any means. In the one player 
 mode, you go through the game, in someone linear fashion. There are many puzzles and enemies to 
 fight. 
  
  The fighting is SEEMLESS, thanks to the new control scheme, which uses the sylus to point the camera 
 around. In the first 10-20 minutes or so, you will probably have difficulty with it. But after 
 that, I assure you, it becomes second nature, and you realize it is a genious way to control a 
 First Person shooter on a handheld, genius. Parts of your hand may become sore after a while of 
 playing, but the controls are really great.
  
  The graphics and the sound are also wonderful. Although in big action scenes, especially in multiplayer, 
 the characters can be a little small, this is one of the best audio and visual presentations on 
 the DS.
  
  One of the major parts of this game is the online multiplayer, and that's where the game really 
 shines. You can team up with friends, and create your own situations, or create a game with random 
 people, which is simple 4 player deathmatch. Your statistics are recoded very nicely on nintendowifi. com. 
 Also, disconnectors are punished by loosing and hurting their connection history, which other players 
 can see. The fact that the online play is free, and that it is so addicting, makes that alone worth 
 the price of admission.
  
  Although the one player mode cannot compare to Metroid Prime, or Metroid Prime 2, the online multiplayer 
 makes this game shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fooballu2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I got the game 2 days after it came out and during the first week I didnt play it much, then i 
 went on a car trip and i played it the whole way. Once i got used to the buttons and when i started 
 to figure out how the multiplayer works (and when my friends started getting the game) , i cant stop 
 playing it, i play it every day, and destroy my friends in it too. When ever my friends and I get 
 bored of people useing the noob combo on us in halo 2, we just play metroid together. The Single 
 Player is good too. It helps me with using the weapons, like the sniper. I highly recomend anyone 
 who has a DS to buy the game. I have never really played any other metroid games, but im sure its 
 not much different from the others. And if you like Halo 2 you prolly will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcortese
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  At first i was skeptical about the score Game spot gave it, but then i realised, it was about accurate.
 
  
  The gameplay is excellent, you will enjoy the accurate controls and the lush, detailed environments. 
 The only problem with the gameplay would be the bosses, which to disappointment, repeat many times.
 
  
  The graphics are smooth with in play game movies that will blow you away. Its awsome. There are 
 a few graphical blemishes, but with the DS's specs, you have to expect that.
  
  As for the sound, well, not many may notice, but about 8 of the songs are the same song, only remixed. 
 It sounds good, and they are suitable for where you are in the game, but it just doesn't live up 
 to its former games.
  
  The game has been said to be almost as long as Metroid Prime, but really, its only a semi-short 
 Metroid game. Your will finish it in under 10 hours the first round through, although the majority 
 of the gameplay will be in multiplayer.
  
  Overall it is a good game and one of the best DS games to date. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pheonix8465
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The games was and still is intense i have not played much of single player but the multiplayer 
 is beyond awsome. I like the fact that the single player is not necessary to get all the characters. 
 It took me about 1 week to get all the chracters, the wifi is what i mainly play but occasionaly 
 i might use the bots ( yes bots are in this game) to practice against. It is pretty easy to create 
 rivals too and you get rewarded to, if you play enough multiplayer matches, you get more lvls, 
 after a few matches and a play through the single player ( you only get like 3 lvls from single 
 player not that important) you get 20+ lvls. all ranging from small to large and have different 
 advatanges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hangid
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This one of the best games gamespot was crazy to give it a score of 8.6
  multiplayer and single player are perfect dont forget Wi-fi woot! Nintendo was right to keep delaying 
 the game so long they added more levels and also added Wi-fi Woot! Anyone who has a ds should definitely 
 get this game
  and anyone who doesnt have a ds this is one of the biggest reasons for getting one. This is one 
 of the greatest Fps's known do datea nd it's also DS's second FPS! Yay for metroid prime hunters 
 WOOT! You've got to love all these fun entertaining great perfect metroid games! You have to get 
 this game ! All Psp fans are going to get a ds once they see this games thats goes for everyone 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroWil
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  When I first played Metroid Prime: First Hunt. It was awesome. The multiplayer on that was good. 
 Of course, when Hunters finally released. I was blown away. Never before has a handheld game had 
 this much of an effect on me. If I had to compare this game's multiplayer with any other game. 
 I would say it stacks up to the level of Halo 2 and the Unreal Tournament series. Thats how great 
 it was. Of course, single player was a blast as well. While a lot of the Adventure aspect is gone. 
 Its a great addition if you want to take a break from multiplayer. In the end. Not only does this 
 game feature some of the best handheld graphics ever, cinematics so great. I wonder why the some 
 of GCN's cinematic graphics never reach this level. Its just a major masterpiece. This only paves 
 the way towards Metroid Prime 3's multiplayer. Hopefully, 16-32 player support, bigger stages, 
 and new hunters (including these hunters) . I think we have a revolutionary game in the palm of 
 our hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elink97
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  One word.... MULTIPLAYER. I'm not saying that the single player isn't fun... but honestly the whole 
 reason I was playing single player was so that I could face and beat hunters to unlock them for 
 multiplayer. This game is a must have for multiplayer lovers and especially if you have Nintendo 
 WiFi connection. The whole rival system is pretty well done. Even if you don't have WiFi I'd still 
 recommend this game to any DS owner. The single player IS fun and the whole new weapon system will 
 keep you coming back for more, and also the idea of multiple planets is a good idea. After you've 
 defeated each hunter on their respective planets, whenever you go to a planet there are different 
 hunters searching for your Octiliths. So keep them safe!! This is a great game... so go buy it 
 if you have DS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Metroid + WiFi = Great Multiplayer
  
  Gameplay:
  This isn't the high point of the game. The controls are my biggest problem. They are really hard 
 to get right. I tried it with the touch screen and with the d-pad. I use the d-pad because it is 
 a little bit easyer. You have to go to your ship to save in the singleplayer. This game isn't gonna 
 make you jump at a great stroy but there is one. Okay, a bunch a bounty hunters with anger ishues 
 want to steal artifacts known as Oktolithes. (spelling?) Naturally Samus Arran must get then first. 
 Just one quick question, when will we get to play as other peoples in single player. The gameplay 
 is really hard and the boss fights are hard as 10 hells but really rewarding.
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  There a number of nicly rendered cut scenes to watch and they are all visually pleasing. 
 The in game graphics are amazing and out do them selfs for a DS title.
  10/10
  
  Sound:
  There is little voice acting to be had, but the music is really well done. It changes 
 as you go into battle, as you run and each boss has there own music and style. 
  9/10
  
  Value:
  Wi-FI peoples. 4 people online with no friend code stuff required. You get all of the 
 normal modes of gameplay. If you just do random search you can only play in death match, but if 
 get the friend code stuff you can play the other modes and voice chat! This is Nitendo's first 
 step into online gaming. Other than that the single player is nice and long. You can scan things 
 so you can go back after you beat it and get the ones you missed.
  10/10
  
  Tilt:
  You are looking at a person who really didn't care about Metroid until this game and it made me 
 love it!
  7/10
  
  8.4
  Great
  
  There really is only one reason to buy the which is WIFI. If you do not have WIFI rent it. Do not 
 buy if you do not have WiFi
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is a fun, fast paced, action game that any Metroid fan should play. 
  It takes place in the Alimbic Cluster when a mysterious message is relayed throughout the galaxy 
 to 7 different hunters. Each coming for their own reason to find the "ultimate power". 
  Each hunter is unique and has their own weapon and alternate form. The single player is decent 
 and challenging.
  The multiplayer is the meat of the game though. With 7 different hunters to choose from. It's really 
 fun to play against others. With 20+ maps, 7 different modes, and 7 hunters, you won't get bored 
 with this game anytime soon. The only complaint I have is the single player which is a bit lacking 
 compared to its amazingly fun multiplayer. Buy this game and you will not be unsatisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spire913
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  If u want a good ds game this is the game for u. the game play for the game is nice the graphics 
 r nice and wifi connections is the best part of the game u will play for hours with the extra chracters 
 trust me it is the best ds game since animal crossing and mario kart. and if that gets boring and 
 iratating the story mode is Great for people who are looking for a great story line every thing 
 in the story line really comes together. so take my word on this one it dosent suck the graphics 
 are a little off but other then that it is great so go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the first first person shooter game for the DS. Its also another part 
 of the on going Metroid Series. Well, heres my simple, detailed review.
  
  Gameplay: Superb, many different weapons to choose from, 7 hunters to choose from; all with different 
 weapons and unique alternative forms, all the new hunters are fun to use and all different. 10/10
 
  
  Graphics: Samus is looking great, all the new hunters look unique, levels are detailed, different 
 types of baddies. 9/10
  
  Sound: Good detailed sound, the different alt. forms sound different, baddies sound different, 
 level music is good, could've been a little better. 9/10
  
  Value: Great, reasonably long campaign, multiplayer, online capabilities, multi card play, single 
 card play; single card play only offer Battle. 9/10
  
  Tilt: Great game for any samus fan, a great game to add to the collection of ds games, dont hesitate 
 to buy this. 10/10
  
  Difficulty: Hard
  Time: 10-20 (campaign)
  Curve: Variable 
  Class: Masterpiece
  
  9.6 Superb
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is a good Metroid game. The only problem with the game is what Halo 2 did, 
 Multiplayer. Let's get started on the campaign story. The story starts out as you are Samus, as 
 usually, and you have to find eight Ocitiliths. Problem is, it gets very boring after collecting 
 the third one. The bosses will repeat, but the mini ones won't. Oh, and the Hunters will get on 
 your nerves. Hunters won't die, so you have to kill them over and over and over again. Here are 
 some of the Hunters,
  
  Samus- Yes, you are a bounty hunter. Your special power is the missisles, and your alternative 
 form is Morph Ball.
  
  Noxus- My favorite, he freezes people up with his ice gun and his alternative form is a spinning 
 top.
  
  Weavle- This dude has a cheap alternative form, the half turret. This turret will funtion by its 
 own, so you will have to let the CPU control it while you are in your form. His special gun is 
 the battle hammer.
  
  Trace- Sniper is is weapon, and after he doesn't move for a long time, he turns invisible. His 
 alternative form is the bug of H3ll.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but it gets annoying after the seventh game. Like Mario Kart DS, it picks the 
 game for you, and lets you pick the map. You can have your friends list and rivals list, which 
 is very fun. Just whatever you do, don't olay with a guy that is TRACE, the sniper.
  
  You should really trust this review because I got it on May 22, and I have playing it ever since. 
 This Metroid won't dissapoint fans, but few...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The DS game of all DS games is here and Metroid Prime: Hunters is its name. From the controls to 
 the difficulty to the Graphics that defy DS' capabilities this game is incredible. If you have 
 a DS and pass up the option to get this game I would have to shake my finger at you and no one 
 wants that.
  The graphics in the game-play are very well done and the cut-scenes surpass many console graphics. 
 There are just the right amount of eye pleasing cut-scenes through out the game to make a player 
 have that tingly feeling. That just might be me but what ever.
  The game-play and controls are very easy to catch on to and are very well set up. Unless you are 
 horrible with the stylus than you should be fine. There are a variety of different climates and 
 themes a lot like its older siblings. This game is overall very true to the Metroid series. The 
 new characters aka the bounty hunters are fantastic additions to the game.
  This is true especially when it comes to the Wi-Fi and the multi-card and single-card play. These 
 are both high points in this game especially the online play it's incredibly constructed and thats 
 that.
  You most definitely should get this and not just because Ill wag my finger at you if you don't 
 even though I will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters surpasses Mario Kart DS. The multyplayer is amazing and the controls are 
 the best i've ever seen. Worth the wait. I was most impressed with the graphics. They are smooth 
 except when you go up close to something. The video feature is also cool and it really shows off 
 what the DS hardware can do. Metroid prime hunters is all it was cracked up to be. The only thing 
 i have a problm with is that the wi-fi only has a lobby for friends and rivals. I wish there could 
 be a loby for the regular wi-fi connection. Overall i give the game a 9.8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  With all the talk and issues that have been going on with the scoring of this game I simply could 
 not pass up the chance to give this game a chance. I will admit my interest in the game was not 
 as strong as when DS was shiney and new and this was the game that was going to change handhelds, 
 because a year and a half later I guess it just sort of fell from my mind, but from when I placed 
 it into my DS I knew that more then anything it was very much worth the wait, and generally going 
 to be a fixture in my DS for a while to come. 
  
  From a first impressions stance, its a good looking game but it will take even the most experience 
 DS player a little while to get a full handle on the control system, but once you get ahold it 
 is perhaps one of the most complete control systems I have played ever in a handheld. 
  
  Being quite honest, if you are looking for the Metroid Prime Experience you will not find it here, 
 Hunters in its most basic form is more of a true First Person Shooter, now thats not a bad thing 
 but it was different its not quite what I had expected and those who enjoyed past Metroid games 
 should be able to adjust without question. The storyline is very "Metroidesk" and thats what really 
 does make the game worth playing. 
  
  The few faults I do have with the game is the awkward feel when weapons need to be switched or 
 when I need to change into "Ball Mode" it just does not seem that well thought out in terms the 
 location on the screen, that even as I got into the game and became very familar with the layout 
 I still found myself hitting my accident. 
  
  Also at times when there was a lot going on, there would be slowdowns in the framerate, they did 
 not happen often but it was annoying. 
  
  There are also not as many hard to find extra's, like fitting your morph ball through spot X to 
 get an Energy tank, even Metroid II for Original Gameboy seemed to have more twists and turns. 
 
  
  Graphically, the game is well done. The enemies look good and the boss characters are well done, 
 although often repeated. I found that as different and unique as many of the different planets 
 were at times it seemed very bland and generic, which I guess I can't be too critical of because 
 this is a game for a handheld system, I guess that I simply expected more from a handheld that 
 was generally able to pump out N64 quality with ease. 
  
  It is one of the better titles in terms of graphics for the DS, but it is not head and sholders 
 above the others and I suspect in the near future something will come along and surpass it. 
  
  From a Sound stance, its interesting the same strange Metroid soft effects that really seem 
 to suit your surrounding, the formula that always worked for Metroid worked here, generally very 
 well done. The weapons effects are spot on as are other smaller aspects, but I could have gone 
 for some more diversity in the sounds that the enemies seems to make over and over.
  
  In terms of Value, 
  Even if you were buying this SOLEY as a one player game, its excellent but 
 the WiFi option that Nintendo has put forth coupled with the simply EXCELLENT multiplayer engine 
 makes this game a MUST buy for any DS owner. 
  
  Overall, its one of the best DS games I have played and pretty well worth the wait, grab it you 
 won't be sorry. 
  
  -Z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nizzynova
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  I dont know what wrong with gamespot but this game is a must own. I know alot of you newbies will 
 probably get stuck in the first planet in adventure mode. Then give up on it. Gamers these days 
 have no patience. The wifi is cool if you wanna have a single mode stand with some people and never 
 play em again. But the real kicker is when you optain friend codes then you can talk trash and 
 pick what mutiplayer modes you want. Go cop this game nuff said have fun with it and if you cant 
 beat adventure mode you shouldnt consider yourself a gamer at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilstuffs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  i got this game 2 days ago, but im about 50% complete now, so i figured it was time 4 a review.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  its the same control as metroid prime.... o wait, no its not! u move with the control pad. shoot 
 with L, and eerything else is done on the touch screen. it still wotks even if ur left handed! 
 u basically shoot stuff and complete metroid puzzles. the other bounty hunters move in real-time 
 and are real-hard 2 kill! online too, man! ONLINE!
  
  GRAPHICS
  incredibally good for the DS even! especially the cutscenes. makes your eyes feel good.... danuhnuhnuhnuhnuh!
 
  
  SOUND
  what i like to call "meh" -troid music. its cool.. but its also meh.
  
  VALUE
  online, man! ONLINE! other than that its really long. and the case is shiny, too!
  
 
  TILT
  i wuv it so much, i once played it for 3 hours straight (usually i take 30 min breaks every hour) 
 and got a nose bleed, and now my ds is all smudgy. it still works perfect tho.
  get it if u a metroid fan. get it if u a fps fan. get if u an online fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satapher
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  today, finally I bought Metroid Prime Hunters and it just kick ass................. Multiplayer 
 runs flawessly without any glitch or any dead dot during the gameplay. hehe all the multiplayer 
 modes reminds me some typo of UT2004 specially the "capture-the-flag" mode (doh i can't remember 
 the right name hehehe..........) .
  Single/Adventure player is the most impressive part in the game, in this case you just have to 
 run after this bad-ass bounty hunters across the quadrum galaxy collecting (well thiefting) octolites 
 and kickin' some asses during the hunter hehe....................
  
  Anyway..................... I highly recomend this game for all multiplayer lovers and all metroid 
 fans in the media
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime is one amazing DS game. I didnt think the DS was capable for making this game. The 
 game has adventure mode, offline with bots, online with online players. The adventure mode is the 
 story mode where you take place as a girl bounty hunter out to find these crystals from different 
 planets, and while you are getting these crystals other bounty hunters come and take you out for 
 the crystals. Theres 7 bounty hunters in all. Each have their own weapons and morphs. The WiFi 
 on the game is really hard. So i reconmend you to practice with bots before you go out on the net. 
 I am going to have to give Metroid prime: hunters a 9.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kablay
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is meant to be a multiplayer game. It's single player mode is more of a 
 "side quest" just to get all the multiplayer options, characters, and arenas. The controls are 
 a little hard, since there is no lock on feature. This game would have been more like Prime 1 and 
 2 if it had one. Some people say you will get hand cramps if you play this game, but you WON'T 
 if you hold it the right way -- put your pinky of the hand which you are holding the stylus in 
 under the DS so you have more support.
  SINGLE PLAYER MODE:
  Hunters has a not-so-good single player mode. You do pretty much the same thing on every planet 
 (there are four) and after a while it seems a little repetitive. There are too many battles in 
 this game, which take it away from the whole Metroid idea of exploring and gaining new abilities. 
 There is some puzzle solving, but it's aggravated by the random battles. You never even get any 
 new abilities! All you get are new guns, ammo expansions, energy tanks, and missile expansions. 
 There aren't even any new suits or visors! There isn't a space jump either, which sort of makes 
 sense since the jumping sucks. Hunters really missed the ball on the single player, but nailed 
 it on the multiplayer.
  MULTIPLAYER MODE:
  The multiplayer mode is what this game is good at. There are six weapons (not including power beam, 
 missiles, or alt-form attacks) that you can have at once during the game. They all have their strengths 
 and weaknesses that can be used to your advantage. Their are also seven playable characters that 
 all have different and unique alt-forms, and every character can use a specific weapon better than 
 the others. There are also seven modes of battle that are really fun to try out. You can also play 
 multiplayer by yourself by adding bots, which can be set to a certain difficulty. Over 20 battle 
 arenas make this mode different every time, because you can see which hunter works in which area 
 and other stuff like that. This is what you should buy the game for -- the multiplayer mode.
  CONCLUSION:
  If you're one of those people who like multiplayer games then you should buy this 
 game. If you like single player games you should wait for a better game to come out. If you're 
 a fan of the series you should think about it, because there are no metroids or phazon (at least 
 I assume, because I'm only almost finished with the single player mode) ! This game is a multiplayer 
 game, not a single player, even though it tries to be. After all, we are entering the "Age of Multiplayer" 
 as I call it. I, personally, was looking forward to a new Metroid adventure, but didn't really 
 get it. I did get an awesome multiplayer game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzaneski
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for DS owners IF you are good at FPSs and have wifi.. The single player 
 is very intense and mysterious as you gather clues (I don't wanna give out spoilers) but if you 
 are really talented (which I am) you seem to zoom through the single player so fast you don't have 
 time to really enjoy the single player. The reason for this is probably because for us people who 
 love and play First Person Shooters is that its too easy when you fight the other hunters and bosses. 
 AND if you don't have Wifi, you are REALLY missing a lot of fun! Its great to get together with 
 friends or rivals or people you meet here on the GameSpot Forums! Even though the single player 
 is a bit too easy, the multiplayer and wifi DEFINATLEY make up for it, especially when you can 
 battle bots to sharpen your skills!! Oh, one last thing, the graphics aren't as great as the PSP 
 but they are suitable and still keep the game intense! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImCasual91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game alive, its awsome.
  i'll admit story mode is not that good, i give it a 8/10, but the multiplayer and wifi connection 
 make the game even to a 10/10.
  its smooth, i tought it was going to be really glitchy.
  GET IT.
  i before i got the game thought it was going to be an ok game, but now i think its my 
 favorite game of all time, story mode takes a while to beat, and i play like 2 hours a day, right 
 now its only been a week from today (got it the 22nd, its the 29th) i have played 36 hours and 
 48 minutes w/ 12 seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussU14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is an excellent game with a few problems. The single player mode is extremely 
 easy for many reasons. The other bounty hunters just aren't hard and neither are the bosses, which 
 are the same monsters with more powers. The puzzles are also extremely easy, usually requiring 
 only shooting a certain plate or some such thing. There is also a bit of backtracking in this game. 
 The biggest problem (to some) is the controls. It is truly either a love it or hate it thing, and 
 even if you love it, it takes some time to get used to. Personally, I like the stylus controls, 
 but I have met many people who can't stand it. There are a lot of good things about the game, too, 
 though. In single player mode, you don't lose all of your power-ups at the beginning of the game 
 (thank God!) so you are thrown into the action instantly, where you will soon run into the first 
 bounty hunter. This game is much more fast paced than any other metroid game and the battles can 
 get pretty hectic (in a good way) . The graphics are superb, especially in the cinematics, as is 
 the sound, though you don't notice that as much during those aforementioned hectic battles. Then 
 there is the multiplayer, which is simply amazing. Whether online or locally, playing against others 
 finally adds a bit of difficulty to the fights, and its just plain fun. If you own a DS, there 
 is no reason not to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrrebel21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is better than I expected it to be. It's fun and fairly difficult at the 
 same time. I love the puzzel-solving and first-person shooter action combination and it workes 
 out great. I highly recomend the game to any Metroid fans and first-person shooter and action gamers. 
 The cut-scenes are amazing and I think that the makers of this game really did a great job with 
 the story line. The multiplayer in the game is the most amazing multiplayer experience i've ever 
 had on a hand held system. It is so fun to just blast the daylights out of a bounty hunter in an 
 arena of your choice. In conclusion...
  
  GET THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters has all the little things that'll make you wanna keep playing the game.. the 
 moment you start playing it, you're hooked.. well it happened to me.. and a lot of other people..
 
  
  The graphics in this game has never been seen on the ds before.... it's simply beautiful.. it has 
 all the details that you'll expect on a console.. such as footstep sounds, and light relections 
 on samus as a morph ball...
  
  The gameplay is awesome also... the touch screen gives you so much accuracy.. the best way to play 
 a FPS on an handheld... and if you don't like using the touch screen, there are other ways of controlling 
 the game... so you can change he control scheme to several different things... about 4 or 5 different 
 control types...
  
  I honestly didn't expect the sound to be this good.. that's all that needs to be said..
  
  The 
 best part of the game is the multiplayer and the wi-fi... especially the wi-fi... which is capable 
 of VoIP... awesome... so you can talk to your opponents before and after games... just press X to 
 talk..
  
  I recommend this game to any ds owner.. if you like shooting games of course.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffulor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  This is just a really sort review of the game because i just had to say something on it its that 
 good... and ill write a full one after i finish the game...
  
  Ok so i have just recieved this game (i imported it because i didnt want to wait another few months 
 for it) and ive only played it for a few hours and i am really impressed with it so far, the controls 
 are revolutionary and provide a great way to play a game, and as well the controls very precise 
 and the aiming lets you target anything really quickly with great accuracy and precision, the one 
 problem is that it does hurt your hands after playing it for awhile...
  
  The graphics are amazing and the cutscenes i have found look just as good as the GameCube games... 
 the sound on the other hand is not so good, so ill play it with my head phones and see if that 
 makes it any better and i shall include it in another review... also havent tried the multiplayer 
 yet so cant say anything on that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is a good game and is definitely worth the $35 the game is good length and a little hard. 
 The value is really good. Graphics are very impressive everything is detailed. I was afraid that 
 the keys would be hard to use but surprisingly they were pretty easy the touch screen is a little 
 too sensitive but once you play it for a while that is no longer a problem. The Gameplay is amazing 
 every mission is very complexes and challenging but surprisingly it never gets boring. The game 
 is also 3d witch is a nice relief. Personally I think that the game is amazing... If you like first 
 person shooter games and role-playing game you will love this game. So go on and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be the best Metroid Prime game to date! The best Multiplayer, and hard single 
 player... Yeah, you know it's good. The graphics are really good, the only time they look bad is 
 when you sit in the same spot for a long time: If you do that in a multiplayer match, your gonna 
 be killed. All the hunters are cool in their own way, and good in ther own way in the battle field. 
 Theres Samus whos a decent charachter all around. Trace, who is a steathy sniper, Sylux who is 
 like a walking killing machine, Noxus a decent character with a cool morph form, Kanden who also 
 has a cool morph form with a cool weapon, spire who is good in Lava themed levels, and Weavel, 
 Who I think has the coolest morph form yet, and also has a cool hud, and weapon. If you hate multiplayer, 
 then this game will be good for you too, it has a hella hard single player that I recommend you 
 yo pick the stategy guide up for. Overall the best game for the DS, yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnemasRfun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Metroid is a great game for the Nintendo DS. It has the best graphics I, personally have seen on 
 the DS, PLUS it is actually challenging, unlike most. Nintendo is finally making games that appeal 
 to the Teens I think. Ok, Online Play is one of the best features about this game. After a match 
 you can voice chat with your opponents using the Mic. Also, if you think you faced a worthy opponent, 
 you can ask them to be your rival, which is just like a friend, but without a friend code and stuff 
 like that. Then you can pick from 5+ games to do. There are a ton of maps to choose from, all sized 
 from small to large. The single player is soo much fun with getting guns, defeating bosses, and 
 figuring out what to do next. The person who rated this game on GameSpot should be fired, I mean 
 it deserves at LEAST a 9, none less. The controls might seem a little weird at first, but after 
 playing a couple times, they'll fit right in. The 6 bounty hunters you can choose from each have 
 their own signature gun, different alt. form, and apperance. You are also ranked on your Bounty 
 Card for online play. Also, it shows the connection rate of someone who played, so you can know 
 if they quit randomly during matches. The only bad things I can think of are minor graphical glitches, 
 and when you search for an opponent on wi-fi, it automatically does deathmatch (they have to be 
 a rival or a friend to choose other modes) . All and all I'd say this is the best Nintendo DS game 
 I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  [Presentation 8/10]
  
  I was super hyped to play this game. When I first played it I was a little disappointed. The game 
 left a bad taste in my mouth. It soon left, but a game that feels off when you first play it is 
 not good. Then there is the annoyance of finding my hunters license. I had to read the manual to 
 find it. And if you have to read the manual to find a major option in the game its definitely 
 not good.
  
  [Graphics 9.5/10]
  
  The graphics for MPH is great. Everything blends together nicely. There is a great verity in the 
 environments. The only thing keeping the graphics form being perfect is the little annoyance of 
 the frame rate dropping. When you are in a big room with many monsters the frame rate drops dramatically. 
 
  
  [Sound 10/10]
  
  This is one thing I have no problems with. The sound is everything you would expect from a metroid 
 game.
  
  [Controls 9/10]
  
  There are two types of controls. I only used the touch controls and never played the button controls, 
 so I will not review the button controls. You use the touch screen to aim and the D-pad to move 
 and R to shoot. This works very well expect for the fact that sometimes you may hit the area on 
 the touch screen to change forms when you dont want to. There is also the annoyance of changing 
 sub weapons. You must hold down a button on the touch screen to get to the sub weapon menu. Then 
 you have to use your other hand to touch the new weapon you want to use, making you a sitting duck.
 
  
  [Single Player 8.5/10]
  
  In this mode you are Samus and you are sent away to gather the eight octoliths to get the ultimate 
 power. On your way you will face six other hunters after the octoliths for their own selfish reasons. 
 Basically you go through a mostly straight forward level design and reach a boss. Then you kill 
 it and a count down will begin. Once you get back to your ship and take off a cut scene will happen. 
 In the cut scene nothing happens, you just make it safe and sound. It will leave you wondering 
 why there is a count down if nothing happens. Dont think this is the last time you will see this 
 level because you will have to come back and open a new section you could not get to before. Then 
 you will fight another boss, one you have likely already beat because there are only two bosses. 
 
  
  [Multiplayer 9/10]
  
  This is MPH greatest aspect. There is three ways to play. The first is to have one copy of MPH 
 and have your friend use the DS download feature. In this mode the player with the MPH copy chooses 
 the mode and character while the other player is limited to only playing as Samus. When both players 
 have a copy of MPH one will host a game whilw the other will join the game. The host gets to choose 
 the options. In this mode each player gets to choose the hunter of their choice. Then there is 
 online play. You can play either with friends and rivals or do a random search. When you do a random 
 search you will be limited to only playing in Survival mode with set options of 7 min or 7 kills. 
 At the end of the match you have the option to add that player to your rival list. If you and they 
 choose to do it you will be added. Or you can play with friends. When you play with friends its 
 like a regular multiplayer match but you have the option to text chat or use the mic to talk. While 
 you are playing all your stats will be recorded in your hunters license. Your hunters license keeps 
 track of your record, favorite hunter/weapon, how long you have played and more. The best thing 
 about this is the fact that it has a connection stats. Every time you disconnect, not due to a 
 connection problem, you will lose percents. So say you have played ten games and disconnected once 
 your stats would be 90.0%.
  
  [Overall 8.8/10]
  
  The game is great but there is some problems keeping it from beginning a suburb game. Its still 
 a must have if you own a DS.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaTeFaTChIcKs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  One Word to describe this game. WOW. As soon as you put this game into your DS you will be amazed 
 this game is every thing i was hoping for and much much more this game blew me away. With its amazing 
 3-D graphics to its amazing multiplayer or its engaging single player, everyone can enjoy this 
 game. Getting into the multiplayer is easy and not cheap thanks to other players. There is a ranking 
 system so you won't get paired up with someone who is really good . Also if you go into the multicard 
 play, you can practice with BOTS! THATS RIGHT BOTS! Finally! But it is a good way to get better. 
 All in all this game is amazing both techinal and gameplay. Here's some advice: Go OUT and BUY 
 THIS GAME NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revo_360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lately we've been getting a lot of Metroid on our hands. Through the NES, SNES, GBA, GC, and 
 now the DS gets a taste of the Metroid. Grab your morph balls because you may consider this review.
 
  
  Ok, now putting Metroid in a 3D environment with first-person dynamics was a little tricky at first. 
 Especially when you've got a platform adventure game being turned into a first person adventure 
 game. But Nintendo decided to release Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2 on the Gamecube and sure 
 enough, they were amazing games. 
  
  Probably the saving grace's of the GC since the console suffered a bit of an abysmal failure. But 
 hey, it had good exclusives. Now Nintendo has decided to release a Metroid game on the DS. Metroid 
 Prime Hunters was a game that was also a demo that came with the DS when you buy it, the game was 
 pretty sweet. It's a shame that it had to be delayed.
  
  Now it's here in the palm of our hands. GET READY FOR AN ONLINE METROID!!!
  
  The review
 
  ---------------------------------
  
  In MP: Hunters, you are out in the role of Samus Aran. A galactic bounty hunter that works for 
 the Galactic Federation. C'mon, why can't Samus get a break from all this space work? You get an 
 assignment from the good ol' GF (Galactic Federation) to search a few planets in an area knowned 
 as the Alimbic Cluster in searches for the "ultimate power" that supposed to be hidden in that 
 Cluster. 
  
  But the only way you can get this ultimate power is by collecting 8 octoliths (artifacts) . These 
 octoliths are like the Dragon Balls, they're scattered across the whole cluster, and you, Samus 
 Aran, is the only person who can get it back. Why can't the GF get it? I dunno, so don't ask me!
 
  
  But here's the problem, six other bounty hunters want those artifacts to have the ultimate power 
 all for themselves. Allow me to introduce them.
  
  Spire is a big lumbering rocky guy who came from an extinct race knowned as "The Diamonts", he 
 wants the Ultimate Power so he can solve the mystery of his race. But we all know he just wants 
 a hug.
  
  Noxus, is a member of of the Vhozon, he wants to get the ultimate power to keep it out of the wrong 
 criminals or the unworthy. Hey Noxus, if you want to keep it out of the hands of criminals or the 
 unworthy, THEN STOP SHOOTING AT SAMUS!!!
  
  Kanden, he's a lab experiment gone wrong. He was supposed to be ultimate soldier of immortality, 
 but since the scientists screwed up, he is as crazy as Uma Therman in the movie, "Kill Bill" Vol 
 1 and 2. He wans the ultimate power so he can be the best Bounty Hunter there is.
  
  Trace, a member of the Kriken military (and a Kriken himself) is one of the scariest dudes you 
 will face. He wants the ultimate power so the Krikens can be an ultimate race.
  
  Weavel, he met Samus before, and Samus tore him up. Weavel is a cybernetic warrior part of the 
 Space Pirates, but since he got pummeled to death by a girl named Samus, his fellow space pirates 
 pull a Darth Vader on him and puts him into a cybernetic suit. His intentions for the ultimate 
 power are unknown. (or he may want revenge from Samus.)
  
  Sylux, he harbors an intense hatred for the GF and Samus. I dunno why, he just does. His intentions 
 for the ultimate power are also unknown.
  
  Each of these hunters have special abilities and weaknesses in off and online Multiplayer, so choosing 
 the right one will be he matter of life and online death.
  
  Single Player
  ----------------------
  
  So here you are being dropped off at some planets, to find the artifact, 
 go through a few puzzles kill the hunter, kill the boss at the end, retrieve the artifact and get 
 out of there under a certain time limit. Boss battles are pretty cool. And even though some of 
 them were between a giant eyeball and a pole, they were impressive, wait, THEY WERE ALL THE SAME!!! 
 Pole, eyeball, pole, eyeball, pole, eyeball. Wow, de ja vu.
  
  So that's all you have to know about the single player, it is no comparison to the original Metroid 
 Prime's, its linear, repetitive and just doesn't achieve Metroid Prime status. So you're gonna 
 get a Halo 2 experience.
  
  But when I say Halo 2, that means we've got some good multiplayer on our hands.
  
  You get 
 seven multiplayer modes, Battle (Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch) , Survival, Prime Hunter, Capture 
 (more like Capture the Flag) , Nodes, Defender, and Bounty (a unique twist on CTF)
  
  You also get 27 maps! 27!!! Each of these are maps done with great level design, choose the right 
 hunter to match up with the map itself or have your fun burst, JUST LIKE THE WAY THE PEOPLE IN 
 THIS WORLD BURST MY DREAMS!!!
  
  There also six other weapons scattered in the game, one weapon handles like a shotgun with a charge 
 dynamic, and another handles like a sniper rifle. At times, sniping felt often hectic as you are 
 scope constantly trembles if you have shakey hands, so inaccurate shots, galore.
  
  ^All of these can certainly go online and give you a fun and addicting time. 
  
  However, graphics 
 and precise controls surely give this game an upper hand as you will have no time with eye sores 
 or cruddy controls, you have my word on it.
  
  That's all you have to know about Hunters, its single player is good but doesn't live up to Metroid 
 pedigree. But its still remains to be a good time.
  
  Which is why this DS Shooter gets a superb 9.2!
  
  Godspeed Metroid, godspeed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the best game I have for my DS, I like this game a lot. The adventure 
 mode is this: you play as Samus Aran and your trying to find out what this message for ultimate 
 power means. But you are not the only one seeking the ultimate power, rival bounty hunters are 
 also seeking for their own reasons and will stop it nothing to get it. The gameplay is very good, 
 the controls can be modified to suit the player's way of gaming, and finally the best part, wireless 
 multiplayer gameplay or wi-fi multiplayer gameplay. As you progress through adventure mode you 
 will encounter the rival hunters on each of the places that you have to explore. If you beat each 
 hunter, you will unlock that hunter in multiplayer mode. The multiplayer gameplay is fast paced 
 and action packed. You can test your skills and your favorite hunter against your friends and against 
 people around the world with the wi-fi multiplayer mode. In short, this game is the best DS game 
 out there, if your a Metroid fan and if you own a DS, buy this game! It is a really good DS game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottahuch
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the first metroid i've liked. I didn't like the gamecube ones. It has really good graphics 
 the best i've seen on the DS and they are alot better than what i have seen on the N64. It's really 
 fun and addictive although it gets repetitive. They have only two different bosses and the countdowns 
 at the end are stupid because nothing happens but you just die if you don't make it. There are 
 7 different Bounty Hunters in multiplayer mode. You unlock them as you progress through single 
 player or if you beat them in multiplayer. It's a really fun game in which you have to collect 
 th 8 Octoliths from 2 different planets and 2 different space stations. Sometimes because of the 
 graphics in multiplayer it sometimes lags and it happens even less in single player. There are 
 many different weapons and each Bounty Hunter has an affinity weapon. These affinity weapons have 
 a special ability for a certain hunter. Like Samus's affinity weapon is the rocket launcher. Multiplayer 
 has 26 levels and can be played with bots wireless lan or wifi. This game was really worth the 
 long wait the wifi and multiplayer are very good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercutio89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've played for my DS so far. Its graphics are fantastic, and the controls 
 are smooth and easy to adapt to. I like how the weapon changes are done with a drag of the stylus. 
 Some people complained about the aimer not being precise enough, but it works the same as a mouse. 
 
  
  The bots in this game are also very intelligent. When set on 3 stars, they are pretty scary. The 
 multiplayer is very streamlined and the modes are diverse. the maps vary in size and content, making 
 some ideal for certain characters and match types.
  
  The new control style fits well into the metroid series. The first person shooter aspect allows 
 for more direct controls and new types of weapons. The imperialist (the sniper laser) wouldn't 
 be fair in the GC versions. Locking on to a target would give direct hits every time. 
  
  Overall, I was very impressed with the presentation. The single player could have been longer, 
 but the fantastic multiplayer more than makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintyfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Ah, Hunters, it hasn't failed to amaze me. First thing I notice is that it comes in a really cool 
 box, all shiny and metallic. I was distracted by it until I suddenly wondered why I wasn't playing 
 the game..
  Anyway, after spending about ten minuted trying to get the plastic cover off, I put the game into 
 my DS and WOW! Those graphics are absolutely amazing! The game play looks as good as the cut-scenes! 
 (There aren't many of them, and what ones there are, are very short. It's a game for everyone really, 
 if you like to go on and finish the game as quickly as possible, you can do that, or if your one 
 of those people who just want to take their time and find every pick-up, scan (100% of scans gets 
 you a cool emblem which others can see on wi-fi) , and explore every part of the gaming world, then 
 that's up to you. there are one or two parts that might frustrate you, but once you finish it, 
 you will almost forget all (if any) bad points in the game. This game deserves the 10/10 I gave 
 it. It's innovative, beautiful and above all, the most immersive and well made game on DS so far. 
 If you have a DS, you have to get this. If you don't, buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer71416
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  it summurises the idea that ds is better than psp. the best game. the best curves all for nintendo 
 ds. psp may have better pixels but ds has better gameplay. Shiguru miyamoto shouldbe gettin alll 
 haps over this game coz he should, man in the uk i am still waiting fot that game to come out. 
 u lot are bear lucky man. all i gotta say is that there are more games to come out for ds and i 
 plan to get them first other than that nothing important. ohh did u all know that ds can play movies 
 just like psp and with 4gb, cmon its worth buying a ds now at least it is a psp in one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kain_highwind
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  I waited a year and a half for this game to come out, and trust me, it was worth the wait. I'll 
 cover the cons first, to get them out of the way. There are only two major flaws, sometimes blurry 
 graphics, and repetitive boss battles. Even those are pretty minor, not taking much away from the 
 overall game experience. The single player adventure is outstanding, the funnest part being that 
 you never know when you will run into a rival bounty hunter. The multi-player is too awesome for 
 words, allowing you to play on-line or locally, with your friends. The best part is that you can 
 play as any bounty hunter you have defeated in the single player game. They all have special weapon 
 abilities and an alternate form. Well, I hope you buy this game, because I just wasted 30 minutes 
 yelling at you about how good it is! BUY IT ALREADY!!!!!!!! If you have a DS, of course, which 
 you should buy! Well, I gotta go take my pills. Bye!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  The controls of this game make it outstanding. It's painful at first, especially on a DS Lite, 
 but once used the stylus aiming/ L button firing scheme you'll never want for a second analog stick 
 again. I'm notorious bad at FPS games but I enjoy and am fairly capable with Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 after only a few hours of gameplay. 
  
  The graphics look very good for the DS and the cut-scenes, while sometimes 
  longish and pointless, 
 are interesting.
  
  The sound is typically metroid. Good sci-fi tunes with common references to Metroid games of old. 
 Nicely done.
  
  The multiplayer is best thing this cart has. It's lush, fun, and can be tuned to any skill level. 
 Voice chat is nice, but the core action involved with hunting down another hunter is the kick of 
 the multiplayer. It's very fun. Period.
  
  My chief complaint about this game is the lack of a save anywhere feature. This is a HUGE drawback 
 in the single player mode and has caused me to repeat many bosses battles.
  
  All in all, MPH a fantastic and fun game for the DS and shouldn't be missed, particularly if you're 
 a fan of metroid and good, exciting, rock solid multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquid_Courage
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  So we have waited what about a year and half since we got that Hunters demo and here we are, finally!
 
  
  In the game there are two main parts that are both very enjoyable, the single player story and 
 the multi-player.
  
  The single player story, you take the role of Samus and are out to get the ultimate weapon/power 
 of an ancient race that is now long gone. In your quest you will go to four different worlds and 
 in typical Metroid fashion you will be going back and forth once you acquire new weapons to open 
 up other areas of the world. However, you are not alone in your quest there are 6 other bounty 
 hunters that are trying to get it before you and throughout your journey you will have to fight 
 them numerous times. For a first run-through it should take about 10 hours.
  
  The multi-player, there are three modes to play; single card play, multi-card play and wi-fi play. 
 Sadly, I have not been able to play the single card play, but I would imagine that it is limited 
 in the scope of play from the other fields. Now, multi-card play allows you to play against friends 
 as well as bots which is great because this allows you to get some games in without having to have 
 any friends around. So even if you don't have any friends with a DS and/or a wi-fi connection you 
 can still enjoy the multi-player experience that is very similar to that of Unreal and Quake Arena. 
 Wi-fi is a little bit of a pain, without knowing anyone on and just Nintendo's matchmaker service 
 you can only play deathmatch and most of the time you get made up with 1 or 2 other people and 
 it takes some time to get matched up. Now with friends codes you are able to join each others games 
 and can play with a variety of modes offered such capture the flag, 'prime hunter' ect.
  
  Lastly, I just want to touch on the controls, they are excellent and provide precision that is 
 unmatched outside of the PC, there is price though your hands cramp up like crazy and it does take 
 a while to get use to it.
  
  Overall, Metroid Prime: Hunters lives up to the hype and is a great addition to anyone's DS library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  When it comes to first person shooters, they're a dime a dozen. BUT, when's the last time you thoroughly 
 enjoyed a handheld FPS, complete with all the precise control and intense action of a PC shooter? 
 
  Enter Metroid Prime: Hunters for the Nintendo DS. At last, the long awaited intergalactic rat race 
 is finally available for the duel-screened portable, with all the bells and whistles you would 
 expect from a game of this genre. Was it worth the wait? Well, that's for you to decide. One thing 
 is for sure though, I haven't been able to put down my DS since I've had this game, and I don't 
 intend to for quite some time.
  
  Normally, I'm not one to play first person shooters from this generation, especially ones starring 
 over-the-top green suited macho-men with cheesy names and a taste for the cliche. Personally, I 
 find that the last truly revolutionary FPS games were released ages ago on the N64. I will spare 
 you their names since I'm sure you know them already anyway, but nevertheless, Metroid Prime: Hunters 
 earns its place in my heart as one of the greatest and most addictive shooters to ever grace a 
 Nintendo platform. If that weren't enough, this game has some fantastic multiplayer action, both 
 online and off, with a well produced competitive battle mode anyone can jump right into. This is 
 just the tip of the iceberg, but more on that later.
  
  Metroid is usually known for its high quality single player experience, but this title is a bit 
 different from the past Metroid games of yore. Loosely based on the Metroid Prime Gamecube titles, 
 this game still places you in the role of Samus Aran, but this time you are not alone on your quest. 
 Instead of offering a conventional Prime experience, your objective in Hunters is to gather eight 
 special artifacts called "octoliths" which is key to unlocking a secret power in the galaxy. To 
 spice things up, Nintendo has created six completely new rival bounty hunters, who have the same 
 prerogative as you. It won't be easy jumping planet to planet in search of these hidden items, 
 since you'll always have someone else close behind you, waiting to claim all that you've worked 
 so hard for. A neat twist to say the least, but that doesn't mean such a unique gameplay setup 
 is error free.
  
  Strangely, the security systems designed to protect the octoliths from theft don't do their job 
 too well, since the only penalty for taking them is certain death from a countdown clock. This 
 is all fine and dandy, until you notice upon successful escape that you were never in any real 
 harm in the first place, as the CPU figures it's safe to not blow up the planet once the intruder 
 flees. Nintendo representatives say these moments are a throwback to old Metroid escape moments, 
 but in reality one might find these trips down memory lane a bit too frequent and plot-writhing 
 be be truly considered "good". On the bright side, it is pretty intense and admittedly fun to run 
 for your life, even though you know the most you'll have to do if you fail is start over again 
 from the boss chamber with a reset clock. 
  
  There are some technical limitations that halter the complete gaming experience, but its nothing 
 that makes the game terrible by any means. Unlike previous Prime titles, gameplay is tipped in 
 favor of action over exploration. This is largely due to the fact that you start the game fully 
 equipped and you aren't obligated to search for missing suit powerups. Level designs reflect development 
 issues that the DS can't handle, since you'll notice the amount of scannable objects and enemies 
 are drastically reduced from before. It isn't a bad aspect of the game, just something Nintendo 
 had to work around to make the title workable. There are still doors that you need a special beam 
 to open, and you get the freedom to peruse around your surroundings solving puzzles to find what 
 you're looking for. Thankfully, the worlds are still big enough to "feel" like a Prime game, and 
 they even managed to work in that pesky little bug that delays doors from opening. Unfortunately, 
 you'll occasionally run into crazed "guardians", which are two-legged walking gun-turret aliens 
 who mostly travel in numbers and can become a bit overwhelming when you are trying to go about 
 your business. Alors, that's where the precise touch screen control comes in to make annihilating 
 these pests much less of a chore. It usually takes under 30 seconds to kill one, but they're no 
 fun when they stand in your way from point A to B. 
  
  Another altered aspect of the game is the lack of save points. In Hunters, your ship is your save 
 point, and you can only save before and after setting out to explore. Solving puzzles activates 
 warp portals to your ship depending on how far you are into a level, so you are never too far away 
 from safety if in a pinch. However, It takes away from the experience in the fact that you can't 
 camp out inside a level if you decide to call it a day. Of course, we must keep in mind that this 
 isn't the same Metroid Prime experience, and its something that would be forgivable in a conventional 
 FPS (Which this is) . Because of all the changes to the formula, it takes a little getting used 
 to, but it's nothing you can't familiarize yourself with. Everything else is still here, including 
 the infamous morphball and the nifty puzzles that go with it, so it's not like you're learning 
 everything all over again.
  
  For a handheld such as the DS, it is truly amazing to see the visuals this game pumps out. Nowhere 
 else in the handheld's library will you find such impressive production values and top notch eye 
 candy that this title offers. It does a phenomenal job of emulating the Metroid Prime look and 
 feel, and everything in the game is 100% polygonal. The engine is capable of handling several onscreen 
 enemies, with minimal slowdown and absolutely no drop in action. It is even impressive to see ambient 
 lighting effects on your morphball and other objects in the environment that scream of hard work 
 and long-term programming. I can't believe Gamespot only gave this game an 8 in graphics. It is 
 an injustice to all the effort developers put into this amazing title. It deserves no less than 
 a 10, which is exactly what I'm giving it.
  
  Audio is great as well, and I can't think of another DS game with such true-to-life echo surround 
 physics and convincing sound effects. Walking on various surfaces produces different footsteps, 
 and even the morphball sounds amazing when rolling about in the game, emitting a very satisfying 
 metallic ball rolling noise, at least while on solid surfaces. Although I am sad to say I ran into 
 a place or two in the game where solid footstep sounds came from surfaces that wouldn't realistically 
 create such a noise, such as in snow or on gravel. Most likely a glitch or programming bug, but 
 it was very out of place and stuck out like a sore thumb when I experienced it. That won't stop 
 the rest of the game from wowing you, but it is something I must take note of, and adjust the score 
 accordingly. As for the rest of the audio, everything else from the music to the gun blasts are 
 spot-on, and won't fail to impress even the most critical gamer.
  
  As astounding as everything is in the game, nothing is better than the intense competition you'll 
 find in the wi-fi multiplayer. Assuming you are at a local hotspot or have a wireless DSL setup 
 at your home, you can jump right into Hunter's simple online setup to face up to three opponents 
 of varying skill levels. The game keeps track of all your wins, losses, connection history, kills, 
 favored weapon, and much much more. All the in-depth categorization is an amazing feat, making 
 this title by far the most immersive Online experience for DS to date. Needless to say, it offers 
 so much more than Mario Kart's pathetic luck-based system seeing as it actually requires skill 
 to compete, and this time, quitters won't get away with trying to maintain their precious record 
 by leaving the battle mid game. The only thing I would've liked to see in this department is an 
 emblem design tool to separate your hunter from the rest of the pack. Wi-Fi is fine without it, 
 and with all the numerous extra features, I guess the game more than makes up for it. Heck, there 
 is even voice chat for those who compete with people on their friend's list, and the audio quality 
 and relay speed is surprisingly good. There is just so much this game offers in its multiplayer 
 that its mind boggling, and anyone who can suggest a better Nintendo wi-fi title needs to have 
 their head checked. Online multiplayer is more than enough of a reason to play this game, even 
 if you are cold-hearted enough to dismiss the Single-player.
  
  All in all, I gotta recommend this game to any person who owns a DS. You'd be crazy to pass it 
 up, and you won't find a better handheld FPS anywhere else. This is the game to get for DS, I don't 
 care what you say. Nothing can stop me from playing this, and writing this long-winded review has 
 me wanting to go play the game right now, even as I type. I think I'll reward myself by "pwning" 
 some n00bs over wi-fi. Go buy this game now, so you can practice for our future battle. See you 
 there chumps!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayolau
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is great, design is great, sound is great (with the headphone) . I think it's as good as 
 most FPS's gonna get on a handheld.
  
  Too bad the DS has low resolution. It's pretty tiring for my eyes to keep track and aim at multiple 
 moving targets. Judging from raw graphics quality, this is the best on DS; however, the resolution 
 is simply not adequate for the game play of a fps .
  
  Although the basic mechanics are good, the atmophere feel kind of empty. For example, blowing stuff 
 up doesn't feel too satisfying.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun -- until you figure out how to play properly. It is not a normal 
 fps where everyone start with equal characters and pick up weapons and shoot one another. Each 
 character has its own strength and weakness, with which the game is balanced out.
  
  In 1-on-1 situation, the worst thing to do is go on all-out offense, as counter-moves are deadly, 
 and players can run away really easily. There're plenty of heath-packs on the maps, so usually 
 1-on-1 matches end in a deadlock, with a 0-0 score.
  
  3/4 player is more interesting, simply because the health packs are not enough. But still, often 
 times, the matches end in deadlocks because if the player got the leading number of frags, it's 
 simply better to play passively and attack oppurtunistically.
  
  To this end, i'd give gameplay a 7 -- the mechanics are sound, but single player game feels empty, 
 and multiplayer game is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lVIrNguyen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. Graphics great. Sound great. Enemies great. It's just too short and i 
 hope they make a sequel to this game :D I would recommend this game to anyone who just recently 
 bought a Nintendo DS. 
  The wi-fi multiplayer option is great too. It has 6 modes of playing and 6 new bounty hunters. 
 Is this great or what?! Each bounty hunter has his/her special weapon to increase damage dealt 
 or adds special effects. They each have their own alt form too. Metroid Prime Hunters own and I 
 own bounty hunters :D This is probably the best game so far in 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Any Nintendo fan knows about the Metroid series. Not everyone has played a Metroid game, but I 
 know for a fact that everyone has pondered on why Metroid is such a huge hit. The first three games 
 in the series (Metroid, Metroid 2: Return of Samus, and Super Metroid) were all fantastic platforming 
 action titles with tons of depth and replay value. Fans of Metroid had to wait years before a new 
 Metroid game. When fans found out that the next game was to be a 3D first-person shooter, many 
 fans were scared to death that their beloved franchise would be demolished. Oh boy, were we all 
 wrong about that. In 2002, Metroid Prime was released for the Gamecube and both critics and fans 
 alike were shocked and impressed. A couple more side-scrolling platform action Metroid games (Fusion 
 and Zero Mission) were released on the GBA in the next couple of years. In late 2004 the sequel 
 to Metroid Prime was released, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. Although the sequel wasn't as amazing as 
 the first Prime, it's fantastic visuals and fun multiplayer were appreciated by everyone. The Nintendo 
 DS came out only a few days after the release of MP2. To no surprise, Metroid needed a new home 
 on the two-screened wonder. Metroid Prime Pinball was released in late 2005 and was a fun spin 
 off of the Metroid series. Then, on March 20, 2006, Metroid Prime: Hunters is released. And dang, 
 it's pretty darn good. The visuals are some of the best that a handheld can offer, the music is 
 familiar with the older brother Prime games, and the single player mission is fun to play through. 
 The true magic is in the multiplayer. You can play bots for the first time in a Metroid game, you 
 and your buddies can duke it out, or you can sit in your living room and play a Japanese kid from 
 the other side of the planet. That's right, Metroid Prime: Hunters is online and kicking some butt. 
 MPH features what could be the best handheld multiplayer experience to date. MPH has awesome graphics, 
 amazing sound, and an overall complete experience on your DS. 
  
  Do yourself a major favor and pick this game up please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojokm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Metroid has been a great series ever since its premiere, and the latest addition of Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters is not a disappointment.
  
  The single player adventure is good. Octoliths are spread across different locations in the galaxy, 
 and they range from easy to obtain to time-consuming. You will find yourself backtracking across 
 different planets to receive the weapon needed to get the next octolith, but that isn't a bad thing. 
 The backtracking is handled well, you won't see the same opposing hunters as you did the first 
 time, and the hidden areas can get pretty difficult.
  
  The only thing that is frustrating about the game is the control scheme. The big, clunky design 
 of the DS doesn't suit playing with one hand holding it. This is something you will be able to 
 get past, though, and after you get used to them the controls seem intuitive and instinctive.
 
  
  Finally, there are more bounty hunters than just Samus, and every one brings something new to the 
 gameplay. Unfortunately, you can't play as the other hunters in Adventure Mode, but you can use 
 them in multiplayer matches. Nothing beats getting a headshot off on your friend and seeing them 
 evaporate into a blue silhouette of death!
  
  Okay, one thing beats that. Seeing a person you don't know half way around the earth evaporating 
 into a blue silhouette of death! That's right, Metroid Prime: Hunters brings online play into the 
 mix with Nintendo's Wi-Fi Network. So if you have a wireless connection to the internet in your 
 house, or spend a lot of time at a coffee house or Macdonald's, you can play people all over the 
 planet to show off your skills. Eventually, you will find a character that you click with, and 
 will use them on your online adventures to conquer the world. 
  
  MP: H also has Rival Radar, which lets you detect anyone with their DS and Rival Radar on as well. 
 If you walk by each other, sit near each other, or lay down in the same psychiatrist's office, 
 you will automatically add each other to your rival list. This is much the same concept as Nintendogs' 
 Bark Mode, and you won't find yourself using it much, if at all. Especially since you can also 
 add rivals after playing each other online.
  
  If you have (or haven't) played any Metroid game and own a DS, buy this game.
  
  If you don't 
 have a DS, buy one and then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is an amazing achievement in technology, considering how amazing it is that 
 you can play Metroid Prime anywhere and online as well. The idea may seem too ambitious for even 
 Nintendo to pull off but they did and did a fantastic job with it. At this point Metroid Prime 
 Hunters is basically the best DS title out at this time, creating a truly immersive experience 
 along with a balance of challenging, high octane action. But, the game is not flawless for there 
 are two slight problems platforming and ME BEING LEFT-HANDED. First off, the platforming can be 
 quite difficult for the fact that just looking around and jumping quickly can be difficult at most 
 times. So in conclusiion, if your a fan of Metroid Prime, a fan of FPS titles, or a fan of FPS 
 multiplayer this is your game and will be your game for some time for it is the best DS game yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Omali's back with the first DS review in a good while. I've got a couple DS games I obtained over 
 the past couple months that I will be reviewing, so watch out for those.
  
  Enough about me, this is Samus's space. Yep, Samus is back and she's (in case you still haven't 
 realized, yes, Samus is a she) still kicking ass on two screens. Metroid Prime: Hunters is the 
 first Nintendo DS first person shooter that really hit the mark. Others (like a certain James bond 
 game who's complete failure does not make it worth naming) failed to live up to expectations.
 
  
  In classic FPS fashion, you move (Strafe left, right, forward, backward) but you can also use the 
 DS stylus as mouse, using the touch screen to look. Don't like the touch screen, or lose your stylus 
 more than I do (at least once a day) ? Well, that's why the thoughtful people over at Nintendo put 
 in Dual mode, where one side of the DS (D-pad, ABXY) controls moving while the other controls your 
 vision (ALA N64, except a lot less awkward feeling)
  
  So what's Samus doing in this game? What else: An object of great power has been discovered somewhere 
 in the Galaxy, and it has attracted the world's greatest bounty hunters (as opposed to just great 
 bounty hunters?) Of course, we've got Samus, but there are other bounty hunters (which serve as 
 bosses and mini-bosses) with all their cliche'd glory. Theres:
  
  Sylux: Hates Samus (go figure)
  Weavel: Might recognize him from an earlier game
  Trace: Reminds 
 me of Rayman, since he head floats above his body.
  Kanden: Turns into a leech
  Noxus: Turns into a moth creature
  Spire: Golem, anyone?
  
  The ultimate prize is Octoliths 
 which are the key to the great power. You'll often meet other hunters on your set location who 
 will try and kill you (sometimes you'll run in on them fighting one another)
  
  Also, did I mention how stunning the game looks? I'm not usually one to judge based off graphics, 
 but wow. The cinematics are amazing, even for the DS, and the sound and ambiance compliments it 
 immensely.
  
  All of the hunters have their own strengths and weaknesses. Weavel, for one, doesn't hit very high, 
 but his alternate form (they all have alternate forms, like Samus's charge ball) looks kinda like 
 a leech, and can move very fast and is hard to hit due to his smaller size. Spire, on the other 
 hand is big, lumbering, and slow. He does, however, have a knack for appearing in tight corridors, 
 and throwing bombs down on you from ledges. He also turns into a big rock with spikes.
  
  They each have their very own Multiplayer (Yes there is multiplayer, i'll get to that) weapons 
 which Samus will find during her expeditions in single player. I won't go into each of them but 
 here's a sample:
  
  Trace has a powerup called Imperialist, which makes him invisible as long as he remains stationary.
 
  
  Multiplayer game modes includes the usual deathmatch, teamdeathmatch, capture the flag, capture 
 territory, Hunter (one person is beefed up and the others hunt him) along with Bounty (Players 
 must find the octolith and take it to a designated location) . The game is WIFI and download play 
 enabled, so you can play against anyone in the world (however, when playing against someone not 
 on your friends/rivals list, you can't play any other mode but deathmatch.) Luckily, there is a 
 handy waiting room where you can add the people. That is, if they didn't whoop you good enough 
 the first time.
  
  Multiplayer is 2-4 players, with the inclusion of bots (I'm not sure if Bots are available in wifi, 
 though If anyone can clarify this, i'll update it in my journal which has no updates)
  
  So, raise your hand if you're still reading..... Raise your other hand if you just raised your hand 
 to an internet message. Good. Now go out, and buy this game.
  
  I give Metroid Prime: Hunters a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongemario
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The ultimate power lies in the Alimbic Cluster.
  Or something like that.
  
  That first line is the message telepathically spread into some of the best minds of the best bounty 
 hunters in the galaxy. Now it's a race to find this "ultimate power".
  It's blatently obvious that the game's main focus is the multiplayer, even if the developers (it's 
 not Retro Studios this time) didn't make a good single-player.
  In the SP mode, you're always Samus Aran, the galaxy's greatest bounty hunter. Now you're actually 
 trying to collect bounty! You're racing against the other 6 bounty hunters to collect mysterious 
 objects called "Octoliths" -- collecting all 8 will grant you the way to the ultimate power. It 
 sounds like a great concept, it really does, but unfortunately, the worlds seem bland and it's 
 almost looking at the same thing all the time. There's very, VERY little backtracking in the game, 
 so that's a plus. Let's just say you only need to visit each of the 4 planets twice to find every 
 Octolith. You also start out the game with most of your abilities, and you don't lose any of them 
 in an anticlimatic explosion or something. In fact, the only new items you'll find will be the 
 six different weapons used by the other bounty hunters. Many newcomers might like this, so they're 
 not completely helpless, but some of the old-school Metroid fans might frown upon this because 
 it's the type of survival like this that makes Metroid... well, Metroid-y.
  Ah! But the multiplayer is where the fun is at! This game supports Single-Card play (meaning only 
 one person has to have a copy) , Multi-Card play (every player must have a copy) , and Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection play (online action - this is the reason why it didn't come out last November) . Even 
 the Single-Card play is awesome. Sure, the downloaders are forced to be Samus, but that's pretty 
 much what they're restricted to. You can pick any arena (provided you unlock some) , any mode (I 
 think) , and some advanced settings like turning on/off the radar. Multi-Card/Wi-Fi play means anyone 
 can be any bounty hunter. Well, not yet, really. You begin with Samus, Kanden, and Spire. You must 
 unlock the other four (Noxus, Trace, Sylux, and Weavel) by either beating them in the Single-Player 
 or in Multiplayer. Doesn't sound too hard, right? Right...
  In multiplayer, you can use any weapon IF you find them. There's also "Affinity Weapons", which 
 is a fancy term for signature weapons. Anyone can use anyone else's signature weapon, but only 
 the main affinity user can really bring out the power of their weapon. Such as Samus's homing missiles 
 are exclusive to her; Sylux's Shock Coil only gives him health as it drains others; Spire's Magmaul 
 sets people on fire, etc. The weapons are amazingly diverse: the typical Power Beam, missiles, 
 sniper rifle (complete with zooming function) , electricity, a cold beam that can bounce off of 
 walls, a mini nuclear weapon, a different electricity than the said one, and molten lava-rocks, 
 and, of course, the "ultimate weapon". I'll tell you that it's something like detonating an atomic 
 bomb in the arena. Awesome. There's 26 arenas to duke it out in, all with amazing features. 
  For online play, there's the typical friend code exchange, but now there's something that beats 
 perhaps Animal Crossing: Wild World's online play: voice chat AND text chat. Of course you and 
 a friend need each other's friend codes, but those are easily obtained. The voice chat is very, 
 VERY clear, just about as clear as a high-tech phone. You can also play any mode or arena in online. 
 Nintendo did a much, much better job for the Wi-Fi play than for Mario Kart DS.
  The graphics are amazing! Simply amazing! I'd really say that they're the best graphics on the 
 DS right now. Of course you have to see the game in action; screenshots just don't do a game justice.
 
  The sounds are great, the music is great, but you probably won't be humming the tunes; the music 
 is somewhat forgettable.
  I must bring up the controls -- there's four different control schemes, both friendly to right 
 and left handed people, but it may take a while to get used to the controls. Be ready for some 
 cramps if you use the touch screen controls, and if you're playing it for a really long time.
 
  If you have a DS, get this game NOW. If you don't have a DS, this (and LoZ: PH) are the reasons 
 to get them. Well, maybe wait for the DS Lite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I had expected it to be a lot better, but overall it was a pretty good game. As long as it took 
 to make it, it should have been a lot better than it is. More weapons would have been appreciated, 
 along with more hunters.
  
  The gameplay couldn't be much better. The story mode could have been longer. It took me less than 
 four and a half hours to completly beat the storymode. It could have also used more enemys.
  
  The graphics were good but weren't much better than the demo.
  
  The sound was really good, 
 it couldn't be better.
  
  The value and tilt could both have been better but not by much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Better than Fusion.. Better than Zero mission... and now in full luscious 3D with prerendered cut 
 scenes and video technology... Its the best complete FPS experiance on a handheld ever made-Its 
 METROID PRIME HUNTERS... Man... wow.. Geez. After two years of waiting, this game does not disappoint. 
 I am amazed at the quality of this game! It has the most fluid and comfortable controls for any 
 FPS I've played. The detail they take is astounding! While you can finish the game in about five 
 days (Because you won't be able to put it down) it still remains a fresh and new Metroid experiance. 
 If the buggy Wi-fi works for you, then you have the Best DS game yet. It has fully prerendered 
 3D cutscenes that are viewable in the options menu and four adjustable control schemes. l Know 
 after sitting at your computer and seeing all the other good reviews and wondering if they're true 
 you've come to this one and are still pondering if you should go buy it. Heed my review, GO BUY 
 IT! Even if the Wi-fi doesn't work it is still a must buy.
  
  Overall: The best DS game out. If you have a DS or are getting one, this is the game for you. Even 
 if you are unfamiliar with the Metroid series it is stll a great place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blashrite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Metriod prime hunters is one of the best in the series. I was blown away by the control scheme. 
 I loved it. The multiplayer was what i was waiting for . It was what i wanted. I had been waiting 
 for a long time (since first hunt) . I was not disappointed exept for in one area. The slow down 
 was unbeleavible. I did not think that it would occur so often , but it did so i was very disappointed. 
 But i have grown over the slow down and im still happy. I recommend this to anyone who has a ds 
 or has been waiting on a reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkhero1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I played the game, but don't own it yet. I think it is really deep for a Handheld FPS. I do not 
 understand why Gamespot gave the Graphics an 8 but it truly deserved a higher rating. The gameplay 
 was deep and fun. The sound is amazing and enjoyable. I love playing it on Wi-Fi. The options for 
 Wi-Fi are really great. I think it is a must have game. If you never were into Metroid games this 
 is the place to start. I would have written more only if I had the game but since I only played 
 it for an hour or so this is my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If you have a DS get this game here are the following reasons.
  The graphics on this game kill! They captured just about everything every little detail in this 
 game. The only disopointment in the graphics there is nothing falling apart and this is a metroid 
 game ^_^.
  The sound is amazing and thanks to the the DS stereo speakers its in hign quailty. And when you're 
 talking to someone on the microphone online you hear them perfectly!
  The gameplay is sort of the main reson to buy this game!
  First off the story mode is great, 
 your main goal is to collect octoloths to power the universe (or something like that) . This time 
 around there is more shooting then puzzle solving which is what I look for! The wi-fi is awsome. 
 You have two chocies in what kind of mode for who you want to play with.
  You have a worldwide option which puts you with 3 or less random people, and you have friends and 
 rivals. The worldwide only lets you play deathmatch mode only but after every round on worldwide 
 you can add the poeple you just faced on your rival list. On the friends and rivlas mode you get 
 to play all the game modes. If youre playing with friends you can talk to them using the DS built 
 in microphone or type in a messege before and after games. If your playing with rivals you can 
 do the same thing but you cant talk to them at all. The only main problem is when youre about to 
 play with four people you get an error but im sure nintendo will fix that. The price value is decent 
 only 35$ just because its new. Well that ends my review I hope this convinces you to buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coonana
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Hello there I do not write many reviews, but I think that this is truly worthy of such an occasion. 
 Before I go into the game I would like to say that this game is widely underrated by many reviewers.
 
  
  Anyway I thought that the game was spectacular. I really like the idea about using the touchscreen 
 to select the morphball along with the other inventory. I know many did not like this, but it gave 
 me a sense that I was actually in the suit and that is how I would choose my accessories. I certainly 
 did not drag the stylus down in that area. I thought the story was very deep and I would get into 
 more detail with this, but I recommend you guys to experience it personally. 
  
  The multiplayer is by far the best aspect of the game. If you have a lot of friend code, which 
 is pretty easy here on GS if you frequently talk in the forums, it makes it even better. 
  
  I hope they make a game connected to this on DS, maybe another character from Hunters. I highly 
 recommend this game to anyone. Seriously it is not hard to get into it, even if you are not a big 
 FPS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fennz11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  If you are tired of playing mario kart on wifi and want a new game to play for the ds, this is 
 the one for you. METRIOD PRIME HUNTERS!! YEAH!. this game rocks. the single player is kind of hard 
 and i only beat the first level and im not motivated to play any more. The online mode in this 
 game is unbelieveable. Its like Halo for the ds. The graphics are really good for the ds. I dont 
 get my gamespot gave it an 8. the sound is ok, but i usally keep it down. Its kind of hard to get 
 used to but it only takes awhile. If you are looking for a new game for your ds collection, get 
 MPH! My last word, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corrax8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  For a portable system this game blew me away. It has the best visuals that make the game easy on 
 the eyes. There is a great attention to detail such as the glowing affect on Samus's morph ball 
 or when you charge up the beam cannon you see heat and smoke emitting off the cannon. It is all 
 the little touches that give a game good visual effect.
  
  The sound is great in this game. It easily has the best sound of any DS game. It has the same eerie 
 sounds effects on the game cube versions that can add suspense. You can even hear Samus's boots 
 click on metal surfaces and it changes to other surfaces too. Yet again it is the little things 
 in this game that make it great. It really makes you feel that youre behind the visor.
  
  This game has nice and meaty single player. There are tons of neat and diverse weapons to collect. 
 Like all other metroids before this you can still find energy tanks and missile upgrades. However 
 the only down side to the single player is that it may seem little linear, but this is a portable 
 game and there is a very limited amount of storage space, so I can't mark off too much. The single 
 player still has the great metriod challenges that will keep you interested in the game. 
  
  Now time for the multiplayer. If you really want to play death match with your friends but 
 don't really won't to shell out the extra $35, well don't you fret. The single card in this game 
 is amazing! There is very little to no slow down when you play. If you don't have the card, you 
 can only play as Samus, but she is one of the best hunters anyway. Also only death match is available 
 to you however it still is action packed! All the weapons and maps are still available which is 
 amazing because most games only give a basic map which sucks. Now the multi-card is great too. 
 If you don't have four of your friends around, you can turn on bots. Yes this game actually does 
 have good AI. The three star bots will always be a challenge to most. There are also tons of great 
 game modes such as team death match and capture the flag. All of the game modes are fun to play 
 too. Okay now time for online play, however I do not have a wireless router, so I will honest and 
 not make things up like what some do on the this site. The bottom line is that this game has a 
 great multiplayer with a lot of depth and is amazing that it is also portable.
  
  I would recommend this game to any DS users and any metriod lover. The little things are what make 
 this game great. It easily the best shooter to land on a handheld, yes even better than a majority 
 PSP ones.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerX09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters was without a doubt the most anticipated game for the DS. We got a taste 
 of what it would be like with the demo that came with the DS when it first launched. The demo wasnt 
 that remarkable, but fortunately, Nintendo reworked alot of things in the game, and have made one 
 of the best DS games to come out for the DS, and they show that an FPS can in fact be done on a 
 handheld.
  
  I wont go into alot of depth in the story, since you can find that in the official review. First, 
 lets begin with the graphics. When you see the graphics in the game, you will probably think to 
 yourself "this is a DS game?!?". The game looks fantastic, with little to no aliasing. The environment 
 looks great too. The game also has some great sound effects and music to draw you into the game, 
 like the sound of your diferent weapons.
  
  Without any analog sticks on the DS, many people probably would think that the controls in MPH 
 would be crap. Think again. While they do take some getting used to, and you probably will at first 
 get hand cramps from holding the DS with one hand, you will see that MPH controls almost like a 
 PC shooter, since you can use the stylus to look around. You can adjust the sensitivity to suit 
 your playing style. 
  
  While the story mode is fun to play through, the multiplayer is just awesome. I havent had a chance 
 to try out local play, I have tried out online play. This alone makes the game worth the money. 
 In online, you have lots of modes to play from, over 20 maps, and 7 hunters to play as. You can 
 do one of two things: you can play with strangers, which is fun, but you can only play deathmatch 
 and the game is set to end at 7 kills or 7 minutes. Or you can play with friends or rivals and 
 play fully customized matches. You can even chat with them through VOIP! Online is intense and 
 tons of fun.
  
  I only have a few problems with this game. One, the game's framerate drops at certain times, but 
 it doesnt happen that often (ive only encountered it a couple times) . Second, the bosses are recycled, 
 so you will be fighting the same boss (only stronger) multiple times (there are two octolith bosses 
 and a final boss) . Third, finding people to play online can be a pain, since it can take a while 
 to find people, and I have had errors occur that have disconnected me (this may just be me. It 
 may not happen to you) . I also wish there could be lobbies and customized matches even when not 
 playing friends or rivals. Besides these minor problems, Metroid Prime is a fantastic FPS that 
 you would do good to at least give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treesquirrel11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I love the game so far. The campaign puzzles are good . solid gameplay, and a great multiplayer. 
 the multiplayer is awesome, the concept of the hunters licence that shows stats is really cool. 
 I haven't tried the voice but im sure it's shakey because its new. Their isn't a story line really 
 the fact that your being hunted loosley holds some of it together. But nonetheless
  i love this game, the graphics are shiny. the sounds are pretty good. using the hunters in multiplayer 
 is an awesome feature. If they fixed the o so tiny bug they could make a great great great sequel. 
 This is treesquirrel11's review have a squirrely wrath day thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkJedi123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  This is a very addictive game but single player can be a wee bit frustrating when you dont know 
 where to go, but facing different hunters along the way for the entire game is just one of a millon 
 great twist on the game. These octoloths can be a little tricky to find but really it is a good 
 game. Multiplayer on the other hand can be a very fun expierience weither your playing single or 
 multicard play you will be dissipointed with single cards "demo" play but other than that multi 
 card play is a fun headshot shooting expierence. Wi-Fi is the GREAT holy grail of this game and 
 can be played with friends rivals or that dude in russia. But voice chat is the holy grail in side 
 the holey grail so go on play your game with pride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  finaly im playing metroid on my ds and its pretty sweet , some of the other reviews ive read kinda 
 left me with some doubts about the single player campain so i wanted to throw in my two cents on 
 this one , first off if your right handed like me i recommend straping your right thumb into the 
 ds strap i found doing this increased my kills and pretty much eliminated hitting the wrong buttons 
 , also i was able to double tap jump without thought or misap not to say you wont fall of shiat 
 alot still , but hey thats first person platforming it pretty much always blows much like ladders 
 in fps games , people talk about this metroid being more linear well it is to some extent but not 
 in a bad way i found myself jumping back and forth between worlds once i got new weapons , knowing 
 that i would be able to unlock new doors and get new areas , upgrades , and bosses , visualy this 
 game is the best looking 3d game on the ds , nintendo always seems to make magic with there software/hardware 
 i constantly found myself thinking a cant belive the ds does this and when they release the next 
 ds metroid it will be even better i. e. mp echoes much improved graphicly from the first gamecube 
 incarnation , geting off the subject for second i want to mention something about just how good 
 nintendo hardware can and will be i played r. e4 religously on the gamecube loved that game took 
 in every little detail and when it was released on the playstion i went over the game again with 
 a fine tooth comb and found so many little things missing from the ps2 version it just blew my 
 mind how people thought it was so close to the cube version i dont want to go into detail but anyone 
 with a good memory and eye could see the short comings , but this is metroid were talking about 
 yea i know and it is that good , the aliasing is crystal clear the sound effects and music are 
 perfectly implemented , the morph ball is a graphical highlight it looks awsome and you can control 
 it with the touch screen or d pad and like prime and echeos its used it some pretty awsome ways 
 wether its a side view or tunnel it just sings along the screen , the combat is fierce and franctic 
 prepare to get sweat on your brow if your the type to bust right in on the action , but i also 
 found myself hanging back for the kill as well in some situations . and when i was dead i was more 
 than pleased with the smart places i recieved checkpoints , going back to the ship to save can 
 be tedious but after most important events i found a portal to help me back , speaking of important 
 events you are treated to some pretty sic all be it short mini cg cutscenes wich you can go back 
 and view at anytime and usually want lies beyond is a pretty memorable boss battle with some crazy 
 machine , hunters randomly pop up around the universe but are pretty much just a nusences like 
 any other enemy , wifi is sweet and much more intuitve than psp when setting up , i dont need to 
 go into multiplayer that much becuase everyone else has , but all in all this is the first true 
 musts for the ds until mario ds or zelda phantom hourglass comes out , at the end of the day this 
 must be the best handheld fps yet and a great addition the the metriod world please message me 
 if you know of anyothers that come close ill go buy them right now... jerky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eludiac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  ok the multiplayer is TOTLLY the best multiplayer ive played for quite a while. the weapons? fantastic. 
 the hunters? EVEN BETTER! the adventure mode? well.,.. it needs some work. the biggest disappointment 
 is the same boss battles. its a big turnoff. its also not really as free as the GC Primes are. 
 the story is pretty much linear. also a big turnoff
  
  The different hunters each have their advantages such as sniper, bomber, gunslinger, homing blasts, 
 etc. those different advantages are what really make the multiplayer immersive. things can get 
 really dramatic when there's an invisible sniper trace somewhere in the arena and u are stuck hiding 
 behind pillars trying to gain the element of surprise. very fun, very frantic. tis gorgeous. the 
 only thing bad with the WFC games is the non-lobby interface. i think it would be really nice to 
 be able to just pick who u wanna play instead of random picks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: element3435
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  metroid prime hunters is 35$. definatly worth it
  it owns, it even says headshot wen u get a headshot its like i got 10 guys on me with the super 
 blaster BOOM HEADSHOT this game ownz get it its also wifi and voice chat at the beginning of a 
 game and at the postgame lobby with the scores and u can battle ur friends and its fun and one 
 player mode also ownz and its fun but really challenging, rebind the controls the defualt ones 
 suck
  
  this game also has cut scenes/cinetamtices with amzing graphics, ESPECIALLY FOR DS THEY OWN. 
 
  this game is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingcommanderIV
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  It's a shooting game on a handheld that plays like it's on a computer. Sure the controls feel... cramped, 
 but once you get used to holding the ds with one hand, the game opens up to you. It's Accuracy 
 is unimaginable, everything you'd need is right at your finger tips, within reach. I can't imagine 
 playing a shooter on a console ever again unless it has a control similar to this (Revolution perhaps?) .
 
  
  And Online is a miracle. It is as if the gods handed this game down from the heavens and said "Play, 
 my child" Oh I'll play all right, and you should all join me.
  Come on you people now, 
  Smile on your brother
  Everybody get together
  Try to love one another right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatrbub54
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start off on just how cool this game is. If Samus wasn't cool enough already she's 
 got more cool Hunters on her tail. 
  
  STORY:
  
  Alright it starts out with the bounty hunter Samus Aran going to the Celestial Archives to get 
 an artifact called and Octilith. The artifacts are supposed to unlock an ultimate power. She meets 
 up with Hunters also looking for these artifacts and they will do anything to get them. You will 
 have to fight with them because they will try to get them from you. If they take it your gonna 
 have to go after them! Great story!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Awesome graphics! Unbelievable for a handheld. Matches the PSP. Some parts get a little fuzzy and 
 some of the monster designs are kinda weird but the graphics overall are amazing!
  
  SOUND:
  
  Great remixes from the other Metroids but something seems to be missing. I don't 
 know what it is. It might be just the first level that didn't have that great a music but the title 
 screen and VS. music really sets the mood.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This game is so fun! The single player is awesome and will make you want to play more and more. 
 I can't get on Wifi but it must be the best thing in the world! I played with the bots and I was 
 having a blast!!! It was so freakin fun!! So Wifi must be really good. None of my friends have 
 MPH or let alone a DS except for maybe 1 but they don't have MPH. They'll probly get the game and 
 it'll be awesome. There's so many modes too! Capture the Artifact (same as capture the flag) , Deathmatch, 
 Survival, Prime Hunter, and 2 more I forgot. I assure you Single Player and VS are the funnest 
 things aver made! Really the multiplayer is better than Halo. No joke.
  
  VALUE:
  
  I really don't know what this means but you'll be sorry if you don't get this game. You don't know 
 what your missing.
  
  CONTROL:
  
  Takes a little while to get used to it but once you do it's fine. The only thing I have to say 
 is jumping. You have to double tap the screen to jump but you get used to it.
  
  OVERALL: 
  
  If you have a DS you have to get this game. PERIOD And if you don't have a DS... 
 GET ONE!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lioyd123456789
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  ok as a owner of the Ds since the day it came out i got the metroid demo. it prob was the most 
 fun ive had on a ds on its own. now the first day this game came out i had to get it along with 
 tetris. it was all i hoped it would be and more. the storyline was amazing but that wasnt what i 
 bought it for. i bought it for the multiplayer. when i first heard about the mic chat i had to try 
 it out so i got my friend from california friends code and we tried it out. i could here him as 
 if he was sittin right next to me and keep in mind i live in florida and thats a long distance 
 away. and also if your playing the game using the stylus it is kind of like a first look in the 
 revolution as its like your really controlling the gun. why cant all ds games have amazing graphics 
 and gameplay this game alone would make anyone want to buy a ds if they never played the series. and 
 the graphics for a portable are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etimmis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Enjoying the change in gameplay from that of Prime and Echoes. The Wifi is definitly worth the 
 price of admission alone with the single player giving a nice side quest. Overall im enjoying it 
 so far . The added bonus that I experienced before realising was that the rumble pack that acompanied 
 Metroid pinball is supported and its adds a whole other dimesion to the experience . The boss's 
 in the single player quest are so so , nothing special compared to Prime . The control take a little 
 while to get used to but becomes 2nd nature very quickly . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWILIGHT4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is one of those really exciting games that have 3 or more special features 
 like great boss battles, and a huge story and gameplay, and a new feature like new worlds, bosses, wepons, and 
 people and metroid prime Hunters has all 3 special features like have stange bosses and a huge 
 story filled with traps, hunters and emimies and huge worlds to go to and the last feature is the 
 new hunters so its not just samus its 6 other hunters like  
 krandon. also the other good thing is the great mulitlplayer its more fun with people then computers 
 and the new wepones also the boards are huge and sometimes hard because there might be a hunter 
 or a enemy to fight and trust me the boss battle later on in the game are not so easy and the controls 
 are not that hard just use the L button to fire the power beam or other wepones and use the stick 
 to swich form wepon or to become a morph ball and the L button for bombs. I can really see why Nintendo 
 delayed metroid prime hunters to make the game as big and good as it is they neaded more time so 
 a game with more time the greater the game so for people who are angry with nintendo for delaying 
 the legend of zelda the twilight princess stop being angry because the mor time the greater the 
 game will become . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123metallica
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is easy to pick up and the control is easy to learn and the difficulty is great for hard 
 core game. The graphic is excellent and the touch screen really take advantage of the system. I 
 don't know what you guy or gal think, but it the best game to date on the ds. I like the multi 
 player game. I have four ds and it work great on multi. most of the level are well design. the 
 delay is well worth it. I like all the new hunter and their weapon and weakness. well back to the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HandheldGmr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  After waiting nearly two years for this game, I can truly say now that every minute of that wait 
 was indeed worth it. While at first, the control system may take a little time to get acquainted 
 with, you will come to find that the touch screen is perfectly suited to handle a first-person-shooter 
 such as Metroid Prime: Hunters. The game's single-player experience is well done and captures the 
 same unique essence of the two Metroid Prime games that were previously released on the Gamecube. 
 While the single-player mode itself is certainly engaging and can take you anywhere from 10-20 
 hours to complete depending on how much you explore within the levels of the game itself, it is 
 the multiplayer options of the game where MPH excels. The game offers both single-card and multi-card 
 multiplayer options. Moreover, perhaps the biggest lure to the game itself is that MPH offers handheld 
 gamers the chance to battle it out amongst other players around the world via Nintendo's Wi-Fi 
 Connection system. Many of the game's Wi-Fi functions (i. e. the impressive voice chat feature and 
 the friends/rivals system) are truly unique and add an incredible amount of depth to the online 
 portion of MPH. Overall, the game itself it truly revolutionary. It is everything you could possibly 
 want in a handheld game. Metroid Prime: Hunters is a sensational game that will be the standard 
 by which many handheld games are compared with in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Possibly the best FPS to ever grace a hand-held; amazing graphics; fantastic multi-player.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt is, quite possibly, the best overall showpiece for the system. 
 Its graphically stunning, it features a well-known and highly-regarded franchise, its not a kiddie 
 game (an image Nintendo intends to distance themselves from with the DS) , and not only does it 
 use the systems unique features, like the touch screen, but it uses them to bring us a mainstream 
 gaming experience in a way we would have never gotten otherwise.
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters takes place between the events of Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. 
 Fittingly, you'll notice that Samus Aran still pilots the ship from Metroid Prime, but bears the 
 armour from Echoes. The Galactic Federation has advised Samus to investigate the appearance of 
 mysterious artifacts -- Octoliths -- that were left behind by an ancient civilization. These artifacts 
 are spread throughout the galaxy in five different zones. In a non-linear twist, you're able to 
 freely visit each area using Samus's ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeezuh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  To be honest when I first heard of this game at e3 I was a bit skeptical. I didn't think metroid 
 could be pulled off as a first person shooter. However, after hearing about multiplayer aspect, 
 my faith became renewed.
  
  The single player takes a different route than the other prime series. Instead of collecting different 
 powerups to imrpove every aspect of your character, you spend time collecting new weapons and keys 
 called octoliths. The new weapons can be fun to play with, but serve no real purpose besides opening 
 doors and killing certain enemies. Most of the time, I found it too tedious to switch weapons, 
 that I just stuck with the power beam and missles. (The powerbeam's fast firing rate actually keeps 
 the weapon powerful most of the game.) 
  
  Most of the game's backtracking has to do with opening doors with other weapons in order to get 
 to a Second boss room on each world. Added to the fact that there are only two bosses (although 
 there are tweaked versions of each) makes the single player a tad repetitive and unoriginal. there 
 also seems to be a lack of different types of enemies, although this has more to do with the ds's 
 ability to display complex 3d figures. 
  
  The worlds also lack that awesome atmospheric effect the first primes had. Although the game looks 
 fantastic for the DS (best to date, however has some framrate issues rarely) , it lacks the imagination 
 of the originals. It also lacks that cohesivness and interactivity of the worlds. The musical score 
 is underpar and adds virtually no atmospheric effect of each world. (although sound effects are 
 superb) In a nutshell, the game doesn't have that jawdropping feeling you first got when landing 
 in tallon overworld on metroid prime.
  
  The single player, even though it has flaws, can be very fun. Fighting the different hunters is 
 the best aspect of the single player game, sometimes more fun than the boss battles themselves. 
 There are also plenty of interesting puzzles later in the game that might take a while to figure 
 out.
  
  The meat of the game is in its mutliplayer. Whether you set up a capture or survival match with 
 your friends and rivals, or you just feel like battling some random people, the multiplayer shines. 
 The games fast pace nature feels like Quake, which is definately a plus. There is also the new 
 dimension of alternate forms to keep you on your feet. Each hunter is also unique, so you must 
 change your tactics according to who you are, who they are, and what strategy they are using. This, 
 above all, makes the game evry balanced. It is just plain fraggin ol fun.
  
  Overall, this game is worthy of a buy. Hell, it is reason enough to buy a DS. The single player 
 is just as fun as most other FPS's on other systems. It is also really the debut of its genre on 
 the DS. The game's multiplayer will have you hooked from the first time you lay a morph bomb in 
 someones face. 
  
  For all of us Revolution fans, it is a good day because it is foreshadowing metroid prime 3. Hopefully 
 that game will combime metroid prime 1 and 2's single player, with hunter's multiplayer, and that 
 is a very good thing indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanachi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I really, really wanted to enjoy this game. In my opinion, the Metriod Prime series is one of the 
 best. However, the DS translation lacks the game play and immersion of a Metriod title. The escape 
 countdown after the boss battles is tacked on and tedious (especially after every boss) . The control 
 scheme isn't intuitive; on the contrary it is quite distracting and very uncomfortable. However, 
 the graphics are fantastic, as is the sound; quite an accomplishment on the DS. I am glad that 
 others (reviews) like the game, and hope it does well from a retail standpoint for Nintendo's benefit. 
 Overall, the frustration game play, control (and maybe over-expectations from the GC series) were 
 disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Samus Aran has been around for years yet she never looked so good until now. The GameCube inspired 
 series continue on Nintendo's awesome double screen portable and it feels great. I was extremely 
 impressed with the fluidity of the graphics and smoothness in the gameplay. 
  
  The controls are awesome as you can either use the d-pad or the stylus to move around and take 
 action. The colors are rich and beautiful, so it makes your gaming experience very enjoyable. And 
 Nintendo does it again by adding the sweet Wi-Fi feature to make it even better.
  
  The in-game action is really intense and keeps me on the edge of my feet pretty much all the time. 
 Playing either single mode or multiplayer via the Internet, the experience feels so good.
  
  Overall, although not a big fan of shooters, I give this one two thumbs way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me say first off, i have Metroid Prime 1 & 2. I have played Super Metroid on the PC. Never 
 had the NES game or GB games tho, this might be a bit biased because i havnet played the older 
 games, but here i go anyway.
  
  I've only had this game for 2 full days, so this wont be the most complete or best review ever, 
 but i have played through a lot of it and i want to share my experience 
  
  Let me start with the first player adventure mode.
  
  Those who have played the Prime series 
 before can expect to see many similarities. It has the same First person perspective as Prime 1 
 & 2 did. You have the same basic abilites, morph ball, bomb, shoot, charge, jump, missile. There 
 are, however, many differences as well. You no longer have to search for all of your gear upon 
 starting the game. You are equipted with 'most' of your equiptment. You will, on the other hand, 
 have to find new weapons for opening doors and defeating certain enemies. I currently have only 
 gotten 1 weapon, the battle hammer*. The levels are pretty similar to Prime 1 & 2 with a little 
 more restrictions. Most rooms are pretty linear. Some do have a left or right hallway. The main 
 point of the adventure is to collect Octoliths, which are the key* to this ulitimate power that 
 many bounty hunters are after. through out the game you will have to fight with these hunters to 
 protect your claim on one of these artifacts. but ill let you figure the rest out on your own. 
 
  
  I'll Dicuess Multi-Player as i go through my ratings. 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent! As i said before, there is an adventure mode which altho its not as in-depth 
 as its GC sisters, it still had a nice story and some AWESOME cut scenes which make the whole thing 
 worth it. Oh, and not to mention unlocking charaters to use in Wi-Fi which you wont want to miss. 
 Well, now that ive touched on that, i might as well start. The Multi Player is probably the Best 
 on the DS. You have 1001 different possible match ups using a local multiplayer. Theres many modes, 
 characters, and players that can duke it out in a frenzy. Plus, theres the wifi, which is more 
 restricting, but equally fun. I must say, it can be quite hard to control a character in multiplayer 
 because its so fast paced. I find my coordination challanged when trying to move with my thumb, 
 aim with my hand, and shoot with my finger, and watching where i am as well as my opponent. The 
 stylus adds a whole new window of opprotunity to this game, but it can also hinder many peple from 
 enjoying this game. Beware, you have to be somewhat coordinated to play this game or you will not 
 have fun at all... If u have it, try you hand at first hunt to get an idea of what its like. Make 
 sure you use the standard stylus mode ;) . enough about that
  
  Graphics: Best on DS! Its a Metroid Game! What more is there to say! this series has always been 
 the defining scale as to what a system can do. It rocked itself on the SNES. It blew the competition 
 out of the water on teh GC, and now its taking its turn on the DS. Granted, it can become VERY 
 pixelated due to the rendering because the DS does not have the same kind of thingy the N64 had 
 for blending, but its still amazing. The cutscenes are heavenly! They look almost GC quality if 
 u squint! but again, It does have a bit of a slow down once in a while, but when u look at what 
 its putting out, you wont really care.
  
  Sound: Its Metroid. They had always been the ones to have the cool, funky, techno music that we 
 all love to hum in our heads. Hunters does not dissapoint at all when it comes to music. I still 
 have a few stuck in my head as i type! =) !
  
  Value: Wifi saves the day! If wifi wasnt there, this would be a much lower rating on value. The 
 adventure will probalby give you a good 10 hours. Ive had about 3 and im about 25% done... so thats 
 not too bad, but for a metroid game, it could have been better. The wifi and multiplayer is what 
 saves it tho, This offers hours and hours of competitive gameplay, and trust me, when you think 
 you are getting better, so are 10,000 other people! So the challenge will always be there! 
  
  Tilt: There are some flaws in the game that hold me back from giving it a higher rating. I 
 cant seem to pin point it, but i find myself... bored in the adventure. It just doesnt have a very 
 involved story. its just shoot and walk.... but its still different and fun and new to a handheld 
 so i cant help but not be happy. The wifi is great tho, and altho i have a bad record so far, i 
 hope it will go up! Spire i have a feeling will become the *snaker* in MPH. His alt form is pretty 
 dang good. Really hard to counter. I havent played with sylux which is my favorite looking and 
 hopefully played character. I'll Try and update as i get further in teh game!
  
  HAVE FUN! I RECOMEND THIS GAME TO ANYONE OVER THE AGE OF 11. I just cant see someone under that 
 age actually being able to play this game very well at al... no offense.. it is rated 'T' after 
 all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is probably one of the most enjoyable games yet for the Nintendo DS. First 
 person shooter fans and Metroid Prime fans (GCN) will love the overall style and quality of the 
 game.
  The gameplay of this game is what makes it so unique. Although the controls could use a bit of 
 a touching up, they do suit the purpose and, if your coordinated enough, can be very precise. The 
 single player Adventure mode puts you on a journey through the Alimbic Cluster, an unknown area 
 that contains powerful artifacts that are being searched for by the universes most prestigous bounty 
 hunters. As you travel from planet to planet, you will notice that really, the levels arent all 
 that long, and the evacuation after every boss gets old pretty quick. However, there are some great 
 level designs in Adventure mode that are at times tricky and challenging. As for multiplayer, Hunters 
 exceed the quality of both Mario Kart and Animal crossing combined. There are 7 different playable 
 modes, and 7 playable characters that you may choose from, each showing great variety. You will 
 also notice that there are several different weapons and power ups available through the maps. 
 Speaking of maps, there are over 20 different maps inclded for multiplayer purposes. Of course, 
 like any other game, there are the good, and there are the bad levels. In addition to the multiplayer, 
 voice chat is included, and is done very nicely, but can only be used when playing someone on your 
 friends list. overall, the gameplay meets every expectation you may have for this game and more.
 
  As for the graphics, they are probably the best to be seen on the DS so far. Remember that you 
 cannot compare PSP and DS graphics however, because they are two completely different systems with 
 completely different graphical expectations. The graphics you see in this game are full blown 3D. 
 3D character models, 3D environments, 3D gun designs, everything, and i must say it is easily eye 
 candy for your DS. This can easily be compared to the GCN versions, just without the colors and 
 the texture you see on the console versions.
  Lastly, the music in this game is good, but not great. The music certainly isnt bad, but it does 
 get a little old seeing constant remixes of music from previous games. There are few noticeable 
 tunes that really jump out at you, but the ones that do are simplay fantastic!
  Overall, if your in the market for a new first person shooter or an addition to your famous Metroid 
 collection, this is the game for you! Metroid Prime Hunters is out now for your Nintendo DS at 
 a retail price of 34.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsalltheway712
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Metroid prime hunters delivers a nice blend of action, challenge, thrills, and more action. One 
 of the best fps's on the market today, metroid prime falls into its own category of gaming. Metroid 
 prime hunters has a nice online multiplayer and local multiplayer mode, but it doesn't overbalance 
 between single and multiplayer quality. The single player may not be as good as the metroid prime 
 for the gamecube, but it lives up to metroid prime expectations. Overall a very good game which 
 anyone can enjoy. Metroid prime's gameplay is heightened in quality because of the different bounty 
 hunters. The only thing that dissapoints me is the fact that only four people can play in online 
 or local multiplayer, and the fact that the bosses are very repetitive. 
  
  Friend Code: 0516-0730-4075 Name: Alex 
  PM me if you want to play or if you want to register 
 as a friend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I will start with the negative aspects of this game first:
  The graphics aren't improved from the demo. The story mode seems dull and colourless.
  
  Okay, 
 now that I put that out of the way, I can give some explanations. I thought the graphics would 
 be exceptional in this game but I was sadly mistaken. They seem to be the exact same from the demo. 
 Yet, the graphics aren't bad so this flaw isn't that negative.
  
  Secondly, I say the story mode is dull because unlike the 2D Metroid games I love so much, there 
 isn't much dialogue. (such as computers talking to you, etc.) . Instead of forcing you to read some 
 storylines when you scan an item, you can just skip them completely and not really care about what 
 your supposed to do. Also, story mode doesn't have much colours and really seems grey and brown. 
 Also, the bosses repeat. Only the last boss is very enjoyable.
  
  Now what's really fun about this game is multiplayer (both online and offline) and the different 
 bounty hunters you can use. It is really fun to play against others. The controls can be a little 
 frustrating (taking some time to aim and when you finally get aim at your target, its too late) 
 but it is challenging and fun.
  
  The good: New bounty hunters. Online.
  
  The bad: Graphics arent improved, dull story mode.
  
  The ugly: no kraid, ridley, or mother 
 brain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_morel_123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, Nintendo really showed people how the DS is for people of all ages. The games 
 runs very smooth and the controls are great, once you get use to them. So far the games seems huge 
 and the wifi connection will never get you bored. Online you can add friends and rivals and even 
 chat to them before or after a game. This lets you shake up your oppenet and to get them scared. 
 Not just that but there are 7 other Bounty Hunters with new Alt. Froms to help you escape death 
 and run for cover. This is a must have for anyone with a DS. You will never put it down!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer0100
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  All is good in this new Metroid. The control style is solid and will give superb accuracy. With 
 wifi this game is perfect for anyone. Uses pretty much every feature of the ds. Rumble pack, Vop, 
 WiFi, Ds download play everything that makes ds great. Hope for future games to have bigger multiplayer 
 boards and be able to play up to at least 6 players in a game. Im loving this game its a must get 
 for any ds owner. If u love first shooters than get Metroid Prime: Hunters, many modes of play and 
 awesome Bounty Hunters. It also has challenging bots so if u dont have wifi access u can play against 
 A. I . Hope u have fun with this 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerosblazeslash
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I first played the demo of Hunters that came with the DS, I was a little scared away. 
 The controls were too awkward and feelings of doubt circulated my brain. But then seeing the new 
 Hunters, the talks of a revamped control scheme, and the long wait gave me new hope. Then after 
 I bought and played it, I knew I was holding the real deal. 
  
  The control is still a little awkward at first, but it is relatively easy to master (in my opinion) . 
 Also the amount of of detail in the cutscenes and the gameplay is incredible. People who compare 
 the DS to the N64 need to play this game, 'cause I've never seen a 64 pull of what the DS does 
 in this game. It pushes it to the brink and then some. 
  
  One thing I have noticed is the difficulty. It goes from tolerable to how the h3ll do they expect 
 me to get though this?! Example, after a boss battle (which, by the way, are all reused over and 
 over again) you have 7 minutes to get back to your ship (reasons still unknown) . But before you 
 get there you have to face a Hunter who is like a boss in himself (please note you are at a disadvatage 
 because you spent alot of your ammo and energy on the previous boss) , and after you defeat him 
 you have to face three gaurdians. Only after you defeat all these enemies can you get back to your 
 ship. But even with this difficulty, you can still have fun. Just as long as you take frequent 
 breaks in between bosses. Also the only place you can save is back at your ship, making things 
 a bit more fustrating than needed.
  
  I still have yet to play other people on multiplayer, but if it is anything like the game, it should 
 be great. If you have any doubts, put them to rest and buy this game... You'll be glad you did. 
 It looks good, it's innovative, its fun, and it proves that Nintendo is still the king of handhelds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevo14
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  what a great year for the ds. MPH came on the ds and its hotter than chick babes. well maybe not 
 lol. This game have great mulity player and you can talk with people on it too . the voice chat 
 is smooth and the online game ass well. the story mode will keep you traveling to all of the planets 
 figth other hunter just like samus. I had one little problem with the game. some times when you 
 tryed to open a door it wouldn't open and i had to go back and froward to the door so it opened. 
 ( like 20% of the time ) some times im figthing a big boss battle or im just jumping from platform 
 to platfrom and i hit the moprhball action bottom by mistakewhich some times messes me up. I still 
 think this game is a MUST MUST buy for the ds unless you dont like to have fun. Pick this game 
 up and go crazy with it . Great game =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Anyone who says Metroid Prime Hunters is a flop game and that it is terrible is a fool. GS under 
 rated this game far too much. With a 9.3 average with 937 votes so far, it is easy to understand 
 why it is such a great game. The only real complaints I have so far are the controls and the linear 
 gameplay. It doesnt have AS much backtracking, which is a good thing because a lot of people seem 
 to complain about it being too much and I agree on that. However the gameplay is simple to figure 
 out, getting your head around the controls is a bit tricky at first but you can customize your 
 settings so the motion sensetivity is right for you. The game is plain old fun and has some great 
 multiplayer elements for single or multicard fighting. However the WFC capabilities are limited, 
 although this is not a suprise to me because DS games online arent handled the way PC online gaming 
 is done, so even trying to compare them is redundant. It would have been nice if you could do the 
 other multiplayer options like Prime Hunters and King of the Hill though online. I havent had much 
 of a chance to play through a good portion of the game yet but so fair it has failed to not impress 
 me. The game is fun, the controls while they may take some time and tinkering they still are unique 
 and interesting. The graphics alone are the best that the DS has to offer for a 3D game so far. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I just picked up my copy of the game yesterday. I just finished the second planet the first time 
 through. It is exactly as GS and IGN said, the control system is very awkward at first to pick 
 up and your hands get very uncomfortable because of the way you have to hold it. 
  
  Hunters is definitely not the best Metroid game of all time, but it is quite good. I like how they 
 made it more like an FPS with manual aim. The only problem with this is I have accidentally slid 
 the stylus too far to the right of the screen and ended up in the Morph Ball when I was in the 
 heat of battle, losing unnecessary health. I think this may just be a minor issue I need to take 
 care to pay attention to while playing.
  
  But overall, MP: H is a great game to pick up for the DS and really utilizes the touch screen to 
 its full potential.
  
  P. S. I haven't played the game on Wi-Fi Connection yet, so I can't give you any info on the multiplayer 
 modes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze042089
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  even people who aren't particularly fans of first-person shooters will be attracted by this game. 
 the character design is amazing and u can enjoy yourself whether u play online or adventure.
  
  the only thing better than an online game is one with no loadtime.. MPH has no loadtime. in 
 fact, the only thing that takes any time is connecting to nintendo wi-fi and if u're somewhere 
 with a strong connection, not even this poses a problem.
  
  the controls are easy and you can adjust the sensitivity of the screen to the stylus to whatever 
 you're comfortable with.. i think we were all impressed with first hunt, but this is even better 
 than what we were all hoping for.
  
  main reason to buy:
  all the coolkids are doing it.... follow the crowd... you know you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shua007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Just a little note... This is my first review and I only felt compelled to review this game because 
 it is the first where I disagreed with the score that gamespot gave the game. 
  
  Gameplay: I gave the gameplay a nine here because initially you'll find your hand hurting a bit. 
 If you stick with the stylus mode, after a couple hours you will be able to control your character 
 with surprising accuracy and ease. It's a great improvement from the demo version, especially with 
 the multi control options.
  
  Graphics: In my opinion you will not find better graphics on a ds game to date. The cut scenes 
 are beautiful, and the frame-rate is great. Enough said.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. It is very reminiscent of gamecube metroid sounds. Very good, but no 
 voice acting... pretty much like the gamecube counterparts.
  
  Value: Value gets a ten. You'll love the single player game, and I can see myself playing through 
 it again. Where the game shines on value is the multiplayer. It is absolutely outstanding. Where 
 gamespot says that only one mode hinders the gameplay, I disagree. Find some friends, I actually 
 found quite a few already, and the multiplayer options open up. I don't see myself selling this 
 game. Period. 
  
  Tilt: Tilt is going to be my initial reaction and excitement on the game. Ten. Ten no doubt, and 
 I'll be surprised if anyone disagrees. 
  
  Buy the game people, the score of 8.6 does not do the game justice by a longshot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivilized
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  Nintendo continues the great tradition of games that are just fun to play in Metroid Prime: Hunters. 
 
  
  Game design:
  
  As the next step in the "Prime" series, Hunters does a great job of keeping the mood developed 
 in the other games in the series. Blind corners, enemies that attack out of nowhere, and carefully 
 selected music give the game the feeling of suspense that makes the game so captivating. The environments 
 are well captured and detailed, although they break no new ground; ruins, ice, lava/caves, and 
 high tech/spacestation will all seem familiar to fans, even the first time through. The story seems 
 straight-forward at first, but as with past games, the deeper you get in the game, the more interested 
 you become in what happened (Minor Spoiler ahead) , despite the similar structure to other Metroid 
 Prime Plots: long lost great and powerful culture versus great evil invader.
  
  One of the major downfalls of the game is its overly simple nature. The basic pattern is find keys, 
 fight hunters, find weapon, fight boss, and run. There are many morph ball "challenges" of mazes 
 or dodging enemies, which is one of the few parts of the game with variety. Other puzzles are almost 
 all "find the invisible things to scan". All but the last boss are one of 2 types, and some of 
 the later bosses can actually be easier than bosses earlier in the game. The enemies, too, are 
 not varied enough, coming mostly in "flying thing that shoots" or "running, jumping thing that 
 shoots" with only a few exceptions. The only thing that separates the hunters from regular enemies 
 is the fact that they have an alt form (similar to Samus' Morph ball) .
  
  Besides the lack of varied gameplay, the game ends up seeming somewhat short. The worlds tend to 
 consist of a two sets of a few large rooms grouped together based on whether it's the first time 
 there or the second. Contrasting this to the other Metroid Prime games where areas contain more 
 rooms of varying sizes make it clear why the game seems so short: it doesn't take long before you've 
 gone everywhere. The keys are always going to be within a few rooms of each other, and you never 
 need new equipment during the middle of the hunt for keys. Backtracking is rarely far, and rarely 
 (if ever) neccesary between different planets or stations. In general, you don't get the feeling 
 of "Great! now I can go back to that other door that I couldn't before, but what about this door, 
 or that one over there?"
  
  The good sides? The mood, and the ability of the game to draw you in to the world. It is detailed, 
 and looks good, even with some rough pixel mapping. It is also still a Metroid game, so you have 
 to be good at shooting and jumping and solving puzzles, occasionally at the same time. There are 
 plenty of fun hidden things to find and scan. You can play for 10 minutes orr a few hours, and 
 you won't feel like you got nothing accomplished in either case. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game throws you right into the action and makes it fairly easy to familiarize yourself with 
 the different functions of the DS required to play. The upsides: The GUI is largely familiar and 
 control interface is intuitive and works like PC FPS control. The stylus gives good play control 
 and is accurate, especially since the sensitivity can be adjusted. Many weapons have an auto-fire 
 feature, which will fire a burst or keep firing as long as you hold the trigger, saving some index 
 finger pain. 
  
  The downsides: at a distance, resolution gets in the way of being able to see enemies, and therefore 
 hard to aim correctly. It gets hard to hold onto the stylus during intense play, and you will likely 
 find yourself adjusting the position often. The most natural stylus position is impossible since 
 the DS gets in the way of part of your hand. This leads to accidentally pushing start at inopportune 
 moments. Furthermore, it is easy to move the stylus over the weapon controls accidentally at the 
 crucial moment of jumping, making you fall to your death. Finally using morph ball bombs to climb 
 through a maze can get tricky with pad controls being too fast and stylus controls too slow, but 
 this only is an issue once in the game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer mode is a great feature which ends up being just like gameplay with an extra level 
 of fun added in. It avoids the game design problems, and since the player has control over a lot 
 of options, it is easy to customize play to exactly what a player wants.
  
  In short, the game is simple for a Metroid game, and has some control problems but overall, the 
 mechanics of gameplay make up for the problems, and the game still provides the fun experience 
 that people have come to expect from Metroid. So far, Metroid Prime: Hunters is the defining game 
 for the DS. It uses both screens and the touch feature effectively, and provides a lengthy adventure 
 that players can enjoy. It is a must for anyone who wants to own good DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingChainz31684
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  A great game one that shouldn't recieve a review below an 8 even in the worst of circumstances. 
 The hardest thing to get used to with this game was the controls. Give the controls a chance and 
 you will get used to them quickly if you have any dexterity at all. The graphics are beyond beautiful 
 far better than i could have expected on the DS. Gameplay is crisp and it has a compelling storyline 
 to add to the world of Samus Aran. I would recommend this game to any DS owner or fan of Metroid 
 games. This game has moderate length the difficultly level is right around the same level as the 
 Metroid Prime games. It also comes with a good replay value IMO as did the Metroid Prime games 
 though not a ton of extras just all around a fun game to give it a second go around. Give this 
 game a chance its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorfshadow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I was holding my breath until this game came out and on March 22nd I was able to pick up the last 
 copy of it at the store I went to. Before I played the game I had high expectations of the game 
 and when I played the game man it totally blew them away. The graphics, the sound and everything 
 else brought video gaming to a hole new level. I would with out a doubt recommend this game. It's 
 got a great adventure just like the other Metroid Prime games.
  I haven't got the chance to go very far in the game or play multiplayer mode but the game is what 
 I believe to be superior to all the other DS games.
  The only downfall about the game is the controls, they are a great use of the touche screen but 
 sadly I can't customize the game controls to the way I want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about one of the most amazing First Person shooters avalabile anywhere... oh yeah 
 THIS GAME IS FREAKIN AWESOME!!!!! Seriously this is the best DS game to date. Even Mario Kart DS 
 isn't as good as this (don't get me wrong Mario Kart DS is still THE BEST RACING GAME ever) But 
 if there ever was a best FPS award (wait isnt there one somewhere?) then this game would win. GameSpot 
 underrated this game. IGN underrated this game (but not by as much) This is much better than the 
 Halo series. This is even better than Half-Life (I dont know about the second one though) . If you 
 are a fan of the DS or Metroid or even the FPS genere in general you will find something to love 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaoS88
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves at least 9 out of 10.
  
  Great multiplayer 
  Superbe single player
  Voice chat with friends is totaly amazing!!!!
  
  I just can't stand you sometimes , I mean 
 you can't prefer games like Full auto and games like that to this master piece , You've always 
 been for PSP and against DS and it is very easy to see it by the way you reviewed games like metroid 
 prime hunters.
  
  You didn't even talk about voice chatting in the game , I mean this is pretty amazing for a handheld. 
 The PSP can't do that for sure.
  
  I love this site but reviews like that really make me go out of my mind (it was the same on GameCube) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer4eva999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's here. The biggest DS game ever. After numerous delays, we're finally able to get it 
 in our sweaty hands. Was MPH worht waiting more than 1 year for? In 2 words... HELL YES! This is 
 the best DS game ever made & also one of the best handheld games ever made.
  Yes, I know, the multiplayer is the thing that will sell this game, but I wanna talk single player 
 1st. When I heard that the multiplayer was gonna be the big seller, I was worried that the single 
 player would turn out to be a half assed after thought. God was I wrong. Though it comes nowhere 
 near the quality of Metroid Prime 1 & 2's single player, it is still superb. The story is as straightforward 
 as you can make it. Samus, the universe's greatest bounty hunter, goes to the tetra galaxy to to 
 answer a strange message. It turns out that the Tetra Galaxy belonged to a powerful race called 
 the alimbics. They are now extinct, & they left behind an "ultimate power", 8 mystic crystals called 
 the octoliths. Samus sets out to find all of these octoliths. Samus isn't the only one who's searching 
 for the ultimate power. 6 other bounty hunters want it too, & they'll do whatever means necessary 
 to get them. There on, you're left to the task to got to 4 planets, blasting aliens & retrieving 
 the octoliths, all the while duking it out with the rival bounty hunters. The gameplay is straight 
 up Metroid Prime, though it is more action oriented this time. You will backtrack between the 4 
 planets, kicking alien ass, collecting stuff like energy tanks & missile expansions, & scanning 
 stuff along the way to learn more about the now extinct alimbic race. The biggest thing that you 
 will notice about the game is that this is hands down the best looking DS game ever made. Don't 
 believe me? See the downright awesome opening sequence. The CG is impressive along with the in 
 game graphics. You will actually see some lighting on Samus's gun! There is slowdown here and there, 
 but it's pretty rare. The worlds are huge & impressive looking, though they lack some of the atmospheric 
 details that made the console Metroid Primes' worlds the best in the business, which is disappointing, 
 but mostly minor. They are much more accesible though, since you never get lost, which was one 
 of my biggest issues with Metroid Prime 1 & 2. The last thing about the graphics is that the enemy 
 design is up to Metroid's high standards. The sound is well done too. The familiar tracks are all 
 here, and the new tracks are fitting. The soundtrack for each world gives it it's own unique feel. 
 The sound effects are also well done. Finally, the control is firickin brilliant. It uses the touch 
 screen to aim & look around. This gives the game the smoothness of a PC first-person shooter. Well 
 okay I'm done with single player, let's talk multiplayer. Well, actually, you know what, the multiplayer 
 is so good, really if I were to describe it to you, it would take you a frickin week to read all 
 of this. As if it wasn't taking you long enough to read this already... Let's just say that MPH's 
 multiplayer blows Mario Kart's straight to hell. Really the only complaint about it is that you 
 can only chat with people on your friends list.
  I really wish there wasn't any flaws with this game, but sadly there are. For one thing, the variety 
 of enemies is weak. Metroid Prime 1 & 2 on the Cube had like over a hundred enemies, minus the 
 bosses. This one has like 15-20. I don't even think there are that much! Metroid Prime 1 & 2 had 
 area specific enemies. MPH... you see those little gray round things that float around and shoot 
 projectiles at you? Well be prepared to see them in EVERY SINGLE LEVEL! The bosses fare worse. 
 Not the miniboss fights with the rival hunters. Those are awesome. I'm talking about the end of 
 level bosses. There are only 2 end of level bosses. Yep, only 2. You will fight a tiki pole on 
 steroids and a cybernetic testicle. That's about it. After that, they repeat ad nauseam, with only 
 slight changes. Plus, Metroid Prime 1&2's bosses were inventive for the most part, & epic. These 
 2 are not original at all & are as epic as Spongebob: The Movie. Finally, the game falls into an 
 all too predictable pattern far too quickly. All the action goes as follows:
  1. Go to the planet
  2. Collect 3 artifacts
  3. Fight the rival bounty hunter
  4. Fight the 
 tiki pole or robotic testicle
  5. Escape for no reason whatsoever
  Even with these flaws, this is a beast of a game. These kind of games are the reason you bought 
 a DS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamecek
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Prime Hunters is the third installment of the Metroid Prime series, and it takes it in a different 
 direction. Althought Echoes had multiplayer, Hunters really revolutionizes the system. Whether 
 its online or via wireless, you'll be playing multiplayer for a long time. The controls take some 
 getting used to, but they are actually quite efficient after some practice. The graphics are high 
 quality, compared to most DS games. The soundtrack is that of most Metroid games, eerie with some 
 techno. Whats lacking is the single player, unfortunately. If you don't have Wi-Fi access, consider 
 not buying this game. The single player is set up in levels, unlike the expansive worlds we have 
 come to know and love. There are four planets, all of which are unique, but bland. Bosses are rehashed, 
 and areas are repeated. Its still enjoyable, but it could have been more.
  
  All in all, Metroid Prime Hunters is the handheld equivalent of Unreal or Quake, buy it for the 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YANNIK92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is, with no doubt, one of the most-have for the DS. Incredible WFC gameplay 
 and a very good, metroid-prime-like, singleplayer option. Nice graphics and smooth frame. The controls 
 are a bit confusing and hard at the beginning (especially if you're used to the Metroid games on 
 the GCN) , but after a few days of playing it you'll get the hang of it. WFC is very fun so if you 
 don't have a Nintendo USB WiFI Connector or a rooter you should by one. Also, good sound (remembers 
 the Metroid Prime soundtracks :P) and very nice videos.
  
  If you have a DS, you should buy it, if you dont, but you like the Metroid games on the GCN, you 
 should buy the DS and the game coz it's worth the money, trust me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  One word can describe this game: AWESOME.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very sweet, with a lot to do. It is far different from the Metriod Primes 
 on the GCN, this MP is more of a first person shooter than any of those. In the past MPs, it was 
 more of a first person puzzle/adventure game, and you had to stop to aim your blaster. In this 
 one, you control your blaster with your stylus, Samus with the D-pad, and shoot with the L button. 
 So basically you play on the left side of your DS (unless you choose a different control option) 
 I personally like these controls a hell of a lot better.
  
  My only and biggest complaint is the 1-player mode. Although still good with numerous levels and 
 enemies to destroy, it just wasn't that good. I really haven't played 1-player mode that much since 
 I got the game. Yes, I have not beaten this game yet. But I can predict what happens: 
  
  1) Go into a world
  2) Adventure through it a little bit
  3) Battle a hunter until it gets down 
 to half HP
  4) Do a small puzzle
  5) Battle a hunter until you kill it
  6) Do another small puzzle
  7) Battle a boss
  8) Escape the planet before time runs out.
  
 
  I really didn't bother doing the third world, because I just assumed it would be the same as the 
 first and second world. But 1-player mode does give you something to accomplish; get hunters for 
 multiplayer mode. But other than that, 1-player mode is just... okay.
  
  Multiplayer gameplay: This is where it really kicks in. Online baby. There are 7 characters to 
 choose from (Samus and the other 6 hunters) all with unique abilities. Take Spire, his morph ball 
 attack is close range, while Samus's is sort of far range. So you can have much variety to choose 
 from for every online match.
  
  There are also much more weapons, like an electric blast, or a sniper-type weapon, that could kill 
 in one shot if you get a head shot. Online is probably the best part of MP: H, and is why you should 
 get it. 
  
  The setup for online is much like the setup for Mario Kart DS online, you wait for 6 hours for 
 3 or less people and only end up getting one. Yeah, not terribly exciting to be battling only 3 
 other people at max. But it is still a great expirience.
  
  Graphics: Just great. Sure, they're not super realistic Xbox 360 graphics, but for the DS, they 
 own all. Even Mario Kart, which was really, I guess glitchy? Sometimes. But this is just fun to 
 look at. And the cut scene sequences, although short, are just great.
  
  Sound/music: Great. Of course, Most video games I'd like to turn my sound off when I play (well, 
 most GBA/DS games anyway) but this I want it way up. You know, waiting for people online isn't 
 that bad, because the music playing is, in my opinion, the best music in the game. But everything 
 else is awesome too, and I'm not annoyed by any sound or music.
  
  Overall: If you have a DS and like FPS, you must get this game. Even if you are not the biggest 
 fan of the Metriod series, it has a fun variety of gameplay, along with the best online for the 
 DS yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsfan64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  In late 2004, the Nintendo DS hit store shelves and everyone got a taste of Samus in her first 
 3d adventure on the DS. We waited for nearly a year, waiting for that Fall release. Or at least 
 thats what I remember it being. Then we heard of a delay. All of our hearts sank. Suddenly Wi-fi 
 came on the DS and the bright few knew why Samus delayed her flight to earth. 
  
  Now it's 2006 and we have finally taken this sweet game into our homes and turned on the DS. If 
 your battery isn't dead from Mario Kart, then be proud. It was a long and hard wait. Well finally, 
 it's here. Well worth the wait! This game definately shows the DS is not only a strategist's dream, 
 but a kick-butt shooter as well.
  
  As usual, Samus has her morph ball, power beam and charge beam, rockets and now many new hunters 
 with wicked cool moves. Same Metroid Prime gameplay and thats not a bad thing. Keeping it the same 
 is great. And the graphics look amazing! 15 times greater than the demo.
  As usual, the music is awesome. Fitting the mood like a puzzle piece.
  And the games wi-fi will 
 continue to please you for years.
  
  All in all, this is one of the greatest games I have played in quite a while.
  This game shows 
 that shooters and good graphics are more than possible on the DS. I just hope that Nintendo keeps 
 it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _angelo_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  When reviewing Metroid Prime: Hunters, one must consider a single very important fact. THIS IS 
 A HANDHELD FPS. Metriod Prime Hunters looks and feels like a console. The controls can be a bit 
 akward at times, but it doesn't take long to realize that this is a standout FPS, and even more 
 amazingly, on a handheld system.
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters has without a doubt the best graphics yet on Nintendo's Dual-Screen handheld, 
 which has been out in the U. S. for a little over a year. The single player mode does not dissapoint; 
 this game's campaign is deeper and more expansive than many console FPS's.
  
  The wireless multiplayer supports Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, which alows you to play online with 
 opponents around the world. MPH is also the first DS game to support online voice chat, a great 
 feature that adds to the appeal of any online game. Multiplayer is a blast.
  
  ANGELO'S VERDICT
  It is very obvious that more work went into this game than any DS game to date; 
 MPH does not disappoint.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawz247
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I would not recommend getting this If you don't like getting hand cramps.
  The graphics and sound are very nice, but this game gives extremely painful hand cramps which ruins 
 the overall gaming experience. Especially during wifi, when you have to fight tough opponents, 
 hand cramps can get even worse. Holding the DS with only your left hand, and constantly pressing 
 the L button to shoot while you are moving with your DS just bothers you too much that you don't 
 even focus 50% on the game. I was heavily dissapointed as an FPS fan. I just believe that generally 
 the mouse is the ultimate controller for the FPS. It is not the game's fault. It just seems that 
 the DS is not right for a FPS game.
  If you have a weak hand and if you dislike FPS this game is definately not for you. However if 
 you can handle the pain and if you can find a way to control that is right for you, this game can 
 be really great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first received my DS, it came with a demo for a game we all figured would be released summer 
 2005. The demo was alright, it gave us a glimpse on what sort of things are possible with the DS. 
 Eventually, the hype for the game kinda disappeared.
  
  Now, the game has finally released, and boy has it delivered.
  
  Amazing graphics
  Online 
 multiplayer
  7 characters
  7 modes
  26 maps
  FMV cutscenes
  A great single player adventure
  
  Amazingly, all this was possible on the DS. The only problems 
 I have with the game, though, are that the single player is too short (bosses recycled as well) 
 and the controls hurt your hand in long sessions of play. Once you get past the initial controls 
 issue, the game is like no other available for the DS. I recommend you get it if you're a fan or 
 Metroid or FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturnefoxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  The game has a high learning curve in terms of the controls. I can see that turning some impatient 
 people off at first, but it's WELL worth it to get used to one of the configurations.
  
  Single player mode is pretty solid. The difficulty level seems balanced, though the 2nd boss is 
 a bit easier than the first, and I actually had less trouble defeating the two (!) bounty hunters 
 in the second world than I did defeating the first one you fight. 
  
  Multiplayer is where it's at, though. While I haven't played DS to DS (the game supports single 
 or multi-card play) , the wi-fi mode is incredible. It still suffers a bit from Mario Kart syndrome 
 in that you can't really set anything if you want to just go into a random match. Like Mario Kart, 
 you select the region you want to search in (Local or Worldwide) , and if you're willing to play 
 anyone or want to stick to folks of your own Rank. Once you do that, it's the same as Mario Kart: 
 Wait while the game finds up to three players. I've yet to get three people in, though; each time 
 I've played it's been one-on-one.
  
  If you have Friends or Rivals (friends are Friend Code people, Rivals are people you've fought 
 online and you've marked as Rivals after the match) , you can set up the kind of match you want 
 with them. You can select the match type, kill counts, and all that jazz. You can also use the 
 VoIP feature with Friends only.
  
  Once you start a wi-fi game, it's mind blowing. The arenas range from small to large, and the action 
 is fast. I've yet to encounter any slowdown, which is awesome.
  
  The bounty hunter available to you for multiplayer at the start is Samus. As you defeat them in 
 single-player, you unlock them for multiplayer, but I've also learned that if you defeat a hunter 
 in multiplayer, you get them. For example, I fought someone who was playing Trace, and I lost. 
 No Trace for me. However, I've beat people playing Kanden and Spire in multiplayer, so I now have 
 them.
  
  Oh, and the game tracks EVERYTHING for your 'Hunter License': Headshots, kill streaks, win streaks, 
 win/losses, shots fired, favorite character/weapon/arena, disconnects, and more. You can view the 
 Hunter License for any friend or rival you have, plus if your DS is linked to your Nintendowifi. com 
 profile you can view more stats at the website.
  
  Overall, I'd have to say that this is the first game on a portable that has not only FELT like 
 a console game, but has been on par with a console experience in terms of story, presentation, 
 graphics, and scope.
  
  If you have wi-fi at your house or have friends with a DS locally, you MUST buy this game. If not, 
 you may want to wait as I get the impression that once single-player is finished, there isn't much 
 more to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt60
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by this game. Very well done, graphics are impressive for such a small 
 device. As a fan of PC FPS games, this is the closest I have ever seen a console FPS come to the 
 controls of a PC game. Steep learning curve on the controls, but once you get the hang of them, 
 they work well. Just started single player, and it keeps up well with the Gamecube MP games. Wi-Fi 
 Multiplayer is an absolute BLAST!! Love being able to play an FPS deathmatch on the road without 
 lugging a laptop around. Only complaint is that voice chat is only enabled with friends, and all 
 the game modes other than Survival can only be set up with friends. Nice thing about the friends 
 list, which is an improvement over Mario Kart DS, it it shows you if any of your friends are on-line, 
 making it a lot easier to find someone to play.
  
  All in all, an excellent game - well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voyager007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters has taken a long time to come out and some people may be upset about it however 
 i encourage everyone to try this game out. It is great. I has pretty good graphics for the ds and 
 a great gameplay. The multiplayer is excellent not to mention the VOIP built into the game so that 
 you can chat with your friends, rivals, or just other players that you are playing against. The 
 cut scenes in the regular game are awesome. They look almost like cut scenes from the cube they 
 are so good!! I have played the multiplayer only three times but everytime it has been a ton of 
 fun. This game is one of the best in the series and one of the best for the DS. GOOD JOB NINTENDO!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkerZero666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  This game is really good for what the system has to offer, but the DS gets painfull to hold so 
 this makes long sessions with the game almost impossible. Also the game dosen't have too much of 
 a sense of direction so there's a lot of mindless wondering and that gets annoying when it gets 
 harder to hold. next there are no real game varieants on line just 2-4 person death match thats 
 not very fun for long.
  but i digress the game's rather amazing other that what i just stated, i really liked the game 
 alot and there's a lot of fun to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters is the second game from the series to bring the metal-encased heroine Samus 
 Aran to the Nintendo DS, and the first full-fledged adventure to appear on the system. This time 
 she is going out on a mission, serving under the Galactic Federation, to find out what exactly 
 this secret to ultimate power is in the far off Alimbic Cluster. And what a game it is to behold. 
 While we have seen the Metroid series on handheld systems multiple times before, this is the first 
 game to be playable in the first person, a la Prime series. And thanks to the efforts put forth 
 by Nintendo, this is also the most playable & enjoyable FPS to grace a handheld system. Not only 
 that, but it is the first portable online FPS from Nintendo. But do all these first add up to a 
 good game? Thankfully, the answer is an overwhelming yes!
  
  Gameplay- 9/10- Metroid Prime Hunters features 8 different playable modes in total, the single 
 player adventure mode and the other seven being multiplayer modes that have different accessibility 
 levels. All of this is controlled by the stylus. You use the stylus on the touch screen to control 
 your aim on the top screen. This is a truly precise way of playing, even though, it has a slight 
 learning curve. Also, weapon switching, scan visor access, and morph ball are all accessed on the 
 touch screen. Many were concerned that accidental pressing of other function would be a rampant 
 problem, but once youre familiar with the format, it will rarely happen. It is precise & unlike 
 the past full-fledged NDS FPS, its glitch-free.
  
  There are two main play modes, adventure & multiplayer. Seeing as how they all have their different 
 mechanics, Ill go into each of them separately.
  
  Adventure- 8/10- This is the full single player campaign mode of the game. You pilot your way through 
 the Alimbic Cluster though an interface that is on Samus Hunter Class ship. This allows you to 
 access a variety of worlds, from an ice planet, to a lava planet, among a couple other areas. But 
 while there are different areas to explore, this game plays different from many other Metroid games.
 
  
  First of all, you dont have the classic lose all your gear, now go find it again approach. In 
 this game, you start off with many of your abilities at you disposal, with only a few higher ones 
 & new weapons gained along the way. This means more of your time is spent on actually progressing, 
 instead of chasing down that one little piece of armor.
  
  Also, there is a new, interesting mechanic. Because you can mode from world to world at your leisure 
 or to advance further, you can run into the opposing hunters at different times, thanks to them 
 looking for the exact same items you are. This adds a really interesting twist, because you can 
 go to a world one time and run into no one, and the next time, three hunters are breathing down 
 your neck, in different spots.
  
  Even though this mode does have some new parts, it isnt without faults. To go back to the main 
 point of the game, you are searching for Octoliths, which somehow lead to the secret power. These 
 are, of course, protected by bosses. The problem is that these bosses are the same two templates 
 used a few times, with a slight change to make it a new challenge. While there is a new challenge, 
 you basically know what to do right from the get-go. Also, after each boss, you have to run back 
 to your ship because of some impending explosion. But once you reach your ship, everything just 
 stops, as far as the danger. So it just kind of seems ridiculous that she would have to run from 
 what seems to be nothing. There are also on the rarest occasions slow downs from too much going 
 on, but as said, this is uber rare. So overall, the single player campaign is a great look into 
 an occurrence in-between MP & MP2.
  
  Multiplayer Modes- 10/10- And as has we have been teased by since the demo back in November 04, 
 this game has a multiplayer mode for you to blast you friends, enemies, and also bots. First, lets 
 go into some general overviews on the multiplayer side of the game.
  
  For those of you not able to get to the internet, have no DS owning friends, or who just dont 
 care to play human opponents, the bots in this game are superb. There are three levels setting 
 for them, set by the number of stars you assign them. They will blast you, but they also go after 
 each other. Non-discriminating bots is always a nice thing to see done properly. So for anyone 
 that was afraid they would be wasting their money buying such a multiplayer focused game that doesnt 
 have WiFi at home, you wont be missing a thing. These bots are also able to be used for those 
 of you playing your friends to fill in the empty slots.
  
  Also, the idea of the different hunters truly stands out in this mode. There are 2 modes for each 
 character, a bi-ped & alternate form. Also, everyone has different weapons with their own affinities 
 for their own weapon. For example, Traces Imperialist allows players to become a sniper. But when 
 Trace has his weapon equipped, he can actually turn invisible by not moving, allowing line-up time. 
 This gives having your own weapon a slight edge. Some hunters also seem to work in different modes 
 better, which will be explained below.
  
  Now to go into the modes more in-depth,
  
  Battle (Deathmatch) - This is your basic mode, to go out, within a time limit, try and reach a certain 
 amount of kills before the other players kill you and reach the kill number. This mode is playable 
 in all multiplayer levels (Single card, Multi-card, WiFi Random, and WiFi Friends & Rivals) . Also, 
 this is the only mode accessible for Single card & WiFi Random access. Everything works well, there 
 are a multitude of levels to play at (26 total, when they are all unlocked) , and all have their 
 own set up, to keep things interesting.
  
  Survival- In this mode, everyone starts out with a certain number of lives, which means you have 
 to try and survive (clever, huh?) on just that number of lives. But this mode may sound simple 
 enough, get a kill or two, and then hide in a cubby hole. Not so fast, because the game accounts 
 for that. The game actually points out cowards and, through a small icon on the screen, points 
 you towards that player. There are a couple other little signals like this that really keep players 
 from trying to just lay low the whole time. It shows Nintendo really took the time to assure that 
 this mode was fun.
  
  Bounty (Free-for-all Capture the Flag) - As said in adventure mode, you search for Octoliths in 
 the game to find a secret power. Well, in this mode, you & up to 3 other hunters know exactly where 
 one is. The only problem is you all know where the same one is & are trying to get that Octolith 
 to a safe point to collect the bounty. So during this mode, the objective is to carry the object 
 back to the safe point (in bi-ped form, alt-form isnt allowed during carrying) to collect a point 
 & reach the required amount of points, within a time limit. Not allowing alt-form carrying was 
 smart, simply due to the disadvantage some characters possess in alt-form (like Trace being able 
 to outrun anyone in alt or Spire being able to climb walls) . This was a nice oversight to not be 
 allowed through.
  
  Defender- This is a fun mode where there is one large ring, in which the goal is to be the only 
 one to be in the area for a certain amount of time. The amount of time isnt consecutive, but an 
 aggregate time of the total of being alone in the area. Whoever reaches the limit wins. Unfortunately, 
 some characters possess a clear affinity for this game, simply due to the close-range nature of 
 this mode, but its not anything that can be helped, just pick your hunter accordingly.
  
  Prime Hunter- This mode is interesting, the first person to score a kill becomes the Prime Hunter. 
 They are now the main target of everybody else on the field. The objective as the Prime Hunter 
 is to stay the Prime Hunter for as long as possible, trying to reach the total time that it takes 
 to win. Sounds easy, right? Well, not really, because you constantly lose life in this mode. When 
 you are in that position, the only way to gain life is to keep killing. Power orbs dont help you 
 at all. The only way to become the Prime Hunter after there is one is to A) kill the Prime Hunter 
 or B) kill after the Prime Hunter dies from natural loss of life. This mode really creates a 
 frantic, but fun atmosphere.
  
  Capture (Team Capture the Flag) - This is your basic team capture the flag. Just like in most capture 
 the flag games, you have to get the opposing teams Octolith and bring it back to the Octolith 
 in your territory while it is still on its designated setting area. The first team to do this to 
 the limit that was set wins. Just like in bounty mode, you cannot carry in alt-form.
  
  Nodes- This will also be a familiar game mode to FPS fans; here the objective is to lay claim to 
 a small area (a node) by sitting on the node for a time (10 seconds) to capture it. The more of 
 these & the longer you do it for, the higher the points you accumulate, up to the limit that was 
 set for the game. This mode is also frantic, because not only are you trying to gain control of 
 nodes you dont have, but you have to defend those that you control. You want to stay still, yet 
 have to run around like a maniac to score points faster. This mode, like capture, tends to lend 
 itself to close range hunters.
  
  Graphics- 10/10- When you consider what the DS has for hardware, this game is nothing short of 
 amazing in this department. The DS is really getting a workout by displaying the graphics of this 
 game. Everything they could render in 3D is, the amount of detail for a 64 bit game is just amazing, 
 and there are few to no glitches that are visible during the game. The game does have a bit of 
 jagginess, but this is due mostly to the system having a lack of any anti-aliasing, which it would 
 be wrong to discount from the score, because it isnt major. Also, some smaller distant objects 
 can be hard to make out, but this, once again, is from the lack of hardware (the resolution of 
 a DS screen is only 256 x 192) able to show those items. The cut scenes videos really look beautiful 
 on the DS, too. They are still jaw dropping, when you consider that youre seeing all this on the 
 Nintendo DS. The bottom line that considering what the DS can put out, this game is really pulling 
 out everything it can from the DS hardware. For that, the graphics score is perfect.
  
  Sound- 9/10- This game also does well in the sound department. This game sounds like a Metroid 
 game, using some familiar music, and also new music & sounds that truly fit the atmosphere of the 
 game. There are some things you do get sick of hearing every now & again, like some reappearing 
 enemies, but all-in-all, a job well-done in this department.
  
  Value- 10/10- If you read about the adventure being right along-side the other MP games in length 
 and then went on to read about the multiplayer modes, and then you know this game has plenty for 
 you to do. Even for those of you who need to complete everything, by going back & making sure to 
 get every scan will get you a special note on your Hunters license for it. So if you went through 
 once & didnt get everything, you have a reason to dive back in. And there is just no reason to 
 stop playing the multiplayer. It is nearly impossible to have the same game twice with all the 
 choices in modes, ways you play, and hunters to play as.
  
  Overall- 9.6/10- This game really is a present to Nintendo DS owners direct from Nintendo to the 
 gaming community (even though you have to buy it) . The game is fun, contains more than enough for 
 you to do, all in a package that truly makes use out of every little bit of the Nintendo DS. Kudos 
 Nintendo on making an amazing game for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alik
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Ok its about 4:36 in the morning as you write this after finishing a marathon session of multiplayer 
 wi fi.
  
  Metroid is probably the best reason to get a DS (if there werent enough before) . The game stars 
 Samus and for the first time actually co stars 6 other characters that are eventually playable.,.\
 
  In the Story the Federation has intercepted a mysterious cominique regarding the ultimate power 
 hidden in the alimbic galaxy, unfortunately so did these 6 hunters. Being aware that they also 
 heard the message the federation freaks out and sends good old Samus to save their back sides yet 
 again. One might wonder why they didnt just get their grand galactic military together waste the 
 hunters, but then if they did that I suppose we wouldnt have a game to play then now would we?
 
  
  Lets face it, the reason you play and buy this game is the multiplayer, theres no denying it, but 
 whats so very refreshing is that this game has a GOOD single player game. The story is good, it 
 wont win any awards but its good enough to give you an excuse to start shooting stuff.
  This game is a very simplified and scaled down version of its gameplay counterparts, it has everything 
 the others had just.... simpler. You still have access to the scan visor and yes it still makes 
 things happen when you scan stuff. you still get you combat visor also, but there doesnt appear 
 to be any xray or thermal visors this go around. the power beam is back and you can charge it (although 
 you seem to be forced to shoot a short burst of rounds off first before it starts charging) , missiles 
 return (come on its not metroid without missiles) with one very noticable downside: if you're to 
 close to em when they go off you get hurt, this can and WILL cause you to self destruct, making 
 you possibly more hesitant to use the things. The game offers a healthy challenge that builds as 
 you progress to its ultimate conclusion at the end.
  
  While the story is good, come on, we all know it was just warm up for the real deal: wi fi matches. 
 The wi fi system works perfectly here, and while some aspects of it could have been better (like 
 voice chat to EVERYONE, and abillity to join any game made by anyone (not just friends) , it does 
 what it does extremely well.
  
  Voice of the Internet varies from person to person, some people can be understood easily, some 
 require effort to hear and some require a hearing aid to be heard, whats nice is how seamlessly 
 the voice goes on and off, you'll find yourself sticking with voice rather than typing text.
  
  Multiplayer consists of 20 plus maps and 7 characters to choose from, the controls are tight 
 and respond very well. The one down side is that extended play time WILL mess up your wrist. you 
 can expect to have to take breaks from the game every hour or so.
  
  There not enough good things that can be said about this game, it utilized EVERY aspect of the 
 DS to its fullest, this is how all DS games should be, and while it have a couple flaws here and 
 there they do nothing to detract from this magnificent game
  
  a must buy for all ds (and non ds owners, why dont you have one yet!?) owners. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  The good: Meaty and lengthy adventure mode; fast paced shooting and action sequences; lots of puzzles; 
 a great new twist on the metroid story, formula, and gameplay; Multiple planets to explore with 
 varied environments; variable outcomes in how you beat the game such as bounty hunters can steal 
 your octoliths; huge amounts of boss battles; 4 player online deathmatch and all other modes TAKE 
 THAT GAMESPOT :P
  
  The bad: frame rate drops a lil from time to time; friend codes required to use VoIP online; adventure 
 couldve been longer but just wasnt.
  
  Filling in the gaps of the two stories of the Metroid prime series, this game maintains the games 
 somewhat zany yet still endearing charm while keeping consistently thrilling gameplay as it translates 
 from a console adventure game to a handheld shooter. Boasting awesome visuals invigorating action 
 and baffling puzzles this game is simply a masterpiece.
  
  This game has the title 'Metroid' and it certainly has the quality, traits, and feel of a Metroid 
 game but this one has a slew of twists that are sure to give fans and other DS owners alike the 
 same thrill ride no matter how many online deathmatches, and boss battles youve played through. 
 The story has a nice new twist on it which I found really engaging alike its environments which 
 a lot are quite similar to the other prime games, but are still intuitive and great.
  
  Fans expect a whole new experience, other owners expect a fun really out there and possibly one 
 of the finest shooters available.
  
  If youve played Metroid Prime: Hunters first hunt then you'll be able to pick this up and play 
 it instantly. Basically the top screen is your first person prospective and the bottom screen is 
 your 2-D map .The controls are different but work better than any console shooter to be. You hold 
 your stylus on the touch screen and drag it to look around in any direction, which is incredibly 
 accurate, while the D moves your hunter or samus forewords, backwards, and strafes you left, and 
 right. There are touch bottoms on the bottom screens (the touch screen) which will be clearly labelled 
 which change you into morph ball and out again, and change your weapon functionality like missiles, 
 and other weapons which you will find as you progress through the game.
  
  The game has a number of planets. At each planet is an octolith, which the goal of the game is 
 to collect all of them, and an uninvited guest, one of the casted hunters. You will have to venture 
 deep into the planet in search for the octolith spending about three hours on each of the six planets, 
 taking down the hunter and attaining an octolith. Each planet has its own theme consisting of a 
 volcanic environment, robot Aztec, ancient ruins, and various others. As the game goes on it will 
 get substantially harder and will push you to your absolute peak. Also as you progress through 
 the game you will ascertain and indulge the absolutely enchanting cinematic's which you will watch 
 over and over and over again with the cinematic library.
  
  On top of the adventure if you enjoyed this game you will no doubt spend endless sleepless nights 
 playing online. The arenas are perfect for 4 players if you were sceptical at the lack of mass 
 amounts of players. There are seven modes, which covers all the classic FPS styles of gameplay 
 like king of the hill and DEATHMATCH!!!! and with VoIP (to friends only unfortunately) online gaming 
 has never been more fun. Even if you have friends with a DS and this game (single cart is an option 
 but it has lots of limitations which take a lot of variable fun out of it) then you can play with 
 4 mates local wireless and see whos the best bounty hunter out of the 4 of you. With bots you 
 can be a loner and still enjoy the multiplayer goodness.
  
  If you have a DS without metroid.... you are scum, and should head straight down to EB games...... if 
 its not there? order it.... NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElCisne
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters is the best game so far on the DS. Definaly Best Mutiplayer, Best use of 
 wifi. Single player is solid but not sectacular.
  
  This is not Prime as you know in on the cube, this is more of a quake-like thing. but for what 
 it is and what its on it's amasing.
  
  The learning curve is a bit steep though it can take a while to get used to. your arms will get 
 sore. dont use duel mode beacuse this game has not auto aim.
  
  The graphics are amasing for the ds. it blows Mario Kart DS out of the water. ok mabey not that 
 good but still its good.
  
  The loby music is much better than MKDS's
  
  Definaly the game to get for the DS. (Untill NSMB) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Amazing graphics and well done sounds
  -Single player is long and has the metroid juice you'd expect
  -6 hunters add a great twist
 
  -Harder single player then you might think
  -Boss fights and scan visor return
  -FMV's
  -Untraditional
  -Item collecting
  -Multiplayer will keep you playing a long time
  -All modes 
 of play, hunters, and maps come online
  -Stat tracking of very specific stuff
  -Rival system so people you meet arn't forgot
  -Intense fast action
  -Major balancing done
 
  -Track even your rival's rivals
  -26 maps!
  
  Cons:
  -Untraditional
  -Lag occasionally
  -Map desine is more linear then in past primes
  -Where's the boom? (Boss 
 fight race against time finisher)
  -Controls could leave you cramped after long hard playings
  -Friends code needed to communicate 
 online, and rivalry or friends needed to play other modes then deathmatch.
  
  Final word:
  On multiplayer:
  This is a must have for ds. Everything came together so well 
 into this package since it's first hunt in 2004. Production values were through the roof, higher 
 then you see in console games even and definitely are a nice feature to single player (Should probably 
 be mentioned below) . Each hunter is unique and you'll definitely want to pick a fav. Mine is Noxus. 
 However, nintendo still needs to learn to not limit our online play with friends and rivalry's. 
 It hardly seems necessary for esbr to even say "Gameplay Expirence may change during online"
  
  On singleplayer:
  This is a great metroid but hardly traditional and not what all you metroid 
 fannys may have hoped for. It does play out like a fps more but there's lots of scanning and tons 
 of rooms you'll need to revisit when you get and item needed. Really, if you hate the single player 
 for the reason that it's not exactly metroid prime, then I think your expecting way to much out 
 of handhelds. Still, it does it's best to emulate the experience, and twist it up how it can. Difficulty 
 also spikes later, and underestimating a hunter when you encounter one is a very bad choice.
  
  Overall:
  Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Money16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunter is a great game. I won't bore you with the huge amounts of great stuff in 
 the game, but instead focus on the flaws. 
  
  For one thing, a major thing in MP is jumping. MP: H makes you double tap the screen to jump, temporarily 
 stopping you from aiming. They should have made the right shoulder button the jump button. Oh well, 
 minor flaw.
  
  Next, this is a problem with the DS and not the game, is the finger cramping after a short while 
 with this game. 
  
  Another, debatable flaw, is that it doesnt stay true to the MP series, and is more of an FPS. MP 
 lends itself well to a handheld of any sort because its lock on feature removes the need for precise 
 aim. I wouldn't have minded a more accurate reproduction of MP where you dont need to aim and can 
 simply lock-on. MP is well suited, as you only would use one D-pad to move and aim, (like MP for 
 GC) . And you could change weapons with the touch screen. And the face buttons would be for jumping, 
 transforming into morph-ball, jumping, etc. Just like the GC version. Although this wouldn't take 
 full advantage of the touch screen, it would be pretty sweet, (here's for hoping they do that for 
 MPH 2) If you disagree, then fine. But I think its a pretty sweet idea as it would have the exact 
 feel of MP 1 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubble-wrap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game every since the DS came out and let me tell you it was worth 
 every minute fr it. Multiplayer if it is on Wifi or lan is just plan fun. Even with only 4 people 
 it has a really fast paced game. The single player is fun too it does have more shooting than past 
 metroid games and is a little different but still great. There still is some puzzle solving and 
 having to find things to get certain places but i would not have it any other way. It also has 
 some nice weapons in this game and the different hunters are great too. They are just about evenly 
 matched so you will not have to worry about the game being to cheap. The grahics for the game are 
 very good for the Nintendo DS. If you have a DS you NEED TO GET THIS GAME if you have Wifi or even 
 if you do not have Wifi. This game is just plan fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davicho90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Awesome graphics
  Not very easy , not very hard
  Great sound
  Must have game ...
  excelent gameplay
  Metroid prime: Hunters takes all Ds abilities and put it in the game
  This 
 is the best DS game for all ages
  
  IF you have money only for one game you must buy this game you will never get boring with this 
 game
  and the multiplayer mode is great to spent time with friends 
  and the wifi conection is awesome 
  if you dont have friends with DS you can play against bots 
 and have levels
  
  At first the controls are dificult but quickly you get experience and get new weapons ( not very 
 quickly)
  
  Three words for this game: YOU NEED IT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13Boom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  To start this game didnt feel like the metroid PRIME games on console that we know and love. But 
 even though its not a prime it does have a strong metroid presence. The first things I knowdist 
 was the incredible graphics. They look absolutely beautiful. Other things I knowdist was the abundance 
 of short "cut scenes" I thought it was a nice touch. Now Ill note the bad things I saw. One major 
 thing was the lack of weapons in the begining you soon get more but at the beginning I was very 
 unhappy. One more bad thing was the lack of story Its nothing really . Any way to wrap up this 
 IS THE BEST DS GAME TO DATE PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMDH
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant, at first, upon hearing that the latest Metroid game would in fact be a FPS. I can 
 safely say that after taking in the game for the last day and a half that my doubts were unwarranted.
 
  
  The latest game, Metroid Prime: Hunters, has you skipping across the cosmos in search of Octoliths, 
 which are relics of a long-forgotten race. These Octoliths are the keys, supposedly, to the race's 
 'ultimate power' and it's up to you as Samus to obtain or destroy the power, and maintain the peace 
 in the galaxy.
  
  The single-player portion of the game is paced well, easing you into things gently, yet quickly 
 engaging you enough that total immersion comes to mind while learning the controls. You're forced 
 into it rather expertly, and you adapt quickly to one of four control settings you can choose. 
 As you play through the single player, six other hunters will torment Samus, attempting to steal 
 your Octoliths. If they do manage to defeat you, you must track them down and take it back by force.
 
  
  While different than the other Prime games, it felt rather natural for Hunters to be a first person 
 shooter, and the lack of a lock-on feature is hardly noticable throughout the experience. Easily 
 this is the best FPS on the handheld market to date, and easily blows past all of the other contenders.
 
  
  The real meat, however, is the multiplayer. You can play randomly against any opponent locally 
 or in the world over Nintendo's Wi-fi Connect in battle mode, or, if you make friends or start 
 rivalries online, you can take it a step further and take them on in one of five other modes, all 
 of which are very enjoyable. With over 20 maps to choose from, it's a FPS fan's paradise.
  
  In short, if you have a DS, it ought to be a crime to not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Microsoft1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best fps ive played........ besides halo 2.
  The game's controls, if you have a nintendo ds, would most likely find easy to use however if you 
 dont use the stylus the dual hand mode control style isnt very easy..
  The actual gameplay was very fun, however i have to say it's not the best part of the game. The 
 multiplayer is the best part of the game, you go on wifi and play.. if you have friend codes, people 
 can host games and their different types of games. 
  
  Very fun and worthwhile despite gamespot's original 8.6 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomanboby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all, I am a die hard Nintendo and Metroid fan, but I will try and hold back my fanboyness 
 to give you as much as an unbiased opinion as I can muster........
  First off the Graphics are extremely good all things considerd, there are only a few points that 
 I've seen that it will slow down, when there is to much going on, (like lava shots that have lots 
 of splash effects) Though nothing that will stop you from playing. Sound seems to be all there, 
 no bugs disruptions at all, great music for a Metroid game, and for the mini clips here and there. 
 Lots of footstep sounds to match, so sometimes you will be able to hear your opponent coming up 
 from behind (If you are not dead already!)
  Seems like a lot of people were complaining about the controls, when First Hunt came out, But I 
 didn't have any problems with them so I'm not going to go into any depth about them. The different 
 Hunters adds a whole new adventure to Metroid, with which i'm sure they are going to continue to 
 add in later games. Not sure which is my Favorite, apart from Samus of course, But for the time 
 being i'm going to go with Spire, His unique ability to climb walls to an extent is a very nice 
 feature.
  Multiplayer is the one thing that will probrobly keep you coming back for more. It being one of 
 the best features of the game, most of the matches are very intense and fast-paced, Prime Hunter 
 is one of my personal favorites because I find the action none especially in that battle mode. 
 Being able to use voice is something that I have been waiting for them to add since I herd that 
 the DS was going to have a Mic. But this is the first game they have actually used it for chatting. 
 I do not mind the fact that you can only chat in the lobby, But I wish that you didn't have to 
 have them in your Friend-List, That makes it much more difficult for you to try out, Because I 
 know everyone wants too..=)
  The Single-Player does not have as much depth to it but still fairly lengthy and not having access 
 to other hunters until you encounter them in the main game, is a nice feature, even if it is limiting.
 
  Overall I really enjoy the game, and probrobly will continue to enjoy it as long as I own a DS. 
 So I can Very Easily recommend this game to any DS owner and recommend people to buy a DS if only 
 to try out this Fantastic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andboy80
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Well if you are a FPS fan you would love this game. Go out and buy her right now. Take her home, 
 this is not my Samus!!!
  I hate the FPS genre and all the mindless action it brings with it .
  I Love the Metroid series 
 for its adventure-exploring part and its intelligent nonlinear game design. Back then when i head 
 that Metroid Prime for the GC would be a first-person perspective game, I was worried if this would 
 ruin the Metroid series, but it didn't. Retro studios surprised me positively, and made a fabulous 
 game based on the real metroid formula and moved the series to the next level.
  But sadly Metroid Prime: Hunters does not live up to the Gamecube games. From a technical point 
 of view its a fantastic game. The best looking game on the DS so far. But a Metroid game is for 
 me all about the single player experience, and Metroid Prime: Hunters is just to linear and uninspired 
 in adventure mode. It is the worst game in series. I never hoped I would say this about a Metroid 
 game: It Sucks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy1213
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  So finally, Metroid Prime Hunters for the DS is finally here about a year overdue. First, it was 
 schedueled to come out as one of the 1st DS games released. Supposed to come out January 05. Then 
 pushed to July 05, then august 05, then november 05, then to jan. 06 then to Mar. 20, 2006 when 
 it came out. But really (though it was a pain in the ass to wait for a long- awaited Metroid game) , 
 it was worth the wait. The graphics are excellent for the DS. (I'm sure you didn't expect the graphics 
 to look like Metroid Prime 1 and 2. The controls, you have to get used to it with holding the stylus 
 in your right hand lookin' around and moving around and shooting with your left hand. (you don't 
 want to know how many hand cramps i got) . But still, this game is top notch. Best the DS could 
 offer. A must own for a DS owner or a Metroid fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAmariochamp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely brilliant, a work of art.
  
  This is a review based on what iv'e seen and played, I dont actually own the game until next week. ( 
 I live in australia so yeah.... gotta wait for it to ship)
  
  Metroid Prime Hunters is set between Metroid Prime 1 and 2. So far so good. There have been some 
 changes from the noraml formula that make the game more user friendly in some cases, less user 
 friendly in others. For instance, the lock on is gone. What was essential in the other two games 
 and added a sense of power, has been replaced by an almost "pc style" control using the stylus 
 to aim. As many realized playing the demo, this works incredibly well and gives the game an amazing 
 FPS feel. The single player campaign covers several worlds of which you return to some later. The 
 graphics and environments are beautiful and easily outdo any other games on the DS, or the N 64 
 for that matter. Little things like the reflection on samus's morphball add that extra bling. The 
 sound is also amazing, with a very nice soundtrack to back up the wonderful and fluid gameplay. 
 Sounds out of Metroid Prime and prime 2 have been used in some occasions, and bring back plenty 
 of wonderful memories when heard. You start the game fully powered but collectors don't be disappointed, 
 there are still plenty of things collect in the form of Energy Tanks, Missile Expansions and the 
 wonderful variety of new and interesting beam weapons. There is almost nothing to critisize about 
 this game. One minor, yet common issue are the default control settings. To find a control style 
 that works well for you, some effort has to be put into it. Once mastered you feel amazingly agile 
 and free with 180 dgree turns and other FPS style moves. The other minor issue is the fact that 
 some of the gameplay is recycled. The end of level bosses are recycled throughout the game to a 
 certain extent, which gives the game a bit of a lazy attitude, as well as the countdowns which 
 don't seem to lead to anything. Although repeated, some people can't seem to admit that those parts 
 are still very enjoyable and the game does have an atmosphere to it that we as gamers love from 
 the Metroid Prime Franchise. The FMV sequences in the game are something to drool over, the graphics 
 are that good.
  
  The online and multiplayer for this game have been worked on for a veeery long time. It comes to 
 no surprise that I can inform you now that you will spend many many hours playing this game either 
 online, with bots or your friends in plenty of multiplayer modes. The different bounty hunters, 
 which you unlcok by beating them in single player, are also plenty of fun to play around with and 
 experiment with everyone's abilities and weapons. After a while you will have favourite hunters 
 and you and your friends, even people you don't know, will be killing eachother online for hours 
 with no end in sight. I have not seen any slowdown even online although I have heard that when 
 the game gets crazy some slowdown may be noticed. That is quite excusable seeing as the game is 
 otherwise perfect. 
  
  Well there you have an awfully long review. I recommend anyone with a DS should buy the game as 
 soon as they can. People in europe and Australia should be buying it over ebay RIGHT NOW!!!!
  And if you dont have a DS, I advise you to buy one, and then buy a copy of Metroid Prime Hunters. 
 You wont be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinez91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  With what is by far the best DS game, Metroid Prime Hunters keeps the Metroid series tradition 
 of great games going. This is the game that has maximized graphics, came up with great controls, 
 and overall great gameplay all in one little DS cartridge. I haven't played the wi-fi multiplayer 
 yet but i can't wait too. I think this game could actually make people want to buy the Nintendo 
 DS. The object of the game is to grab artifacts from around the universe before the other 6 bounty 
 hunters can. I enjoyed and still am enjoying this game i you will too!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quenyanarcher
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the absolute pure definition of killer app. The 3D surround outsurpasses most six-satellite 
 high fidelity Dolby surround systems. The gameplay is top-notch, with amazing accuracy and pinpoint 
 precision. It is the best produced and most user-acclaimed DS game yet made! The graphics are so 
 amazing that it leaves MarioKart DS ( A NINE???) in the dust kicked up by Samus's jump boosters! 
 The only thing keeping it from being a ten is that the artistic value of the levels is only near-perfect. 
 Only some retarded lawyer with no sane clients to benefit from could not absolutely love Hunters. 
 I would have given it a ten if Retro had done level design, but Hey! Nice job, Nintendo! WOOT WOOT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Metroid could have almost been two different games, both the multiplayer and single player experiences 
 are more than complete. But a few problems in the single player really hold Metroid Prime back 
 from living to its true fullest.
  First Lets start with the single player, Metroid Prime Hunters takes a different turn, feeling 
 more linear than the other Metroids. Some may like the feeling of direction in the game rather 
 then getting lost and wandering aimlessly (Echoes anyone?) To my knowlege, this is the FIrst Metroid 
 Game to cut back on the back tracking. What really disapointed me about the single player was the 
 fewer avalable upgrades. For the first time, they double the missle expansions (now 10, when all 
 the others were 5) , and it feels like the single player is comming to an end rather quickly.
  However, on the positive side to the single player. Its jammed packed with explosive action that 
 all metroid fans love. There are several new upgrades, and weapons to check out. And many will 
 love the new changes to the single player opposed to the orinigal feel to the game. But for me, 
 it was kind of a let down.
  What really shines in Metroid Prime Hunters, is the Multiplayer. It has everything, and I mean 
 everything. A strong single card, while multicard is better as always. Bots, several game modes, 
 and fast pased action. Also supporting WIFI, which is quick and easy to set up, you will be quick 
 to get online in the carnage. Metroid Prime Hunters Multiplayer has endless replay value, and is 
 a reason to get the game alone.
  As far as graphics and sound go, Metroid Prime Hunters, looks and feels beautiful. There are several 
 sounds that sound great, but there not very varied. And Controls Just excell. They provide the 
 same level of precision as the Key Board and Mouse for FPS on the PC. The mechanics of the game 
 are simply amazing.
  To conclude my Metroid Prime Hunters review, This is a simply Must own for the DS. If the single 
 player just had the same level of finesse as the Gamecube Metroid Prime's, this game would have 
 been so much better. But what makes the game a must own, is its Multiplayer. For any occasion, 
 just to compete online, mess around with a few DS owning friends, or just by your lonesome against 
 bots. It just excells above any handheld multiplayer experience to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  By now you probably already know that Metroid Prime Hunters rocks if you own the game, but, if 
 you are still skeptical on whether or not to pick up this gem I hope I can persuade you.
  -Graphics (9) By far Metroid Prime Hunters is in a diffrent league in terms of what the DS can do 
 with 3-D. While some minor fuzz issues and some pretty bland monster keep this from a 10 I still 
 feel like this game shines in the graphical department, and for the first time shows us just what 
 the DS is capable of.
  -Sound (10) While this may not seem like a strong point on the DS trust me it is. The sound of Metroid 
 Prime is perfectly recreated on the DS. I could'nt believe how good this game sounded myself until 
 I turned the volume all the way up, once I did that I realized that this game was one of the best 
 sounding games on the ds. Buy some good headphones and enjoy because this game sounds great.
  -Control (8) It pains me to say this but I have to tell the truth, this game does not play perfectly. 
 But minor control problems aside this is the best FPS you will buy on a handheld period. The bar 
 has been raised very high for future handheld FPSs.
  -Replay (10) The perfect game for when you are on a desert island, that just so happens to have 
 wi fi. The best use of Nintendo Wi fi connection to date.
  -Tilt (10) I have to give it the tilt, you must understand this is it! This is the game that will 
 revolutionize ds multiplayer and single player, and will do so for months to come.
  -Overall (9.3) This is a great buy if you love your DS and need a new engrossing and fun game. You 
 must buy this, Metroid Prime Hunters will be in your ds for weeks and maybe even months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: withdraw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  It's ds gold! hurry to your local game provider. It's the new gold rush. I was up tell 4 in the 
 morning playing it and I was doing good I won the first 6 rounds of wi-fi it's increadible. The 
 single player gets a little repeditive, but the online makes up for that. I waited nearly 2 years 
 for this game I new of its production before the ds came out, and I was still pumped. The graphic's 
 are about is good is it's going to get and it even looks better then the nintendo 64 if you stand 
 away from the walls. I hope this game does well although it might be a little strang for some. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  most of my day today was spent playing this game.
  i got it yesterday and played around in the single palyer game and i was amazed by the visuals 
 but it is too straightforward to be considered a true metriod game. you dont really have much choice 
 but to move forward in the game. unlike other metriods' in the prime series where you find yourself 
 wanting to explore this game you dont really want to explore too much after you have been to every 
 planet because you have seen what there is to see.
  the single player is not bad. but it is just not worthy of a prime title.
  and the escape to 
 the ship... every level... is just retarted. if anything maybe use this once or twice and then 
 give you a big explosion as a reason to be running away. all i can think is that samus really needs 
 to use the restroom after a bossfight so she rushes to her ship.
  i have been playign multi player today at work and i used our wifi hub here to log on to the nintendo 
 site to play. the voice chat works well in the lobby but playing multiplayer at work is much more 
 fun because you have many more options. the online portion is cool but i wish it had all the options 
 that the regular four player had.
  the controls work well once you get the hand of them and this game makes me want a ds lite even 
 more because i think playing with a lighter system would make this game more fun becuase my hands 
 would not get so cramped.
  all in all this is a great game and my only real gripe is that the single player mode is too straight 
 forward and the wifi portion is not as good as the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
  but if you want to be impressed with how close to pc firstperson shooting this game is and how 
 powerful your little ds is then there is no othere substitute for this game.
  i mean it is a great portable firstperson shooter that you can take online... that in itself is 
 reason enough for anyone to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachdragon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best multiplayer game I"ve ever played it highly addictive to frag somebody and 
 they get pissed. Along with that u never get tired of the single player either. It has the best 
 graphics ever seen on the DS and the most addicting gameplay 1st to meteos go out and buy this 
 game whayever u can do I trade in a couple of my DS games to get this game and don"t regret it 
 it is the best portable game ever. And astonishing achievement by any  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 ! ! ! 1 ! ! ! !~ ! 1 ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom169
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing on the DS, there are even some nice reflections on armor and stuff like 
 that. Single Player (from what I played) is great, and was some awesome cut scenes. Frame rate 
 is stable about 97% of the time, and slow down arn't that bad at all. Now on to the multiplayer, 
 this games best feature! Multiplayer is fun and fast paced. All the charectors, and weapons are 
 pretty balanced, and are unique. Theres about 25 maps, all are playable Online, and are thought 
 out well. The VOIP system is not as dissappointing as you may think. Games are too actiony to talk 
 anyway, so it's not a big deal. Only being alowed to talk to friends isn't that bad ethier, you 
 can just go on the forums anyway. Overall it's awesome, and I highly recommend it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefHalan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Metroid starts off telling you the whole story of the game. There is an awesome power lost on some 
 planets or something like that. There are six other bounty hunters trying to stop you. Each time 
 you defeat a bounty hunter in the single player, he is playable in Multi-player. You can play online 
 with the DS Wi-Fi and that was a vary smart thing. I think they focused on the Multi-player a little 
 more than the single player. In single player there is no one holding your hand telling you where 
 to go. that can be trouble in some parts but it lets it be a little more free roaming then the 
 others. The cinematics are wonderful. They truly show the power of the DS. I haven't be able to 
 play the download play yet but I would think it would be like the demo multi-player. This could 
 be the best game of the year and we are only in March. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsmith4321
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Part of my problem is before buying this game, I've been playing Daxter on the beautiful high resolution 
 PSP screen. I love Metroid, and I still have high hopes for this game as I'm just getting started. 
 But the main problem I have so far is the game is really hard to see. The DS screen just isn't 
 good enough for detailed 3D like this, I can barely make out objects and enemies. I find myself 
 practically squinting at the screen. I'm really looking forward to the DS Lite, while the resolution 
 still will be poor, the brightness looks amazing. Perhaps I can really get into Hunters after I 
 get the Lite and can actually see what I'm doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyemu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  For those of us that had chewed our way through the demo version of Metroid Prime Hunters (demo 
 name First Hunt) long ago, we've been waiting anxiously for the release of the full version. And 
 I can safely say the wait was well worth it. The day of its release (yesterday) , I rushed to the 
 local store after school and picked up one of the last remaining copies. Ever since I've been 100% 
 hooked. The gameplay is super-smooth, the environment is fantastic, and the load of gameplay options 
 and multiplayer options is mind-blowing. The fact that you can use seven characters alone is awesome, 
 and the variety of firearms is cool. The multiplayer is soooo great, and the bot function is perfect 
 when there aren't any friends around. This game is everything and more you'd expect from a Metroid 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  what was just supposed to be a tech demo becomes much much much more. The ds has been waiting and 
 waiting for its blockbuster and here it is this is absolutly the best multiplayer game for the 
 ds hell you know what I am going to label it as one of the best online multiplayer games of all 
 time halo is going to kneel before this.
  
  The story. is about samus getting a telepathic message from some where in outer space so shes goes 
 to try and check out where this freaky message is coming and she ends up planet searching yes instead 
 of one big planet its multiple planets. anyways then when on these planets she searches for the 
 mysterious artifacts du du dum and well guess what you guys get to find out the rest.
  
  The gameplay. now I would like to start off bye saying metroid hunters has leend back from its 
 heavy exploring and it went into heavy action. In each planet you will confront these people called 
 hunters who well you have to defeat. and they are preatty easy but not outrageous diffiulcty anyways 
 of cours what would a metroid game be without challenging boss battles. oh also this time samus 
 doesent lose all her freaking weapns oh no insted she can gain weapons and use those weapons aganist 
 her enimyes. the morph ball control that we loved so much in the gamecube versions well it doesent 
 work to well in this well at lest in the singleplayer. the contols for it are buggy and when you 
 want to stay in one place she moves. 
  
  The gameplay multiplayer mode. its all about the online mode here theres about several modes you 
 can play in the multiplayer from deathmatch team death match capture the nodes king of the hill 
 like mode. you can tell after playing about 5 minutes of the multi player that retro went all out 
 on the multi and seems nintendo wants to show us that counterstrike isint the best in the buisness 
 when it comes to multiplayer. also you dont just play as samus oh no you can play as the hunters 
 who you defeat in the singleplayer game are just defeat a person who uses that hunter you dont 
 have online. theres 7 hunters in all including samus and they each have thier unique morph ball 
 mode weavel has sword and while kanden is a larva and well youll find out.
  
  the sound is perfect its normal techno trippy out of this world metroid music that we all know 
 and love. thats all can say about the sound.
  
  The graphics. are beautiful even up close they arent that bad this is the true power of the ds 
 and also in multiplayer theres not that much of slowdown the framerate is right on track and super 
 smooth. the gun models look super awesome our uber wich eva yo wanna call it.
  
  the value you aint gonna put this down untill link starts using a gun instead of a sword. with 
 all the gameplay modes online and evev bots for those who dont have online this is to good to be 
 true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namhisarc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters has been awaited for the DS for a LONG time now. Most people recieved a demo 
 with their DS that showed off a few very basic features of this game, but now that it's finally 
 been released, we can all clearly see that this game will be one of the best DS games around for 
 quite some time.
  
  GRAPHICS-9/10
  
  The graphics for this game are the best graphics the DS has seen so far. Metal shines, smoke... uh... smokes, 
 and everything just looks great on the DS. I gave graphics a 9/10 because when you get too close 
 to a texture, you can clearly see pixels, but many games are like that aren't they?
  
  SOUND and MUSIC-10/10
  
  Everything sounds crisp and clear and the music is nice to hear but 
 doesn't get in the way.
  
  CONTROLS-8/10
  
  The game is mostly controlled with the touch screen, which you use to jump, change sub-weapons, 
 use alternative form, use scan visor, and most importantly, aim. And yet with all these features, 
 the touch screen NEVER feels cluttered, and it's easy to remember what all the different buttons 
 do. The only buttons you need on the DS itself are the D-pad and the L-button.
  
  The controls can be reversed so they're suitable for a left handed person, and you can also choose 
 a control method that doesn't use the touch screen at all, which can also be reversed for lefties.
 
  
  My only gripes are while stylus controls are much more precise, it usually ends up hurting the 
 hand holding the DS, unless you have a table to sit the DS on. And the other control method isn't 
 as effective as the stylus method.
  
  GAMEPLAY-10/10
  
  It's metroid! What do you expect!?
  
  The game is absolutely amazing. Framerate is almost always 
 at 100% efficiency, even with many enemies on the screen at once. There are many power-ups, some 
 more permanent that others. And most importantly, there are 6 new hunters, each with a special 
 affinity towards a certain weapon and a unique alternative form! The addition of these hunters 
 adds so much to the game.
  
  Also, you can play online once you meet the requirements. With random opponents, you can only play 
 battle mode (as far as I know) . But with friends or rivals (random people you like but don't have 
 the codes for) , you can play any mode with any settings! And while in the lobby, you can type text 
 messages or voice-chat with friends!
  
  REPLAY VALUE-10/10
  
  While you might tire of playing the solo adventure mode again and again, the multiplayer will NEVER 
 get old, as long as you have plenty of friends and rivals to play with!
  
  OVERALL (not an average) -9/10
  
  This is currently the best game on the DS. I personally NEVER 
 play first person shooters, but I made an exception for this game, and I am VERY pleased with it. 
 Don't rent this game, just go buy it. If you don't, you're missing out.
  
  Also, even if you don't have a DS, buy it anyway! The box is shiny!
  
  BOX-20/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remmbermytitans
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  It's finally here, an online first-person shooter for the DS! This game is simply amazing, right 
 from when you turn it on, you'll be amazed... The adventure mode is very good for a first person 
 on the DS, the graphics are being pushed to the limits, the enviornments are nice, and theres plenty 
 of puzzles and everything you'd expect from a metroid game. But the multiplayer is the thing that'll 
 keep you coming back for more. You can choose from single-card, multi-card, and from Nintendo WiFi. 
 There are 7 different modes when you go online, and when you use the multi-card feature, and all 
 of them are awesome. Searching for a game is pretty easy, just decide whether you want to play 
 worldwide, or regional, then whether in you skill range, or against anyone. After deciding, you 
 choose you hunter and let the battle begin. Battles are intense, and if you blink for a moment 
 or look away, chances are that you're going to get killed. There are plenty of maps so don't worry 
 about possible repetition of maps, there is a VoIP feature, though its only available for rivals 
 and friends, but no worries, cause after a match using the normal WiFi mode, you can add each other 
 to your rivals list. Overall, if you want own a DS, this game is a must-have, that is unless, you 
 hate the metroid series, but even if you do, go ahead try it, you might like it anyway... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_SHIZZZZZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  iplayer this game for afew hours in bolth modes and bolth are greaat. lots of wepons and all the 
 charitors rock. you can even down load play with nine levels. it is a lot like the other prime games 
 but is a lot faster. it runs smooth no slow downs and the cutscens are friken awsome their is even 
 a gallery to watch all the cutscens. it is a must buy for any ds owner and it is another reson 
 to ge your hands on a ds and the wifi conector. and the multiplayer is great to practice becuse 
 of the download play that is up to 4 player and you can play on all the levels and stuff what are 
 you even doing reading this revew gow and buy it right now go on go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotgunShogun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I get a call in the morning. Metroid Prime: Hunters is in stock. Well, that doesn't seem right 
 - a whole day early? Deciding not to curse my good fortune, I set out to pick up the game and see 
 what all the fuss is about. I was rather put off by the fact that I managed to blow through the 
 entire game in a mere four hours, but the game was quickly redeemed in my eyes once I logged onto 
 the Wi-Fi deathmatches for the first time. Though the wait was long (since few people had the game 
 at this point) , once the games started then I instantly knew that Hunters is destined to be a turning 
 point in hand-held gaming.
  
  The main game itself, aptly titled 'Adventure Mode' puts the player in the role of Samus. A call 
 has been put forth throughout the galaxy, spreading across communcation spectrums from radio to 
 computer to psychic callings. 'The Secret to the Ultimate Power lies in the Alimbic System.' Samus 
 Aran, long the hero of the Galactic Federation for her role against the Space Pirates and the Metroids, 
 is immediately contacted. Her goal: to discover the secret of the Alimbic race and find their ultimate 
 power before anyone else does.
  
  Samus is not alone in her quest, however. In the planets of the Alimbic System, Samus is confronted 
 by numerous rival Bounty Hunters who are also seeking the Ultimate Power. The six rival bounty 
 hunters appear at prefixed points throughout the game (and later on they appear randomly to attack 
 Samus, similar to how Nemesis functioned in Resident Evil 3) . Each hunter also has their own unique 
 'Alt Form' (the new name for Samus' trademark Morph Ball) , and a weapon he specializes in (called 
 an Affinity Weapon) . These strengths don't play much of a role in Adventure mode, but they do in 
 Multiplayer mode. But I'll get to that in a while.
  
  Throughout the four planets in the Alymbis System are hidden eight different 'Octoliths.' Once 
 all eight Octoliths are obtained, then Samus can enter the game's final area and take on the final 
 boss, in typical Metroid fashion. However, there is a twist - your rival Hunters have the ability 
 to steal your Octoliths from you, and they must be tracked down and the Octolith reclaimed to ensure 
 Samus stays in control of the Ultimate Power.
  
  Players who are familiar with Metroid Prime and it's sequel should blow through the main adventure 
 in relativity short time, and even those new to the Prime series shouldn't have too much difficulty. 
 No matter how you look at it, the game just isn't that long (the entire walkthrough in Nintendo 
 Power's strategy guide is a scant 45 pages) . But as I have already said, the redeeming feature, 
 and indeed the true meat of the game, is in multiplayer mode.
  
  First, the good news. Players are able to play multiplayer offline to their hearts content, since 
 the developers had the good foresight to include Bots. These Bots are predictably not terribly 
 challenging, but you get the right idea. I must admit I was very impressed by the number of maps 
 included in the game. In my typical pessimistic attitude, I gloomily estimated the game would have 
 only five or six maps to play on (mostly because Echoes had this disappointing number) . At the 
 very least, 10 maps total. Much to my surprise, there are twenty five maps total, and they vary 
 in size from small maps to frickin' huge ones.
  
  The different modes available to play are typical FPS fair: a straight deathmatch, a survival mode, 
 and capture the flag (uh... Octolith) modes. Also available are Prime Hunter (basically, tag with 
 guns) , Defender (King of the Hill) , Nodes (Capture the Flag on steroids) and Bounty (a simpified 
 Capture the Flag premise) .
  
  I loathe to write these words, but the developers of Hunters dug themselves a hole when they made 
 the different Hunters in the game. The seven total all have different strengths and weaknesses. 
 Samus is statistically even compared to all other characters, and is also the only one who can 
 perform the Boost ability in her Alt Form. She is also the only character to get Homing Missiles. 
 Kraden is a big bruiser with a giant electric gun which can stun people. The freaking awesome Spire 
 can shoot flames, is immune to Fire, and best of all - in his Alt Form he gets the ability to climb 
 walls. The Spider Ball returns! Spire's counterpart, Noxus, can freeze enemies solid and can attack 
 opponents with sharp blades in his Alt Form. Then there's Sylux, who is basically Samus with more 
 sophisticated attacks.
  
  And now we get to the last two: Weavel and Trace. Weavel is a former space pirate who Samus made 
 the mistake of leaving alive. His brain was implanted into a cybernetic powersuit, and in his Alt 
 Form his body splits in half. The lower half becomes an autoturret, while the other half can continue 
 wandering the battlefield wreaking havoc. And last and worst is Trace. Counter-strike has proven 
 one thing: this gaming world has an obsession with snipers. And Trace is just about the best Sniper 
 you can wish for. While Trace is holding the Imperialist (Hunter's sniper rifle) and standing still 
 - he becomes invisible. Yes, you read that correctly. An invisible sniper. Luckily, the other Hunters 
 are well balanced enough that Trace's invisibilty isn't that big of an advantage. Unfortunately, 
 even now I can log onto Wi-Fi and most of the games I join will be nothing but Trace and Weavel, 
 with the ocassional Spire thrown in. If the Trace obsession is half as bad as I predict it will 
 be, it could very well be the downfall of Hunters Wi-Fi.
  
  The graphics of the game are extremely gritty, and there is some slowdown in places. However, it's 
 rarely possible to get so disoriented to the point where you can no longer identify your surroundings. 
 The one complaint I have with the graphics is that at times they can become so pixelated, particularly 
 when you move close to walls in large areas, that the screen looks like it's had mud smeared on 
 it. This is just the console fanboy in me crying out in pain, but even still... it's worth mentioning.
 
  
  Most people out there who have a DS have already played the First Hunt demo that was included with 
 the DS, so they should be familiar with the rather odd controls. Aiming is controlled with the 
 stylus on the touch screen (which also doubles as a radar, as well as how you change weapons and 
 to Alt Form) , while the D Pad moves the character and L fires. Moving with the touch screen was 
 a good idea, however in the heat of battle it can become easy to accidentally change into Alt Form 
 or over to the Scan Visor without meaning to. This proves inconvenient at best, deadly at worst, 
 but can be overcome with practice.
  
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Story: 4 out of 5
  Controls: 7 out of 10
  Graphics: 5 out of 5
  Sound and Music: 4 out of 5
  Extras: 4 out of 
 5
  Game Length, Difficulty and Replay Value: 10 out of 10
  Overall Score: 8.6 out of 10
  
  The Good: Hunters at least proves one thing: an FPS is viable on a handheld system. This is 
 a good solid game no matter how you look at it, and could indeed be the launching point for other 
 mainstream FPS games to break into the handheld market. Only time will tell.
  The Bad: Unless you have access to Wi-Fi, the game may grow boring quickly. The Adventure is short 
 and rather easy, and even finding all of the upgrades and scans isn't that difficult. The limited 
 intelligence of the CPU Bots makes playing Deathmatches solo a trivial exercise at best.
  The Ugly: Trace, Trace, Trace, Weavel, Trace, Weavel, Weavel, Trace, Spire, Trace, Samus... woah, 
 somebody is actually playing as Samus?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Are amazing, for a DS title just simply amazing! This is the best looking DS title TO 
 DATE. You will not find a game as detailed and with such quality graphically as you will find in 
 Metroid Prime 2 Hunters. The level of detail let me mention again is what I never could imagin 
 what the DS was capable of doing. From the shine on samus to the nicks and cracks in the walls 
 of the beautifully layed out levels. 10 out of 10!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is typical Metroit Prime run and gun problem solving back and fourth, the 
 stuff your used but with ofcourse a new story with news puzzles and missions. You will find the 
 single player fun and interested through the end, I sure did. 9.5 out of 10!
  
  Control: The control on the other hand is well with one hand. Righty or lefty you will be holding 
 the sytem with one hand while aiming with your stylus. Its a great consept perfected by the mouse 
 and keyboard of PC first person shooters. The time however to get used to the controls is long 
 and a lil frustrating you can however change them to use the d-pad as the move and the 4 control 
 buttons will aim for you, not exactly the best way of doing things but if you can get the controls 
 down with some time on hand youll do fine. 8.5 out of 10!
  
  Sound: The sounds is a great plus to this game. It comes through really nice with those tiny speakers 
 of the DS. And with added chat support with select friends its a great sounding experience. 10 
 out of 10!
  
  Overall: This is ofcourse a MUST BUY game for the DS and all you DS owners. I will even say that 
 this game was in developement for such a long time which gave it such great quality makeing this 
 game Metroit Prime Hunters the Killer App for the Nintendo DS. For more gaming information be sure 
 to check out http://GameWired. tripod. com
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RushinToad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I'm typically a big fan of Computer based FPS games. Last year, I picked up a DS for 2 reasons 
 - i've owned just about every installment of the gameboy since the original; plus I had the need 
 to spend more time with the family, and less time wiping the floor with n00bs on CSS, UT and BF2. 
 The DS is a perfect companion - with games like Advanced Wars DS, American Sk8land, and of course 
 typical mario faire and the like, what more could you want in a handled that dosent have "sony 
 style"? 
  
  This game.
  
  The poor launch lineup left me feeling like a bit of a "nintendo-loser" when I first landed my 
 DS only a week after it came out. I told myself that I wasn't dumb when all the cubbie-kiddies 
 walked around with their shiny new mommy-daddy-bought PSP's, glowing wtih GTA goodness. I was still 
 cool with my little brother who was an animal crossing fanatic (even though the thought of owning 
 that game makes me feel hella-gay) ... i guess I dont care what people say, right?
  
  Well, the world will see - the innovative controls and nouveau-metroid feel of this game makes 
 me almost laugh on the inside - I don't think i've been as proud to own a Nintendo product as the 
 first day I realized that the original Metroid game I bought from Ames DIDN'T suck like the other 
 games my brothers picked. To a degree, this game could be up-there with the likes of the best games 
 ever, like Donkey-Kong and Mortal Combat.
  
  Time heals all wounds, and it looks like the DS could finally be out of the infirmary. My wife 
 is going to hate me now, because I probably wont be playing just to "get tired" anymore at nights. 
 Great job Nintendo - finally, the DS enters puberty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drock2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game is phenom!! I was floored at the level detail, the sound quality and how much fun this 
 game is. Yup, I said it. For once a game this hyped is actually fun, which most game developers 
 forget about. Multiplayer is great. You can't compare it to Halo 2 or anything but it is fantastic. The 
 control learning curve is not as bad as you would think., give it 20 minutes or so and you will 
 be flying. Single player mode is amazing, by for not forgotten or an afterthought. Just buy it. 
 I promise you will not be dissapointed. Kudos Nintendo, you got this one right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theweakbear
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  When I first turned on the DS i was so excited when i saw the metroid prime on it.... i clicked 
 it. When you get to the main menu it does all of these cool futuristic sounds, like in previous 
 metroids. I really wanted to just play the multiplayer first, but i thought i should complete a 
 few levels first. The levels are amazing better than halo! The graphics are a-m-a-z-i-n-g but it 
 is a little pixely but that makes it look cool too! I like the way you feel as though you are blasti 
 ng away anything in your path. MAN! its fun shooting little guys but the bigger ones just leave 
 me staring in amazment because of the graphics and iend up losing. -------------i could go on forever 
 but i have to just say: get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyrobo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  This game is all-round great. The DS' multiplayer capabilities come to life yet again (other appearances: 
 Mario Kart DS, Animal Crossing: Wild World) and it's great, it is like having a good FPS from your 
 laptop ( e. g the deathmatch and capture the flag qualities) except you can really take it anywhere. 
 
  Assuming that if you have a DS, you are a Nintendo fan, then you should be familiar with the Metroid 
 series (yes i say should because they are some of the best games to ever come out in this industry) 
 Any person familiar with the concept should enjoy this game a lot.
  This is one of those games you will not get sick of, the multiplayer will keep you entertained 
 for ages. The single-player, also, is great.
  The graphics are excellent , as is the gameplay. Highly Recommended
  
  Even if you are so picky 
 that the great gameplay and graphics dont hook you in, you should buy because it is a new era for 
 the DS showing that is capable of making a good FPS unlike the PSP's Coded Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasualKillla117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  While the Metroid series has always been remembered for action, the recent Prime entry's that brought 
 forth lush, 3D visuals to the Metroid universe have certainly been more about puzzles and exploration 
 than some Metroid games, like Metroid II. Metroid Prime Hunters lends itself more in the action 
 area, with puzzles based more on shooting than jumping, and whatnot. 
  
  The first you'll notice about this game are the graphics. Screenshots do not do this game justice. 
 You NEED to sse it in action. There's a sheen to Samus's armor and Morph Ball, and the enviroments 
 are spectacular. I can't remember a SINGLE game that looks as good as this on the DS or N64. This 
 definatley proves the DS is a worthy contender in the graphics department. It still may not be 
 up to par to PSP or console titles, it sure beats out every DS and N64 game out there, and maybe 
 some DreamCast titles too. 
  
  The sound is gonna be thae hardest thing for me to rate. It's still Metroid, and it's still great, 
 but some of it sounds like it came from a late 90's syntesizer, for whatever reason. Most of it, 
 however, sounds very Metroid and sets up a deep atmosphere.
  
  The controls, once you get used to them, are grand. Metroid Prime Hunters sets the bar for controlling 
 FPS's on handhelds for one simple reason: the DS was made for it. It is also innovative, because 
 it dosen't use a SINGLE button on the DS's face. You use the L trigger, the ouch screen, and occasionaly 
 the Start button for pausing, but that dosen't count. The controls come closer to PC controls than 
 any console or PSP shooter. It's that presice.
  
  This game's single player is great. The Hunters are very original and adaptive. I doubt the Hunter's 
 could get smarter because of the limits of the DS hardware, but it's still impressive. The game 
 dosen't focus so much on the exploration but more the puzzle and combat parts of the game. In addition, 
 you can now enter, and fight in your ship as Samus.
  
  The online, however, is where the game gets interesting. The VoIP function works like a charm, 
 even though it's out of game only. It's very clear, and it's not like the obnoxious Xbox Live voice 
 covers that make everything hard to hear. Seriously, a friend of mine was doing a Beavis and Butthead 
 impression, and the lisp and accent were perfectly transitioned. Not only that, but the it's easy 
 to have friends and then set up a game in a Halo 2 esque lobby. There are 7 modes of play, and 
 more than twenty maps.
  There is also a great thing called a Hunter's License that tracks your stats very well. And, if 
 you're the sore loser type who likes to dissconnect, then the Chump Meter will gauge you.
  
  This game should be in every DS owners library. It's that simple. The online, the single player. 
 Everything in this game is so meaty and deep, and beautiful. Stop reading, go buy this. NOW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aranilis8472
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I got this game today, and even while I was watching the intro movie, I KNEW I would love 
 it. 
  
  Controls: When I first started playing, I said "Huh?". You gotta hold the L Button, the D-Pad, 
 and your stylus, and you're set. The only problem is that that is a very awkward way of playing. 
 I've gotten used to it now, but even so... the only dissapointment for me.
  
  Gameplay: FANTASTIC! It looks and feels just like the first Metroid Prime! I loved everything about 
 it. I got lost occasionally, but that's just me. The aiming is very different, but likable. Pure 
 action and fun!
  
  Graphics: They vary from somewhere between N64 and GCN. The in-game graphics are fine, nothing 
 to complain about. The cinematics are breath-taking. As you hold the DS, you wonder, "How did Nintendo 
 cram ALL THIS into that little game cartridge?!?!" It's insane, but great.
  
  Sound: At times, I feel like I'm playing a GBA, and at others, like I'm playing as GCN. I was walking 
 around one of the levels, I heard a screech, and just about flipped out! I immiedately thought 
 'METROIDS', because I recognized the sound from the GCN games. If there are Metroids in game, I 
 don't know, not too far in yet.
  
  Value: Not much to say here, but it is great. Original, branching out from the safety of the normal 
 Metroid Prime franchise, and trying something entirely new! I love it...
  
  Tilt: I never understood what the TILT part of the reviews meant. Well, I'd say something about 
 WiFi, but I can't get mine to work. But multiplayer with bots is crazy fun, so WiFi must be a heaven! 
 
  
  I say you go BUY IT NOW! It's phenomanal! It's lovable! It's hte best game for my DS by FAR! GO 
 METROID! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadBunny
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Suddenly with the new hit DS games getting put onto the shelves the most waited for is metroid 
 prime hunters! After mounths of looking at it on gamespot coming soon list it has arrive and it 
 is what it had been hyped up to be!
  
  This game has 2 modes adventure and multiplayer mode! Both very different the adventure mode consists 
 of a great FPS experience! As for the Multiplayer you can take on people around the world to see 
 who is the greatest bounty hunter or play vs. your friends at school or at your house!
  
  Adventure: This mode is probably the best part about this game other than the Wi-Fi! It all starts 
 when Samus Aran (The main character) is searching for the ultimate power! But she isnt alone! You 
 will fce 6 other bounty hunters that are loking for the same power! (Will not spoil any more!)
 
  
  Multiplayer: This is a great part of MPH because of the Wifi ! You can play against people at the 
 other side of the world or your country! Also on the way you will get buddies and rivals! Your wifi 
 score will be stored on the game so you can check it when you want to! When playing with download 
 play it will all change you can take on your best friends! Or even your mom and dad!
  
  Graphics: This game has graphics that are unbelivable the cut sceeens graphics you wil never see 
 on other DS games!!! For the game the graphics are ok not great but excellent for the DS quallity!
 
  
  Sound: The music is awesome! It puts you right into the spot !All ways the right quallity!
  
 
  GamePlay: This game is great for ages 10+ I should say asfor the controls can get tricky! But other 
 wise its a great game and probably a great game for new metroid fans to start off playing!!!
  
  Pros:
  Great FPS feeling!
  Graphics are awesome!
  Wifi makes it twice as good!
  6 New 
 bounty hunters!
  
  Cons:
  Hard Controls, gets some getting used too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_suck_like_hel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  a game worth playing..
  i havent slept since i got it yesterday.
  graphics are whats expected on ds
  sound good 
  gameplay.. perfect.. havent stopped except 
 to write this review..
  i must hurry so i can go play again
  
  great controls.. i dont know what you guys are saying about taking a long time to learn the controls 
 i got it instantly
  
  so yea go get this game
  
  if you dont hve a ds yet..... this is the reason to get it 
  this and mario kart.. 
  ok i rested 
 my eyes long enough to play metroid prime hunters again
  hasta la huego 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tracertGMR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime Hunters blew me away, plain in simple. The single player is certainly good in its 
 own right. It really captures the feel of the MP games for the Gamecube, though not as non-linear 
 or large, of course. However, the multiplayer is what will really keep you coming back. Playing 
 against 3 players you don't know in one of the many arenas in a free-for-all deathmatch is fun. 
 What I enjoyed even more was playing team battles, capture the flag (octolith) , and the other modes 
 available for you to play with friends. It's easy to set up, easy to use, and thrilling to play. 
 This is the best online experience I've had on the DS yet, and certainly makes Metroid Prime Hunters 
 more than worth the $35. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicncrazy7816
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I really did not know what to expect before I bought this game because it was supposed to be the 
 Nintendo DS's first great FPS, I shortly found out that the tales of its awesome multiplayer and 
 great singleplayer are true.
  
  Gameplay
  The only reason I gave the gameplay on this game a 9 instead of a 10 is because the controls scemes 
 were a little hard to get used to, especially if your left handed.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics to this game are the best to date on the ds, fully 3d and great special effects, cut-scenes 
 are unbelivable
  
  Sound
  The sound to this game is everything you would expect from a Metroid Prime game, well done and 
 very cinematic
  
  Value
  You will get much playtime out of this game if you take the time to do it right instead of rushing 
 through, even then the game will keep you playing a good while, I highly reccomend multiplayer 
 over single player, but both are extremely well done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Almost 2 years ago when we first saw the nintendo ds we got a look at metroid prime hunters and 
 if u were one of th first people to get a ds you also got a small demo version of it and it really 
 showed off what the ds could do quite well and now that i have played i can say that its just like 
 the metriod prime on the gamecude just alot smaller it plays and feels like prime and give u a 
 real feel for the inviorment of the planet you are in so the adventure mode plays just as nice 
 as prime on the game cube but wut makes this differnt is it's multi player and online mode there 
 are so many arenas and battles it really doesnt get old and it nice that there is a setting to 
 play with people that are on the same level as youself and another thing that is really noce is 
 that each hunter you play as plays differntly fomr each other and you'll grow to have a fave to 
 play with cuz each one will give u a certin advantage so i really liked and i say if u have ds 
 there is really no reason y u shouldnt pick this u and even if you not a big fan of fps's you should 
 at least give it a try because the touch screen controls really shine some new light on fps the 
 only thing i didnt like about the games was it's soundtrack metroid prime had a really cool and 
 scifi like soundtrack to me the music in hunters was a lil cheesey but i really really recomend 
 this game to all ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say about Metroid Prime Hunters. Wait, let me restate that. What is there not 
 to say. Metroid Prime Hunters captures the feeling of metroid while making it portable, and anyone 
 who knows metroid will know what i mean by "feeling." Let me start with the gameplay. Awsome. probobly 
 the best for the DS. I just wish the controls were a little bit better. They're not terrible, bot 
 after playing for about an hour, your right arm will feel like a pin coushin. Next graphics. For 
 the DS, really great. Compared to the PSP, not even close. But we have to bare with the DS, and 
 understand that even though the DS's graphic power can't even be compared to the PSP's, the DS 
 always has these awsome games. Games like this. Next, and by far my favorite part, the online. 
 have you spent all of your time playing this game, and just beat it. Well look no ferthur then 
 the online mode. It feels like playing portable halo. That alone is worth buying this game. Unfortunatly, 
 not enough people have this game, so it takes about 5 minutes to start a game. But besides that, 
 the online is solid. It's really hard to put metroid in one catogory, but if i had to choose one, 
 it would be great multiplayer. This game will get you away from playing mario kart, ant only because 
 it's newer, but because overall, it's better. If you can find it, go pick this one up, and begin 
 your ultimate ds game adventure. I don't really want to give this game a 10 because iv'e been too 
 genoures with my reviews, but if I could, I would give this gamje a 10, because it deserves it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilFree000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  this is my first review , never really felt the need to post a review for anygame. but this is 
 something completely different , the single player is just awesome and is very true to MP on GC, 
 being a very huge MP1 and 2 fan i was skeptical at first as to whether it would live up to it but 
 for being on DS i was very amazed on how detailed and all out fun it was, the multiplayer is very 
 very very good , it feels like quake 3 on DS, and in my opinion the game seems like it performs 
 a lil better during wifi matches than single player so no lag which is good the sound are great, 
 and like i said the graphics are the best on DS thus far, they say that DS is a lil better than 
 N64 graphics wise , but not i would say its like a low res. GC i was very impressed, any who good 
 game very fun a must buy i repeat A MUST BUY!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The controls get taking used to, but if you played the demo, u know the dontrols. The graphics 
 are improved from the demo alot. The game has alot of action. There are alot of enemies to blast 
 at, and the boss fights are fun. The cutscenes in this game are really really good. The graphics 
 in this game are the best on the DS, but some of the enemies look grainy. it doesnt really matter 
 becasue the entire game just looks pretty good. Wifi in this game is the most fun i have ever had 
 playing an online game. Get a game going with 4 people, and everyone is blasting and morphing. 
 Its Too much fun. Get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogue81
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  "Metroid Prime. Hunters" is the first sci-fi shoot-em up to be offered by Nintendo for it's little 
 two-headed monster. You'll get your kicks and a major dexterity test as a bonus. You start off 
 by being treated to a short video introducing Samus' new bounty hunting competition. The 6 new 
 hunters look great in this video, and the DS gets to flex some graphical muscle I didn't even know 
 it had.
  
  Afterwards, you create a new file and get to take over control of Samus. You'll enter a hangar 
 bay where everything looks clean and sharp. But the controls are where the game hits it's first 
 bump. The individual controls are smooth. The look controls are exceptionally smooth... after all 
 Samus' visor copies the movement of your stylus so why shouldn't they be smooth? It's when you 
 put shooting, jumping, and running together that things get difficult. 
  
  The standard control setup (there are four to choose from) has movement set to the D-pad, looking 
 is set to the touch screen, firing Samus' gun is set to the left shoulder button and jumping can 
 be done by double tapping the screen or pressing one of the lettered face buttons on the right 
 side of the screen. So, try to picture your left hand curled around the DS with your stylus in 
 your right, and youre trying to take down a room full of little security droids. They aren't difficult 
 to destroy, (one or two hits will do it) but they come at you in large numbers. Trying to evade 
 fire will sometimes put you against an obstacle that you just need to jump over. Since jumping/looking/aiming 
 are all done with the stylus, a simple jump can become a big problem... unless you have a double 
 jointed pinky finger that can snake out and hit one of the face buttons.
  
  Enemy AI is good. The little cannon fodder droids are simple to dispatch and their bigger cousins 
 will provide more of a challenge accordingly. I did encounter one little hiccup during the first 
 boss fight. As I was chasing him around the room, he got stuck in the geometry at one end of the 
 level and looked like he was having a seizure. It was only for a couple seconds and the fight went 
 on without a hitch afterwards, so no biggie I guess.
  
  I've already touched on grapics a bit, and for such a small unit, it does a great job of rendering 
 3d environments. The levels look detailed and large. The enemies float/run/crawl with surprisingly 
 fluid motion. The DS' size, however, does hurt the game a bit. When chasing an enemy around a decent 
 size room it's easy to lose track of what youre fighting. Still, for something so small it's easily 
 putting out graphics on par or better than the N64 did. (think Perfect Dark)
  
  As far as the fun factor, I'm really enjoying this game despite it's crazy control setup. It's 
 Samus! Pocketsized of course, and she brings everthing a super futurisitc bounty hunter can offer. 
 Add a WiFi multiplayer system that lets me blast my friends from 7 states away and this game is 
 definately worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  The good: long single player quest, 20 arenas 6 modes 7 hunters to play on-line and off, amazing 
 graphics, amazing video, remixed sound and new tracks, the bad: only 4 players, voice chat is only 
 for friends list, d pad is not as tight control as in demo.
  
  ?: if we can have a game cube like fps why not the Sims?
  
  we have been waiting for this game 
 for like 2 years now. what do we get? the best ds game to date. It's just like the game cube only 
 for your ds. If you played the demo you will see what they changed real quick. The single player 
 quest is nice and long and very fun. It has some good video and shooting. The mul ti player is 
 were this really shines. As you read above and other places it's the best you can get on a hand 
 held. If you have a ds this is a MUST HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Samus is back in this all new game on the Nintendo DS. This game makes use of the touch screen 
 pretty well and has Online play wich makes it even better, now let's begin the review by looking 
 at the aspects of the game.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The controls are suprisingly good and this game makes use of the touch screen pretty well, also, 
 controlling the alt-form is simple.
  Online Play: The online play of this game is simply beautiful, switching to alt-form isn't too 
 hard, that's why I recommend you to use the thumb strap. Switching weapons may be a little more 
 tricky but it's still simple. During online play, you also may have some slowdowns wich are very 
 irritating but other then that, the online play is very nice.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  Not too much to say there except that these graphics are possibly the best ones that I've saw on 
 the DS ( just like Nintendogs) , I didn't encounter any glitches in this game so the view must 
 be very beautiful for you when you're playing.
  
  -Sound-
  
  The in-game music is simply gorgeous, this game offers some good sounds that may remind you of 
 past metroid games.
  *SPOILERS* : When you finish the game, you unlock a sound test wich has every single sound and 
 music of the game in it. It's really good and I keep listening there, gotta finish the game to 
 get it, it's worth it !
  
  -Value- 
  
  This game has a good lenght, it could keep you playing it (single player mode) for a good 1-2 weeks. 
 For the replay value.......... well you've got online play so it's always fun to play Metroid Prime 
 Hunters ! Also if you cannot play Online or you don't have any friends with a DS......... there's 
 always multiplayers mode with bots ! So you can enjoy multiplayer action with both Online, Friends 
 or even alone !
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt-
  
  This game deserves a good score because it introduces FPS games to the DS, in a pretty good way. 
 It shows developpers how to do FPS games on the DS, and I am sure, after a beautiful game like 
 this, that we will see lots of FPS on the DS.
  
  Overall this game is Superb and I give it a 9.3, it has a great single player mode and Online mode 
 and I recommend this to every Metroid or FPS fan.
  
  Thank You for reading my review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGamePhreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today; the first day; and all I have to really say is wow. Metroid Prime was 
 one of those "meh" games that were easy to pass up for me, but this game is spectacular. This is 
 a real DS gem right here! I mean it when I say this: this is a Halo killer.
  
  Graphics: 10/10. Amazing graphics for a DS cartridge. What is supposed to be a huge story mode 
 and great multiplayer mode is all in this one tiny cartridge and it has great sharp graphics. The 
 game looks much better in action than in the pictures. The character models for the most part look 
 really good, and so do all the enviroments and whatnot. Top notch DS graphics!
  S
  ound: 9/10. There's little rhythms going on in the background, you can hear Samus' every steps, 
 the creatures sound sweet, everything works. The only real problem with the sound is it's a tiny 
 bit grainy, but it really is great anyways.
  
  Control: 9/10. I love the control for this thing. I personally play with the stylus, but you can 
 use the D-Pad and buttons as well. When using the stylus, just use L to shoot if you're right handed, 
 and double tap the screen to jump. It's really easy and fast and really gets you in the game. The 
 only problem for me is that my hand sometimes gets sore because it isn't the most comfortable position 
 to have your hand in.
  
  Fun: 8.5/10. This game is amazing, plain and simple. The fantastic graphics, great gameplay, nice 
 sound and and easy-to-use control... EVERYTHING! This is ( like I said ) a Halo killer; it's a 
 lot like it, but it's handheld and it's Metroid. This game has everything... even stats and great 
 WiFi, hell if you don't have WiFi, play against some bots on "Single-player-multi-player". This 
 is just one game you should not pass up. An absolute masterpiece by Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonhuman40
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the coolest DS game yet. The graphics don't get any better. The music to. The gameplay 
 has more shooting than puzzle solving, alot of the shooting actually is puzzle solving! All the 
 enemies move smoothly in single player and multiplayer. In-game cinematics!!!
  
  This game has the most intense multiplayer shootouts I have ever played. Halo 2 has really good 
 multiplayer, but this out classes even that! There are more than 15 arenas and 7 characters. You 
 start out with 10 arenas and Samus in multiplayer. The other arenas can be unlocked in match-ups 
 and in single player. When you beat the hunters in single player you get them for multiplayer. 
 The cool thing is that when you beat an opponent while they're playing as a character you don't 
 have, you get that character! Each hunter has their own special weapon and you can get those in 
 the form of power-ups that you can switch to!
  
  In single player you go to different planets and fight 1 of the 6 bounty hunters on each one for 
 the octoliths at the end of the levels. To obtain the octoliths you must battle the planet boss. 
 Here's the thing though. When a bounty hunter kills you they take an octolith! And after you beat 
 the planet boss you have to get the heck out of there before the place self-destructs! You move 
 with the keypad, look around and jump with the stylus, to shoot just press the L button. What I 
 was really happy about was the map still being 3D!
  
  Overall, this game is crazy shooting puzzle solving fun with the best music, sounds, gameplay mechanics, 
 and last but definitely not least, graphics on the DS. You won't find better graphics and smoother 
 graphics in a DS game. DS gamers, rejoice!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario562
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  A Nintendo DS game that will bring stars and glitters to peoples eyes. This Game will lighten up 
 your day with the best graphics seen on the DS today. The touchscreen is used really well, the game 
 design is great, and most of all gameplay and multiplaying are AMAZING. Any body who owned the demo 
 should' ve known where the game was going. I got this game on the day it came out and I was so 
 surprised to see what the line was like when I went to go pick it up. The good thing is that I 
 reserved min so that I don't have to worry about them going out of stock. The only thing I had 
 about this game was its sound. The sound could' ve been tuned up just a lil bit since the demo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdVader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Most Sequels could turn out bad, in my opinion 50% of all sequels flop, 1 becuase they do not stay 
 true to the game before, and 2 developers sometimes add so much in that the game is just a mess... but 
 with Metroid Prime: Hunters the Story is so much different.
  
  You can do exciting multiplayer modes with a very satisfying Adventure Mode, controls are easy 
 to get to and all the Metroid gizmos and gadgets have been crammed in, and MORE. This game is a 
 definite buy for all Nintendo DS owners, and when I say ALL DS owners I mean 100% of the population 
 of those with a DS. 
  
  This game is worth buying 10 times over, I just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekrotaunter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  this is really the best a first person shooter can be. the touch screen works great for aiming, 
 and an atmosphere is accomplished easily on a handheld. control has been tweaked just enough since 
 the demo version. this also has great sound. this is the only portable game so far that actually 
 dragged me into the story. only complaint is relatively repeatitive. this doesn't mean much on 
 your way in, but your rushed escaped can make it somewhat confusing. i haven't played it online 
 yet, but multiplayer was fun in the demo, so i'm assuming it's only gotten better. if you've played 
 the gamecube games, or maybe none of the metroids, this game is still worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First off I would like to say this is Nintendo's first 3d Metroid (considering that Retro Studios 
 made the last 2 and Fuse made Pinball) and now after thinking about how it came out it's very surprising.
 
  
  Controls: The DS is made for FPS' let's all agree on that. Now let's also agree that the analog 
 nub on the PSP sucks ( But it's something I got used to) and basically every other portable has 
 had nothing but a D-Pad (which sucks for FPS') . By now you should agree the touch screen is the 
 way to go.
  
  Graphics: Graphically this game is astounding. Personally I think it looks better than Coded Arms 
 or any FPS on the DS. The textures are clean the morph ball looks superb (as well as Samus and the 
 other hunters) .
  
  Sound: Sound-wise it was also very well done. Most sounds were transferred from the Gamecube counterparts. 
 I was also surprised to hear how loud they were.
  
  Value: It's a fairly linear game surprisingly, but it is long basically as long a Prime on the 
 cube and the multiplayer is excellent.
  
  Tilt: You will be playing this game until you beat it basically. It's a very superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteros
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Its all there, this game plays just like a metroid should, but it also manages to be a really well 
 done multiplayer fps. The game has everything you want, from great shooting, to a well done scan 
 visor, to some cool morph ball action.
  
  Graphics:
  They all look good and seem well animated. For a portable game this looks great and is generally 
 good looking but I just can't give it a 10, the graphics are a little grainy and just not entirely 
 welcoming to look at. The movies on the other hand are simply beautiful.
  
  Sound:
  Good sound effects, use of the mic, and regular metroid type music. Sounds good to me. Also you 
 can change the volume of sfx, music, and mic seperatly. The music is a tad repetetive though.....
 
  
  Value:
  Nintendos online still leaves a bit to be desired, but between the long single player, the awesome 
 local area network playing, playing against bots, and using the online theres alot to do.
  
  Tilt:
  Metroid! Handheld! Multiplayer! Online! What more needs to be said? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoLA
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Metroid Prime: Hunters takes place between the events of Metroid Prime and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. 
 Fittingly, you'll notice that Samus Aran still pilots the ship from Metroid Prime, but bears the 
 armor from Echoes. The Galactic Federation has advised Samus to investigate the appearance of mysterious 
 artifacts -- Octoliths -- that were left behind by an ancient civilization. These artifacts are 
 spread throughout the galaxy in five different zones. In a non-linear twist, you're able to freely 
 visit each area using Samus's ship. 
  
  In-game, Hunters contains a perfect blend of puzzles, shoot-outs, and portal jumping. But in the 
 game's sizeable environments, don't expect a straightforward, linear experience. To gather the 
 best weapons and unlock new areas, you'll need to visit each world multiple times. When you're 
 not spraying energy blasts in every direction, the scan visor will help you locate and examine 
 key items -- items that will unlock doors and activate portals. 
  
  Being part of the Metroid series, Samus's Morph Ball factors into much of the gameplay. You can 
 use the DS's stylus to scoot around, but the directional pad is a lot more intutive (and precise) . 
 At times, the camera will swing out in areas for a two-dimensional view of the surroundings, which 
 comes in handy because the third-person view isn't always ideal for Morph Ball segments. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazminisgreat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  overall, this game is the bomb  all metroid games 
 are.
  THE GOODIENESS:
  the graphics omg, the graphics. best i've seen on ds, almost better than gc. The new bounty hunters 
 were cool, my heart goes out to weavel, the coolest of the new b-hunters.
  THE BADDIENESS: first of all............ NO AIMING what so ever, and the controls culd be so much 
 better, but instead they gave us 4 different and useless ways to walk.
  
  so overall this game has more goodieness than baddieness, and people, don't not buy a game because 
 of its controls or graphics, buy a game if it is fun. And i assure you that this is a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinwithatow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is, most likley, the best game for the Nintendo DS; it is just flat out fun. The single 
 player mode is very entertaining: when you start a level, you explore a bit and mabey get a few 
 upgrades. after that, you face a bounty hunter that you have to kill. this is cool becuase it is 
 like a mini-boss. then, you transport back to your ship. the ship is the only place that you can 
 save the game. later, you explore some more and get to the big boss fight and collect an occolith. 
 This sets off some security. it is your job to backtrack and find your way back to the ship before 
 the area explodes.
  
  Just from playing multiplayer, you can tell that the company put a lot of effort into making it 
 fun (because it is) . you and up to three other people vote on maps (there are twenty of them in 
 total) . then you shoot the bajeezes out of eachother. the way that it is set up almost feels like 
 halo but is different. some cool features are that the bounty hunters react differently to powerups 
 so you have to figure out which one you want to be your favorite.
  
  Anyways, metroid prime looks great and plays great: Just get it. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthmatt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I've only played the single player for a few minutes, but I am already impressed. The visuals are 
 amazing for the DS and the controls are well balanced even tough it will take some time to get 
 adjusted to the stylus look/shoot setup. I did spend some more time playing online, and I am blown 
 away. Not only do the levels and characters look great, but the frame rate was silky smooth the 
 entire match. It was hard to believe I was playing online via wi-fi. The deathmatch mode was fast 
 paced, intense and very fun. If you've been looking for a FPS on the DS this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: real_time
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Let us start by tipping our hats to Nintendo! The legendary video game producers/creators have 
 done it again! This game impressed me from the first moment I started playing until the moment 
 I began writing this review. It will continue to impress me as you continue reading this review 
 as well!
  
  Metroid Prime: Hunters is the first game to show case the power of the DS. The graphics are a step 
 above all other DS games. The environments are incredibly immersive, with great atmospheric effects. 
 The models are low in polys, however they still look great!
  
  Single player is fun and long, hunting other bounty hunters is incredibly satisfying!
  
  Then 
 comes the multiplayer. What more can I say about a Multiplayer Metroid that hasnt already been 
 said? Its fast and furious!
  
  If you are a fan of the series, or own a DS and are looking for a great game. Pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  The best online and off-line game play I have ever had. Also for the DS it has the best graphics 
 i have seen. This game will have you playing for hours on end. I might only be able to play it for 
 3 days until I have to return it to game stop and go back friday and buy it but this is the best 
 game on a hand-held in a long time. I strongly recomend this game to anyone who likes FPS and likes 
 fun game play and great online play. This is a must buy for the Nintendo DS. So what are you waiting 
 for get off you ass and buy this game. -WHAT HE SAID 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  MPH is Nintendo's finest DS title to date. With excellent online play, and a great adventure mode 
 that moves more toward an action type setting that pure adventure gaming. Metroid Prime Hunters' 
 online play featues 20 maps, and seven game modes, although the online can only have 4 people, 
 and voice chat is only before and after matches, metroid prime still gets just about everything 
 right.
  
  Gameplay
  MPH plays more like a first person shooter now, than when the first 2 were more like adventure 
 games than action oreiented titles. The gameplay still lives up to its expectations though. And 
 with a intresting touch; when you fight another hunter in sigle player mode to gain an artifact, 
 the game changes depending on the result. If you lose to him, you must find him in another area 
 in the game. Which adds an intresting touch knowing even if you lose, the game will be diffrent. 
 Also, the addition of the hunters is good, as they all have diffrent weapons and morph ball forms.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are really nice, and polished in MPH. The gun animations and diffrent textures are 
 all intresting and nicely put together. The presentation of the game also adds to the great graphic 
 effects in the game.
  
  Sound
  The sound is gloomy and gets the game well, although i think that the sound power of the DS could 
 have gotten the music in better touch, as it sounds a little worn out, and more like a GBA game.
 
  
  Value
  The game is pretty lenghty, maybe just as long as Metorid prime on the GC, with many energy packs 
 and things to collect. And the biggest and badest addition to the metroid series also adds some 
 lasting value: the online play. With 20 maps, seven game modes, and many characters, the game will 
 last you a long time. But then again, depending on who you are, you may get a little bored because 
 the online mode only has up to four players, and the Wi-fi connection does not work in a way where 
 you can have clans going on...
  
  Overall
  The game is well worth the price tag. The controls are good for me, but its not always about me. 
 They may be uncomfortable for people. It does take a while to get used too, but other than that, 
 you will have fun with MPH, be playing it for a long time, and look at beatiful DS graphics while 
 doing it. Isnt that all you need to play a good game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwmankey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The best online and off-line game play I have ever had. Also for the DS it has the best graphics 
 i have seen. This game will have you playing for hours on end. I might only be able to play it for 
 3 days until I have to return it to game stop and go back friday and buy it but this is the best 
 game on a hand-held in a long time. I strongly recomend this game to anyone who likes FPS and likes 
 fun game play and great online play. This is a must buy for the Nintendo DS. So what are you waiting 
 for get off you ass and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Metroid has always been good as any of them have... This one for DS has blown me away as I started 
 to play it. The game has some flaws and the graphics are what to say for DS graphics but the gameplay 
 is still fun just like the demo. There is a multiplayer for online and that is just PLAIN fun to 
 do. As you play the game and find how to beat certain and HARD puzzles you get in the habit as 
 if this game is just like Metroid on the Gamecube! It's fun and addicting and it will be hours 
 until you finally beat the game in your choosing. Multiplayer however will keep you playing your 
 DS on multiplayer until they have a new FPS on DS that is online.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryehngeocef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  My biggest gripe with the game is the control scheme. It's awkward at best, and there is no way 
 to customize it. The stylus control works as good as you would want it to, and the "dual" control 
 mode is terrible. There's no middle ground. It definately takes some getting used to.
  
  The game play is alot more action oriented than the GCN versions. But anyone who played those titles 
 will have no trouble jumping in. I don't see it being as long as Prime though, as about 2 hours 
 of gameplay in, I've already killed 3 of the hunters, and I'm at about 20%. It seems easy and linear 
 so far.
  
  The Wi-Fi play is great so far, but it's tough to put together a random match so far. Just like 
 with Mario Kart, there's a screen that attempts to contact 3 others to play with. The shortest 
 amount of time it took me to put together a random match is 5 minutes. Hopefully you'll have some 
 friends' codes to add. The hunters are all well balanced in the various Wi-Fi modes, which is, 
 of course very important.
  
  Graphics and sound are the best I've seen yet on NDS. Everything runs extremely smooth, and is 
 exceptionally detailed. The FMV sequences are quite nice as well. The sound creates a distinctive 
 Metroid Prime feel, and is very very atmospheric. Best experienced with your DS' sound set to surround.
 
  
  As far as value, it's tough to tell as of yet, but it really does seem like a multi-player focused 
 effort from NST. The more you enjoy online First-Person Shooters, the better.
  
  Definitely a Triple A title for the NDS, as long as you know what you're in for, and aren't looking 
 for Metriod Prime 1.5, as this is very much a shooter as opposed to an adventure game. Happy hunting 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review from A member of a forum who happens to have the game.
  Metroid Prime Hunters is the best DS game so far. The title screen is Amazingly good and i found 
 myself re-watching the intro movie hundreds of times. Ive never really been into the Story mode 
 much in previous metroid titles but Hunters grabs you and doesnt let go.
  The graphics are VERY impressive for a nintendo ds game. You can spot the odd differences when 
 you come close to a huge object, But its nothing Bad or anything. HARDLY noticable when playing 
 a action packed game.
  The sound obviosouly isnt as good as the gamecube titles since the conversion from DVD to cartridge. 
 But the odd sound effect that doesnt fit seems a little out of place if you constantly play or 
 remember the gamecubes sound quality. The background sounds are as good as ever and the new track 
 for the Hunters remix we have heard to often is great.
  The gameplay amazed me at the sight to the planet selection screen. The top screen acting as a 
 telescope and the bottom screen as a kind of map works great. I feel so professional! 
  The first place you can visit is the old crumbling space station. There you will fight Nintendos 
 favourite hunter... Kaden. Along with the boss showdown with the 'wooden pole' The levels are as 
 great as ever and the nessecary bit to any metroid game is the start briefing of scanning simple 
 doors to find out how to unlock or simply demonstrating the missles or shooting locks to open doors.
 
  
  In summary the mulitplayer is great especially if you live in a closet and want to play alone out 
 of the light. The bots range from one star to three stars. There are 26 levels i think and you 
 start of with 8. You have to unlock more in single player mode by breaching different planets or 
 simply playing more than a certain amount of matches. I havent really tested out wifi yet. But 
 the lobby system works like some PC games like Battlefield 2. You can select peoples rooms and 
 with lots of customization options your in for a real fight!
  The levels are immersive and complicated and take true mastering to find where to fight and how. 
 
  I hope you have enjoyed my (his) review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boberson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Well to start out the only bad thing is the sound dosen't appeal to my liking of course many of 
 you will probably disagree with me. The good thing is it captures the first person perspect from 
 the camecube version and puts it into the palm of your hand. Also another good thing is that it 
 will last you longer than the GBA versions if your not a super hardcore DS player which i'm not. 
 The multi-player is great but only if you have alot of friends. So in all if you like FPS games 
 and own a DS you should get this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
