-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Micro Machines V4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/micromachinesv4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 750 miniature cars to collect.
 Lots of different, cleverly designed tracks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The camera angle makes it impossible to tell where you're going most of the time.
 generic, uninteresting vehicles.
 very little room for error in the challenges.
 bland, undetailed graphics.
 Touch-screen controls are useless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 6.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Supersonic Soft.
Genre: Racing
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The sheer number of cars and tracks in Micro Machines V4 doesn't make up for the underlying frustration 
 of the racing. 

  Micro Machines aren't nearly as popular now as they once were, but the miniature collectible cars 
 are still racing in Micro Machines V4, yet another top-down racing game from Codemasters. It's 
 been 15 years since the original Micro Machines game appeared on the Nintendo Entertainment System, 
 and the formula hasn't changed a bit in all that time. Rather than focusing on bringing the series 
 up to date, or even just polishing up the presentation, V4 simply adds more of the same -- a lot 
 more, in fact. This game has more weapons, more tracks, and more cars than you could possibly know 
 what to do with. The Nintendo DS version also adds some worthless touch-screen controls and shrinks 
 everything even further to fit the small DS screen. But for all that content, the novelty of racing 
 tiny cars just isn't as entertaining as it used to be, which leaves Micro Machines V4 sitting on 
 four flat tires.  

          Can you see what the heck is going on here?     

  The most notable feature of V4 is its impressive array of collectible miniatures. There are a whopping 
 750 cars to collect in the game, and you can even trade them with your friends over a local wireless 
 connection. The vehicles are divided into 25 classes, such as concept, muscle, off-road, and even 
 gas guzzlers. You collect these cars by completing more than 75 single-player challenges in the 
 game. The collection aspect of the game makes sense given the Micro Machines license, and it provides 
 you with plenty of incentive to keep playing the game. You can race any of the cars that you've 
 collected, or you can just go into the garage and look at them. The problem is that the cars are 
 generic and lack some much-needed detail, especially on the smaller screen of the handheld. The 
 vehicles look blocky and are painted in dull, flat colors, and there isn't much variety because 
 although there are a ton of vehicles in the game, many are just different-colored versions of the 
 same model. They don't sound unique, either, with a constant and annoyingly high-pitched whine 
 being the universal engine noise in the game.  

  Despite their standardized appearance, the vehicles do handle somewhat differently. Each vehicle 
 has ratings for speed, acceleration, grip, and handling, which all affect how the car moves on 
 the course. The difference between a car with a high speed rating and one with a low speed rating 
 is noticeable, although with so many vehicles you'll invariably end up racing a lot of vehicles 
 that are pretty average in their performance. As a result, you'll feel as though you're driving 
 the same car most of the game until you get behind the wheel of some of the nonstandard vehicles, 
 like trucks or dragsters. The Nintendo DS version of the game offers a control option that lets 
 you use the touch screen to steer your vehicle. You can accelerate using the up direction on the 
 D pad or the A button while manipulating a small steering wheel that appears on the lower screen 
 of the DS. This control method works so poorly that it's almost impossible to use, making it nothing 
 more than a throwaway gimmick.  

  Regardless of which type of car you drive, the racing technique is always the same. You hold the 
 gas button down constantly, powerslide around every corner, and try not to fall off the edge of 
 the track. As in previous Micro Machines games, the tracks you race on are all set in average, 
 everyday places, like a kitchen countertop, a garden, or a workbench. The game does a decent job 
 of providing a sense of scale, duplicating the  Honey, I Shrunk the Kids  effect of having ordinary 
 items that you see every day appear massive and daunting. You'll see giant hairbrushes, chickens 
 that seem to be 10 stories tall, rain gutters wide enough to fit three cars comfortably, and so 
 on. Some of the tracks are creative and fun, while others cover the same themes that you've seen 
 in every Micro Machines game ever made. Unfortunately, the sense of scale is diminished on the 
 small screen of the DS. The lack of detail also makes the tracks look bland and lifeless. Some 
 of the background details that give the tracks character in the console versions of V4 are either 
 missing or are difficult to make out in the DS version. The DS game also suffers from occasional -- though 
 no less annoying -- slowdown, which kills any sense of speed the game may have had up to that point. 

  Most of the tracks are quite perilous given the slippery handling of the cars, a problem that is 
 compounded by the fact that it can be extremely difficult to even see where you're going, due to 
 a constantly shifting top-down perspective. In the game's battle mode, you have to get enough of 
 a lead over your opponent to cause him to leave the screen. In these events the camera zooms out 
 to keep all of the vehicles in the picture, so if you're in the lead you have no view of the track 
 ahead and have to rely entirely on memory to determine when to turn.  

  On the DS, the point at which the trailing car is knocked out is inconsistent and difficult to 
 judge. Sometimes you'll seem to hang on for quite a while at the bottom edge of the screen; at 
 other times, you'll barely fall behind the lead car and be instantly disqualified. This adds another 
 level of frustration to the already difficult task of racing without being able to see where you're 
 going. As soon as one racer drops out the camera finally zooms back in, which is helpful because 
 it usually improves your view of the course; but at the same time, the frequent movement of the 
 camera can be disorienting because you never get the chance to get used to one perspective. Even 
 when the camera stays put, as it does in the standard race mode, it can still be difficult to navigate 
 the courses unless you've driven them several times before and have memorized each turn. If you 
 miss a turn you'll go flying off the edge of the track, and some of the tracks are very narrow 
 and feature plenty of deviously sharp turns. The way that most of the single-player challenges 
 are structured, even one slight mistake is enough to make you fail; so there is very little room 
 for error.  

  There are several basic race types in Micro Machines V4. The most common race is the battle race, 
 where you earn points by driving so far ahead of your opponents that they leave the screen. There 
 are also standard three-lap races, time trials, and checkpoint races. In the checkpoint races, 
 you have to reach the next checkpoint on the track before your time runs out. Passing through a 
 checkpoint earns you more time, but just barely enough to let you reach the next checkpoint -- as 
 long as you don't make any mistakes. The checkpoint races are slightly more forgiving in the DS 
 version than in other versions, but they can still be incredibly difficult. It's aggravating to 
 run a perfect race right up to the end only to slip off an edge or take a turn too wide and have 
 to repeat the entire race.  

  While the focus of V4 is on driving fast and staying on the course, there's also a combat element 
 to the game. When you're racing or battling, you'll collect items scattered throughout the course 
 that can be used to attack your enemies or heal yourself. There are a variety of weapons, including 
 machine guns, missiles, bombs, and even giant hammers. When you attack an opponent, his car will 
 take damage. As the car becomes damaged it drives slower and doesn't handle as well, and if a car 
 takes enough damage it will lose wheels and eventually stop altogether. The weapons add a bit more 
 chaos and excitement to the game, but more often than not it's easier to simply bump an opponent 
 off the track or outrun him than it is to blow him up.  

          You can try steering with the wheel on the touch screen, but it won't work very well.  
    

  You can play the game with up to three other players over a local wireless network, but each player 
 has to have a copy of the game, which limits your chances of ever actually experiencing the multiplayer 
 component of Micro Machines V4. If you do happen to find other people who own the game you can 
 play battle mode or run a standard three-lap race, and you can choose to turn the power-ups on 
 or off as you see fit. You can also trade cars that you've collected, but it's difficult to get 
 excited about trading a blue box-shaped car for a red box-shaped car.  

  The sheer number of cars and tracks in Micro Machines V4 is impressive, but the actual racing just 
 doesnt hold up. Some of the tracks are cleverly designed and are genuinely interesting, but even 
 then, the frustrating camera and loose handling of the vehicles can make for a trying race. These 
 problems are worsened by the blurry graphics and small screen. The Nintendo DS library isn't exactly 
 rife with excellent racing games, and unfortunately, Micro Machines V4 doesn't do anything to change 
 that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Micro Machines.... Is amazing! Ill tell you why.
  
  -750 cars to collect (Dont know why gamespot said there bland, they look good to me)
  -Lots of 
 Hilarious and fun tracks
  -Scale is funny! A chicken is freaking 50 times bigger than your car
  -over 9 weapons! Including 
 Dice bomb, Daisy cutter, machine gun and cremator
  -Damage system is cool. Wheels fly off and its a smart system
  -Cars do a little dance if they 
 win (Break dance, Skid dance.) HILARIOUS
  
  There is sooo much more!! But this game is worth it! IT IS TOTALLY ADDICTING!
  
  I think Gamespot 
 giving this game a 5.6 is VERY unfair.
  
  This game is FREAKING awesome! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
