-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mini RC Rally
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/minircrally/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Potentially a breakthrough cure for insomnia.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Possible side effects include: nausea, headaches, depression, and dry skin.
 The racing is not fun in any way, shape, or form.
 It takes forever to win your first race, much less an entire tournament.
 Terrible music and sound effects.
 None of the camera angles work even remotely well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.9
Critic Score: 1.9, 3.3 Review (s)
User Score: 3.3, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Summitsoft Entertainment
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Dec 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you have the misfortune of playing Mini RC Rally, you can at least find solace in knowing the 
 next game you play won't be any worse. 

  Tiny RC cars driving on "wacky" full-sized tracks in real-world settings was a neat idea the first 
 dozen or so times it was done, but it's played out by now. It seems the folks at Summitsoft Entertainment, 
 which is best known for its data backup programs and logo design software, didn't get the memo, 
 and they've unleashed a real stinker in the form of Mini RC Rally on the Nintendo DS.  

          Awww, you can't see where you're going? Too bad!     

  If you like remote-controlled 
 cars or you're a fan of the Micro Machines games and are able to disregard the fact that this sort 
 of game has already been done numerous times, you'll find that the basic premise of Mini RC Rally 
 isn't terrible, at least compared with the rest of the game. You drive your little car around tracks 
 that are filled with normal-size objects, and you earn money for winning races. You can spend your 
 cash on upgrades, repairing damage to your vehicle, and new cars.  

  When you're looking at the back of the box, everything seems peachy. It would be best to stop there, 
 however, because it's a nightmare once you turn on the DS. You can't even get past the game's title 
 screen before it starts to stink. You start by picking your profile, which normally isn't so bad, 
 but the cursor is the same color as the first profile, making it hard to figure out just what features 
 you're selecting. Hopefully you don't accidentally select the delete option, because the next screen 
 simply asks, "Are you sure?" and doesn't let you know that you're about to delete your profile. 
 We can speak from experience as to how easy it is to delete  everything  you've unlocked.  

  The gameplay modes are a lot like prison food. You have limited choices and no matter what you 
 pick, it's going to be terrible. There's a quick-race mode, but unless you want to race one track 
 over and over with the same car, you'll have to suffer through tournaments to unlock anything. 
 If someone you intensely dislike happens to have a copy of the game and you can trick him or her 
 into getting close enough for you to connect via Wi-Fi, you can torture the poor fool in multiplayer 
 play. Once you pick your poison, the game inexplicably makes you select your profile again, even 
 though exactly one screen has passed since you first did this. Perhaps the developer found that 
 people were giving up on the game after the first options screen and wanted whoever took over to 
 be able to log in.  

  It's all downhill once the race begins. For starters, the controls are poorly laid out and can't 
 be altered. You'll go back and forth between the A button to accelerate and the Y button to boost. 
 Hopefully you don't want to change the camera angle during a race. That's inconveniently mapped 
 to the select button. After getting beaten down by the button mapping, your next torture session 
 comes courtesy of the way the cars handle. They're pretty good at going in a straight line, but 
 it's a crapshoot as to how they'll respond when you try to turn; sometimes they'll turn too much, 
 other times not enough. You'll seemingly gain speed on some turns, but other times you'll come 
 to a complete stop.  

  Even mastering the controls and the handling isn't enough to stop the pain. In the first race you'll 
 find that your car is far slower than the others (there are a whopping three other cars on the 
 track) , and it's impossible to win the first race, no matter how well you drive. In fact, there's 
 a pretty good chance you won't win your first dozen or so races. The CPU-controlled cars sometimes 
 get stuck in corners or on objects, so you might pick up a cheap third-place finish here and there, 
 which may or may not be enough to keep you from breaking into tears. You're able to spend your 
 paltry fourth-place winnings on car upgrades to improve your acceleration, top speed, boost, and 
 handling. However, car damage carries over from one race to the next, so unless you want your car 
 to explode in the middle of a race and start the entire tournament over, you'll have to waste your 
 money repairing your vehicle.  

  It might be hard to believe, but things get worse. If you fail to finish first overall by the end 
 of the four races that compose each tournament level, you have to race the entire thing over again. 
 That's not so bad, right? It is when you have to do it multiple times, because your car is outclassed 
 by the other vehicles until it's fully upgraded. Should you persevere, you'll make it to the second 
 tier of races, where once again, you won't be able to hang with the other cars, and you'll lose. 
 Starting over from the second tier isn't such a bad deal, but you won't be that lucky -- you have 
 to start from the first tier again! You can probably guess what happens when you lose on the third 
 tier.  

  Outside of giving you a decent sense of speed, the game's presentation is just as heinous as the 
 gameplay. You view the race using the top screen, and the bottom screen shows a map of the course 
 as well as the position of each car. This is great for finding out just how horribly you're being 
 beaten, but not much else, because all three of the available views on the top screen are shamefully 
 terrible. The default camera is so high up that you might as well be viewing the action with Google 
 Maps. Even better, it's frequently obscured by junk on the course, leaving you clueless as to where 
 you're headed. Amazingly, the second camera option makes the game even less playable. It's not 
 only far away, but it's placed at some sort of ridiculous angle akin to a security camera. Rounding 
 out the bunch is the behind-the-car view, which is fantastic for people who love not being able 
 to see what's around a turn, thanks to the walls that line the inside and outside of the track. 

  Unless you count the fact that it feels as though the game actively dislikes you, RC Rally is completely 
 devoid of any personality. Your driver is known as Player 1, and you'll be taking on well-known 
 talent such as AI Driver 1, AI Driver 2, and... wait for it... AI Driver 3! The game's paltry six 
 vehicles make use of hot licenses like Buggy, 4WD, and Roadster. Speaking of the cars, it's never 
 explained why your RC cars, which you would think would be perhaps the size of a regular remote-controlled 
 car, are instead the size of Micro Machines.  

  The races take place in exotic locations such as Garden Stage, Indoor Stage, Rooftop, and other 
 places simply too amazing to spoil for anyone who hasn't yet played the game. The courses are boring 
 and poorly designed. You can get stuck in and on objects and hit invisible walls on either sides 
 of ramps, and when you make a wrong turn there's frequently no way to head back in the right direction, 
 which means you're instantly down a lap. The drab colors make it difficult to tell which upcoming 
 blurry texture is the road and which texture is a wall -- a big problem when your car is so easily 
 damaged.  

          See that little tiny red blob there? That's your car. Nice, eh?     

  Tone deaf and talentless composers worldwide will be pleased to know that thanks to games like 
 Mini RC Rally, there's work to be had. The music is, simply put, some of the worst MIDI garbage 
 you'll ever hear. The soundtrack is complemented nicely by the gnatlike whine of the cars and their 
 hideous screeching tires.  

  Mini RC Rally is a perfect storm of crap. Very few games are able to be so absolutely intolerable 
 in every single aspect of their existence. It's creatively bankrupt, the level progression is broken, 
 the presentation is dreadful, the controls are busted, and nearly any camera angle you could dream 
 up would be better than what's used here. Simply put: The game hates you and you'll hate it right 
 back.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grandtheft360
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Oh god not a racing game that's even worse than *gasp* *shudder* Big Rigs! I thouught it wasnt 
 possible! This game has a cool idea, i liked the breif racing you could do in Nintendogs with remote 
 controls so i thought a game with the concept completly about it would ROCK. I was wrong. This 
 is the 3rd worst game I have ever played next to WWE Smackdown vs Raw: 2008 and Fantastic Four 
 Rise of the silver surfer. This game has broken visuals with annoying controls bad camera and bad 
 gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: 1
  Utterly Boring
  Graphics: 1
  Awful
  Cost: 1
  $0.01 would be too much.
  
  
  So-
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyone-
  
  
  
  
  
 
  Who-
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Buys-
  
  
  
  
  
  This-
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Should-
  
  
  
  
  
  Have-
  
  
  
  
  
  Their-
  
  
  
  
  
  Head-
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Examined.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyway yeah a bad game don't buy it blah blah don't know what to say i havent met t he character 
 limit anyway, yeah don't buy it it is awful
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
