-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB Power Pros 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/mlbpowerpros2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good baseball physics.
 Full roster of major league players.
 Accessible controls.
 Single-card wireless play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nothing to do besides play a game.
 Home Run Derby is mindless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Konami
Genre: Baseball
Date: Aug 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it lacks the unique modes that are the series' trademark, MLB Power Pros 2008 is currently 
 the best baseball game on the DS. 

  One look at MLB Power Pros 2008 may be enough to deter any serious baseball fan, as the anime bobblehead 
 characters seem more suited to a goofy, arcade-style game. It would be a shame, though, to overlook 
 Power Pros, because beneath the cutesy exterior beats the heart of a robust simulation game. Simple 
 hitting, pitching, and fielding controls make it easy for anyone to pick up, while realistic ball 
 physics and a full MLB roster create plenty of technical depth. It's disappointing that the series' 
 signature role-playing modes aren't included, but MLB Power Pros 2008 is still the best way to 
 take your DS out to the ballgame.  

           Beckett's four-seam fastball rockets towards the plate.      

  The foundation of Power 
 Pros 2008's accessibility is its control scheme. Pitching is a simple matter of selecting your 
 pitch and aiming your throw by moving a small ball icon. To hit, line up the silhouette of your 
 bat with the ball icon and swing by pressing the B button. These basic controls give rise to complexity 
 because different pitches and swings can be combined to deepen the strategic possibilities. In 
 the field, you move your fielder and throw with the D pad and face buttons, respectively. Though 
 you can switch your fielders manually, the computer will occasionally switch your character at 
 an inopportune moment. There are some limited stylus controls, but using them is an unnecessary 
 hassle. On the whole, the uncluttered controls allow you to perform every on-field action with 
 ease; how well you perform these actions depends on your own skill, as well as your team's abilities. 

  Every major league team is in the game, with rosters that were current as of the start of the season 
 (you'll find CC Sabathia pitching for the Indians) . In addition to all of the AL and NL teams, 
 you can create up to six other teams made up of players from around the league. You can play a 
 single game or play a bunch of games in a row as you test your skills against seven other teams 
 in a playoff series, but that's pretty much it for game modes. There's a dull Home Run Derby that 
 boils down to tapping the B button with good timing, but the Season mode and quirky role-playing 
 modes that fill out this game's console counterparts are conspicuously absent.  

  Despite these omissions, MLB Power Pros 2008 offers a good amount of depth within its scope. There 
 are a number of adjustable game settings, including difficulty, number of innings, and options 
 to play with designated hitters, errors, or wind. You can also determine to what extent the computer 
 helps you with different aspects of the game (such as batting or base running) . This is a good 
 way to make things easier for yourself or to focus on specific aspects of your game. You can review 
 your lineup, swap out any players that are in bad form that day, and view each player's detailed 
 attributes. These include real-life stats, as well as special abilities that mark each player as, 
 for example, good at hitting to the opposite field or poor in clutch situations. These abilities 
 don't have drastic effects, but they can help you get an edge in tight games.  

           The bottom screen shows the runners on base and player attributes.      

  The rounded, 
 legless cartoon characters are quite smoothly animated and behave like professional players. Pitching 
 and hitting sound effects are sharp. The occasional crowd noise and dramatic musical interludes 
 also help add some ballpark character to games. The one odd production element is the announcer, 
 who reads off every player's number, position, and name. It's impressive and mildly entertaining, 
 but it makes you wonder if maybe the space taken up by those sound files could have been used to 
 include another game mode. You can also face off against a friend in both single-card and multicard 
 play. The only thing the player without the game won't have is the music and commentary. This wireless 
 play works smoothly, and it's good fun to play against another person.  

  All in all, there's really only one thing to do in MLB Power Pros 2008: play a game of baseball. 
 Fortunately, it really gets this right. Good physics, responsive controls, and real MLB teams make 
 matchups challenging and enjoyable. The omitted modes are sorely missed, but this is still the 
 best baseball game on the DS right now.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xbox4life76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  After reading the reviews for the MLB Power Pro's for the Wii, I forced my buddy to buy the game. 
 He did and we absolutely love it, lots of fun, still things to work out but in general we had a 
 blast. So when I noticed they had a DS version, i had to get it. My option is game is a blast, 
 tons of fun, realistic gameplay but the one thing I truly find as an issue... no season mode. I 
 would have loved that way more if they had that. Also, would be nice if they had the 40 man rosters 
 also like the Wii version and if they would have had a couple of actual stadiums too would be cool, 
 like Fenway/Wrigley/Yankee Stadium... Pitching in this game is a ton of fun too, becaue in the Wii 
 version, we have a difficult time being able to throw balls, in DS version, you can throw balls 
 on occasion. Otherwise great baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  So I have to start things off by saying that I really like the gameplay in this game. I have been 
 doing a playoff and it has been a blast. So as for gameplay, the game is solid, but depth... this 
 game lacks a TON of depth!!!
  
  Graphics: Looks fine for the MLB Power Pros series and for a game on the DS.
  
  Gameplay: Like 
 I said before, the game is a blast and gameplay overall is solid.
  
  Audio: Meager but it does the job. It would be nice to have some more stuff going on but oh well, 
 it's a DS game.
  
  Overall, the game is fun but it is lacking the best game type which is the story mode. So although 
 it's a fun game, there just isn't much there. Luckily I have Gamefly so I was able to just keep 
 the game for a bit and then return it for something else. It's a solid game, but one that runs 
 out of things to do rather fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzimm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a great baseball game to play on the go then you can stop looking because 
 you've found it. MLB Power Pros 2008 may look cutesy, but underneath the hood is a respectable 
 baseball simulation that you'll find easy to pick up and play.
  
  It plays exactly like its big brother on the Wii, so if you own the Wii version and play with the 
 classic controller then you'll have no trouble at all transitioning to the DS. It also has the 
 same visual charm as the console version using many of the same models and animations, and everything 
 is smooth and fluid making for a great experience.
  
  The batting and pitching game is simple and easy to learn. When pitching, you select a pitch by 
 pressing the corresponding direction on the D-pad, press B, and then aim the pitch during the wind 
 up, making sure to account for any curve during the ball's flight.
  
  Batting is similar: you see a wire frame representation of the player's "sweet spot" (the better 
 the hitter, the larger the sweet spot) and then try and line it up with the incoming ball. After 
 the pitcher releases the ball, you'll see a cursor showing where he aimed giving you a second or 
 two to line up the sweet spot and swing away, but be careful: just because the pitcher aims for 
 the top outside corner of the strike zone doesn't mean that's where the ball will end up when it 
 crosses the plate, so you need to keep your eyes open for curve balls and sinkers. You can also 
 press one of the shoulder buttons to toggle "Big Swing" which significantly reduces the size of 
 the sweet spot but also increases the hitting power which is useful if you want to reach for the 
 fences.
  
  Fielding is similarly intuitive and user friendly. After the ball is hit, the camera switches to 
 an overhead view of the field with a yellow cursor showing which player you have control of (player 
 control is selected automatically based on the proximity of the ball, so it may not always be the 
 player you want or expect) and another cursor showing where the ball is headed. Once your player 
 has the ball, you press A, X, Y, or B to throw to first, second, third, or home respectively, or 
 press one of the shoulder buttons to throw to the cutoff man. My only criticism is that things 
 happen very quickly, and by the time you realize that, say, you have control of the shortstop and 
 you need to move him to the left to intercept the ball, the ball is already past him and heading 
 for the outfield (incidentally, I have the exact same trouble with the Wii version) . But this isn't 
 a problem. Why? Read on.
  
  One of the nice features of MLB Power Pros 2008 is that you can tailor the game to your liking. 
 Each aspect of the game -- pitching, batting, fielding, base running, and management (that is player 
 substitutions) -- can be automated. In the case of fielding and base running, they can be put on 
 "semi-auto". For fielding, this means your players will automatically intercept the ball (though 
 you can take over the controls at any time, if you want) , but then it's up to you to decide what 
 to do with it, so you still get to make the critical fielding decisions without having to be frustrated 
 because you didn't react quickly enough to stop the ball from rolling into left field. Semi-auto 
 base running gives you control of the lead runner only with the rest on auto-pilot. And if you 
 just want to watch two CPU opponents duke it out, you can set everything to auto and then sit back 
 and enjoy the show. Plus, these settings can be changed at any time, so if you want to step in 
 and try your hand at pulling a losing team out of the hole (or you want to let the CPU try and 
 pull you out of the hole!) , you can.
  
  All of this makes for a game that is instantly accessible and only as difficult as you want it 
 to be, so it's always fun and never frustrating. One nice touch is that games appear to play out 
 very realistically. It's not unusual for a game to end with less than 10 hits combined and a single 
 run in the bottom of the sixth. The CPU also plays a smart game. I've had it walk a strong batter 
 with two outs in order to get to my weak batter next in the lineup. It also does a great job mixing 
 up its pitches to keep you off balance, and it'll steal and sacrifice bunt when appropriate.
  
  There are two ways of playing: a one-off exhibition game between two teams of your choice, 
 and an eight team playoff mode with your team plus seven others vying for the world championship. 
 Unfortunately, there's no season mode.
  
  After each game, you get a brief summary showing basic batting and pitching statistics. This is 
 where I imagine most folks will be disappointed since it's only a shadow of the console version 
 with none of the fascinating detailed breakdown. As if that's not enough, the stats are not saved, 
 so once you click "Exit", they're gone. Not even a win/loss record is kept, so forget about tracking 
 your performance. I understand the Japanese versions of this series feature all of that (plus season 
 mode) , so why 2K removed those features from the US release is puzzling.
  
  Other notes:
  
  -There's an enjoyable home run derby mode where you get ten pitches to hit as many homers as 
 you can. Hit all ten and you keep going until you fail to hit one deep. The top 5 scores are saved.
 
  
  -You only get four fairly generic ballparks, but they're not named, so I have no idea if they're 
 real-world or fictional.
  
  -There's a team edit mode where you can start with any team as your "base" and then swap in players 
 from any other team allowing you to essentially build a dream team (or a nightmare team, if you 
 want a challenge) . These teams can be used in either exhibition or playoff mode.
  
  -The game features single-cart and multi-cart local multiplayer (no wifi) .
  
  -Sound and music 
 are basic but get the job done. There's a rather mechanical sounding announcer who reads off the 
 batter's number, name, and position and makes the fair and foul calls but doesn't say much else.
 
  
  -During game setup, you can set the number of innings up to the usual nine, so if you're in a hurry, 
 you can play a quick, three-inning game.
  
  -The touchscreen is used superfluously. There are on screen buttons for "Speed Up" (tap it to make 
 runners go faster) , "Advance All Runners", and "Return All Runners". Additionally, you can control 
 any runner by tapping: tap once to make him advance, tap again to make him stop, and an additional 
 tap to make him return. All these functions are available through the face controls which are actually 
 faster and easier to use making the touchscreen integration a bit pointless.
  
  Bottom line:
  
  While the lack of stat tracking and season mode is disappointing (maybe in 
 a future version) , MLB Power Pros 2008 is still an easy recommendation. It plays a great game of 
 ball that is simple and easy to control and never fails to entertain, and being able to tailor 
 the settings means you'll always get exactly the experience you want. Even if you own the console 
 version, this is worth getting so you can scratch your Power Pros itch while on the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegatrance
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Basically I have played 2 match up games against the CPU, 3 homerun derby games and all of the 
 practice modes. The main menu has - Match Up, Playoffs, Practice, Edit Team, Home Run and Options.
 
  
  Lets start with the sound. 
  *The music is ok and is not annoying (not yet at least) .
  *The basic sounds like hitting the ball and the ball hitting the glove are good.
  *The announcer 
 says the position, number and name of each batter.
  *There is nothing said when getting a hit or anything like that. Just the basic out, safe, foul, strike, ball.
 
  
  The graphics.
  *Simple... they do the job but nothing flashy.
  
  Practice Modes.
  *Batting practice- You get 10 pitches and get points for hits and it tells how far your hit was. 
 On the right side it shows your history, for example miss, foul,3BGO (3rd base ground out) , RF H (Right 
 field hit) and so on. 
  
  ----- To hit you use the directional buttons to move your batter around and to move the "sweet 
 spot" inside the strike zone. You press B to swing and if you want to power swing just press the 
 Right button or Left button to switch back and forth from contact to power. When the pitcher throws 
 you will get a glimpse of where the ball is going and can adjust ... but you have to do it fast. Overall 
 the hitting is pretty easy and most of all fun. ------
  
  *Pitching Practice- You get 10 pitches. You pick your pitch by moving the directional buttons. 
 Press B to throw. There is a kind of small circle slowly moving around the strike zone and if your 
 ball goes through it you get points. If you repeatedly tap the throw button you can throw a faster 
 pitch (I think only in a match game)
  
  *Baserunning - Very simple just move your players around the bases and learn how to bring them 
 back to a base. No point system here.
  
  *Fielding Practice- This is pretty fun just like the batting and pitching practice is fun. You 
 control the batter and the fielders. You can adjust the hitting strength, how high and low you hit 
 the ball and the direction. Basically this really lets you practice trying not to let a ball get 
 past you, jumping for a ball, diving for a ball. You can also throw the ball to a base to get the 
 runner out. Again no points are given in this part. Its just real good for getting all kinds of 
 balls hit to all parts of the field and it really helps your defense.
  
  *General Offense and General Defense - You either hit or pitch n' field and you do not change sides 
 or score points.
  
  HOME RUN 
  *10 pitches and it tells you how far your HR is. It keeps the top 5 scores and each one says what 
 your farthest homerun is. Its easy to hit HR's. More could have been done to make it funner , but 
 it's just a basic Home Run mode.
  
  Playoffs- You pick your team and then pick the other 7 teams. I haven't actually played this mode 
 or the Edit Teams mode.
  
  There are hint screens in the game to let you know what buttons do what for  
 and so on. This helps so you dont have to keep looking at the instruction booklet.
  
  *There are only 4 ballparks to choose from. But it has all the MLB players.
  *After a game there 
 are detailed stats to look at for your batters and pitchers.
  *You can set how many innings you want to play in a game. You can turn designated hitter on and 
 off. Errors, extra innings, mercy rule and wind on and off.
  *Your batting, pitching, fielding and baserunning can be set to manual or have the CPU help you.
 
  
  Overall the game is very fun. But I know me and pretty much everyone else wish it had a season 
 mode. 
  It does have download play... so I can play a game against my wife even though she doesn't have 
 the game. I have tried to go into online play but I guess not many people have it yet. But I'm 
 sure in a couple of days I'll start finding some matches and thats where the real fun begins. In 
 my 2 matches (3 innings each) , I lost 3-1 and the next game I lost 4-3. I had it on novice the 
 easiest level. I've played Home Run 3 times and my records are 7 HR, another 7HR and 4 HR's.... you 
 can pick anyone you want to hit with. There are 5 CPU difficulty levels. Hope to see you online 
 for a game soon! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
