-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster House
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/monsterhouse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A fun homage to Smash TV.
 Good variety of weapons and enemies.
 Controls let you move and shoot independently.
 Screen often packed with enemies and bullets.
 Numerous dialogue scenes inspired by the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only takes a few hours to finish single-player mode.
 Constant combat gets tiresome after a while.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: A2M
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Jul 18, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Monster House for the DS copies the Smash TV formula with mostly positive results. 

  As you'd expect, Monster House for the Nintendo DS is based on the recently-released movie of the 
 same name. What you probably weren't expecting, however, is that this movie tie-in isn't a generic 
 platformer, like so many other movie tie-ins are. Instead, it's a top-view shoot-'em-up similar 
 to Smash TV or Mutant Storm Reloaded. THQ and A2M have done a nice job aping Smash TV's run-and-gun 
 design, going so far as to employ many of the same weapons. Of course, like Smash TV and others 
 of its ilk, you can only get so much mileage out of gunning down room after room of the same few 
 types of enemies. For those few hours, though, Monster House is fun.  

          On the DS, Monster House is a top-view shooter akin to Smash TV.     

  Taking inspiration 
 from the movie, the game puts players in control of three friends who have decided to end the local 
 haunted house's reign of terror once and for all. The long and the short of the game is that you 
 have to move from room to room shooting anything that moves with the kids' water guns. There are 
 54 rooms to clear, each filled with dozens of enemies along the lines of flying plates, spinning 
 books, and galloping chairs. Roughly every dozen rooms or so, you'll also have to neutralize a 
 monstrous boss.  

  Combat is fast-paced and sticks close to the classic Smash TV blueprint. Enemies spew forth in 
 waves from entryways. Once you clear a room, you can move to the next. All of the action is shown 
 on the top screen, while the radar on the touch screen keeps you updated on where items and enemies 
 are. Using the directional pad and stylus, you can move and shoot in any direction you like. Wherever 
 you position the stylus on the touch screen is where your shots go. Different power-up items appear 
 at regular intervals. If you've played Smash TV before, you'll recognize most of them. There are 
 health, shield, and quad damage items, as well as short-term attachments that allow the water gun 
 to launch grenadelike water balloons, three-way shots, and water-filled rockets. Monster House 
 makes the Smash TV formula a little more easygoing by letting players alternate between any of 
 three different characters. When one of the kids is low on health or is captured by the house, 
 you can use one of the others until they recover. Also, each of the three kids' water guns has 
 its own range and power characteristics.  

  Just in general, too, the game is solidly put together. Fans of the movie will appreciate that 
 the 3D representation of the house is suitably spooky and that numerous story sequences were taken 
 right out of the movie. Hilarious characters like Zee, Bones, and officers Lister and Landers make 
 frequent appearances. All of the dialogue is depicted through text, which obviously isn't as satisfying 
 as recorded audio would have been, but there are plenty of ghoulish sound effects and bang-bangs 
 to hear during actual gameplay. Visually, the 3D environments and characters are colorful and animate 
 smoothly, and the screen can push dozens of enemies and bullets without bogging down. Sticklers 
 will complain that the polygons and textures look rough, and that structures on the ceiling sometimes 
 obscure what's going on at floor level, but these nitpicks really don't interfere with gameplay 
 in any significant sense. One feature that's particularly nice is the ability to save between rooms. 
 Combat in run-and-gun shooters can start to feel repetitive after a while, so being able to take 
 a break and come back later is a good thing.  

           There are three characters to pick from, each with their own uniquely outfitted water 
 gun.     

  If there's a single fly in the ointment that may dissuade a prospective purchase, it's the lack 
 of any sort of multiplayer features. So many people own Nintendo DS systems these days, and so 
 many other games offer multiplayer play using only a single game card, that it really is a letdown 
 when a game comes out that doesn't include a multiplayer mode. The three or four hours of first-run 
 play time are satisfying, but it would've been nice to go through the game with a partner in the 
 same way that Smash TV allows.  

  All told, Monster House for the Nintendo DS is a joy while it lasts. Admittedly, it doesn't quite 
 make sense that they've transformed a kids' movie into a run-and-gun shooting game, but this route 
 sure beats the generic adventure junk we're used to getting from movie tie-ins.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea how one can grow to like this game. The screen shots initially caught my attention 
 with close ups of the 3 characters DJ, Chowder and Jenny. Choose to play as one of the 3 characters 
 as you enter each of the the 54 rooms available in the game. First few hours are interesting as 
 you reload your waterguns, get power ups and shoot plates, chairs, wardrobes and cactus plants 
 with the occasional big boss in certain rooms. Then when you start to expect more, all you get 
 is the same repetitive play of shooting off the furnitures and utensils with only the touch screen 
 showing you how much enemies are coming after you. It can get a little chaotic when you're trying 
 to concentrate shooting on the touch screen while looking at the display screen.
  
  Then there's the bad side of no multi-player abilities. With games like this, all you want is to 
 hook up with some friend, enter the rooms and battle the crazy stuff rushing at you, but you can't 
 do that. I gave it up halfway, no 2nd hand value to the game as well. So better rent it or borrow 
 it from a friend to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Movie based video games are a growing part of our great industry. However, with all of the achievements 
 and improvements in the audio, visual and gameplay departments, it seems that the movie-based game 
 has been left behind. Ever since the days of Tron on the Intellivision, the "game based on a movie" 
 genre has had a less than stellar reputation - one that it has earned many times over.
  
  My hopes for Monster House on the DS were pretty low. With the exception of a few ports (The Chronicles 
 of Riddick, for one) , most movie titles that I have come across have been disappointing at best. 
 With that said, it does my heart good to finally report on another success in this particularly 
 money-hungry genre.
  
  Monster House is based on the movie of the same name, and places you in control of the three main 
 characters from the film: DJ, the level headed 12 year-old responsible for your journey into the 
 home, Chowder, the boy who has an unhealthy obsession with his toy glider, and Jenny, the Prep 
 School brain who keeps the boys in line.
  
  A local home in the neighborhood owned by mysterious Mr. Nebbercracker, has long been sucking in 
 everything that steps paw or plastic wheel into its yard. When the house starts abducting people 
 as well, DJ decides that enough is enough, and ventures into the home to try and make it to the 
 boiler room to put out the fire (the heart) of the home.
  
  Playing through the game is simple in theory, but a challenge to actually accomplish. Fifty-four 
 rooms await exploration. These rooms are filled with possessed furniture, ranging from floorboards 
 to dinnerware, which will serve as the main opponents on your journey. You begin each room with 
 a choice of which of the three main characters you should play as. Our heroes are armed with water 
 pistols; DJ's acts as a single machine gun, Jenny's a double machine gun, and Chowder's powerful 
 (albeit slow) triple bead spread (think a water ripple getting larger as it spreads out) rounds 
 out the three.
  
  The action takes place on the top screen, with the directional pad serving as the control of the 
 actual character movement. The bottom screen contains a map of the room and dots of varying colors 
 to let you know whether or not the ghostly furnishings are closing in. This is also the screen 
 that controls your squirt guns. Simply tap the mouse in the direction you wish to fire and a water 
 jet will spurt from the end of your pistol. Hold down the stylus for a full on, non-stop assault. 
 Watch your pressure gauge, however, because just like in real-life, a long time of squirting will 
 cause your shooting distance to lessen. Rub your stylus over the pressure gauge in a pumping fashion 
 to recharge.
  
  The goal in each room is to wander around until you defeat all of the furniture in it. Certain 
 rooms contain toys, like Chowder's precious glider, or random action figures and bouncing balls. 
 If the toy is character related, the level to retrieve said toy does become character specific. 
 Meaning that in the search for Jenny's wagon, you can only play as Jenny.
  
  Each character starts out with five hearts as their health, which can be replenished mid-level. 
 Lose all five hearts and you have to start the room over as one of the remaining characters. Lose 
 all three characters and it's game over.
  
  Varying room layouts and sizes, along with new obstacles and enemies throughout the game break 
 up the core of the repetitive gameplay. Another element that keeps the gameplay fun and fresh is 
 the background sound department. Adding to the ghostly nature of the title, the music is very reminiscent 
 of old scary movies with the dun, dun dun sort of beats playing throughout, if little words in 
 quotes can give it meaning. Thinking of any song you would hear playing at a trick-or-treat party 
 would probably suffice.
  
  The story itself breaks in every few levels, in the form of text bubbles, which is a bit contradictory 
 in a childrens title, being that some of the target audience might not be at the highest of reading 
 levels. Then again, the gameplay itself is a bit on the complex side, at first glance, which also 
 adds to the grownup feel of the title. 
  
  Overall, after looking past the redundancy of the gameplay (which is easy enough to become accustomed 
 to) the story is a fun and interesting take on the average family film/game. A2M has done a great 
 job at porting this successful film onto the DS, and if the film itself is as enjoyable as the 
 game, I can only see good things in its future. 
  
  Children's game or not, this is definitely one that I would recommend.
  
  Review text part 
 of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=monsterhouseds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joneswe01
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Monster House is obviously a game based on the eagerly awaited and highly anticipated, upcoming 
 movie. I think that the graphics on this game look really good, especially for a hand-held game, 
 the game play looks lot of fun and it doesn't look too difficult either. The movie looks really 
 good and I think the game will be even better because it gives you a chance to go and interact 
 with the eagerly awaited and highly anticipated, upcoming movie.
  In all I think this game will be an instant hit and a must have.
  Go out to your local shop now 
 and buy the game this instant!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Monster House, of course, is based on the movie that just got recently released. I must say that 
 I'm quite surprised that the game isn't bad, for a movie tie-in game. The game is in the same style 
 as Smash TV or Total Carnage, with great run and gun action, and a bird's eye view.
  
  I have not yet gotten a chance to see the movie yet, so I'm not that familiar with the storyline. 
 I think I have gotten an idea though; Monster House is about a living haunted house that eats random 
 things that pass by. Inside of the house are a ton of obstacles and dangers to avoid.
  
  Monster House starts off inside the house, giving you no background at all on any of the characters 
 or what is happening. The game gives you text dialogue, which I assume has been pulled from the 
 movie. I did find some of the dialogue to be very humorous.
  
  The object of the game is to make it to the last room in the house and defeat the source of what 
 makes the Monster House a monster. Using the touch screen, you can shoot your gun in any direction, 
 while you use your D-Pad or, the main face buttons, to move. Since you can use either the D-Pad 
 or face buttons, you don't have to worry about being uncomfortable if you're left handed or right 
 handed.
  
  Since you're shooting water guns, you occasionally have to pump it up on the right side of the 
 touch screen, which increases the range of the gun. I found this to be a pretty cool idea.
  
  The game plays just as Smash TV does. Wave after giant wave of enemies will flock toward you, 
 while you must shoot them all down. That's really all there is to it. Along the way, you'll get 
 some cool upgrades to make your weapon more powerful.
  
  There are three characters to choose from. Each of the kids you can play as has different strengths 
 and weapon abilities. If you die using one character in a room, you have the option of going back 
 into the same room with a different character, though if you lose with that character, you'll only 
 have one more character left to play as. Once all of the characters are lost, you get a game over 
 screen. Luckily, the game saves in between every room you enter, so you can pick up where you left 
 off.
  
  The game can get repetitive after a while, though for some, playing Smash TV on your DS would be 
 heaven. Wave after waves of enemies tend to become a bit annoying. Of course, there is the occasional 
 boss level, but besides that all you're doing is shooting flying dishes, attacking chairs, flying 
 books, and avoiding floorboards that can grab you and hold you down.
  
  The graphics and audio are below average. That's really the only trouble with the game. Graphics 
 are too smoothed and hardly detailed, while the audio is just too flat. Aside from these two aspects, 
 this game is pretty well done.
  Conclusion
  
  It's hard to believe, but this movie based game is actually a great DS title. It's Smash TV style 
 works well. Even though the audio and graphics are a little bit below average, this game is surprisingly 
 good. It's even challenging in some parts of the game. I recommend this game if you're a fan of 
 the movie Monster House, or if you just really would like to revisit old arcade classics on your 
 DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
