-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/projectmworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smooth, responsive controls.
 Solid, varied arsenal.
 Great atmospheric music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Levels get repetitious.
 Not a lot of different enemies.
 Derivative story.
 A few annoying sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 143 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mastiff
Developer: Renegade Kid
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Jan 13, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Moon is a well-crafted shooter that blasts off but fails to reach orbit. 

  As extraterrestrial shooters go, Moon is more like an actual lunar landing than a science-fiction 
 adventure; it's technically impressive, but a bit dull. The gameplay is brisk and satisfying because 
 the game runs smoothly, controls sharply, and features a solid array of weaponry. However, Moon 
 doesn't capitalize on this foundation: The levels and enemies are repetitive and there isn't much 
 of a story, so for all its technical vigor, it feels a bit lifeless. Still, Moon provides enough 
 solid, fast-paced action to make it worth the trip for those craving some handheld action.  

  The story begins with the discovery of a strange hatch on the lunar surface. Playing as Major 
 Kane, you are called in to investigate the interior of the hatch. You go in alone, but you'll have 
 radio contact with a few other people throughout your adventure. Between your radio exchanges and 
 the informational terminals that you find throughout the alien structure, a dark story unfolds 
 that is occasionally interesting but ultimately forgettable. Though the information you glean from 
 terminals as you progress is a nice incentive, the story serves as little more than a backdrop 
 for the run-and-gun action.  

           Aliens always incorporate strange glowing lights into their architecture.      

  Like 
 successful Nintendo DS first-person shooters before it, Moon employs the stylus for aiming, the 
 D pad for moving, and the L button for shooting (with a flipped control scheme for lefties) . Switching 
 weapons is as simple as touching a large button at the bottom of the touch screen to pause the 
 action and bring up a large icon menu of your arsenal. You can interact with the environment with 
 a context-sensitive touch-screen button, but that's the extent of the controls. It's a simple, 
 elegant scheme that works intuitively and makes playing Moon a pleasure.  

  The enemies that you'll encounter will put your reflexes to the test, and you'll have to be nimble 
 to survive. The controls make dodging and shooting fun and easy, but even skilled players will 
 succumb to hails of laser fire. Fortunately, death only sends you back to the last save point, 
 which generally isn't too far away. You'll blast and be blasted by floating drones, spidery robots, 
 hulking automatons -- enemies that are more mechanical than alien. Later levels merely increase the 
 quantity and toughness of these enemies rather than the variety, so there aren't very many different 
 types to encounter. Even the many bosses begin to feel familiar, given that each demands that you 
 follow roughly the same pattern to defeat it. The limited robotic legions that you'll face feel 
 pretty flat as enemies go, but it's still fun to blast them to kingdom come.  

  As you descend into the hatch, you'll encounter initially impressive alien architecture. The walls 
 and floors sport strange geometric designs, and pulsing neon light highlights corridors and pillars. 
 Rooms occasionally feature odd machines, and different levels have different wall patterns and 
 color schemes. Every detail scrolls by smoothly as you progress, but the further you go, the more 
 familiar everything starts to feel. Despite the changing color schemes, each level is a lot like 
 the one before it. There are a few brief outdoor vehicle sequences to mix it up, as well as a remote-controlled 
 droid that you can use to zip through small tunnels, trigger switches, and collect bonuses. The 
 various bonuses (weapon upgrades, health boosts, alien artifacts) make you more powerful and unlock 
 extra training missions, but they aren't exactly hidden. So though it can be rewarding to seek 
 them all out, it's just a simple matter of referring to your map, going into every room, and sending 
 your droid into every small tunnel.  

           Every so often, Moon really lives up to its name.      

  The music of Moon is quite 
 good and sets a great tone for your descent into the alien installation. Atmospheric tones are 
 punctuated by the low thrum of machinery and intermittent bass beats. The sound effects are rich 
 as well, offering a helpful aid for locating and identifying foes. There are a few miscues, though, 
 notably the clunking moon-boot noise that accompanies your every step and the Zelda-esque beeping 
 that sounds incessantly when you have low health. Fortunately, these aren't enough to ruin the 
 generally high-quality sound design.  

  Moon is a technically proficient game that affirms what we already know: It is possible to make 
 a quality first-person shooter on the DS. Without any multiplayer modes, the adventure will last 
 you a solid 5-6 hours. Unfortunately, though Moon builds a solid launchpad, it fails to reach orbit. 
 Repetitious enemies, a ho-hum story, and uninspired level design hinder the stellar potential of 
 the sharp control scheme and speedy action. Though you might dream of what Moon could have been, 
 you can still have plenty of fun blasting your way through this lunar adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  From the creators of the award-winning Dementium: The Ward, Renegade Kid has unleashed a new First-Person 
 Shooter called Moon (No relation) . This new installment is much more story-driven than Dementium 
 with slightly better graphics, some decent voice overs and terrific replay value.
  
  The year is 2058 and you play as Major Edward Kane, a gun-wielding astronaut who is send to the 
 Moon along with his other comrades as they discover some relics and hidden passages that are presumed 
 to be alien-made. And just like any other plot, things seem to be normal at first but soon enough, 
 all hells break loose and with a female commanding officer (Who looks like a man) by his side through 
 radio, Kane sets off into a journey that he will never forget. 
  
  Moon uses 3D environment with stylus-based controls much like in Metroid Prime: Hunters and Dementium: 
 The Ward. But unlike Dementium, Moon is more action focused and has a frame rate of 60 frames per 
 second giving you slick graphics. As soon as you enter the first alien portal, you are thrust to 
 the action straight away with enemies swarming at you from every corner. But lucky for you, Kane 
 is armed with all kinds of futuristic and alien-like weapons. You start off with the SAR, the Standard 
 Assault Rifle that is capable of handling small potatoes but later on, you realized that this gun 
 is not enough. No problem. As you progress throughout the game, Kane finds other awesome arsenals 
 such as the Muon Pistol- a lightweight firearm that does a little more damage than SAR, the Quanta 
 Rifle- one that fires ionic projectiles, the Fermion Sniper that is capable of shooting at a long 
 range, and many other cool weapons. Along with these equipment, there is another tool that is not 
 really a weapon but it's incredibly awesome that it needs to be mention right here. It's called 
 the Remote Access Droid (Or RAD) and is basically a tiny robot that Kane can control to enter small 
 passages to unlock locked doors and find hidden items. The RAD is such a RADical tool and you will 
 grow to like it later in the game.
  
  Believe it or not, Moon also has a driving sequence. At some stages, Kane has to ride the LOLA-RR10, 
 which is like a buggy, that he can use to drive around to a much further areas. It's a neat feature 
 but there's nothing remarkable about it as the driving stages can be a bit boring with no depth 
 to it. The enemies in the game are also a wee bit disappointing because in a game like this, you 
 assume you'd be attacking three-eyed aliens or some kind of non-humanoid life forms but what you 
 get instead are small, robotic droids that float around and shoot laser beams at you. They inflict 
 a lot of damage when they group together but overall, you wish that the enemies are more bigger 
 and alien-like. Actually, you do fight some giant monsters but this doesn't happen in later stages 
 and boss fights and they look identical with one another.
  
  In comparison with Dementium, Moon is a much improved game than the twisted, survival horror because 
 of its replay value. After completing the game in Dementium: The Ward, the players don't unlock 
 anything nor get to see any scoring points whatsoever. You see the credits and it takes you back 
 to the main menu. This is definitely Dementium's biggest flaw and the developers ensured that these 
 problems will not happen in Moon. Moon has seventeen stages altogether and you get to replay each 
 stages in the Quick Play mode. You also get to see the stages' scores which tells each of its completion 
 time, shot accuracy and extra merits (Which are hidden treasures scattered in some stages) . Another 
 great features of Moon are the cutscenes, especially the first few scenes because it has some voice 
 overs which Dementium didn't really have. The navigation in Moon is also a plus because the maps 
 are extremely useful which tells you exactly where you should be going. 
  
  And finally, the other best part of Moon are the save points. Again referring to Dementium: The 
 Ward, that game had very limited checkpoints in them which makes finishing the game quite a chore. 
 In Moon's case, both checkpoints and save points are scattered everywhere making it easier to play 
 the game. However, that doesn't mean Moon is an easy game. There are three difficulty settings 
 you get to choose from and if you select the harder ones, your journey can be a tough ride. 
  
  Despite the favorable comments, there are some flaws in the game. The first problem is no multiplayer. 
 Second issue is that there is a bug in the game. This occurs in stage 6- the part where you enter 
 the garage lifts with the LOLA buggy. However, if you get into the lift without the LOLA, you cannot 
 proceed to the following lift because only the LOLA can gain access to it. To make matters worse, 
 you can't go back to the previous lift to retrieve the buggy, so the only solution is to RESTART 
 the game back to the beginning. It's a painful experience but the developers are aware of this 
 situation and stated that they will release a new version of Moon in later months so be sure to 
 grab that version if you haven't bought it yet.
  
  The enemies, as mention before, could've been better but the other unsatisfactory aspect is the 
 sound department. The sound effects are pretty good but music is incredibly terrible. It's just 
 a scramble mess of disco music mix with techno. It's just bad. Really bad. The ending is also disheartening 
 for it doesn't really explain most of the unanswered questions much like in Dementium. This could 
 be a hint for a sequel in the near future but still, it's pretty lame. And finally, the other displeasing 
 thing is the fact that Moon is not available outside the US. It seems that Renegade Kid is pretty 
 lazy about exporting their games to other countries just like Dementium. The only way to buy Moon 
 is through online, and that's just uncool.
  
  To windup this review, Moon is a great game for the Nintendo DS for it delivers such amazing features 
 for a handheld game which makes it truly outstanding. It's surely a much refined and polished game 
 than Dementium: The Ward though it has some problems of its own. But despite these shortcomings, 
 Moon really delivers what it promises that you are willing to forgive the issues stated above. 
 If you're a fan of Dementium: The Ward and Metroid Prime: Hunters or simply a First Person Shooting 
 fan who also likes the Nintendo DS, then this is the game for you.
  
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 7
  Replay Value: 8
  Overall: 8
  Game Score: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterYossef
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Moon is a marvelous game with simple game controls challenging gameplay the first time you play 
 this game it a real joy every new level has alien artifacts so you can go get all three in each 
 level to unlock secret levels. So besides the great replay value the game can last you up to 10 
 to 5 or to 7 hours if you play on easy wich I dont recomend because it will be way to easy. The 
 first time I played threw it I played on normal wich can last you up to 10 to even a little bit 
 more If you wanted to get this game for a long trip like I did its perfect. Well anyways its a great 
 game over all go buy it now. Also go check out dementium the ward published byt the same people 
 that made moon. Dementium the ward is a fps survival horror game.
  I wanted to thank Renegade kid for making 2 great games hope you guys keep making more.
  
  
 Enjoy,
  Master Yosef. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  FPSes on a weak system is a controversial topic. Skeptics will sneer that it will be low quality 
 because of the system requirements; AI, number of enemies on screen, etc. are all advantages to 
 the more powerful systems. Moon is one of the most controversial examples of a FPS on a weak system 
 yet, with those that love it, hate it and everything in between -- but if you're willing to accept 
 that Moon can't and isn't trying to replicate a typical 7th gen console FPS, you certainly won't 
 be one to hate it.
  
  First and foremost Moon is a shooter, but it heavily relies on its adventure elements to provide 
 for a unique pocket FPS. Sure, you'll be blasting away enemies of varying shapes and sizes, but 
 Moon makes up for the DS' weak hardware with a Metroid Prime approach to the genre. Mission objectives 
 are usually locating objects, instead of blasting away hundreds of on-screen enemies, and the player 
 uses the RAD to do it.
  
  The RAD is where Moon sets itself apart from other DS FPSes. Think of the Mark II from MGS4, but 
 actually useful. The RAD can crawl into tiny vents where you can't, which is useful in two main 
 ways; it can either locate hidden artifacts for bonus missions, or unlock a door you can't get past 
 as a human. The RAD can also stun enemies, but outside of Moon's adventure elements the RAD is 
 pretty useless.
  
  That's not to say the game is all about finding artifacts and progressing through the story, of 
 course. There are plenty of enemies hiding around corners and on cielings, and while the variety 
 is lacking, enemy patterns are interesting and it's enjoyable to take enemies down. Boss fights 
 are especially enjoyable, although they could have been much more with a decent soundtrack. Moon 
 plays differently than most other current gen FPSes, which works in its favor.
  
  Moon also employs an enjoyable, slightly eerie story. As Major Kane, you've been assigned to a 
 secret mission on the Moon after Earth discovers a 'hatch.' When you get there, your men are mysteriously 
 attacked by Extra Terrestrials; some are abducted by the aliens. Your commanding officer orders 
 you down into the hatch, which is full of enough secrets to keep the plot interesting.
  
  The way Major Kane communicates with people was taken right out of old-school MGS (Renegade Kid 
 really has a crush on Snake) , with the exact same interface, though lacking the voice acting. What's 
 there to say about this obvious rip-off? It works, and it works well, so I'm not complaining.
 
  
  After destroying the hatch, you'll go back out onto the surface of the moon in search of another 
 -- which is the beginning of the car levels. While these levels only last a minute or two, it's 
 worth noting that they are pretty bad, even considering how poorly other FPSes handle car control.
 
  
  Aside from that, though, Moon controls like a charm. Think Metroid Prime: Hunters, but better -- 
 aim with the stylus, move with the d-pad, shoot with shoulder buttons and switch weapons by tapping 
 a button on the touch screen (thankfully, the game pauses the action to give you time to choose 
 your weapon, unlike in Hunters) . It's simple and intuitive, and probably as good as any DS FPS 
 will ever control, but I would have liked to see some innovation. Melee attacks? Ducking? Grenades? 
 While extremely accurate and fun to use, the DS' controls are as basic as they were in 2006.
  
  It's easy to forgive the simple controls when you're using such a great arsenal of weapons, 
 though. The variety here is nice, and each gun feels great. Weapons are a joy to use and, almost 
 as importantly, a joy to look at.
  
  No matter who you are, you'll be able to appreciate Moon's silky smooth, unwavering 60 frames per 
 second. Not only that, but DS owners will appreciate the upgrade Renegade Kid has done to their 
 engine; character models, textures, lighting, animations, etc., Renegade Kid has proved mastery 
 over the DS hardware. Dark environments and a creepy atmosphere really help mask the DS' hardware 
 limitations, as well. In my opinion, Moon is best looking 3D DS game on the market (screenshots 
 and videos look far worse than the real thing, trust me) . I never thought I'd say something like 
 this, but Iwould love to see the Renegade Kid Engine be the Unreal Engine for the DS; Moon makes 
 most 3D DS games pale in comparison.
  
  Outside of the visuals, though, Moon's presentation falls flat. Multiplayer could have extended 
 the life of a short game; even online ranking would have been nice. The soundtrack is pretty annoying; 
 the series of bleeps and bloops may ocassionally fit in with the dark, bleak atmosphere, but for 
 the most part it's just that -- a series of bleeps and bloops. Moon's presentation is pretty bare-bones, 
 even considering the platform, and it's a shame considering how much potential the game has for 
 multiplayer.
  
  Repeating level design is also a large problem. Initially the design seems pretty good, but 3 hours 
 later when you go past the same room for the upteenth time you might lose a little interest. Boss 
 fights also repeat, which is a problem Hunters had, and it's even less excusable now that we're 
 in 2009.
  
  If you go into Moon with a pessemistic perspective, thinking it will suck for being on a weak platform 
 -- you will hate it. There's plenty of criticism to level at Moon; it's short, has a terrible soundtrack, 
 level design repeats far too often... But if you want to look at the good aspects of Moon, there's 
 plenty to enjoy. It isn't Killzone DS, but I would recommend Moon to any DS fan with an appreciation 
 for the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfalzx
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Moon, I honestly did. Not only that its setting - our very own rocky satellite 
 is a far more compelling locale than, say an alien world far, far away, but the spine-chilling 
 horror and awe of real life space exploration implied by the protagonist's bulky space suit sealed 
 the deal. However, it's all downhill from there. Not only is the fascinating lunar setting abandoned 
 in favor of grimy futuristic corridors within the first five minutes of the game, but so is the 
 vulnerability of your EVA suit, as well as any sense of subtlety, pacing or atmosphere.
  The plot of Moon is as groan-inducingly insipid as it is needlessly wordy and contrived. It's the 
 near future, and there is a lunar mining and research base, but if that in itself wasn't a great 
 premise for at least twenty-or-so pant-soilingly terrifying scenarios I can think of right off 
 the bat, usually involving crap simply going wrong and astronauts getting closely acquainted with 
 my personal best friends - explosive decompression and absolute zero environment, the creators 
 of the game decided that the most novel twist of events would be to populate the moon with aliens... 
 No, not some cool mysterious, you know ALIEN aliens but straight-up saucer-flying humanoid douchebags 
 who set up a meth lab of sorts below the lunar surface. Enter you as Major Kane, and hang on to 
 your eyeballs as they are about to roll straight out of your freaking skull, who is an operative 
 of a government agency dealing with paranormal... Yeah.. I know - shoot me now and call it a day. 
 It's no secret - a lot of FPS games have unspeakably silly plots, but few of them flaunt theirs 
 as hard as Moon does. It hammers it in via endless boring, flow-breaking expository text-only Metal 
 Gear-style radio conversations and at terminals scattered throughout the game. Even if you were 
 to somehow suspend your disbelief and pretend the plot wasn't insulting your intelligence, the 
 characters Kane usually talks to are all boring and one-dimensional, making it physically impossible 
 to take any of their dialog more serious than a Sham-Wow infomercial.
  Moon continues Renegade Kid's proud tradition established in their previous game - Dimentium The 
 Ward of creating about twenty minutes worth of compelling unique visual and gameplay content, then 
 smearing that in an uneven layer over approximately ten hours of playtime. From the moment Kane 
 enters alien cartel's evil lair 5 minutes into the game, and up until he defeats the Pablo Escobar 
 alien at the end, the game feels like a videogame equivalent of Bill Murray's Groundhog Day, as 
 you will go through an identical level after identical level of generic "techno" corridors connecting 
 slightly wider corridors sparsely populated with floating sentry droids and an occasional alien 
 meth-head. On rare occasion the tedium is only worsened by mandatory remote-controlled droid puzzle 
 which can be described as sort of like Metroid Prime's morphball segments, if all they involved 
 was rolling down a tunnel that is about fifteen times longer than necessary and flipping a switch 
 or two, then rolling all the way back.
  Also, at several points the game forces you to drive a vehicle over lunar surface, and while that's 
 unfortunately not nearly as fun as it sounds, those vehicle sections provide a slight offset to 
 the tedium, as well as contain the game's easily stumbled-upon fatal bug which will negate all 
 your progress until that point.
  The game's difficulty starts out about 10 points below the "too freaking easy" mark, and stays 
 that way throughout the vast majority of the campaign. However, if you persevere, and manage to 
 stay awake for long enough to reach the games final few levels, you will be treated to a dramatic 
 difficulty spike that forces you to retreat back to a save point to restore your health after ispatching 
 every band of marauding drones, which by this point, while haven't changed visually, have become 
 annoyingly tough to take out. This brings me to another important game design failure on Moon - 
 while you regularly acquire additional health containers, the enemies gain strength at approximately 
 the same pace, so near the end of the game you would still only be able to withstand five or six 
 enemy blasts, which at that point occasionally connect with your shiny astronaut ass the moment 
 you step through a door, but will take ten times the number of medpacks to restore full health 
 entirely defeating the whole point of upgradeable health. The difficulty spike is in fact so dramatic, 
 that the engine can't keep up with it, and the game slows down to a crawl at the beginning of every 
 new room, sometimes skimping out of drawing less vital objects on the screen, such as your weapon 
 in order to accommodate all the alien scum.
  Also, at about the time the game turns into a prolonged quick-time event of entering a room and 
 then hoping not to die within seconds the game's composer finally said "screw it" and replaced 
 the background music with the sound a human being hears when his teeth are being filed down. That's 
 not to say the rest of the in-game music is much better - far from it! All of it is of surprisingly 
 low fidelity even for Nintendo DS, and almost no single in-game music loop is longer than a few 
 seconds long. Also, the music cuts out entirely every time you go through a doorway even if the 
 music on the other side is the same as was playing in the room you were just in. Come to think 
 of it - whenever you reach a door, and decide to go through the screen goes black for about a second, 
 and then you appear in the next room - but I'm sure there is a technical explanation to why that 
 hast to be, instead of, say just opening a door and passing through it like in every other FPS.
 
  All in all - it's easy to make an impressive Nintendo DS game - throw in a decent 3D engine, a 
 full motion video cutscene or two, a
  little voice work, and BAM! - you have yourself a high-production-values DS product. Nintendo's 
 little dual-screen handheld has only a few of such titles earning them endless acclaim despite 
 the fact not one of them even approaches the quality or scope of an average console game from ten 
 years ago... And then you realize - the system you are playing these games on is more powerful 
 than Sega Saturn and has twice the memory of PlayStation - isn't it fair to demand a little quality 
 from it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  What do you think the moon holds from us? Some look up to it as the big cheese, and others think 
 more deeply of what might be buried deep beneath its surface. You think finding out such secrets 
 would make for an interesting visit to the big planet, but in the case of Moon for the Nintendo 
 DS, we get a fairly decent shooter that doesn't boldly go where no FPS has gone before. It's fun 
 for the short amount of time that it lasts you, and the graphics are as smooth as butter! But when 
 it comes to a Sci-Fi adventure, this just feels like more of the same.
  
  As you'd expect, the controls are easy to understand of and they work out rather well much to that 
 regard! Touchscreen is used to look around and interact with the environment, as well as aim your 
 many weapons. L is the fire button, and the controlpad is used to move about freely from one droid 
 filled hatch to the next. 
  
  The look of this game also shows off just what the handheld is capable of, and provides us with 
 some nice looking levels and driving sequences. As well as a few cutscenes sprinkled in for good 
 measure. The shooting is well done, and the variety of weapons makes sure that there's always some 
 satisfying way to kill. The problem is that the good stuff roughly ends there. 
  
  The story is blah and never really pulls you in. Which is a too bad, considering that "epic plot" 
 is slapped right on the back of the case! And the music is... just weird. While the sound effects 
 are good, the tunes you will hear just come out sounding like a mishmash of random noises with 
 a tempo thrown in for kicks.
  
  And last, the gameplay is repetitive! There's a fun driving scene to break things up every once 
 and a while, but there just isn't enough of them. Enemies are plentiful, but throughout a good 
 chunk of the game you're left fighting only security droids and repeated boss battles. You eventually 
 encounter other beings, but the majority of enemies are just mindless bots from start to finish.
 
  
  Overall, If you're in the mood for a entertaining and quick shooter, than this title fits the bill! 
 But if you're looking for something that hasn't already been done a dozen or so times before, than 
 Moon will feel like very famlilar territory.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanBryan
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I read so many reviews about moon and i ended up buying it because everyone said it was an awesome 
 fps. I want my money back
  Pros:
  -Graphics and frame rate areamazing
  -Story cut scenes were pretty decent
  -Weapons are different from regular fps
  -Has a scary 
 feeling to it that most ds fps dont have
  Cons:
  -Gameplay is dull
  -Not many things to do like jump or anything.
  -Enemies ruin the suspense. Enemies are just blocks 
 flying around.
  -Bosses are just big piles of blocks
  -Levels look almost exactly alike.
  -Not much variety.
  -Not many enemies to shoot. It is mostly walking around exploring.
  Overall:
 
  Gameplay: 3.5/10 Graphics: 8.5/10
  Value: 6.5/10
  Sound: 5/10
  ___ ___ ___ _____ ____ ___ __ ___ _____ ___ ______ __ ____ _____ __ ____ __ ___ _______ __ __ ______ 
 ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ _ ___ ___ ____ _____ __ ___ ___ ___ _____ _ _ __ 
 __ ___ ___ ____ _ __ __ ___ _ __ ____ ____ ______________ __ __ __ ____ __ _ _______ _ ______ ____ 
 __ __ ___ ___ _ ___ _____ _____ ____ ____ ___ ______ _ ___ _ ___ ____ ____ _ __ ___ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun, and all, it has great graphics (for the ds) and a good amount of weapons to 
 choose from.
  
  The enimies you kill are mostly orbs, but there are some spiderish things, and aliens, and yes 
 there are some great boss fights through out the game, but nothing your remember forever.
  
  The lengh of this game is decent, and your beat it in about 10-15 hours, and this includes 
 unlocking the other episodes, and going through the hole stage, and getting involved by reading 
 everything in the story.
  
  But there are 3 difficuty setting, so you could multiply that number by 3, and would/could have 
 45 hour of gameplay.
  
  After you put all that gameplay in, your really dont have a need to play this game again, because 
 theres no mini games or multiplayer to do at the end.
  
  This game is a should have, because it uses the ds's abilities to a good amount.
  
  But if 
 you want i might just waite till C. O. R. E. comes out, and that looks like a great fps game, with 
 multiplayer.
  
  But all around good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The term "linear" in video games has, I believe, gotten a bum rap. It seems that after the release 
 of Grand Theft Auto III, a game's quality was often measured by its ability to let the player wander 
 away from the main story. Games that do allow for that can, of course, be fun, but just like a 
 great movie, often it's equally entertaining to simply be taken for a ride. Moon for Nintendo DS 
 is a first-person adventure that sets out to do pretty much just that. It pushes the player along 
 a fairly straight path, but it offers an interesting story with generally strong dialogue for a 
 handheld game.
  
  As its name implies, the game takes place on the Earth's moon. You play as one Major Kane, a specialist 
 for the Extra Terrestrial Encounter Organization. A subterranean structure of unknown origin has 
 been located on the moon, and you're on a mission to investigate the site. Shortly after your arrival 
 there, however, a great explosion occurs and some of your team members go missing. You must search 
 for survivors and unravel the mystery of the events taking place around you.
  
  Similar to both the Metroid Prime series and Resident Evil, you'll gain most details about the 
 story via logs that can be found throughout the game. However, you'll also be in constant communication 
 with a couple of the game's other main characters, which helps to keep the experience from ever 
 feeling too isolated and plodding.
  
  Since it's the first thing players will likely notice, I'll say right off the bat, Moon looks great 
 on DS. The game's loaded with full-motion videos that add a wonderful, cinematic flair and break 
 up the gameplay nicely, and the real-time, 3D graphics are something of a technical marvel on the 
 dual screen. Renegade Kid (the six-man development team for Moon) has stated that the game runs 
 at 60 frames per second, and there's no disputing that here. The game runs great, looks fantastic, 
 and the overall presentation is very tight and polished. That said, the environmental variety is 
 pretty sparse, and conceptually, the game never really opens up.
  
  Readers may remember the developer's last DS title, Dementium, a survival-horror adventure, also 
 played from the first-person perspective. Moon borrows heavily from Dementium's gameplay design, 
 as opening doors, interacting with objects and controlling your character are all handled in pretty 
 much the same fashion; it all worked well in Dementium and, likewise, it works well here. Actually, 
 the controls in Moon work great, and it's yet another example of how well the FPS genre can perform 
 on DS. The only drawback here, really, is that the low resolution of the DS screens can cause the 
 aiming reticule to appear to shake, and Renegade Kid likely would have done well to be a tad more 
 generous with hit detection.
  
  As a military officer, you'll start out with an automatic rifle  the Super Assault Rifle, to be 
 exact  though you'll acquire other, alien weapons along the way (Halo, anyone?) Undoubtedly, the 
 most unique item you'll come across (early) in the game is the Remote Access Droid (RAD) . This 
 tiny robot will play a huge role in the game, as you'll use RAD to access areas Kane cannot, and 
 working through puzzles (as well as boss fights) together is necessary to progress. It's a shame, 
 however, the developers felt the need to prohibit Kane from having the ability to make small jumps 
 or crawl under areas that would otherwise seem accessible to him simply to justify RAD's value 
 to the gameplay. I wish they had created level elements that made a bit more sense in terms of 
 the areas only RAD could access. Since Kane is a badass of sorts within the story, it's awkward 
 when he can't make a simple jump over a crate that stands in his way, nor kneel down and move under 
 sizeable crawl spaces.
  
  If you can suspend disbelief, however, you'll enjoy the tightness of the level design. Though you're 
 led down fairly straight-forward paths, the game has a decent pace and the shooting is enjoyable. 
 Moon does grow a bit tiresome early on, though, as its formula becomes more transparent and you 
 find yourself doing many of the same things over and over.
  
  Additionally, certain areas of a given level can feel really cramped. Some of the game's more challenging 
 (and interesting) boss fights are made unnecessarily frustrating due to a lack of maneuverability; 
 you can't always see where enemy fire is coming from because the boss is almost on top of you. 
 That said, the game's bosses are mostly fun and rewarding, though there is some definite recycling 
 as you progress through the game.
  
  Another integral gameplay element to touch upon is the LOLA, a moon buggy of sorts. If you've played 
 Bros. in Arms for the DS and remember its Jeep missions, the LOLA sequences in Moon are very similar. 
 You control movement by pushing up on the D-pad (or the X button for lefties) to accelerate, push 
 left or right to strafe, and use the stylus to steer and direct the vehicle's built-in turret. 
 It's a little wobbly at first but easy to get accustomed to. You won't spend a great deal of time 
 driving around, as it's used mostly for getting from one subterranean site to the next, but it's 
 definitely an element that helps break up the repetition of the game's many corridors.
  
  It should be noted that most of the problems in Dementium have been rectified in Moon. Perhaps 
 Dementium biggest, almost game-breaking issue was its save system. You could play through an entire 
 level, get to the boss, die, and rather than restart you at your last manual save, the game would 
 literally erase your last save data and restart you at the beginning of the level. Moon takes a 
 nod from the Metroid Prime series and provides hard-save rooms sprinkled generously throughout 
 the game's levels.
  
  Whereas Dementium offered little more than a shell of a story that was a throwback to the amateur 
 FPS days of early PC games, Moon manages to create a cohesive experience from start to finish. 
 Again, you'll have to suspend disbelief in order to get around the notion of how the information 
 is relayed to the player, but it still works and is mildly entertaining. The actual gameplay, however, 
 is a bit archaic. There are elements of the game's story that are reminiscent of Half-Life 2, and 
 though the visuals in Moon are pretty much on par with the original Half-Life game, the developers 
 stuck with a more rudimentary FPS formula.
  
  The aural presentation does a pretty good job of bringing everything together, though gun sounds 
 are a little disappointing. Since there's no rumble feedback for most of us on DS (though the feature 
 is offered here) , it would have been nice to hear more punchy and visceral gunfire. What's here 
 just doesn't carry much weight. The music, however, is fitting, and though it's all synthesized, 
 themes do a good job of elevating the mood when action is about to kick in.
  
  When you step back and look at the DS' library of games, there aren't a great deal of first-person 
 shooters to choose from, especially ones worth playing. Moon actually sticks to quite a few very 
 old-school gameplay styles, but its beauty and technical prowess somewhat make up for its lack 
 of gameplay innovation. The level design is predictable and often repetitive, but it's also polished 
 and paced well. There isn't any multiplayer, but there are artifacts that can be collected throughout 
 the game to unlock secret training missions; these missions offer straight-up shooting scenarios 
 that should satisfy folks looking for more of a Halo-like experience. The bottom-screen interface 
 is slick, and overall, folks looking for a quality FPS to play on the go should at least give Moon 
 a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  From the guys that brought you Dementium, here comes Moon. Is it the first great game of the year? 
 Continue reading to find out.
  
  Gameplay 8.5
  Everything starts when your in (you guess it) the Moon in a mission and one minute later everything 
 goes wrong and youre left almost alone with only a few crew members talking to you via a cummunicator. 
 If you're looking for a Halo like game then look for something else cuz this one has a lot of adventure 
 in it, but of course theres some great action here and there, killing bots and other things but 
 its not like you will have to kill a million robots at every turn, but still it is very entertaining. 
 Controls are like most FPS on the DS. Moving with the stylus, shooting with L which all works great. 
 Theres plenty of different types of robots and mini-bosses to kill with many weapons at your disposal. 
 Theres also enough ammo and save points to make your day if you get your butt kicked. And if you 
 played Dementium and you're wondering if bots re-spawn then rest assured cuz they stay dead after 
 killing them.
  
  Graphics 9.5
  We all know the DS has its limitations but this is one of the best looking games for the platform. 
 Everything is well detailed, this games 3D is incredible, considering that there are some big environments. 
 And all runs at 60 frames per second. Though the only downside is that theres lots of rooms that 
 are very similar from each other and some reuse of robots that you kill at the start and even at 
 the end of the game, but then again you cant always ask too much for the humble DS.
  
  Sound 8.0
  Music feels like a hit or miss, cuz its some tecno like music that will work on some, 
 and not much for others. There is some VO here and there which is good. Though sound effects are 
 decent, they feel very compressed and not as good as they could have.
  
  Lasting Appeal 8.0
  The game is long enough to take you a good amount of time to beat it, plus 
 different levels of difficulty and some extra stuff after you beat the game like finding 3 items 
 in each of the levels. Its not the longest game ever but its definitively going to give you some 
 nice amount playing time. So if you need a Halo like FPS, then you better go play call of duty 
 (i haven't played it much but i think its more action oriented) , but if you want a adventure fused 
 with FPS action then this is definitively for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorKane11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Moon jumps off with a creepy intro scene (with spectacular cut scene graphics) and right at the 
 very beginning, starts off talking about aliens. Major Kane gets the low down about the hatch, 
 and of course, something goes wrong. You get your SAR (Super Assualt Rifle) , and head out to investigate 
 the cause of the attack, and to find your missing men.
  
  The game looks amazing, in every aspect. During a few select cut scenes, it could almost (ALMOST, 
 not quite) be PS2, but probably not. In game, it still looks great, with completely full details 
 full 3d rooms.
  
  The gameplay is really fun, but if you're looking for a more doom or halo game, this is'nt it. 
 It's not run and gun, just explore, then gun, then explore alot more. I was lucking, and didn't 
 get deja vu like Ign did, I could easily tell every room apart.
  
  The sound is nice, some alien sounds are really annoying, like the little robot guys your fight 
 with your RAD. The alien sounds later in the game, like the overlord and the soldiers are well 
 done. Other than that, the guns sound Ok, the music is Ok, and everythings cool.
  
  Cut Scenes rock!!!!!!!!! This game has amazing cut scenes, and the game does a great job of telling 
 the story..... (play the game, I'm not telling you.) But at the end, it really left some things 
 unreasolved. There was this unknown source that kept talking to you, it hinted who it was, but 
 never said ANYTHING about who it really was. And like every ending of a game, Major Kane says: 
 "This isn't the end, its just the beginning." So lets hope for a sequel people!
  
  As far as replay goes, its not great, but not bad. You get to unlock 6 or so more training missions, 
 which are mainly based upon shooting down aliens. Those are fun, but they're pretty much the same 
 thing.
  
  This is a fun, I had no problems with it at all! Its a great buy, and worth the wait, and you're 
 money. Support Renegade Kid so they can make a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobster-man44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest DS games that I have ever played. The graphics are stunning, story is 
 fantastic, and the controls are great. However, repeated boss fights can get annoying, and no multiplayer 
 (what's up with that?) . When the game starts off, you are Major Edward Kane. You are sent to the 
 moon to investigate a newly discovered alien hatch. 2 minutes later your're running with a gun 
 because something has attacked the moon base. You find out that your "buddies" have been kidnapped, 
 so you go into this alien hatch to find them. 
  Soon the story changes and you'll find yourself driving in a LOLA RR10 (their version of a warthog 
 from Halo) , running through more hatches, and fighting aliens.
  
  
  Things I liked about this game:
  -Graphics
  -Controls
  -Story
  -The LOLA RR10
  -Training 
 Missions
  -Level Quickplay
  -Awesome Guns
  
  Things I didn't like about this game:
  -Repeated Boss Fights
  -No Multiplayer
  -No Free Play
  
  I recemmend this game to any first 
 person shooter fan. If I loved it, then chances are that you, too, will love it also. This is a 
 must have for any DS owener. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  early impressions (minor spoilers) ...
  
  I've been waiting for this game to be released ever since I heard that it was being developed by 
 the creators of Dementium: The Ward. My expectations were high and I'm happy to announce that Renegade 
 Kid was able to fix most of the things that I didn't like with their previous title. 
  
  The game starts with a video that will narrate that a hatch was discovered on the moon that you 
 guys are about to investigate. As expected, something went wrong and your task (at least at first) 
 is to check what's underneath the moon's surface and locate possible survivors. You'll slowly end 
 up discovering what exactly is happening there by reading logs from computer-like panels that can 
 be found scattered around the levels.
  
  Gameplay can be best described as an Action-Shooter than just a plain First Person Shooter. But 
 FPS fans shouldn't be worried because it's actually a good thing. As with any other FPS games you'll 
 be given a bunch of weapons to play with. With this game however, you'll sometimes get higher weapons 
 by putting pieces together to form a weapon. No, it's not like you can customize your own weapons 
 like with other games but it's a change from the usual picking up of weapons from downed opponents. 
 
  
  Here, you'll also be able to take control of a droid that you can remotely control. It's a nice 
 change from the usual FPS game wherein you only take control of a single character throughout the 
 entire game. Taking control of a droid and disabling door locks and enemies adds a different experience 
 that is often times not available with your usual shooting games.
  
  At first you'll be duking it out with nothing but small drones, which is at least in my opinion 
 a bit boring. And it takes quite a while before you'll be greeted with bigger enemies like spider-drones 
 and wall-mounted gun turrets etc. As bad as this might sound, the varying experience makes up for 
 the ... well, not so intimidating first batch of enemies. What else is there other than the droid 
 you might ask? Well there's a moon buggy (called LOLA) that you can drive (on a 3rd person view) 
 on one of the levels of this game. You can shoot drones and turrets while at the same time trying 
 to evade land mines. 
  
  I've only come across around 4 level bosses and most of them are quite easy. Most of them requires 
 more patience than skills to defeat. I've seen some people complaining that some boss characters 
 gets repeatedly used on some levels, but I haven't experienced that one ... yet.
  
  This game also memorizes the opponents that you were already able to defeat. So you no longer have 
 to worry about your enemies re-spawning when you re-visit an area on the map. Dropped items like 
 health packs for example stays on the floor even if you visit a different area. This in my opinion 
 should be applied with most (if not all) DS games. Because I'm one of those guys who gets irritated 
 when trying to kill an opponent that you already defeated a few seconds ago just because you entered 
 a different section on the map.
  
  The game doesn't allow you to save anywhere or anytime you want to. You'll be able to save via 
 a save-point (represented by a device that is scattered around each levels) or every after episode 
 or boss fights. So if you're going to play this game during a short commute, you might end up setting 
 your DS on standby to save your progress because save points are a bit few and far in between. 
 Setting the game on standby without pausing the game first will cause the game to immediately resume 
 when you re-open your DS. So make sure that you hit the "start" button first to pause the game 
 before you put your DS into standby when you're in a middle of a gun-fight.
  
  The game is graphically impressive and it's hard to imagine how Renegade Kid was able to add such 
 details given the DS' limitations. And although some textures gets used heavily around each episode, 
 the additional effects makes up for it. Here you'll get smoke coming out of your gun barrel, lighting 
 effects when shooting your weapon, and even shot marks on walls etc. The environment looks good, 
 a lot better than most static looking maps on other games. That is because with Moon, you'll get 
 moving machinery and robotic arms scattered on some levels. It makes the game feel more alive when 
 compared to your usual walls and doors only filled levels. 
  
  The sound is a bit on the flat side in my opinion. Sound effects for example doesn't sound too 
 threatening. While the background techno'ish music is not only flat, but also quite repetitive. 
 However, the virtual surround/distance effects is quite effective. 
  
  Controls is what you'll expect with most shooters for the DS. You use the touchscreen to move the 
 cursor. You shoot with the L button. And use the directional pad to move around. There is however 
 no option to run, jump, and crouch. It removes some tactical opportunities while playing the game 
 but the developers done a good job of making you feel that those things are unnecessary (for this 
 game at least) .
  
  Other than the repetitive textures, flat sounding gun effects, and repetitive background music 
 ... there's really nothing more that I could complain about this game other than the process of 
 having to repeat some boring sequences (or batch of enemies) everytime you re-engage (died and 
 reloaded the save-point) on a boss fight. And although yes it doesn't have multiplayer support, 
 the single-player experience somewhat makes up for it.
  
  Having said all those things, this is still definitely one of the best shooter available for the 
 DS. But those issues and shortcomings prevented me from giving the game a Superb rating of 9.0. 
 I'm still sure as hell already excited as to what Renegade Kid will come up to next.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
