-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mr. Driller Drill Spirits
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/mrdrillerds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good combination of puzzle and action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough variety.
 Should have single-card multiplayer.
 Might as well be a GBA game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 436 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 30, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mr. Driller Drill Spirits is a decent game, but the lack of modes makes the fun short-lived. 
 

  Mr. Driller first broke onto the scene in 2000, when a little guy named Susumu and his dirt-digging 
 puzzle game made an appearance on the Game Boy Color, PlayStation, and Dreamcast. Since then, Susumu 
 has taken his show on the road, but none of his other exploits, which have appeared on the GameCube 
 and Game Boy Advance, have made it outside of Japan. Now, Mr. Driller is returning to North America 
 with the release of Mr. Driller Drill Spirits for the Nintendo DS. Fans of puzzle games will find 
 a passable but somewhat shallow game in Drill Spirits, but fans of this specific series will find 
 that it really hasn't changed much over the years.  

          Fact: Susumu is the son of the dude from Dig Dug.     

  The gameplay in Mr. Driller 
 puts you at the top of a deep well filled with multicolored blocks. You then dig down into this 
 well, and the blocks fall around you as you do so. Blocks of the same color stick together, so 
 drilling one of them will take out an entire like-colored mass. You can drill in four directions, 
 and move from left to right, if you've opened up a path. Most of the danger is in the possibility 
 of being crushed by falling blocks, but you also need to collect the air capsules that show up 
 from time to time, or you'll run out of air and lose a life. The gameplay is fun, and can be addictive, 
 but not so addictive that you won't notice that the game doesn't really change at all as you play. 

  Drill Spirits' few modes are built around this basic gameplay. In the mission mode, your goal is 
 to drill down to a specific depth, which will unlock additional characters. Pressure mode has you 
 skittering back and forth to collect power capsules, which you can use to launch a fireball at 
 a large drill that is coming down on you as you work. The other single-player mode is time attack, 
 which adds in collectable items that remove seconds from the clock as you attempt to drill to a 
 specific depth as quickly as possible. If you have multiple players, each with his or her own DS 
 and copy of the game, you can play Drill Spirits' multiplayer mode with up to five players in all. 
 This mode, called driller race, is a multiplayer race to the bottom. Some more variety to the game's 
 modes would have been nice.  

  Control of Mr. Driller is best handled with the D pad. While you can use the stylus, this really 
 feels like it was just tossed in for the heck of it. The game makes use of the dual-screened nature 
 of the platform by spanning the well across the two screens. You're always on the bottom screen, 
 so the top screen simply lets you see where you've been, which is rarely useful.  

          Fact: The dude from Dig Dug's name is Taizo Hori.     

  Visually, Mr. Driller Drill 
 Spirits has a good, clean look to it. It's not a technological marvel or anything, but it's crisp 
 and colorful, and it has plenty of character. On the audio side, the game contains a bit of speech, 
 but it's pretty much relegated to the menus and intro screen. The sound effects do their job, and 
 the music is upbeat and catchy.  

  Overall, Mr. Driller Drill Spirits is a decent game, but the lack of modes makes the fun short-lived. 
 If you're guaranteed to be around other players who own the game, the multiplayer mode is a pretty 
 cool diversion, but it's a shame that it requires multiple copies of the game, since it's so straightforward. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pit-U-F-O
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  It feels good to destroy... Most puzzle games keep throwing things at you to deal with: blocks, 
 gems, bubbles, spheres, etc... They are relentless!
  
  Mr. Driller's obstacles are all in place and must be destroyed... but CAREFULLY!
  
  Imagine 
 a giant stack of, well, colored blocks. Gravity is in full effect, everything is waiting to come 
 down. Four or more of the same color touching will disappear but only if at least one block has 
 just fallen into place. That means a giant agglomeration of red blocks will suddenly crumble if 
 you add just one more. If a block is falling it will stick to a like color as long as there are 
 less than four stuck together (in which case they disappear, sending things falling again.)
  
  It is important to breathe correctly while engaging in this destruction. The preferred substance 
 is AIR which is scarce and trapped in tanks lightly peppering the brickscape.
  
  It is very rewarding to skillfully destroy everything, but it is also possible to just drill like 
 crazy and hope most bricks disappear before they can squish you. You won't advance very far, but 
 it can be a tempting strategy.
  
  This game feels a bit too difficult with its default settings, but a bit easy with all the enhancements 
 you can buy for Mr. D: more lives, fuller air tanks, shields etc... Characters with specific built-in 
 abilities are unlocked as you progress.
  
  I maxed out my enhancements in order to unlock the characters then toned them back to better appreciate 
 the gameplay, which, is quite nifty. If they took this same mechanic and gave it sophisticated 
 Lumines type treatment, I think it would be more popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Mr. Driller Drill Spirits for the Nintendo DS is a very fun game that is also extremely challenging. 
 The game is really hard but not to the point that it is so hard that it isn't even fun. The point 
 of the game is to save the drillers that are stuck down at the bottom of these places. This is 
 also a very simple game you only need one button and the D-Pad you drill using the A button and 
 move around with the D-Pad. But if you get crushed you lose a life and you only have three lives. 
 There are also power-up things that you can buy in the store that will give you more life, more 
 speed, and protection from blocks. There are only six levels in the game but each level gets harder 
 &amp; longer to the point that it is near impossible to beat without power-ups . One of the other 
 challenges you have to face is your oxygen level it will slowly go down and you have to find air 
 capsles or you will die. There are two other modes in the game in one you will have to collect 
 ammo and then fire it at a giant drill thing. And In the time attack mode you have to beat a small 
 level in a short amount of time. There is also a multiplayer mode but you need two copies of the 
 game to play it. The graphics in Drill Spirits are very cartoony but are good. The sound is okay 
 there is some voice acting but not very much. Mr. Driller Drill Spirits is a good game that is 
 reccomended to anyone looking for a challenging game for the DS.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amz310783
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  A good game that wil keep you entertained, but no real motives to keep playing it. I expected there 
 to be more to it, but it did keep me hooked for a while.
  Its not hard to pick up, you will know how to play it within 5 seconds, but doesn't make any good 
 use of the ds features.
  I still can't make up my mind on this game, when I play it I will keep going for a few hours, but 
 then not pick it up for months.
  
  This is a puzzler thats not very puzzling, theres not really much to work out here, but it does 
 draw you in somehow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 2.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is practically worthless. I spent a few days playing but couldn't find any real logic 
 to improving my abilities. It's mostly just button mashing to drill in a downwards direction as 
 fast as you can while grabing some oxygen pills along the way. Each level i sconsecutively longer 
 (not harder, just longer) , and you get to unlock different characters along the way and use them 
 to replay the same levels you've just completed. I only spent $10 on it from eBay and still sold 
 it back as I was embarassed to even claim it as part of my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Mr. Driller, a game that should never have been put on the ds. When i got it i thought it would 
 be a nice addition to my ds collection, but after i played it i saw what MDDS really was. The graphics 
 are alright and thats about the only good thing I can say about this game. The music just gets 
 annoying and their is a lack of game modes, 2 modes with levels that are all essentially the same 
 thing. The game itself is also just not fun, you rarely ever use the D-pad making it a one button, 
 button smasher unless you are playing the other mode which has a little more variety. Overall this 
 is a horrible game and shouldnt be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Mr Driller is defininetly a game where you should never use the stylus. It is a quirky puzzle game 
 where you select a driller and race to escape the mine before running out of air. It has colorful 
 hippie graphics but the gameplay is fun and matches the funkadellic visuals. It has only 3 game 
 modes and only two of them are any fun. The other fun mode is a battle against a wierd and childish 
 drilling robot that is chasing you. You gather up power and launch fireballs at your mechanical 
 foe before he catches you. I do advise waiting to get it for about $19.99 as that is my personal 
 value and I do advise getting it. It is severely underrated and I'm not even a puzzle fan. This 
 is the first puzzle game i got. Be sure to add this cute DS game to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  Mr. Driller: Drill Spirits
  He sure knows how to dig himself into a hole
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 5
  Controls (15%) - 6.5
  Variety (25%) - 5
  Replay (25%) - 5.5
  Sound 
 (7.5%) - 5
  Depth (15%) - 5
  
  OVERALL - 5.35
  
  Graphics - 5
  It's a GBA game, basically. There seems to have been no effort to make this look better than was 
 necessary to make it playable. A problem is that the screen scrolls once you're too close to the 
 bottom screen -- it limits the visibility to plan ahead, and minimizes the use of the top screen.
 
  
  Controls - 5
  The touch-screen controls are absolutely useless. There's no reason for them other than to justify 
 this as a DS game. Even then it can be a bit troublesome to get your driller to do what you want. 
 And repeatedly pounding on the A-button for everything gets bothersome.
  
  Variety - 5
  Drill... drill... drill... That comprises the gameplay. There are some speed modes, items and different 
 characters, but the items feel like cheating and the characters aren't all that different. However, 
 eventually the items are a necessity as the game is brutally difficult without them.
  
  Replay - 5.5
  Beating the timed stages can keep your interest, and the single player is fun for 
 a bit, but there's not a whole lot to go back to due to the repetitive gameplay. What's worse, 
 you need two game-cards to play multi-player! For this simplistic game, you still need two game-cards.
 
  
  Sound - 5
  Muffled voice-overs and forgettable sound-tracks comprise the sound. The robot, who would be the 
 best choice for a character, has a terribly annoying drill sound, so every time you drill you hear 
 a rusty clang. I'd rather choose another character than benefit of the extra crushing the robot 
 can take.
  
  Depth - 5
  Other than there being disappearing coloured blocks, there's little reason to consider this a puzzle-game. 
 It's more along the lines of a boring actions game on a linear path. There isn't much strategy 
 to anything besides recovering difficult to reach oxygen tanks, which is comparable to the simple 
 puzzles found in most action games. This may appease those who don't like puzzle games, but for 
 anyone looking for a mental challenge, look elsewhere.
  
  Overall - 5.35
  Mr. Driller: Drill Spirits is a lazy effort for a GBA game, let alone the DS. Bland, repetitive 
 and boring, it's deadweight on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The DS has just been released with not many good launch titles the system still sell well and right 
 now the new titles that have just arrived have been pretty good. Then I found Mr. Driller in which 
 many could call a decent game so I decide to check it out. The game has no real storyline after 
 you finish a level they will be a conversation but not real storyline. But will Mr. Driller a good 
 DS recommendation or just another one to forget continue reading and find out. 
  
  In Mr. Driller you get 3 different modes on the singleplayer. One of them is Mission Driller where 
 youre going drilling in different meters. Each country can have 500, 100 and even more. Your basically 
 doing in this game is drilling blocks, joining them to make them disappear and go down. You can 
 join 4 or more blocks together. You can still drill any square on your left, right and down. But 
 if you join a lot of blocks the faster you will go down to reach the goal. The problem here is 
 that blocks can come falling down if they are any blocks close of you on top they will fall down 
 and crush you and that will take you one live. The thing is that you also have to be worry about 
 you air supply. You will have an air meter of 100% that will always be going down so you have to 
 get while digging the air capsule or else you will die and lose a life. Also the levels can be 
 pretty long and you have little lives like 3 only. They are some items you can buy like a bubble 
 that protects you 2 or 3 times when a block falls on you. They are also others that can make air 
 capsules give more air. You will have different countries like Korea and China, but the blocks 
 look all similar with their soft colors. The games dual screen is pretty well used where you can 
 see the blocks on top and know if they are blocks falling to crush you. They are some rock blocks 
 that are hard to drill and if you drill them you lose 20% of air. The touch screen feels pretty 
 useless tough you can use it to move the driller and use the menu but controlling the driller is 
 easier with the control pad. 
  
  The second mode the most fun is pressure driller that has you battling against a big drilling machine. 
 In this one on the top screen it will show you the destroyer drill which is the killing machine 
 and down well you. In this mode your objective is to pick up power capsules that are use like fireballs 
 and when the drilling machine takes on of his arms you have to shoot at it. But is no easy task 
 the machine has a lot of life like 400 or more. The good thing is that if a block falls on you 
 or if you lose air you will die but wont have life and continue fighting but while youre recovering 
 the machine gets closer and if it touches you then its game over, which is disappointing because 
 after you take him a lot of lives you lose at the first touch and you cant try again with the 
 same lives you take him out. If you collect up to 3 power capsules your fireball will be stronger, 
 but if you die you lose all the power and start picking again power capsules. The machine throws 
 you blocks on the way so you take more time drilling. It also shoots with left and right arm or 
 on his bottom. When the machine gets angry it will go faster. 
  
  The other mode is time attack where youre basically digging until you reach the goal within the 
 time limit. You will have some balls that can subtract some time but it works very little. They 
 are some little icons that can flip horizontally or rotate in 90 degrees the screen, and the crystal 
 icon that makes crystal blocks get created. You can unlock different characters that have different 
 abilities like one dog can climb 2 blocks and stuff like that. In order to unlock them you must 
 go to the country where they are. While the game is pretty fun blocks falling down and losing air 
 are 2 things to worry that get you very frustrated and make the game lose fun. Yet fans that play 
 a Mr. Driller or like a Tetris style of game can enjoy it more than I do. 
  
  The graphics on this game are disappointing, starting with the menu screen that has cutesy pink 
 flowers. They are different countries to dig but they dont change anything on the game just the 
 background at the beginning. The colored cutesy blocks that look similar only that some are vibrant 
 while other are soft. The characters on the game have a type of anime style in which I am not sure 
 if there is a show but I doubt. The destroyer drill on pressure driller mode has some great animations 
 on how it moves but its always the same machine only that when is dying it brakes and you see 
 it on metal. What is weird is why this game has a kiddy pinky look, which gives you that kiddy 
 image that everyone talks about Nintendo but guess what this is made by Namco. Sure is a handheld 
 but the DS has 3-D engine just take a look at Super Mario 64 DS. But since this is a drilling I 
 suppose it has to look like that. But why colorful blocks and anime characters that look like those 
 on pokemon? 
  
  You dont only get cutesy graphics but also cutesy sound. After a stage on mission driller the 
 characters will talk with some pretty fair voiceovers. The music is all very kiddy and simple but 
 it fits the style of game youre playing. When you drill a block it will sound ''bloop''. They 
 are not many sound effects just hearing the destroyer drill shooting at you and chasing you that 
 sounds pretty decent because it makes you feel that machine is real and make it a bit scarier despite 
 that is a pinky machine that shoots with flower arms. There is not the biggest effort but it fits 
 well with the game, and is not quite annoying. 
  
  The multiplayer is disappointing because each player needs the game in order to play it unlike 
 Mario 64 DS in which just one player could have the game and play all together. The games multiplayer 
 is a driller race where all players compete to be the fastest to reach the goal. You will never 
 lose lives even if you lose air or get crush by falling blocks but instead you will lose time, 
 special items also on this mode. The blue items are: speed that increases movements of speed for 
 a limited time, Power that increases your drill speed for a limited time, turbo that increase both 
 movements speed and drill speed also for a limited time. The red items are: Crystal that turns 
 all objects of one color on your opponents screen to crystal blocks, Change-X turns all blocks 
 of one color on you opponents screen to x blocks and Change W is the same but instead into white 
 blocks. In the race your opponents are displayed as ghosts. The race is pretty fun but hard to 
 play dimply because little people own the game and each player needs the game. The singleplayer 
 offers 3 different modes but none of them have a huge replay simply because the levels sometimes 
 are pretty long and hard. 
  
  Drill Spirits does try some great ideas but in the end only fans of the series can appreciate this 
 game more. The DS capabilities are use very poor on this game only the dual screen was the great 
 thing. So overall this game is a decent experience that fans of Tetris style of games can only 
 really enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendork2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Mr. Driller: Drill Spirits, a high-paced action puzzler from Namco. In this game you 
 play as Susumi Hori, or Mr. Driller for short. Throughout the game you earn more characters as 
 you advance; each with their own special abilities and traits.
  
  The gameplay consists of digging, but trust me.. it's a lot more fun than it sounds. You must drill 
 your way through colored blocks until you reach your destination; all while maintaining your amount 
 of air, that can be refilled by collecting air capsules. Sounds easy, right???..... Well, you'll 
 see....
  
  There are 3 different modes in the US version that you can play including Mission Driller: the 
 main game, in which you rescue your friends, Pressure Driller: Where you must destroy a giant drill; 
 before it destroys you and Time Attack Driller: Which forces you to drill as fast as you can!
 
  
  During the game; you will receive points which can be used to buy items from the driller store. 
 These items can be used to help you during the game. NOTE: When you use items, your score will 
 not be recorded.
  
  The graphics and sound are nothing special; but they're not bad either. In fact; they suit the 
 game wonderfully.
  
  This game is a little on the short side; but the addictive gameplay and challenge should keep you 
 crawling back for more!
  
  Overall: This is a vastly underrated game that is wildly addicting, fun and challenging for puzzle 
 fans and non-puzzle fans alike. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenuma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Mr. Driller Drill Spirits is a good game. Yo get to drill underground until you get crushed 
 by the rocks above you. Another thing- the rocks are colorful. Some rocks have to be drilled more 
 than once. Sound good? Of course! Who doesn't like drilling underground with a guy in pink and 
 blue?
  
  The game doesn't start out easy, believe me, but the more you play it the harder it is to just 
 set the stinking DS down and get some fresh air! The game will have you drilling colonies out behind 
 your house. 
  
  Like the name suggests, you will be drilling, and drilling, and a little poking. But it is a puzzel 
 game, so you won't be just drilling everything in site. If you do, you'll be crushed in no time 
 at all.
  
  See, you have to drill with caution, because if you just drill to your heart's content, you leave 
 unstable rocks above you that will fall and crush you. 
  
  Yes, there's a catch to just drilling and dodging. You have to breathe underground where there 
 isn't much oxygen, so your guy must drill into rocks with air pills in them so he can temporarily 
 last longer. After all, there aren't air conditioners underground (but if you look at it that way, 
 there aren't oxygen pills either) . 
  
  Over all, you take a look at most games, and you play them to experience new things, see cool cinematics, 
 and see how the story goes along. After all of that gets accomplished, you get bored, and only 
 play the game again to get secrets, if you even do that much.
  
  But not Mr. Driller Drill Spirits, no way! You'll be playing that game when you're 80, because 
 playing it is the most addicting thing next to Ms. Pac Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 4, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Mr Driller Drill spirits is the latest addition to Namcos ageing puzzle series.
  Veteran Drillers will get straight into the game as they will be used to difficulty , but new players 
 will have ruff time with it as it is very difficult and ONE mistake will ruin the players chances 
 to complete the level and a mistake is not hard to do. unnexplainably this game is the most addictive 
 game ive ever played. The aim of the game is to drill down through coloured blocks to certain depth 
 although falling block and chain reaction s over your head can kill you before you realised what 
 happened
  
  Gameplay: although very simple ( the most amount of buttons in use are 4 at the most ) The game is 
 very good because of it. The controls are very responsive and pick up and play although the difficulty 
 isnt.
  
  Graphics: Very detailed 2-D graphics and the screens are are always very colourful and nice to 
 look at.
  
  Sound: Tunes that never getrepetative and even when you put down the game some people may find 
 themselves humming the tune which changes every 100 feet you reach. Also on the main menue there 
 is also some words- Lets Drill!! spoken.
  
  Value: Although there is very little variety in gameplay the game will keep you coming back for 
 more as it so addictive.
  
  Tilt: The best game in the Mr Driller franchise and you wont want to put it down.
  Although if 
 you see the GBA version of an Older, cheaper mr driller get that as this is mostly the same game 
 but on 2 screens
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrawhiplash
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This was the first Mr. Driller i have played, and it is quite a good game. It is an addictive puzzle 
 game, but it is quite difficult. You must avoid being crushed as you drill down into the blocks, 
 and find air to stay alive. The basis is that you must drill colored blocks. They group together 
 when the same colors touch. When you drill a large mass of grouped blocks, they are all destroyed 
 in one drill. Three single player modes add replay, but it is short-lived. But unlockable characters 
 with different abilities, Multi-player, and items to help you, this game will likely have a spot 
 in your DS for a while.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2005 4:17 am PT
Review:  I like my puzzle games, but amazingly Tetris doesnt cut it for me. I need a puzzle game that is 
 a tad more addictive and challenging as play time progresses. Mr. Driller: Drill Spirits fulfills 
 that, well at least most of that. While it does have an effective and unique approach for a puzzle 
 game, it sadly doesnt take advantage of the touch screens as much. What Im trying to say is Drill 
 Spirits could work on any console/handheld, it doesnt seem as exclusive to Nintendo DS players. 
 While that doesnt seem to be the case with casual players, this game could quite cut it for you 
 if youre looking for an exigent puzzle game.
  
  Theres different ways to approach this game. You can hate puzzle games and pop the game cart in 
 and keep on tapping the A button and eventually run out of air and die Then blaming the DS for 
 your death. Which seems to be the case for a handful of people. Then theres the group that opens 
 the box up and reads the instruction manual as if it was a successful life for dummies. Once they 
 have learned the manual by heart they pop the cart in and pass through the first two levels like 
 a breeze. I say first two levels merely because the difficulty level staggeringly increases near 
 the beginning. Ill admit, Im at least halfway decent at puzzle games but Mr. Driller got me; 
 since at progressing level isnt technically harder, its just longer. When the levels are longer 
 the game becomes much more frustrating which is quite unfortunate.
  
  The level design is simple; each 100 M is considered a stage. The first level is 300 M deep, 
 which is obviously three stages. Then the next level is 500 M then 800 M and continues until 
 2000 M. The goal of the game is fairly apparent; try to get the character (not just Susumu Hori, 
 there are unlock able characters) to drill through the X amount of meters of colored blocks. Sounds 
 simple but is actually very tricky. There are two ways to die in Drill Spirits: run out of air, 
 or get squished by a block. I seem to die by the block more than anything. But no puzzle game can 
 be that simple there has to be a twist. That little twist in Mr. Driller is the use of items. Sadly, 
 these items have to be purchased in a store. Yep, points are needed to buy these items. The points 
 are pretty easy to get, all that is needed to do is to beat a level (or at least try beating a 
 level) , and the points will roll in Slowly that is. The items that are in the store range from 
 a force-field bubble to extra lives; the items are very useful.
  
  In Drill Spirits there are three single player modes: Mission Driller, Pressure Driller, and Time 
 Attack Mode. Mission Driller is the standard play mode, just drill down and destroy he colored 
 blocks to reach the goal. Pressure Driller is my favorite variant, in this mode, the players main 
 objective is to pick up power capsules and defeat the Destroyer Drill. The Destroyer Drill continuously 
 advances toward the player, and if it catches up him, the game will end. The character will be 
 revived when the player loses a life because he ran out of air or was crushed by a block, but the 
 player must be aware that he can lose valuable time! The player needs to aim fireballs at the vulnerable 
 areas of the Destroyer Drill to slow him down. So it gets kind of crazy. The last one player game 
 mode is Time Attack Mode that, dare I say, is self-explanatory Its not too great either. And 
 yes, there is multiplayer. It requires multiple game cards, so I havent had any playtime in the 
 wireless mayhem. Its up to five players (why five? I dont know) and the only mode that can be 
 played is Driller Race. Which is most likely a race to the finish. Meh. Could be fun?
  
  I wish this game were the kind of DS game that I could brag about its visuals. But hey, its not. 
 Too tell the truth, it could very well run on the GBA despite the dual screens. It is an unwritten 
 fact that puzzle games arent known for theyre amazing graphics. This game goes fits nicely to 
 that rule. The sound and music isnt too hot either. The music isnt very good but it gets stuck 
 in your head, whether you like it or not. The sound effects are basic and dull. The game is very 
 uninteresting in these two departments.
  
  Mr. Driller: Drill Spirits is the best puzzle game on the DS right now (I havent played Zoo Keeper 
 yet, so dont quote me on that) , which is saying Well, nothing really, since the DS only has this 
 game and Zoo Keeper that categorize in the puzzle genre. Puzzle fans will enjoy this game for a 
 while, but eventually will find it boring. If youre one of the rare Mr. Driller fans youll like 
 this, its nice to see the series on two screens Even though you will barely look up on the second 
 screen.
  
  From my site thegreenplug. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarioDS
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun. When I first tried it out, I was kind of disapointed. I was frustrated 
 with how many times the blocks would fall on my head, and how slow I was at getting the air tanks. 
 But after time, I finally got the hang of it and began beating levels. The more levels you beat, 
 the more points you get and then you can trade in those points for helpful items. The graphics 
 are pretty much GBA quality, but that's probably the least important thing when it comes to this 
 game. Playing Mr. Driller is also alot more fun with the stylus/touch screen. It adds an original 
 element to the gameplay and makes it feel like you're playing a puzzle game on the PC. If you own 
 a DS and are interested in a game that takes advantage of its unique features, I encourage you 
 to buy this. But (obviously) it helps if you're a fan of puzzle games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 11, 2004 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Mr Driller is Pacman undeground. This DS update of Dig Dug is a decent game, but it has only about 
 3 modes and it takes no authority over gameplay. The reason DS has 2 screens is to make use of 
 better games and make the games better then ever. Mr. Driller is just a cheesy Gameboy game that 
 serves no place on the DS. Its no different from Pac Man or Dig Dug, and it has no classic or historical 
 value about it. Its a release title which in many cases including this one is a bad thing, and 
 it serves no purpose other then to be the only current puzzle game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan191919
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 10, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Namco's Mr. Driller series throws back to the developer's golden age of arcade gaming, where Pac-Man, 
 Dig-Dug, and Galaga were born. Perhaps the greatest aspect of these old arcade games was their 
 simple, yet addictive and challenging game design -- easy to learn, difficult to master. Mr. Driller 
 does a great job of capturing that same "old-school" arcade feeling in our modern era of gaming.
 
  
  This version of Mr. Driller has some fun and compelling additions, but the core gameplay hasn't 
 changed. The goal is to dig through colored blocks that link very much in a "Puyo Pop" way, disappearing 
 when four or more of the same color combine. You also need to keep track of your air supply by 
 picking up strategically placed air capsules along the way. The deeper you dig, the faster the 
 game becomes, ramping the challenge up quickly.
  
  As far as I can tell, here are the new additions to Mr. Driller Drill Spirits:
  
  1. 4 new 
 playable characters
  2. Each character has his or her own unique abilities now
  3. More levels (different depths)
  4. Pressure Driller Mode
  5. Driller Store
  
  The first 
 game only let you play as, well, Mr. Driller (Susumu was his name) . The second one introduced a 
 female rival, Anna (who interestingly had a deeper voice than Mr. Driller) . However when I played 
 Mr. Driller 2, I did not remember any gameplay differences between the two characters. Now, each 
 character has a special ability (except it seems for Susumu) . Puchi, the dog, can climb up two 
 blocks compared to the others' ability to climb up one block. Hollinger-Z, the robot, survives 
 the initial squashing (pretty powerful) . Others move faster or drill faster. The characters have 
 to be unlocked in the Mission Driller mode. It's a good way to motivate you to play through the 
 whole Mission Driller mode, which simply consists of different depths that you must dig to.
  
  Mr. Driller had 2 levels to choose from, Mr. Driller 2 had 3 levels, but this one has seven, 
 including an infinite challenge that's unlocked after beating Mission Driller mode. If you're having 
 trouble getting through the missions (the game gets pretty hard at those deeper depths) , you can 
 go to the Driller Store and buy some items, like extra lives, surviving a squashing, or adding 
 extra air to the capsules. These are a neat addition and they ease frustration :)
  
  Pressure Driller mode is pretty bizarre. This giant drill is bearing down on you as you dig through. 
 It sends all kinds of obstacles and trickery in your way, like turning colored blocks into bricks 
 or causing some blocks to disappear beneath your feet. There are additional capsules in Pressure 
 Driller mode called POW capsules. You can store up to three at a time. You use these capsules to 
 fire up at the giant drill. The drill's weak point is a flower that comes out of it at different 
 spots (sometimes the middle, left, or right) . Yeah... it's pretty Japanese-style weirdness (but 
 nothing as bizarre as Katamari Damacy, the other recent PS2 offering from Namco) .
  
  It's use of the DS features is pretty much nil. It is nice being able to see more of the drilling 
 area, especially to track air capsules that have been left behind. You can use the touch screen 
 in the menus, and that works fine. In the game the stylus can be used, but "oh man it sucks".
 
  
  Graphically the colors look a little washed out. The voice is pretty cheesy and the dialogue is 
 totally non-sequitor between characters (they meet when you complete levels in Mission Driller) . 
 However, the dialogue will make you laugh -- a plus.
  
  Overall, this is probably one of the best and most "portable-friendly" games for the DS right now. 
 Great little game on the bus, plane, or during college lectures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 8, 2004 2:31 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for the DS with some expectiations of fulfilling my puzzle game urges. First 
 off let me say that I have never played this series, since it had so many iterations I was compelled 
 to give it a chance. Sadly it gas fallen short on many fronts. For all of the time I've spent on 
 it I've only reached the 3rd stage. I just don't understand, it feels almost impossible to pass 
 a level unless you unlock items.
  
  Gameplay - I was seduced by the double screen thinking there was some form of gameplay, I hardly 
 even look up at the top screen for some reason. I still can not figure out the puzzle aspect of 
 the game (maybe I suck at it) . I have been constantly stuck on the 3rd level and playing to unlock 
 points so that I can unlock upgrades for my character so that I can advance further. And yes unlocking 
 does help your character progress, for some reason I don't think that is fair, I feel like I'm 
 cheating.
  
  Multiplayer - I can't find anyone to play with me (sorry)
  
  Graphics - The color palatte chose is nice and easy on the eyes, navigation through menus is simple 
 enough. The front interface is touch sensitive, when it comes to chosing your level using teh touch 
 screen you will need to use the pen (or d-pad) since the map has hot spots so close you may select 
 the worng level. The game is all 2d which fits most puzzle games, but for this it may have gotten 
 away with using 3D just to give it some more kick. Besides that there isn't anything I haven't 
 seen before. I wish they gave me more on the DS. There are cut sceens when beating levels, but 
 man I can't bear the story, it make no sense, maybe I will have to get much further in.
  
  Sound - if cute voices annoy you you should turn the volume low. Between the boyish voice and the 
 puppy barks I feel like I'm playing a game for 1st graders (but there is no way they will get pastthe 
 first level) Yet again it's decent but nothing I haven't heard before.
  
  Value - The game cost $30, I got it for $6 after trading a console game in. So I don't feel so 
 bad. I don't think you should pay more than $20 for this port. You can probably get it for cheaper 
 on another system. From what I understand teh Japanese version of tis game has a RPG story element, 
 and a unique Multiplayer feature, both of which I am not too familar with, that might be more worth 
 while than the American version.
  
  Overall - the game is decent at best, personally with the current selction of 7 games for the DS 
 I'd get Mario 64 DS or Feel the Magic before checking this one out. The mini games on Mario 64 
 DS are more enjoyable. If you area fan of the series, I don't tink there is much different to warrant 
 another $30. If you are looking for a puzzle game, please wait for something with a lil more spice. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
