-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mushroom Men: Rise of the Fungi
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/mushroommen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great, stylish presentation.
 Collecting junk to create weapons is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor level design results in cheap deaths.
 Combat is underwhelming and unbalanced.
 Default controls will challenge your dexterity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  5, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Red Fly Studio
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 2, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like a poisonous mushroom, Rise of the Fungi looks good but makes you feel bad. 

  On paper, Rise of the Fungi has all of the ingredients to make an exciting action platformer. It 
 has a great organic atmosphere, interesting weapon customization, and multiple classes and play 
 styles, but poor level design and cumbersome controls wreck any fun you might hope to have.  

 
           The levels look nice, but navigating them is unnecessarily tough.      

  The story of Rise of the Fungi takes place before the events of the Wii version. Brought to life 
 by a magical meteor, the peaceful edible mushrooms are at war with their more aggressive and poisonous 
 cousins. You star as one of three mushrooms from the peaceful kingdom in a quest to take down the 
 evil fungi. The story has a campy playfulness to it despite the serious war subject, but seeing 
 it to its end will require a great deal of patience.  

  A number of things work together in Rise of the Fungi to ruin your fun. The level designs are unfriendly 
 and confusing. The 2.5D presentation looks nice, but you'll often have a hard time telling if an 
 object is part of the background or something you can jump on. Even when you can make out where 
 you're supposed to go, getting there involves a lot of trial and error. The camera usually doesn't 
 give you a good enough view of your surroundings, so you're left staring at the tiny map on the 
 top screen and hoping that there's something to land on when you leap. If you miss your jump, you'll 
 likely die, given that your mushroom is remarkably fragile and takes serious damage from even the 
 smallest of drops. You have access to a grappling hook to help you navigate the tricky terrain, 
 but the spots that it can connect to are often just off of the screen. Consequently, you'll have 
 to squiggle your stylus around until it catches on something, and even then there's always a chance 
 that it will just mysteriously snap and send you plummeting to your death.  

  Getting through the treacherous levels is made more difficult by the frequent encounters with annoying 
 enemies. Though you have plenty of weapons and powers at your disposal, it can be difficult to 
 connect with an enemy, especially if it is flying above your head. Even the fastest mushroom class 
 feels sluggish against the quicker, stronger enemies. Other than some numbers draining out of the 
 characters' heads, there is nothing to tell you if you are hitting something or being hit yourself, 
 so if you aren't paying careful attention, you might just drop dead in the middle of a fight and 
 not know why. The unsatisfying combat is like a bucket of cold water on the flame of excitement 
 that's kindled from collecting random pieces of junk, such as shards of glass and sticks, and assembling 
 them into lethal weapons.  

  Topping off the no-fun sundae that is Rise of the Fungi are the clunky controls. The default control 
 scheme will have you using the D pad, face buttons, shoulder buttons, and the stylus and touch 
 screen extensively. Every few steps you'll need to stop, pull out the stylus, fiddle with a plethora 
 of largely unnecessary menus, squiggle something on the screen, and then quickly switch back to 
 the face buttons. The constant hand aerobics make progress slow. You can change the layout to a 
 stylus-heavy configuration, but that makes the frustrating combat less responsive, plus you'll 
 still have to jump with the shoulder button, which doesn't feel right.  

           Figuring out how to combine random garbage into sharp stabbing objects is surprisingly 
 fun.      

  The best thing about Rise of the Fungi is its presentation. The developers seem to have done their 
 best to re-create on the DS hardware some of the quirky visual charm and gloomy organic atmosphere 
 found in the Wii version. What the visuals lack in detail, they make up in style. The fungi and 
 scenery all have a drab and dreary look that is well suited to the world of battling mutant mushrooms. 
 The excellent, earthy music from the Wii version has also made it to this game, but in smaller 
 doses. You'll hear a number of catchy beats that mix organic sounds with synthesized tunes to create 
 some enjoyable and unique music.  

  Unfortunately, a great style and a slick presentation aren't enough to cover the multitude of frustrations 
 in the gameplay. The co-op mode and multiple classes offer some replay value, but when making it 
 past even the second level is an agonizing exercise in frustration, you won't even want to play 
 this game through the first time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Mushroom Men is a platformer with action elements. You start off by being attacked by insects trying 
 to take your food and later being attacked by some allies that want to take over you territory. 
 Even though the idea of making a game based on mushrooms and insects its interesting, when it comes 
 down to gameplay and everything else, it is not as fulfilling as you may think or want.
  
  Gameplay 6.0
  Basic Gameplay isnt bad but flooded with many things that could have been improved 
 a lot. You jump with the R/L, attack with A and Y buttons, long range weapons are used with the 
 B and X and you use the stylus to solve some puzzles, that are not challenging, and to use some 
 attacks by drawing something it the lower screen, like an N and more as you get to know more. It 
 takes some time to get used to, in the end it works but isn't really fun. You will have to constantly 
 change from button, to stylus and from the upper screen to the lower one. Still you can choose 
 from other 3 types of button configuration and choose the one that suits you best.
  
  You progress in the game by going through various levels with save points in them, which i recomend 
 to save constantly because you will die and a lot, not because the game is difficult, but because 
 you made a bad jump and fall a short distance down and died. Yeah ok i suck at platforming games, 
 but damn you get to use a grapple rappel, which you cant really see where to use it because environments 
 are very big but the screen is too small, and when you use it you get stuck and then release it 
 and die. Then you start again from your last save point, but oops i forgot to save before and you'll 
 have to do everything again, it happens and it sucks big time. Add that to the fact that the game 
 is simply not fun and you will get desperate every now and then.
  
  There also plenty of action, because there are many insects waiting for you to kill them. Yup mosquitoes 
 are as annoying in real live as in this game. You get plenty of weapons to kill them and can combine 
 some, which is a nice feature, except for that you will only really use a 20% of all the weapons 
 you get and combat has no real depth in it, just swinging a stick with a needle in it and ducking 
 to protect you from attacks. Killing bugs is easy, but have to kill them like a million times because 
 they respawn is a pain in the ass, and its combat is not as satisfying as a Castlevania. 
  
  Graphics 7.0
  Graphics are good which is a welcome addition to the game, environments are 
 big enough and well detailed, but it makes it very difficult to use the rappel which you will use 
 often. Also story cutscenes are presented with only bad pictures of mushroom talking with text 
 dialogue. There is a map to use if you get lost and tells you where to go.
  
  Sound 5.0
  Nothing really good for your ears to hear. In game music and sounds are there just to get the job 
 done. Mosquitoes sound is annoying.
  
  Lasting Appeal 6.0
  Story mode can take you a while to complete, though you will not want to play it a second time. 
 Coop mode is nice, but not really a feature that will give you much fun because of this game many 
 faults. If you are in the need of a game to buy, i am pretty sure there are plenty of other way 
 better titles than this one but if you already have them all, and you have some extra money and 
 an itching to buy a new game even if it is has many downs, i think this will not be your worst 
 choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  early impressions ...
  
  If you're the kind of guy who will judge the game from its looks, you'll mistake this game for 
 being good. But everything in this game is exactly the opposite. While playing the game, it reminded 
 me a lot of the game called Insecticide. Not because I saw the "gamecock" logo at the beginning 
 of it (cause I wasn't actually paying attention when the logos showed up) but because the game 
 is filled with bugs like mosquitoes and cockroaches. It starts off with a boring slideshow type 
 introduction, giving you an idea that a meteor struck our planet causing stuff like mushrooms and 
 bugs to act like humans and start raging war against each other. You'll then get the usual text 
 based tutorial wherein you're given instructions on how to perform the basic moves in the game. 
 Unlike with most titles where the flaws can be seen after spending at least an hour with it, the 
 issues with this one can be seen just a few seconds after the tutorial starts rolling.
  
  The first issue with the game is that the default controller configuration is nothing like what 
 most of us are used to. The jump button is on the L and R, blocking is done by pressing the "down" 
 key, Y and A to attack, and at first B and X does nothing (but can be used later for long-range 
 weapons) . There is also a special attack wherein you need to draw something on the touchscreen 
 to execute it. That is probably the worst way of assigning buttons on a game. Thankfully, the options 
 menu enables you to select 1 out of 4 possible button configurations but there's no option to use 
 only the d-pad and buttons. So as you play the game you'll find yourself switching from the buttons 
 and the touchscreen. What makes it even worse is that the tutorial doesn't accept the button "A" 
 as the move forward key, and forces you to press the "next" icon on the screen. I haven't had this 
 much of a problem with a game after spending just a few minutes with it since ... since ... since 
 never.
  
  If you're going to be able to live with the irritating control scheme then you'll be happy to hear 
 that there's a bunch more issues with this game. Like the need to switch the screens back-and-forth 
 ala Zelda PH. If in Zelda PH you need to sometimes switch the information on the screen to mark 
 a location on the map for example, here you need to do that to change your weapons. Yes, you cannot 
 change weapons by pressing a button and you need to use your stylus and highlight a menu on the 
 top portion of the touchscreen. It is however limited to only 4 items and if the weapon you want 
 to use is not available there, you need to swap screens just to pick a weapon! But, time doesn't 
 stop while you're doing that so you are vulnerable to attacks. I discovered that the easiest way 
 to play this game is to use the top screen to display the game while the menu is at the bottom. 
 However you're still going to be forced to swap screen when you need to use special abilities or 
 whatever is assigned on the touchscreen.
  
  There's an option to rappel in the game but again, you need the stylus to highlight the rappel 
 icon on the touchscreen and drag it to where you want for it to cling on to. And if you forgive 
 the game for again not just assigning a button to use that item, then it's finding places where 
 to use it that's going to bite you. Even on the tutorial level you're going to be asked to rappel 
 on a branch that is not even showing up on the screen. And you need to move the camera up, click 
 on the rappel icon, and drag it to a portion where the "anchor" icon turns green and voila! You'll 
 find yourself hanging on a rope. Easy isn't it?
  
  The game also have issues with the map. The map is not all that detailed and trying to figure out 
 where exactly you need to go can sometimes become a challenge. Combat is boring as well, and everytime 
 you kill something, the top screen gives out an information on the bug that you just killed for 
 1-2secs which means you have to wait before you'll be able to check out where you need to go since 
 it removed the map out of view. And when you already have a long-range weapon like a slingshot 
 for example. Once you drag it as your assigned long-range weapon, you might not be able to use 
 it until you find some ammo for it. Once you have the ammo, you'll probably get surprised that 
 you're still getting the same "no ammo" message when you try and use it. Only to discover later 
 that you again need to drag the ammo beside the slingshot for it to work! How tedious is that?
 
  
  The developers tried to make the game a bit more interesting by enabling the players combine items 
 and create weapons. But the feature feels half baked to me. Merging a pencil and a pencil sharpener 
 to have a sharpened pencil as a weapon is just not my kind of thing. There are also quite a number 
 of items that can be used as a weapon, but they more or less have the same damage level and the 
 only obvious difference between them is their appearance.
  
  The sound of the insects are unrealistic. A hovering mosquito sounds like a UFO trying to lift-off. 
 Background music is also boring.
  
  The graphics however like what I mentioned earlier looks nice. The environment is detailed, but 
 some animation and things that pop-out are not at all convincing. Like shooting a slingshot that 
 looks like is composed of only a single frame of animation. And trying to open up a box for example. 
 The items that are supposed to have came out of it only shows up after about a second that the 
 box is already out of the screen. So you'll always think that the box that you just opened up is 
 empty, and all of a sudden something will pop-up on the screen. However, even though the graphics 
 look nice, their selection of items to place on the environment is on the weird side. Like mosquitoes 
 using a shoe hanging from a branch as their nest.
  
  The entire time that I was creating a review for this game, I was trying my best not to sound too 
 harsh about it. But I couldn't find anything good to say about this game other than the graphics. 
 There's quite a good surge of games coming out on the DS within the past few weeks/months and I 
 really recommend looking elsewhere. Until the time Gamecock discovers that not because there are 
 only 6 buttons on the DS means that once its filled, you're forced to using the touchscreen (we 
 can hold down the shoulder button plus another key to activate an items menu people!) and come 
 up with more exciting gameplay. Then I guess their games will continue to get scores that is lower 
 than 5.0. And although there might be more to this game than what I've seen so far. I felt like 
 I would probably end up giving it an even lower score if I continue spending more time playing 
 with it.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
