-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MySims
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/mysims/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Furnish a house, dress your character, and improve a town at your own pace.
 Town has many different areas to explore and interact with.
 The minigames are interesting.
 Pleasant visuals and happy music keep the mood light.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few more minigames would've been nice.
 Presentation is just a little too generic.
 Conversations tend to repeat.
 You can max out the town in one or two sittings.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 553 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MySims is basically Animal Crossing for people who are low on time. 

  MySims for the Nintendo DS is an Animal Crossing knockoff featuring some of the concepts from Electronic 
 Arts' popular sandbox franchise, The Sims. After you create and dress up your own round-headed 
 Sim character, you take up residence in a forgotten tourist Mecca. Then you set to work running 
 errands and beautifying the town to bring the place back to its former glory. As each brief in-game 
 day gradually passes from morning to night, you'll jog around town, talk to people, plant trees, 
 fetch stuff, furnish your house, and perform a dozen other tasks -- all at your own pace and choosing. 
 The whole package isn't as varied or as charming as you'd hope for, but there's still enough diversity 
 here to satisfy younger players or anyone who just wants to try the "create a town" genre without 
 devoting months to the endeavor.  

  You'll spend a fair amount of time furnishing your house, buying outfits to wear, and situating 
 trees or benches in different areas. You'll also find yourself constantly replaying minigame challenges 
 to get the Simoleons and items necessary to keep everyone happy (including yourself) . If you visit 
 the tailor's shop, he'll tell you he needs a new pattern to drum up sales. So, you end up scribbling 
 a pattern for him using the touch screen and stylus. The fisherman wants you to bring him different 
 fish to study. To do that, you head down to the beach, cast your rod into the water, and use the 
 stylus to drag the lure past hungry fish. Other minigames involve such tasks as skydiving, making 
 flower leis, snapping photographs, and wagering on fictional casino games. Frequently, the act 
 of talking to people turns out to be a minigame. When you initiate a conversation, you have to 
 tap the appropriate chat commands and fill the other Sim's happiness meter before time runs out. 

           Unlike most Sims games, you don't have to worry about going to the bathroom and sleeping 
 is optional.      

  On a technical level, the pastel colors and cel-shaded, cartoonlike objects in the 3D environments 
 really pop. The textures are clean and the polygon count is high. Furthermore, the characters' 
 faces are very expressive, while such details as flowing water and moving shadows help convey the 
 sense that the town is a living, breathing place. In terms of style, though, the characters and 
 scenery are only somewhat charming; they are cute -- but in a generic sort of way. Much of that is 
 the result of the town's prefabricated nature. Unlike Animal Crossing: Wild World, the geography 
 and people aren't randomly generated when you begin a new game. Also, you can only place furniture 
 and flora in a handful of preset spots. There's still enough pleasantness to go around -- thanks 
 to the cartoon visuals, the soothing music, and plenty of Simlish dialogue -- it's just not the memorable 
 kind of pleasantness.  

  Repetition and overall length -- or the lack thereof -- are the game's biggest flaws. Visiting the 
 same places, having the same conversations, and repeating the same dozen minigames gets old after 
 a while. How long that takes will depend on what you expect out of a game like this one. If you're 
 more interested in the bigger picture of growing the town and goofing off at your own pace, you'll 
 be fine. If, however, swapping outfits and honing your racquetball skills doesn't seem appealing 
 to you, you'll burn out within an hour or two. As it is, it only takes about eight hours to completely 
 upgrade the town and fill it with tourists, which, again, may be too short or just right depending 
 on what you want to do. It would have been nice if Electronic Arts had included a way to visit 
 other players' towns online. Sadly, the only multiplayer feature whatsoever is a trade function 
 that lets you swap clothing designs and items with your friends.  

  If you haven't got a ton of time to kill, MySims is decent for what it is: a pleasant "build your 
 own town" game that's meant to last anywhere from a day to a week at most. When push comes to shove, 
 the majority of people who are interested in what MySims has to offer should probably get Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World instead. You'll get more smiles and more bang for your buck. And if you've 
 already got Wild World in your collection, you may just be better off sticking with that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ashcatash
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I feel so cynical. What's not to like about this bright, colorful, sweet, perky game? Oh right... it 
 has no substance whatsoever. It also has nothing (repeat: nothing!) to do with the original Sims 
 franchise, except the green diamond light at the beginning of the game.
  
  Basically, you are a new Sim who has moved to a pretty empty resort town. And of course, it's your 
 job to fix up the place to attract more Sims. You do this by walking around a lot and talking to 
 shopkeepers and playing their easy-peasy minigames. You get to decorate your little house, which 
 is pointless because the only item you can actually interact with is the bed and clothes closet. 
 
  
  Talking to other Sims is a cinch. Just watch their facial expresions and react accordingly. It's 
 not rocket science.
  
  Some of the minigames include paragliding, making leis, and playing racketball. None of these are 
 particularly trhilling.
  
  Save your money. Or go buy the original Sims. It's a million times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  For seven years Electronic Arts has been releasing many games based off The Sims. But now Electronic 
 Art's Redwood Division have decided to try to appeal The Sims francise to children and the japanese 
 market. Did Electronic Arts did a good job? Well let's find out about the details behind the Nintendo 
 DS version of MySims.
  
  MySims is about a rundown resort town that only has a few residences still remaining in town. The 
 town used to be the most popular resort spot, until one day most of the residences stopped coming 
 and all the shops has been closed. Your character wants to started a new life in a new town, so 
 Niki takes your character to town and he or she saw Tim, one of the residences in your town. Saw 
 you and he ran, so your character goes after him, but your character got tired infront of the Town 
 Hall. So you go inside the Town Hall and you meet Mayor Ellen. She thought you where a tourist, 
 but your character said that he or she wants to move in. So Mayor Ellen allows you to move in and 
 she want you to find her grandson, Tim. So when you found Tim, you converse with him, when your 
 done. You and Tim goes back to the Town Hall and Mayor Ellen wants you to meet the townsfolk. After 
 you meet all the townsfolk, you go back to Mayor Ellen and Ashley, the town flourist appears and 
 she wants to be the new flourist for your town and Mayor Ellen agrees on it. So after Ashley leaves, 
 Mayor Ellen wants you to check on Ashley on her work. So when you meet Ashley, you must put flowers 
 around town, after your done, you go back to Mayor Ellen to see where's your house is at, then 
 after your done sleeping, your adventure begins.
  
  MySims is kidda like Animal Crossing, but you get to converse with people and you get some simoleans, 
 but sometimes you don't get rewarded with money, at times you get nothing. Also before you start 
 in MySims, you customize your character and name him and the town you move into. When you get to 
 your house, you have to put furniture in your house, and to get more furniture, you need to use 
 your simoleans to buy new furniture and other stuff too, if you buy alot of their products, they 
 go off for a day to get new furniture and on the next day you can buy those furniture. Also in 
 certain areas you can customize the land, but you are limited on how much you put in and the stuff 
 you have.
  
  Only in the Nintendo DS version of MySims, you can play some minigames and there are about ten 
 minigames total. If you get a good score, you can earn simoleans as well as neither a Bronze, Sliver, 
 or a Gold medal. If you play the minigame tons of times, you unlock the harder version of the same 
 minigame and if you get a certain medal on all of them, you can earn trophies for your house.
 
  
  Many of Electronic Arts games don't have the best graphics, but for MySims they manage to make 
 the environment look nice and clean. Since this game takes place in a bird's eye view, there is 
 no serious pop-up or glitches that effects the gameplay. The characters looked somewhat blocky 
 and cartoonlike, but the characters can be very expressive as well. When you use your camera and 
 after you take the picture, the picture becomes worst. During in some minigames, they have some 
 2D elements to the mix and the player is in 3D and it doesn't mix very well.
  
  Well Electronic Arts doesn't always make the best music for their games that cannot use EA Trax. 
 In MySims, they used differnet kinds of music for each time of day on your clock, there are four 
 differnet times of day and they are, Morning, Afternoon, Evening, and Night. Also you can buy a 
 radio in your house to play new kinds of music, which some of them are licensed and some are not, 
 there are four types of radios you can find in the game that you can buy.
  
  Electronic Arts usually recycles their sound effects from older games, but they decide to try something 
 new and put in some new sound effects and may not be realistic, but it's quite relaxing at times. 
 But sometimes it gets annoying like the sound of your player walking or running. Due to Nintendo 
 DS's technology, we can only hear Simish only for seconds after your done conversing with a Sim. 
 During the Intro of the game before the title screen, a Sim icon appears and speaks hello in Simish. 
 It's quite muffled for the intro, but during the game, the voices are just fine.
  
  The controls are easy to use. You can neither use the touch screen or the Control Pad to control 
 your character. The controls are quite spot-on and some minigames have a option to use the touch 
 screen, but there seems to be no need for the touch screen. 
  
  You can only max out the town within a few days if you know what you are doing. Then you can goof 
 off all you want like you do in Animal Crossing francise if your done paying off your debt. MySims 
 have unlimited time in your town, even though it has seven days in the week, but it doesn't really 
 matter anyways. If your bored with Animal Crossing, and you want a new simulation game to keep 
 you from getting bored, then give this game a chance if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissKittyKat21
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  MySims is probably the worst Sims game I have ever played. It is very short compared to most of 
 the other ones. The details on exactly what all you need to do in order to move on or to advance 
 your star levels is not always clear. In fact you could spend a few hours just trying to figure 
 that out. And certain mini-games seem to be impossible to get a gold medal in. I found some of 
 the instructions to things lacking to a point that certain mini-games became less enjoyable and 
 more like a chore that you only did to move forward with the game. And I found it to be frustrating 
 that if you went ahead and paid to do something i. e. skydiving and time changed between when you 
 paid and when you started it, you wouldn't get your money back and you wouldn't get to play, eve 
 if you can still play during both parts of the day. Now the game isn't all bad. Some of the mini-games 
 once you get used to them are very enjoyable and a lot of fun. The graphics are pretty good. And 
 I found that alot of things had really great detail. Personally I think it is worth playing, just 
 buy it used or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't say this game is a horrible game, it's just not for older gamers. I'm a teen and I did 
 not enjoy this game. Basically because it was boring, way too easy, and dumb. Someone was very 
 lazy...
  
  Building relationships, earning money and running errands was not only boring and stupid but down-right 
 easy to complete.
  
  The graphics, music and mini-games were not fun or enjoyable. Again, they were boring.
  
  Young 
 children would enjoy playing this game and that's the crowd I would recommend it to.
  
  The reason I had bought the game was because I thought it would be a little bit like Animal Crossing, 
 which is a game that I love to play. But, sadly, this game is nothing like Animal Crossing.
  
  I never want to play this game again nor a sequel to it. It's a waste of time and money. I 
 would only recommend it to young children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I just finished playing this game. As it turns out, it really sucks. Sure, you can design your 
 house, but that's not really very fun. The blocky character design is kinda funny, and everybody looks 
 almost like a Mii. Damn! Well, this game isn't really very hard at all. It's also really short, but 
 the minigames are pretty cool. This game does have a lot of areas to unlock in the town, but when 
 you meet people, your conversations always seem to happen over and over and over and over as if 
 they're brainwashed or something. I mean, when you talk to like I dunno 5 people,3 out of 5 conversations 
 are repeated which is annoying because you'd expect more from a game like this. Now, something that 
 is cool is, if you find any house with a bed in it, you can sleep in it, and nobody will care at all. Like, near 
 the fisherman, Joseph's house, you'll see two huts on a dock. The one on the right has a hammock, and 
 you can sleep in it and live there. You just can't decorate it or have any of your things in the 
 place. Well, this game is short, ok, not hard, and boring. Peace.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mos333
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  MySims for the Nintendo DS is quite simply, not a Sims game at all. By stripping out the bare essentials 
 and fundemental features that made the PC/Console Sims so great to suit a younger audience, you're 
 left with what ultimately feels like a poor copy of Animal Crossing: Wild World; a game which ultimately 
 forms the foundation upon which MySims is built, only it has been done bigger and better.
  
  The cute characters and overall presentation make for an appealing look towards the intended 
 audience, but that shouldn't and doesn't distract one from the gameplay. Overall, the graphics 
 work well and aren't too bad for a portable Sims adaptation, and the alternative, original art 
 style is desirable. Some of the animations can get a little choppy at times, and there are a few 
 graphical glitches about, but the world of MySims isn't exactly small either, and you'll find the 
 sheer size of the place quite easily makes up for the few graphical hiccups here and there. More 
 importantly, the text isn't hard to read.
  
  From the beginning, MySims throws you into a failing resort town; shops are closing down, tourists 
 are scarce, and people are losing hope at the same rate the environment itself is losing it's life 
 and colour. You can already tell where this is going, surely. You're the new guy (or girl!) in 
 town and it's your job to make as many friends as possible and revive the town into the tourist 
 Mecca it once was.
  Not only does the game start you off with a boring, overused campaign, it remains predictable and 
 uninteresting throughout the game.
  
  The game is incredibly shallow in every gameplay aspect. The controls may be polished, but there 
 isn't much to do in the game at all. The customization options are limited, childish, and portray 
 what is clearly a lazy effort. Yes, you can rename a nearby store, but what's the point? They may 
 be selling about 2 or 3 items if you're lucky, but not much more.
  The game's pacing is horrible. You'll rename a shop, do a job or two for the shopkeeper, and suddenly 
 more and more nearby shops open, and tourist enter a small part of the town. However, the tourists 
 tend to stand in one place, and you are given the option to communicate with them, by randomly 
 selecting actions such as ''cry'' or ''comfort''. Overal, very shallow, very boring, no substance 
 whatsoever.
  After about a day of giving items to people, you unlock a whole new island of some sort. As you 
 can see, the action is poorly paced, so you never really feel like you've accomplished anything.
 
  
  The only real way to progress in the game is to play some mini-games around town. These are usually 
 buggy, frustrating, or just incredibly boring. Racketball is a complete and utter mess of physics, 
 fishing is a complete joke, and the rest follow the same suit, it's a shame none of them were particularly 
 memorable, so I can't comment in further detail.
  
  It's repetitive, cliche, lazy, and overall a poor game. There are better ways to spend your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  EA created MySims for the DS and Wii, but they have many differences. It for the DS is too similar 
 to Animal Crossing: Wild World. There are no animals, unless you count the guy in a dog costume, 
 or whatever the hell it is. Tom Nook doesn't live here, nor do the Abel sisters, or anybody else 
 from Animal Crossing, but the enviorment suggests otherwise.
  
  You are basically someone coming to this little town, which you can name. From the looks, it was 
 probably once populated, but hardly anybody is there when you go. The mayor is giving you some 
 stuff to do, like find her grandson. Turns out he is at the Tennis Court trying to attract tourists 
 and other people to the town with what he calls his 'funny' costume. Basically, all you do in the 
 game is talk to people and make them feel better. Sometimes, you are doing errands, but they aren't 
 much. Most all the time, they are too obious. You're not going to do anything new. It keeps the 
 story short and lacking.
  
  The interface doesn't have much to say, exept it looks like Animal Crossing on the DS. Same text, 
 same looks, same stuff.
  
  There is sort of a money system in the game. You get money from minigames such as tennis, or talking 
 to tourists and making them feel better. You can spend it by using the trolley, throwing some in 
 the fountain, or just spend it on furniture and stuff for your room. Your room doesn't have much 
 to say exept it has nothing special about it. So what you can put a radio in your room? Try to 
 turn it on. I dare you.
  
  MySims on the Wii has a lot more to offer than on the DS for just $20 more. By that, I mean buying 
 the game for the Wii is a lot more worth it and you'd get a lot more. When you first play it it 
 does appeal, but when you do find your Animal Crossing: Wild World game, chances are you'll play 
 that more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickyteusz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  MySims is a cute litle game. The chibi-like graphics combined with the graphics of the town and 
 characters make it a friendly to look at game. The gameplay it's self isn't majorly complex. Simple 
 yet fun to do tasks to rebuild the town's reputation and the task to make friends makes it an enjoyable 
 game. And after the main tasks have been completed there are mini games to play to keep the gameplay 
 on.
  The storyline is simple to follow though instructions need to be followed to know what to do and 
 not get lost in the small area. More detail needs to be paid attention to the other characters 
 who act as guids to your exploration. Forcing you to go into more depth rather than just crusing 
 through .This could be seen as some sort of obstical, something which will extend the gameplay. 
 
  Bad points to the game as that it can become repetetive and dull after the storymode is complete 
 as there are no more 'challanging' extra tasks to do. Other than that, it's a cute little game 
 to play if you're into Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLoZBoi8484
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game is fun for the first 5hrs but not quite the "Sims Potential". 
  
  Graphics:8
  ---------
  Gameplay:6.9
  ---
  Music:7
  -----------
  Radius of accesable areas: Tiny / 
 Small / okay / large/ huge / immense 
  Small would be my opinion
  --------------------
  characters: a variety of personality, but ANNOYING.
  ---------------------------
  Tilt: 6
 
  ------------------------
  minigames: interesting, should be about 4 more though
  -------------------------------------------
  
  
  Overrall: 
  Its fun customizing the town, 
 but should be more: minigames, clothes, furniture, cakes at charlie's cakes, fish, flowers, shops, 
 land, places to ferry to, raqcuettball courts, children in town, houses for sail to you, cheerful 
 residents of your island, and more space in a room like your house.
  
  
  
  the game is not terrible but could be good enough to be rated "8.9" rather than "6.5" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  My sister brought My Sims to play on my DS. I found that My Sims was alot like a rip off version 
 of Animal Crossing.
  
  A few things you'll notice about one of them is creating your own charcter and moving in a Town 
 and have alot of conversations with town people you don't know. You get a house but you can furnish 
 your house making your house a pig stiy if you wanted to call that. There are clothing shops where 
 you can buy and wear outfits. There is a fisherman wants you to bring him different fish to study 
 sorta thinking of Blathers in the Museum and giving fossils or fish to study and put on display. 
 You can use the touch screen to move around if you wanted too, most of the towns people are just 
 random people you meet and want to be your friend. You are mostly making a small town improve to 
 make it a bigger place. The min games in game can be abit repetative but still fun.
  
  Graphics look nice from a big series from but too 3-D cartooney for a Sims game to look that perfect 
 as Animal Crossing or Zelda Phantom Hourglass and very wow comparing to a Sims game on DS don't 
 be fooled by the graphics on this game My Sims is bad game. Sounding you'll be hearing alot of 
 happy music and it'll be stuck in your head for a while.
  
  There is Wi-Fi for DS but you can't go into other towns you can only swap and trade clothing designs 
 and items meaning you can't have any fun in someone esle's town. Shouldn't take you that long to 
 beat the game you'll probably be trade it in after that. If you still own Animal Crossing good 
 because Animal Crossing is alot better and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Bright, sharp visuals with large characters. Pretty big landscape. Being able to change 
 your hair, face, clothes on the go. 
  
  The Bad: Moving around seems slow. Many times, it's difficult to know what to do next. 
  
  
 
  Review: This game is cute, and is a good game for kids. It's a "virtual life" game, where the goal 
 is simply to make everyone in your town happy to attract more tourists and money, etc, so you can 
 unlock more minigames, clothes, furniture and accessories to buy for you and your home. It's very 
 similar to Animal Crossing, but not quite as good. The visuals in this game are probably slightly 
 better, since the characters are larger, but the environments here look a little bland too. There 
 are a handful of minigames to unlock and each of them are decently fun. There's paragliding, raquetball, 
 and a few card games, plus others. If you're looking for quality minigames, obviously Mario Party, 
 Raving Rabbids, or Wario Ware is a much better choice. 
  
  The other good thing about this game is that besides the main town area, there are 4 other locations 
 around your town you can unlock. One of them is a forest area, another a mountain area, a fishing 
 dock area, and an entertainment area. Oh, you can also fish in this game, like Animal Crossing. 
 Another "minigame" of sorts is simply when you talk to people. When you talk to the tourists or 
 new people, you have to kind of cheer them up, and the game will give you conversation options 
 to pick while talking to them, and you have to pick the right ones before the timer runs out. This 
 will get them to talk to you, sometimes raise your star meter, and sometimes give you money when 
 talking to tourists. 
  
  There are a variety of things to do and people to interact with, but it seems like Animal Crossing 
 has more content with the shovel and bug catching there, as well as upgrading your house. 
  
  I may be a little biased, since I find these "virtual life" games to be not so great or exciting 
 though. 
  
  Overall, this is a good game for kids, but Animal Crossing is a similar and better choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musik_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  The game is about a person (you) who comes into a town. the town is having problems with tourists 
 and there is hardly any people in the town. your job is to fix that. you get some missions you have 
 to do to try to get more people into the city. also you get your own house and later in the game 
 you can buy another better one that's on an island. so basically you can fish, play  
 or just go around town talking and enjoying. although you have to get to a certain point in the 
 game where you can do some of those things.
  
  The game also has a time schedule the day is cut up into 4 parts morning, afternoon, evening, and 
 night. you can only do certain things in certain time periods. and some of the stores are only open 
 at certain times the good thing is you can get a bed and just have the time you dont like just 
 pass right through while your sleeping. you can unlock more furniture to buy clothes to buy and 
 more shops by getting through the game. also the town is divided into 6 parts. there is the town, the 
 dock, the highlands, the forest, a second forest, and a little part for your house. but you have to 
 get to a certain part in the game to unlock the second forest. but another cool thing is the island. by 
 getting enough tourists in your town you can unlock a guy who owns a boat who will help you scuba 
 dive and take you to an island where if you meet a rich girl you can buy a house from her and when 
 you beat the game you can skydive on the island also. there are also many friends you can meet and 
 there is much fun to be done so go buy the game and start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifan267
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Where do I start. Well lets start with the graphics. Graphics are good. Kinda like a normal DS 
 Game. Sound Good. Needs a better music choice but is i s ok. Gameplay, Ok i guess do stuff have 
 fun. well not really in order to do any thing you have to have stars. Want to fish gotta have a 
 star. It gets boring fast. This is not at all like AC. Not at all. You can start every thing right 
 away in AC. Not here. No good reason to buy anything in this store. IT is very easy to make money 
 and stuff is so cheap. No food no energy no nuttin.
  THen you have to talk to every one and the houses are so small even with the pet house. tiny. Then 
 they casio Borrrrrrrrrrrring. And then when you get alot of tokens they is nothing good to buy. 
 My view is if you are 4-6 years old get it 7-99 years old get AC Way better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neolover958
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This one got very hard at points and I didn't like it too much. I only rate it a 2.5. I deffinatly 
 liked the Wii one better, it rocked (check out my review for that one) . But still, I guess it was 
 still fun, but not worth the money I payed for it. Sorry, but 2.5!! I hated how, if you didn't 
 do it a certain way, it didn't work! Like if I didn't find Oliva when I was supposed too, I could 
 never find her, at first I didn't even know she existed!!! I think it deserves a rank of 4,245 
 of 42,894 and a DS rating of 1,000 out of 1,423, no offence to NIntendo or EA games. I love sims 
 2 and most of the other games that nintendo/ea games makes, but mysims for DS was a disapointment. 
 I liked it but it was a rippoff!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Blockey Sims that appeal to the younger audience? I don't think so! My Sims started out fun, making 
 your character and running around meeting new people. But soon all you did was talk to the same 
 person over and over and over, and they always say the same thing! I mean, come on! The point of 
 the game is to cheer angry tourists up! What were you thinking Nintendo?
  
  Gamers who like simple, not much to do games, try My Sims. You think you're in for a game where 
 you get to create and design a city. Well you don't get to do that at all. All that happens is 
 new people move in and hide in their shops saying the same thing. I don't know about the Wii version, 
 but this one sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I have the My sims game for the WII so when it came out for the Ds I thought it would be worth 
 I try. You are the new person in town and you go around fixing up the town and trying to get new 
 people to come to your town. Now I have played a lot of Sim games however... My sims is like a cross 
 between sims and Animal crossing. The game play was ok and the graphics were good and so was the 
 sound. I did not think this game was a fun as the My Sims for the Wii but it was fun for a little 
 while. Needless to say this is not the game of the year but if you like the my sims on the Wii 
 you will like this one as well. I played it for a while but kind of got tired of doing some of 
 the same things over and over again. If you are unsure rent it first. My older kids loved this 
 game and still play it from time to time. I think all sims games have some fun on them so give 
 it a try, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Hey, sorry for not putting in the review for this game for a looong time. I kinda forgot to put 
 it in after my Wii version review. But now the review is here! Soo, here's what I think about this 
 game. =)
  
  Gameplay (7/10) -
  The game is great, really great! I just WISHED it was much more interactive and social, you know... like 
 having at least some social interactions (Be Nice/Be Mean) . Of course, Wii needed more too, but 
 DS didn't even have anything at all... and I wish you could be their best friend or something like 
 that.
  
  Of course, some of you might have heard that it is like Animal Crossing, and they're kinda right, 
 but not exactly right. Only some things are like animal Crossing. ;)
  
  Graphics (6/10) -
  I think the graphics weren't really good, but honestly NOT the worst either. =) They're pretty 
 good, but not the best.
  
  Sound (9/10) -
  Music is kinda vacationy, makes me want to go to the beach! x3 But that's why you're restoring 
 a resort in the game, right? And we still have some Simlish in this game, too, of course!
  
  Value (7/10) -
  The game is pretty good, but... not the best. =) I would suggest you get the 
 Wii version more, but hey, get this if you don't have the Wii version. It's 20 bucks less, anyway, 
 just a little bit less stuff.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (7/10) -
  Not a bad game, not the best game either.
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.5/10) -
  This game is REALLY 
 fun, but like I said in the Gameplay section, I think it needs more socializing just like it's 
 big sister, the Wii version did! If you're choosing between the versions, I would choose Wii version, 
 but this game is good, too, just not as creative! It's also a bit more difficult! But pick it up 
 if you're just looking for a game to play! Also, a little notice IF you get both versions! I would 
 know from experience. If you got both versions, and plucked in your Wii version first, you probably 
 would be so really loving it (or not) . And then, you just HAPPEN to decide to play DS version. 
 You'll kinda get disappointed and shocked at it's weirdness and dumbness of the DS version. Once 
 you beat Wii and decide to play it again, you'll realize it's not that bad... so don't be really 
 shocked if you wound up doing that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic1977
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game today and from what Ive played of it so far it is pretty cute and very fun. 
 Its alot like Animal Crossing but more realistic. Its missing alot of things that the original 
 sims series had but this game is new the graphics are very well done and is a fresh concept. If 
 you are a sims fan like me or a animal crossing fan you will probably like this. Its a great way 
 to have a blast when your away from the computer. Make a sim and help him or her help your resort 
 town thrive agian. Make new friends furnish your house and make the town beautiful. Its a world 
 that never ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leewends72
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  When I first played MySims, I couldn't believe my eyes!
  
  EA had managed to create something new - it was VERY different to the traditional Sims games, I'll 
 give them that.
  
  But the strange thing was, as I wondered through the story, I soon realised that MySims was something 
 I had seen before: it was like Animal Crossing, but with humans instead of the Animals that did 
 the talking.
  
  With Animal Crossing, there were certain limitations as to what you could do, primarily build a 
 house and deliver parcels.
  
  In MySims, you don't get stuck with the crummy jobs, you get to be involved with playable missions 
 and okay, the odd chore or two, but its all good.
  
  I think MySims deserves a 7 as it doesn't try too hard to be something its not but also puts a 
 new spin on an old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxDarkRulerxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Many unlockables. Cute avatar dudes. Fun fishing and gambling. Its a great all around 
 experience for 30 bucks. I love it. You can also plant flowers, buy furniture, n cakes as well. 
 Its great u have to play it to see what I mean. This is like animal crossing but even better. If 
 u like colorful addictive n fresh type of games buy this. There is racquetball, scuba diving, and 
 para gliding n much much more. You get a star for every time you help your city prosper. Oh yea, 
 the conversations and the way they talk are funny, and the music is very calming. Keeps me relaxed 
 when I play at night or during the day on the ownage DS LITE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargersFan08
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  My sims starts off great. You meet towns folk and earn star points by doing differnt errands for 
 town folks which means the more star points you get the more the city gets known and the bigger 
 it gets which is supposed to mean more fun. But fun kinda drains after a couple of hours. The game 
 feels like theres a whole bunch left out. all you do is fish, talk and sleep. At first its interesting 
 and great. but once you keep going on with it you feel like everything your doing is a chore. A 
 quick, easy and boring chore. Time goes to fast to be enjoyable. Sometimes you wish this game had 
 more depth. But sadly it didnt. But at least the first few hours were enjoyable. But this game 
 isnt a good purchase. You should stick to the regular sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeram
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  My SIms-Great game!
  
  Once i got this, which was on Saturday, I thought this was going to be O. K but once i got this 
 game and i couldn't let this game go i mean i must of played the game for like 10 hours in one 
 day! So i was suggest getting it! Is just a great game where you go out and help people with there 
 shops and go out and fish and other stuff like mini games. so go out and buy this game it is just 
 plain fun. For DS and Wii on DS its like a resort and on Wii you create the town!
  
  -Princeram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleranis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  MySims for the Nintendo DS can simply be called Animal Crossing with ease. There are many features 
 that you'll find in the game that are the same as in Animal Crossing, but I find them more fun 
 and addictive.
  
  When you first start out you'll notice that the game is alot more kid friendly, and has good graphics. 
 You simply create your Sim, using basic features such as eye colour, hair style, skin tan, and 
 hair colour. Most of the features can be edited throughout the game. You'll enter your 'resort' 
 town and begin the game.
  
  Throughout the game you'll be talking to the Sims living there, and trying to find ways to attract 
 tourists. In MySims you're easily able to talk to tourists by choosing up too five options. These 
 include converse, laughing, crying, getting angry at the Sim and a few more. Your main goal in 
 the whole game is to get your Star rating to a perfect five. It may sound easy, and most of it 
 is, however sometimes you'll get stuck as to where you should go next, or who to talk too.
  
  There are a variety of mini games that you'll encounter. Those games include conversation, 
 dousing, fishing, lei making, racket ball, para gliding, skydiving, and scuba diving. They're all 
 good fun, however some may take a while to get the hang of.
  
  One of the good things of MySims is the large area to explore. You'll be able to go to the Port, 
 Forest, Highlands, Main Town and after unlocking a few stars, go on the Ferry to the Entertainment 
 Area. Most of the maps contain trees, 
 
  Write a Review for MySims for DS - GameSpotent and a pond to go fishing.
  
  The touch screen can be used to guide your Sim from place to place, similar to the controls of 
 Animal Crossing. You'll also be using the touch screen for games such as Lei Making, where your 
 objective is to match up the cards with the correct Lei. You'll start off with a rather small home, 
 and soon you'll be paying $10,000 to buy a mansion. Homes are customizable with accessories (such 
 as TVs and Radios) and Furniture, from the respective stores. There are good items available, but 
 it would have been better if there were many more.
  
  Overall, MySims for the Nintendo DS is an excellent game, and is highly recommended to anyone who 
 enjoyed Animal Crossing: Wild World. It's a little more simple, and a little more life like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hex_Blade
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday, i've played about 5 hours of it and from what i've played, it's 
 a pretty good little game. I'm a huge Animal Crossing fan and this is basically the same kind of 
 thing but it does'nt have wi-fi and it's a lot more simplistic. It's still a good game, although 
 it really is aimed at really young gamers. But if you love Animal Crossing like me, then you'll 
 probably like it. Not an Animal Crossing beater, but still good and highly recommended if your 
 young or young at heart like me and want a simple and fun little game to relax and chill out with. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
