-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MySims Kingdom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sim/mysimskingdom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of things to customize and decorate.
 Some of the minigames are a lot of fun.
 Accessible controls make city building easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks a good tutorial.
 Some of the minigames are terrible.
 Doesn't have much in common with the more enjoyable Wii version.
 Not enough new content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is last year's unremarkable MySims game with a few changes and a new name. 

  On the box for MySims Kingdom is a big MySims Kingdom logo, and dashed across the top left corner 
 of that logo is the word "New!", as if to remind you that this is different from that other MySims 
 game on the shelf. Those who pick up the game with that fresh promise in mind will be disappointed. 
 Yes, there are a handful of new minigames and a few small tweaks to last year's formula, but the 
 minimal changes aren't enough to separate this bland simulation game from its predecessor.  

           This kingdom feels a little too familiar.      

  Despite the name, the DS version 
 of MySims Kingdom has more in common with the previous DS MySims game than the recently released 
 Wii version. After you return from a trip and settle back into your home, a series of mysterious 
 disappearances happen. With half of the town's buildings and decorations gone, the mayor looks 
 to you to piece things back together. The story is really just an excuse to decorate and play minigames, 
 and it has little to do with the Wii version, though some of the characters from that game do make 
 an appearance and allude to the more enjoyable adventure you'd be having if you were playing that 
 game.  

  Before you can even think about having fun with MySims Kingdom, you have to jump a few hurdles. 
 Within minutes of starting the game, you'll be introduced to the key characters, given the tools 
 to prosper, and then shoved out the door with little to no direction. You'll wander the town aimlessly 
 for a while trying to figure out what to do. Early progress is further impeded by clumsy and frustrating 
 item collection. To create the items needed by some of the townsfolk, you'll have to collect essences. 
 Using the Extractor, you can suck essences out of most outdoor objects. Once you've gathered enough 
 essences, you can dump them into the Synth-O-Tron and create a random item by scribbling on the 
 touch screen.  

  Once you get past the rough introduction, the game opens up and throws a plethora of quests and 
 minigames at you. The minigames run the quality gamut. There are fun, exciting games such as vegetable 
 vendor and ski jump; forgettable, mediocre games such as tennis; and screen-destroying wastes, 
 which include kayaking. You aren't forced to play these games often, but considering that they 
 can be a good source of income, you'll at least play the ones you like dozens of times. Aside from 
 minigames, you'll spend much of your time returning the town to the bustling community it once 
 was. The building of your town plays out like a diet SimCity, giving you limited placement options 
 but enough light customization to make it your own.  

  You can play the game using just the touch screen, or with the D pad and face buttons. Both options 
 work well, and with so many games eschewing classic controls for a touch-screen-only interface, 
 it's nice to have a choice. The minigames will have you tapping, scribbling, and doodling all over 
 the screen, and with the exception of some awkward timing in the tennis game and poor handling 
 in the kayak game, they play fine.  

           It will take a bit of trial and error before you know which essences make the items you 
 need.      

  Visually, MySims Kingdom is almost identical to last year's game. The blocky environments and characters 
 are represented with a modest amount of polygons and a vibrant color palette. The sims are an expressive 
 bunch and manage to have a wide range of emotions with only eyes and a mouth. Backgrounds are bright 
 and expansive, offering plenty of room to customize your town to your liking. The graphics are 
 technically proficient, especially in some of the minigames, but they lack the charming artistry 
 of the console version. The music consists of a few upbeat tracks that change depending on the 
 time of day. These tracks get repetitive quickly; after a few in-game days, you'll probably be 
 sliding the volume down.  

  You can sink about 8 to 10 hours into MySims Kingdom before reaching the conclusion. When you're 
 done, you can continue to decorate and develop the town, or you can link up with a friend to play 
 minigames or swap material designs. There's moderate replay value here, and the accessible core 
 mechanics established in the first game are present in the sequel, but unless you're a diehard 
 fan of the MySims franchise, there's not much reason to play this "new" game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kevin9701
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  its a good game but to of a quick story once you finish the story no point no more you make a castle 
 of your own on the island you get for beating the game too quick good story but to quick once your 
 done B. O. R. I. N. G no point been there done that its like no mini story after the main one just its 
 over just sell me to get the my sims game which is my sims party that i don/t have because the 
 my sims party just looks like mini games and no sims creating just run from a robot and you beat 
 a part of a story so for it 7.5 and thats my review for my sims kingdom because this has to be 
 800 characters i will do this wooooooooooo oooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo oooooooooooooooo oooooooooo 
 oooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooooooooooo oooooooooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooooooo 
 ooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooooooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooo oooooooo 
 oooooooooo oooooooooo ooooooo ooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooooo oooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooo 
 oooooo ooooooo oooooooo oooooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  For eight years Electronic Arts has been releasing many games based off The Sims. But now Electronic 
 Art's Redwood Division have decided to try to appeal The Sims francise to children once again by 
 making a follow up to MySims. But is it worth it to make a follow up? Well let's look behind the 
 Nintendo DS version of MySims Kingdom.
  
  MySims Kingdom takes place on a far away kingdom, your character just got back from his or her 
 resort trip. So your character decides to say hello to Ellen and King Roland, then they want you 
 to see Dr. F. So you go to Dr. F and he wants you to get essences for him to test his latest invention. 
 So after you collect all the essences, you go back to Dr. F and then you go back to your house. 
 Overnight a villianous man takes all the objects around town while everyone was asleep. Then in 
 the morning, Ellen wakes you up and you have to see her in the Town Hall. King Roland came in and 
 he was mad of what he saw, so King Roland and Ellen want you to find the person who destoryed your 
 town. Then your investigation begins outside of Town Hall.
  
  MySims Kingdom is kidda like it's previous game and Animal Crossing. But unlike Animal Crossing, 
 you can customize your island anyway you want by making stuff on your Synth-o-Tron or go to Torajiro 
 and he can build you houses and such by using essences to move new people in. To get essences you 
 must use your gun to suck up differnet objects to collect essences around town. Like the previous 
 game you can cheer up differnet people, but this time you do it less often and you don't earn cash. 
 You can also buy stuff in stores like the previous game, but now it's updated with new stuff. You 
 can also talk to people from the original MySims on the Nintendo Wii and the MySims Kingdom for 
 the Nintendo Wii.
  
  MySims Kingdom also got some minigames, but this time it's your way to earn some money. There's 
 over ten differnet minigames that you can play around town and unlike the previous game it makes 
 use of the touch screen and the microphone in your Nintendo DS. Although some minigames from the 
 original returned with a better format, but like the previous game you can earn bronze, sliver, 
 gold and now platinum medals. But now you can play these games against your friend.
  
  MySims Kingdom graphics are basically recycled from the orignal game, but updated so little. The 
 noticeable change is that you can see more of your surroundings. Unlike the previous game there 
 are no two dimentional objects and you cannot go through shadows of some objects. Also the animals 
 you can find in the game looked like real animals unlike the previous game. Yet once again you 
 get bad quality if you use your camera.
  
  Well some tunes in this game are basically remixed from the previous game, but it has some new 
 tunes in there. Like the previous game you can hear stuff like you did in real life. Yet like the 
 previous game you have four differnet times of day and they are, Morning, Afternoon, Evening, and 
 Night. Also you can buy a radio in your house to play new kinds of music, which some of them are 
 licensed and some are not, there are more types of radios you can find in the game that you can 
 buy unlike the previous game.
  
  Well most of them are recycled from the previous game, but Eletronic Arts manage to make some new 
 ones. But unlike the previous game you cannot hear simish, but you can hear some clips of their 
 reactions in some minigames, which they where used in the Nintendo Wii verison.
  
  The controls are the same as the original, but in minigames some of the controls are terrible and 
 gimmicky for the MySims series. But for the sandbox style world, you don't need a touch screen.
 
  
  MySims Kingdom is like the previous game, but with some improvements and it has twice the replay 
 vaule. If your a fan of the original, you might want to try out this game. You can beat this game 
 within tweleve hours if you know what are you doing. So if you like virtual life games like Animal 
 Crossing and The Sims, then try this game and give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzycop911
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  This game is really disappointing, It cost me 30 and what a waste of money it was. You start off 
 back in your old town, where you meet the mayor and the king. They tell you about the town and 
 how good it is but at night a strange sim comes and steals all the houses and flowers in the town. 
 Then this is where you come in, all you have to do is make the town better using this gun thing 
 that collects these shape things (i've forgot what they are called) that can be turned into anything 
 using as special machine this scientistm gives you.
  
  To earn money and have a bit of fun in between you can play minigames such as, kayaking, tennis, 
 ghost hunting and lots more. To spend your money you can go to the furniture shops and clothes 
 shops, theres lots of different furniture and clothes to choose from. All sounds quite good doesn't 
 it? Thats what I thought at first but trust me it does get boring after a while, having to make 
 your sim walk for ages, not knowing what to do because there isn't an objective list and sometimes 
 you might find yourself walking around in circles. But younger children might enjoy it but I wouldn't 
 recommend it to anyone over 7 or 8. Overall I think this game is very very boring, the first my 
 sims was much better, and I'm definitley going to trade my copy in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_panda9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  MySims Kingdom is a great game that is suitable for all ages. I honestly enjoyed it. With cute 
 graphics, it encourages you to want to play more. Compete in minigames, solve mysteries, make friends 
 and design your own town! You really don't need to use cheats and read walkthroughs, because the 
 game is pretty simple and straightforward. With many more places to see, things to do, and people 
 to help, you can't possibly get bored with MySims Kingdom! 
  
  It starts off with this "mystery man" who zaps things out of sight throughout the town. And guess 
 what? It's your job to get the Kingdom looking good again! With the Synth - O - Tron, you can mix 
 essences together to make things for the town! What can get any better than designing the town 
 from the tress right down to the phone booths?
  
  This addicting part like RPG SIMulation game will get you playing for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoW_Expert
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  MySims Kingdom is a great game for all ages. I am attached to this game and have been playing it 
 frequently. It's very interactive and lets you pick how things turn out. I would recommend this 
 game to gamers who like to choose what to do and how to do it. It's a game such as Fable -- you choose 
 the way or plot of the game -- on Xbox and Xbox 360. Very good game and doesn't go along by the 
 storyline. Half of the game is customizing your houses, naming the island, furniture, clothes, 
 and just about anything else. After the game ends, you can keep on playing mini-games, fulfilling 
 characters, collecting plans, clothes, and furniture, and objects around the island. This is a 
 game worth getting. I recommend this game to gamers everywhere from United States Of America to 
 Japan from ages 1-100. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
