-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/mysterycasefilesmillionheir/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amusing and lengthy Story mode.
 Plenty of replay value.
 Use of the DS microphone is optional rather than mandatory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is repetitive by nature.
 You need great eyesight to find items on diminutive DS screens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Big Fish Games
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This hidden-object game introduces a number of features that work well on the DS and has a good 
 amount of replay value. 

  On paper, hidden-object games in which you spend your time searching for items in painterly 2D 
 locales don't sound like a whole lot of fun. The Mystery Case Files series has enjoyed enough success 
 on the PC to suggest otherwise, though, and now developer Big Fish Games has turned its attention 
 to the DS with Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir. The game introduces some new features to the MCF 
 formula that are a great fit on the DS, and the Story mode is amusing enough that you'll want to 
 play it to its conclusion. It's unfortunate that the diminutive DS screens don't really lend themselves 
 to this style of game, but MillionHeir works well regardless.  

  Like previous games in the series, MillionHeir casts you as a detective investigating a big case. 
 On this occasion, it's the mysterious disappearance of an eccentric millionaire named Phil T. Rich. 
 As you search the Rich mansion for clues via a series of hidden-object puzzles, it quickly becomes 
 clear that this is a kidnapping case and that there are no fewer than 12 colorful suspects who 
 would stand to gain from the millionaire's demise. Even if you choose to play them with a time 
 limit, the puzzles aren't overly challenging. That's because if you're presented with a list of 
 30 items to find, for example, you'll likely only need to find 25 to proceed. Furthermore, you 
 typically have five "hints" at your disposal for each puzzle that show you almost exactly where 
 to look for items that you're missing. Regardless, completing a puzzle is still satisfying -- even 
 if it only takes you 10 of the 30 minutes that you're allotted to do so.  

           The top screen gives you an overview of the entire level...      

  Some of the items 
 that you'll be asked to find will feature quite prominently in the locale that you're searching 
 for them in, but most are cleverly hidden, camouflaged, or just small enough to be tough to spot. 
 As you scroll around each environment on the touch screen using either the stylus or the D pad, 
 you'll inevitably spot countless objects that look out of place, but the only ones you're interested 
 in are those listed on the top screen alongside an image that shows the whole puzzle area. It's 
 worth trying to remember where you've seen other items because as you progress through the story, 
 you'll revisit the same levels two or three times with a different list of things to find. Items 
 on these lists are repeated more often than they should be or seems necessary given the cluttered 
 nature of every location, but even remembering where you found the same item previously can be 
 tough.  

  A number of new gameplay mechanics are introduced in later puzzles. Some of these take the form 
 of investigative tools that are necessary to find certain objects. There's a flashlight for searching 
 in the dark, an X-ray with which to locate items that are hidden behind others, a "super straw" 
 that you can blow flames out with (using the microphone is optional) when you want to search a 
 fireplace, and a pair of goggles for use underwater. None of these really make the puzzles more 
 challenging, but they do add some much-needed variety. Other features introduced as you progress 
 include items that you need to interact with in some way other than just poking them with the stylus 
 when you find them. You might have to pet a cat, dot (add a pupil to) an Egyptian eye, or draw 
 a line between a chicken and an egg, for example. Again, these add very little in the way of challenge, 
 but some of the interactions aren't nearly as intuitive you might expect so it might take a while 
 to figure them out.  

  Several different minigames that need to be completed between hidden-object levels round out the 
 story mode. The most simple of these are spot the difference, sliding picture, and jigsaw puzzles, 
 while others include a relatively fast-paced color-matching game that looks like a DNA sequencer, 
 as well as logic problems that are presented as doodles in a character's notebook. The quality 
 of these minigames varies, but they're never so long or so difficult that they get in the way of 
 MillionHeir's object-finding action. Most of them also aren't much fun. Similarly, such activities 
 as dusting items for fingerprints and opening a safe are plot-device formalities rather than challenges 
 of any kind.  

           while the touch-screen zooms in so that you can find hidden items.      

  In addition 
 to the Story mode, MillionHeir will randomly generate Quickplay puzzles in any of the environments 
 that you've unlocked and supports up to four players (with up to four copies of the game) in competitive 
 and co-op modes. Regardless of the fact that the multiplayer puzzles are really no different from 
 the single-player ones, playing with friends competitively adds a sense of urgency that's only 
 ever a factor in the single-player game if you opt for the unlockable "Gumshoe" difficulty level. 
 Your respective scores appear on the top screen at all times, and because you're playing against 
 a time limit, it's a race to see who can find the most items -- spread across multiple locales if 
 you so choose.  

  If a game in which you simply spend your time searching for objects inside 2D images doesn't sound 
 like a complete turn-off to you, Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir is definitely worth a look. It 
 might appear to be little more than a series of cleverly constructed paintings accompanied by ambient 
 sound effects, but the amusing Story mode will likely take you several hours to get through, and 
 the randomized item lists add a good amount of replay value to boot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7
  
  Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir is the 6th game in the series of locating hidden or well camouflage 
 items in order to complete the game. Yet like all other Mystery Case Files, MillionHeir has a small 
 story to add where the detective (you) is required to investigate the disappearance of the very 
 wealthy and eccentric millionaire Mr Phil T Rich by analysing the suspects and ultimately dispose 
 of him/her in addition of finding out the next heir to Mr Richs throne.
  
  Armed with the stylus and naturally the DS, youll be utilising both top and bottom screens 
 of the DS to locate, manipulate or otherwise within the given time limit (if applicable) and hints. 
 Considering the start of the game there are two levels of expertise being beginner where theres 
 no time limits and plenty of hints or the detective mode where theres an allocated time 
 limit and less hints.
  
  Through out the game, locating objects is by tapping on the bottom screen and if approved 
 will provide a nice chime however continuously tapping in the incorrect area/s can result a time 
 penalty. In addition to all of this, youll acquire several objects to locate the very difficult 
 items by using the x-ray machine, a flashlight for dark places, goggles to see underwater 
 and manipulate objects by using the hand icon. So you can see its a little 
 more than just touching the screen to locate all of the items.
  
  There are other mini games to make this adventure more thrilling and certainly helps the momentum 
 going. Games like jigsaw puzzles (to assist with your analysis) , a very simple memory game (for 
 finger print investigation) , spot-the-difference and to those who knows The Incredible Machine 
 games, theres a couple of those where you need to complete a series of events like release 
 the cat whilst avoiding the dog but make sure the cat doesnt eat the bird and so forth. 
 Yet all of these extra activities do serve a purpose within the story other than just being 
 there.
  
  Considering the DS is certainly not a power console, visually the game looks impressive. All of 
 the items are well camouflaged and will take a careful eye to locate the entire set. Yet there 
 are items that the description is a little vague and only the hints option can save 
 the day but thankfully they are few and far between. There are also some moving objects like dripping 
 water or sparks from a loose wire however its subtle enough not to deter your treasure 
 hunting ability. All of the screens are artistically hand drawn and serves well to hide 
 all of the objects from the causal onlooker. The only disadvantage is that considering the DS has 
 two small screens, at times youll find yourself getting cross-eyed or peering very close 
 to the screen.
  
  Sound wise, the game does really shine. From the opening tunes to searching and ending credits, 
 all of the compositions are well tuned for this type of game. All of the tunes remind me of Miss 
 Marples mystery shows and at times I felt any time now Miss Marple will make a special guest 
 appearance. Other sounds like the crackling fire, water dripping, squeaky floorboards and so forth 
 adds immersion to the game and really is quite impressive for what the DS can produce.
  
  One feature that was added to MillionHeir is the multiplayer option as this facet wasnt 
 there in any previous Mystery Case Files. You can play using the wifi to challenge another player 
 to see who can locate the items the fastest or if you only have one DS, you can opt for hot seating 
 which means once the person locates an item s/he will hand over the DS to the other player/s to 
 locate the item until the specified time is up. In addition to all of this, the single player story 
 mode has two levels of difficultly being the rookie (untimed mode with more hints) 
 or the detective (timed mode with fewer hints) . Once you have completed the game 
 unlocks the third mode gumshoe (short time limit per item) .
  
  Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir on the surface looks like your typical treasure hunting game similar 
 to those Wheres Waldo games. Of course theres no Waldo but plenty of 
 obscure and well hidden items that will test your eyesight ability. As far as game play is concern, 
 nothing has really changed from the previous Mystery Case Files games save the multiplayer option. 
 By all means this is not to say its not enjoyable as Big Fish has done well creating those 
 mini games to break the ice therefore testing out the other part of the brain doing jigsaws, join 
 the dots and so forth. Play it for what its worth however dont take this game too seriously 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven1983
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  As I said.... good game. The ending was a bit strange for me and it wasn't really all that challenging. 
 
  
  I'm usually up for a good scavenger hunt, but I didn't see what any of the things I was looking 
 for had to do with the mystery. They all just seemed like random objects.
  
  I liked how you got to use different things to find the items though, x-ray glasses and the underwater 
 specs and all that. That was pretty cool and looked like they were fun to use. hehe
  
  The game also had a great variety of characters, each of course having a problem with the person 
 that was missing and each, of course, having a totally different identity.
  
  The little mini puzzles were fun though some were a bit more challenging than others. But hey that's 
 what makes for a fun game, I'm told. I had the most fun dusting for finger prints. 
  
  Though I found the ending to be a bit odd, I'd still recommend buying the game and yeah I'd play 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Mystery Case Files: MillionHeir is a very well put-together Where's Waldo picture finding game. 
 You are a detective investigating the disappearance of a rather popular and messy millionaire. 
 You'll investigate an extensive and ever expanding list of people who had contact with our missing 
 millionaire, and piece together his relationship with every one of them. 
  The gameplay is really very simple, most of it is made up of finding certain objects within a large 
 scene filled with a ton of out-of-place clutter and random things. For every person you investigate, 
 a certain number of items must be found to progress, and those items are spread across multiple 
 scenes. As you advance, you'll gain access to such items as a flashlight for finding things in 
 the dark, an x-ray device for seeing through objects, goggles for seeing through water, and a 'super 
 straw' for blowing away debris via the DS's microphone.
  Overall it's a very simple game that doesn't require a whole lot of thought. Some will find it 
 boring, I'm sure, but if you like simple find-the-object games, you'll like MillionHeir, for it 
 certainly is one of the flashiest and high quality ones to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is wonderful. I enjoyed it immensely. Even though I've finished the main storyline I 
 still enjoy re-playing it. 
  
  In this game you're a detective. Your boss, Phil T. Rich, has been kidnapped, and later on in the 
 game he is presumed dead. So instead of searching for Phil you're now searching for an heir.
  
  After some dialog with the many funny-looking characters in the game, you're to start looking 
 for clues. The items that you're suppose to find aren't "real" clues. For example some of the things 
 you're supposed to find is a horse, an anvil, or a drum.
  
  There are many different locations that you, as a detective, go to and find clues. The clues are 
 hidden within pictures. You can choose from three difficulties and one difficulty is unlocked, 
 called Gumshoe, after completing the game. I'm re-playing the game again with the Gumshoe difficulty 
 and it is hard.
  
  During the time you're searching for the "clues" there is music as well as funny sounds that are 
 playing during your search.
  
  I paid $20 for this game and I think it's a bargain considering how much game-play you can get 
 out of this game.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys seek-and-find games or to anyone who likes to have fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BionicJim
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  What was I expecting when I started playing this game? I guess I wanted some pretty pictures with 
 lots of hidden items to discover tucked away in them. I wasn't too interested in the "Mystery" 
 storyline, and it's a good thing, too.
  
  When you initially start the game, you can play an untimed "Easy" mode or the default "Normal" 
 mode that has a rather generous timer to find a variety of items hidden on a scene that takes up 
 about 4-6 DS screens in size. After beating the game, you unlock "Hard" and the timer reduces by 
 a factor of 10 - instead of being NO CHALLENGE, it becomes IMPRACTICAL and NOT FUN.
  
  Interface-wise, the game is wonderful. You can scroll through the scene either with DS buttons 
 or, as I did, sliding the screen around like a .pdf file by pushing on a spot with the stylus and 
 moving it. You select an item you find by simply tapping on it. If you tap on too many items not 
 on your "search for" list, you get a buzzer and the timer drops down a bit. 
  
  What's cool is that you have a variety of screen filters you can use to find items that aren't 
 visible to the human eye. I really enjoyed using the underwater goggles to clearly see stuff in 
 the pond, fish tank, etc. However, the x-ray goggles were more of a chore mainly because they were 
 over-used. You also have a flashlight that simply limits you're total view, which is fine.
  
  The problem I had was that each screen doesn't have cleverly hidden items on it that are relevant 
 to the location. There are about 10 times as many items laying all over the screen than you actually 
 have to find. It's like looking into a junk drawer. None of the items you are looking for have 
 any relevance to the story. I was disappointed that the difficulty ramping was based solely on 
 how much time you have to find stuff. I don't like timers. Instead, I had expected and did NOT 
 get difficulty based on how well items were hidden.
  
  Back to the story, "Move along... there is nothing to see here."
  
  I understand that for replayability, 
 the designers chose to throw everything plus the kitchen sink into each picture, so that the "random 
 10 items" you need to find rarely are the same. However, the plan backfired, I'm not interested 
 in playing this again. Make the experience awesome the first time through! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
