-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/fushiginodungeon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Many different items to collect and experiment with.
 Lots of subtle tricks you can exploit to defeat or avoid enemies.
 Randomization keeps things unpredictable and exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Randomization keeps things unpredictable and frustrating.
 Not very accessible due to brutal difficulty level and permanent death system.
 Tight inventory space and hunger management feel archaic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.1, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 92 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: ChunSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're not put off by the idea of an RPG in which every death returns you to the start of the 
 game, Shiren the Wanderer can be a lengthy, satisfying experience. 

  Greek myths tell of a character named Sisyphus, forever doomed to roll a boulder up a hill, only 
 to have it inevitably get away from him and hit rock bottom again. Sega's Mystery Dungeon: Shiren 
 the Wanderer might just give you some insight into poor Sisyphus' plight. This Nintendo DS role-playing 
 game -- an enhanced version of an old Super Famicom game -- tasks you with trudging through 30 dungeon 
 floors, collecting a plethora of items, managing your paltry inventory space, and surviving turn-based 
 encounters with relentless monsters. You do this all while knowing that death will send you to 
 back to the start of the game, stripped of all your progress. If you're something of a masochist, 
 then this might not be a bad game for you.  

  You play as titular adventurer Shiren, who is on a quest to find El Dorado and the Golden Condor, 
 a legendary bird who some say can grant wishes. Your journey takes you across forests, mountain 
 creeks, villages, and eventually into the heart of Table Mountain, where your search is expected 
 to come to a successful close. All of these areas are analogous to the floors of a dungeon, and 
 for the most part their layouts are randomly generated.  

           If you're not ready for this game's brutal difficulty, you might actually go crazy trying 
 to beat it.      

  Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer is presented in a top-down view, and at first glance could 
 be mistaken for an action-adventure game. However, the gameplay is entirely turn-based. Every single 
 action you take -- whether it be moving, attacking, or picking up or equipping an item -- takes up 
 a turn, after which any enemies and non-player characters respond accordingly. You also have to 
 manage Shiren's hunger, which is governed by a fullness counter that decreases with every turn. 
 The turn-based nature can result in some awkward moments full of quick pauses as you wait for other 
 onscreen characters to act.  

  You'll learn a number of tricks that you can use to overcome difficult situations as you progress, 
 many of which involve using certain items to take advantage of the game's turn-based nature. For 
 example, if a troupe of monsters is following you down a corridor and another creature cuts off 
 your avenue of escape, you can hit it with a paralysis staff and then switch places with it using 
 a switching staff, which leaves it to block your assailants' path for a few turns. Consequently, 
 your best chance for success is to stockpile items and sort out a balanced inventory. In every 
 area you'll feel the urge to just find the exit. However, even if the exit presents itself right 
 in front of you, you'll do better if you take the time to scour the entire area for the numerous 
 herbs, scrolls, staffs, swords, and shields that you can pick up.  

  Building up this inventory is difficult. Aside from your inability to carry enough items at a time, 
 many of the enemies you encounter do quite a bit of damage. Even early on, a single encounter can 
 potentially cost you most of your hit points. You recover health just by walking, but sooner or 
 later another enemy will spawn and try to spoil the party. The real kicker is the game's permanent 
 deaths. You can't save your progress; you can only suspend it. When you die, it's like being mugged 
 and then having a pie thrown in your face: You lose all of your experience levels, your possessions, 
 and a little bit of dignity as you're thrown back to the very first village. These risks stifle 
 the desire to explore, given that you might stumble across an insanely powerful monster. Trial 
 and error is often the only way you'll eventually learn how to survive these encounters, which 
 isn't much fun given the aforementioned permanent death system.  

  Happily, villages appear every few areas, and most of them let you unload items into storage facilities 
 where they'll be safe even if you die. Village blacksmiths will also upgrade weapons for you, and 
 though they're supposedly limited to a single use, it's possible to visit them multiple times by 
 exploiting the storage system and deliberately dying a few times. You drop items that you're carrying 
 when you die, so even if you manage to lose a favorite weapon, there's a very small chance that 
 it'll turn up again somewhere.  

  Non-player characters in the game are aware of what you've done previously, whether it was on an 
 earlier attempt to complete a level or if you beat that same level the first time you played through 
 the game. For example, one character you encounter likes to blind you the first couple of times 
 you encounter her, but when you revisit the same level you have an opportunity to assist her and 
 gain a formidable ally.  

           That's right: With a single misstep, you could very well die at the hands of a garden 
 vegetable.      

  The quality of Shiren the Wanderer's presentation goes some way toward making the repeated deaths 
 a little easier to bear. The graphics are of a simple but colorful Super NES-era quality, and though 
 levels would have benefited from greater visual variety, the overall effect is pleasing. The music 
 uses some nice samples inspired by Asian instruments, and the compositions do a nice job of incorporating 
 the game's two common themes to fit the mood of the area you're in. Another factor that makes your 
 demise somewhat tolerable is the chance to be rescued from death via an outdated 34-character password 
 system, DS Wireless play, or the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.  

  When you send a rescue request via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, you have to rely on a Good Samaritan 
 to start the game and specifically choose to rescue someone. If you've got a friend with the game, 
 then DS Wireless play is the most convenient bet. In either case, you'll be waiting quite a while: 
 The rescuer needs to have reached the level of the dungeon you died on, at which point he or she 
 must accept the rescue mission and then start it from level 1. If your rescuer succeeds, then you'll 
 be able to pick up right where you left off, with your items and experience levels intact.  

  All told, Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer is a largely frustrating experience because of 
 its randomness and permanent deaths. With perseverance you might find that the game's robust item 
 system and unreasonable challenge are reason enough to continue playing, but even those itches 
 would be better scratched elsewhere. With side quests and several postending dungeons to explore, 
 not to mention the 20-plus hours you might spend simply trying to beat the main game, Shiren the 
 Wanderer will last you for as long as you'll tolerate it. If you enjoyed and understand how to 
 approach games such as Pokemon Mystery Dungeon or last year's Izuna: The Legend of the Unemployed 
 Ninja, this game will be right up your alley. Otherwise, this is a quest you should avoid taking 
 on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ishmoks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Shiren the Wanderer is the best Roguelike game on the console market. To learn what roguelike's 
 are, google Rogue and Nethack and you will see that Rogue is the grandfather of all dungeon crawl 
 games inlcuding Diablo..
  
  Shiren the Wander plays like an action game because its quick and snappy, and yet and its like 
 a strategy game because its turnbased. Battles are tactical in nature where in you make every move 
 in the game, like decided which magic item to use and what direction. Its turn based like chess, 
 you make a move, then the monster make their moves. No time units involved. Its like a dungeon 
 hacking simulator. Movement and positioning is important in the game wherein you will battle lots 
 of monsters in the dungeon. Thge dungeons are randomly generated so you never play the same dungeon 
 layout twice. Every game is refreshing and you will feel the urge to explore the dungeons finding 
 random loot and treasure. 
  
  The core of this game is the tactical battle. There are no complex story lines like final fantasy., 
 You play this game because you want to whack monsters! You want treasure! You magical artifacts! 
 its alll about the combat! If you want a story, look elsewhere. If you want ACTION PACKED DANGER, 
 this is the game. 
  
  This game doesn't promote grinding to level up. It promotes player skill and tactics and longterm 
 strategy. Its makes you manage the scarce resources that you find in the dungeon. Each item in 
 the game has multiple uses, even the seemingly useless ones have great effects when used in the 
 right situation. 
  
  This games promotes using your brain instead of using brute force. I died so many times because 
 of relying too much on my Gold Plated-Dragon Slaying-Cylops killing- Anti-Drain +50 Katana. Even 
 a sword like that is does not guarantee victory in coming out with the Golden Condor.
  
  This is what RPGs are all about. YOU ARE THE WANDERER. You will die many times due to your stupid 
 mistakes. And thats part of the fun. You are actually afraid to die unlike most games out there 
 today. And its PERMA DEATH. Its hardcore mode in Diablo 2. When you die, you lose everything and 
 you start from scratch. But to counter that, in the game, there are warehouses whererin you store 
 your equipment there to save for another day. If you die, you can get the equipment that you stashed 
 in the warehouses before dying. 
  
  Even though you lost your best sword, you can easily get started again in getting good equipment. 
 If you are already a well trained wanderer, you can finish the main quest without even using high 
 powered items. 
  
  This game has depth wherein there are so many techniques to learn and apply in surviving in the 
 dungeons of Kobami Valley. 
  
  I urge everyone who likes strategic tactical dungeon combat to play this game. Its most rewarding 
 and has unlimited replayability. Btw, did I mention you have WI-FI access as well to rescue fallen 
 wanderers around the globe and get their loot? Lost your best sword because you died? Request a 
 rescue online via Nintendo WiFI or via password, and a fellow wanderer will be willing to help 
 out. You can even say you will be giving them a reward for doing so and you can send that item 
 via wifi as well. They too can send you a rescue item to help out if you ran out of food and starved 
 to death.
  
  This game is truly a masterpiece in gameplay design. More power to Chunsoft!
  
  -Ishmoks the 
 Wanderer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Flagg-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Many say that Shiren is unfair and too hard but in the end it's not so hard if you just know how 
 to play it. You have staffs, scrolls, jars, meat, herbs and swords and shields in this game so it isin't 
 complex game but the real challenge is to master the use of these items. There is staffs that paralyzes 
 your enemies, slow down your enemies and staffs that just damage certain types of enemies. Scrolls 
 have more variety and there is more than just damage dealing scrolls. Someone of them shows layout 
 of the dungeon floor and others puts enemies on diffrent kind of state like confused and sleep. 
 Meats turn the player to enemy that meat it eats so if you know the special abilites of your enemy 
 you make great use of they meat. You can upgrade your shields to have more defense and your swords 
 to have more damage but there is more thant just adding defence and damage. If you have melding 
 jars you can add to your shield or swords special abilities from other swords and shields. It basicaly 
 works on this way. 
  
  1. You put the your primary shield on melding jar first
  2. Then you the other shield there that have some kind off special ability like slows hunger or 
 halves explosion damage.
  3. Then you just break the jar and your primary shield haves that special ability now.
  
  Shiren 
 isin't so long game (Main dungeon has 30 floors) but its fun to play so it keeps you grinding enemies 
 to get those super cool and rare swords and shields. And after you beat it you get six bonus dungeons 
 that adds more challenge to game. Shiren is great game and its pretty cheap so buy it if you see 
 it and you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diving_devil46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review then you already know what the game is about; there are also better 
 player reviews if you want more insight into the actual game mechanics...
  
  I recently played Pokemon Mystery Dungeon and after getting a taste for the Roguelike genre I decided 
 to go and try Nethack; I got no where...
  
  This may sound shallow but I need sprites to play these types of games otherwise I simply can't 
 become engrossed (and I am almost 22, so not a young gamer by any means) ... Shiren the Wanderer 
 was my last chance at entering the world of Roguelike games...
  
  I am glad I took it up; this game is brilliant; I have recently been bored with the general lack 
 of challenge and depth of games released; Shiren has both of these in buckets. Everything this 
 game does and allows you to do is mind blowing.
  
  As said I am not a fan of the old style Roguelike games but for someone new to this style whom 
 enjoyed the Pokemon dungeon games but wanted more; Shiren is a fantastic entry game to this complex 
 genre.
  
  Also I managed to get it for free with reward points from a site I buy on so for something I didn't 
 pay for; I am so very glad I decided to spent my points on it. 
  
  Ignore all the sub-par official reviews and go and buy it; you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devolved
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Back oh-so-long-ago, there was the CRT with green or amber text. And lo, there was a game called 
 Rogue. A humble @, traversing ASCII dungeons, slaughtering an army of alphabetics. And it was good, 
 but hard.
  
  Rogue begat Nethack. Where Rogue was hard, Nethack was brutal. It required strategic thinking and 
 serious risk management techniques.
  
  This game is absolutely in the Roguelike family, permanent death and all. It's somewhat easier 
 (and infinitely more accessible) than Nethack (which I haven't managed to beat in 15 years!) but 
 doesn't compromise too much. Having items automatically identified for you when you go into town, 
 for example, makes the early parts of the game much easier. But, for the most part, veteran Nethack 
 players will find this very quick to pick up and play.
  
  The critters you encounter are varied and require different strategies to defeat, especially when 
 facing multiple foes. Often, you can manipulate them to work against each other.
  
  Bottom line -- if you were a fan of Rogue, Nethack, Angband, Moria, or any of the other Roguelikes, 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Shiren the Wanderer is a roguelike RPG first of all. This sub-category of an RPG video game is 
 important. Look up roguelike on wikipedia. It means that Shiren isn't the typical Final Fantasy 
 or Wizardry game. Roguelike RPG's have randomly generated dungeons and a simple story. They have 
 monsters that you fight that curse you, steal from you, turn your items into junk, and of course 
 they level themselves. Every monster you encounter, you make careful moves knowing that the wrong 
 one could be your last. Typically your character starts out in a town and goes on a journey towards 
 some treasure or goal. The level's your character gains during the journey are reset when you travel 
 back to the starting city or town. You get to keep your items and gear though, unless of course 
 you die.
  If gamespot was going to rate games according to what they are and not what they want them to be, 
 then the rating would be a bit higher. I would never rate Tetris a low score just because I dont 
 like puzzle games, I would rate it for what it offers. Why score a game badly because it's not 
 for wimps who cant play a game that is "hard"? Chunsoft and Sega made this game knowing that it 
 wasnt going to be on the best seller list. That list is for fruits who only like romantic cinematic 
 rpg's . If your brave enough to go back to the roots of RPG's, then play Shiren. 
  
  You can save your game and play again later, but that function is not like other rpg save game 
 functions. This save game is real, which means that if you die you cant reload. Your character 
 died if you dont want to lose your items, then dont die.
  Perhaps I was to critical. Read the other reviews, unless the average person who plays Shiren is 
 an idiot, then Gamespot should have given it better than a 6.0. I recommend this game to all those 
 who want to play a game and really get into it. If your casual and just want to look at your emo-like 
 hero and how pretty they are, then there are plenty of games out there to enjoy.
  Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adlein1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is probably not for your average 3 year old as it requires some patience getting 
 into and some cool turn-based lateral thinking. It plays unlike anything else on the DS, which 
 is very refreshing. I think the Gamespot review (Austin Shau) didn't do the game any justice and 
 am genuinely thankful I read Jeremy Parish's 1up review and decided to give it a try. Fact is, 
 everyone goes on about how brutally hard this game is but I don't think it is. You just have to 
 understand the genre of rogue-likes. Be prepared to die. A lot. (Check out GameFaqs or the gamer's 
 quarter forum if you get stuck.)
  
  The graphics are old school but cute, the music is oriental and very atmospheric (use head phones!) 
 and the gameplay is just fantastic and terribly dramatic. Believe me, this game can get very intense! 
 This game is a massive hit in Japan / got excellent reviews, which is why a Wii version of Shiren 
 is in the making. However, due to lacklustre reviews in the West, most japanese games never get 
 localized : (
  
  If you're bored with most games available on DS then check out Mysterious Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer. 
 I've never had more fun with my DS! Four weeks ago I didn't even know what a Rogue-like game was 
 and now I'm totally hooked and learn Japanese to be ready for Shiren Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Odds are if you clicked on this review, you are:
  
  1. A gamer who likes Rogue-likes
  2. A gamer who imported Super Famicom games in the past
  3. A gamer who likes there games on 
 the side of masochistic
  4. A gamer who is thoroughly old-school
  5. A gamer who finds tackling a game with a punishing difficulty satisfying.
  
  If you are 
 any of these five types of gamers, you have already purchased and been going through Shiren the 
 Wanderer for the past month.
  
  For the roguelike lover, this has the most in-depth system that has been released on the DS. Warping 
 enemies to another part of the map, turning enemies into weaker animals by throwing food at them: 
 the overwhelming depth with the items and spells is drenched throughout the game itself. 
  
  Gamers who imported old Super Famicom games remember how hard this game was to find, so this 
 is a particularly great US release.
  
  Masochistic gamers will love how unforgiving this game can be. In Shiren, you go through level 
 after level collecting items and defeating enemies. However, like other roguelikes, you lose all 
 the items in your bag if you die. Also, you will also lose all the experience you made and be stuck 
 at Level 1 when you restart the game. Leaving weapons at a Storehouse keeps them for next reload, 
 but it is definitely heartbreaking to buildup a great set of weapons, only to die in a dungeon 
 and lose it all.
  
  Shiren is also deeply rooted in its old school roots. Very little was updated graphically, but 
 that really is a testament to its charm. Plus, the excellent/horrible cover art is very reminiscent 
 of box art of yore.
  
  Lastly, if you don't mind the difficulty (or if you prefer games on the side of challenging) , Shiren 
 the Wanderer will keep you occupied for a while. If you are interested in a starting roguelike, 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon should be the one you start with. If you are looking for one to sink your 
 teeth into, Shiren the Wanderer will definitely give you a full amount of old-school love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowshaven
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best rogue-like game I've ever played (for background, I played the 
 original rogue and my gaming days started on my friend's TRS 80) . It's not an easy game, and you 
 will die... more often than you expect and in bizarre ways. It's important to go back to Canyon 
 Hamlet repeatedly to reset the smiths in the various towns (otherwise they only upgrade your weapon 
 once) , and it's also important to meld items in melding jars.
  
  Part of what makes this great are the constant side quests which may take multiple visits to Canyon 
 Hamlet to complete. Your actions will change events in towns which will allow you to move further 
 into the game.
  
  Remember, unlike most modern RPGs, you really die in this game... dead, kaput, etc. You can request 
 a rescue via a password online or by wifi, so you can be resurrected three times... but that's only 
 if another player wants to go on a rescue quest to save you. However, your deaths will teach you 
 what you need to do to survive. Death also, unless you're resurrected by a rescue, will get rid 
 of all your equipment. Your equipment is key since a visit to Canyon Hamlet (necessary and done 
 many, many times in a game) returns you to level 1. However, if you're level one with a +50 Katana 
 and +50 shield the early levels are very easy. You can also store items in warehouses throughout 
 the game to use later. Or, you can store items that are good, but not as good as your current equipment, 
 in case you die.
  
  Overall, while this game is difficult, it's flat out addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Alright, I read a few reviews of this, saying this one's supposed to be so hard and stuff. Of course 
 I couldn't believe it. Oh well... Only after 30 minutes of my first try, I ended up dead, without 
 any mercy, and having to restart from nothing.
  
  It's brutal, but it's so common with roguelikes, I've used to it. You die, you go down to level 
 1 and lose all your items, if you haven't stored them in the storehouse. If you have a wifi connection, 
 or friends with the same game, you can send a rescue request up to three times per adventure, so 
 the situation is not as hopeless as with your average PC Rogue clones. Though with wifi... I find 
 it the easiest to send a rescue request just before I go to sleep at night, so in the morning I 
 find myself most likely to be revived. It can take hours to get a revival spell. You can also go 
 for a rescue mission yourself if you feel like it, and if the rescuee is grateful enough, you might 
 receive an item from him/her as a reward.
  
  Considering that Shiren is a conversion of a game on SNES, it has aged gracefully. Without knowing 
 it's history, I still wouldn't had complained about the graphics. They're typical 16-bit RPG graphics, 
 sharp, colourful and simple. Monsters have the usual approach with abilities and so on, you can 
 get poisoned, stunned... You know the deal if you've played even one japanese RPG in your life.
 
  
  With wifi, you can access the leaderboards of the game, and submit your best scores to it as well. 
 You'll soon find that you need tons of practice before you have a shot of entering your nickname 
 to it...
  
  You like Nethack? ADOM? Pokmon Mystery Dungeon? Izuna? Grab this for a real challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bio_Spark
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  OVERVIEW
  
  Mysterious Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer is a Rougelike. If you've never played one, try downloading 
 Nethack or Moria, they're free. Shiren is very pretty, simplified version of these games at it's 
 core. This particular DS edition is a remake of a SNES game which is itself the great granddaddy 
 of other console rougelikes and considered by many to be the finest console roguelike ever made. 
 If you've ever played he Chocobo's Dungeon, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, Izuna games, or even Azure 
 Dreams, you'll have an idea of what to expect: Shiren the Wanderer is a much bigger and badder 
 version of these games.
  
  Before I say anything else, this is a very divisive game. It's the kind of game that will be loved 
 and hated by great quantities of people, and like any good tyrant, it will be both feared any respected.
 
  
  And Shiren the Wanderer is assuredly a tyrant. It will treat it's players with the kind of brutal 
 disregard rarely seen in gaming today, and it will laugh atop it's throne of skulls as it does 
 so. In the event that you die (And you WILL die. A lot.) you will be forced back to the beginning 
 of the game at level 1 with all of your equipment gone. Shiren the Wanderer pulls no punches, in 
 fact, it may have a concealed weapon somewhere on it's person.
  
  STORY AND GAMEPLAY
  
  The story of the game centers on Shiren and his quest to find a mythical golden condor. But that's 
 not important, no one plays rougelikes for a story. 
  
  What IS important is that, as a wanderer, Shiren is subject to the cruel whims of Riva, god of 
 fate. This means that every important aspect of the game is randomized: dungeon layout, items, 
 and monster placement. And should you wish to revisit a floor it will have changed since you were 
 last there: you will have only monsters to greet you, and that floor will never have items again 
 until you see the Game Over screen. Later in the game, you lose the ability to backtrack at all, 
 so you had better be prepared. Luckily, the Wanderer is not alone in his adventure. There are a 
 few allies who can fight alongside him, some of whom are more useful than others. 
  
  But this seemingly-unfair gameplay is what makes the game shine. The enemies and traps you encounter 
 don't just challenge you, they force you to play better. I could write a paragraph here on the 
 enemies alone. Different monsters have the capacity to break down walls, reduce your level, steal 
 or ruin your items, or inflict a wide variety of nasty status effects, in addition to other wonderfully 
 terrible surprises I'd rather save for players to discover for themselves. But as versatile as 
 your enemies are, you have just as much flexibility in your own actions: 
  
  Surrounded by enemies? Stepping on that exploding trap may just save your life!
  
  Got a spare 
 pot? Stuff an enemy inside it.
  
  Get a bit of meat from a wimpy monster? Throw it at a demon, and it will become that wimpy monster.
 
  
  With a little ingenuity and practice, there is'nt much you can't deal with.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are decent, but not extraordinary. This is a remake of a SNES game, 
 and the graphics reflect that. For such an intimidating game, sprites and environments are surprisingly 
 always clean and colorful. It's actually fairly impressive when you consider that almost every 
 thing you look at was created at random.
  
  MUSIC
  
  The music is also worth mentioning. There is a whole lot of classical Japanese stuff, all composed 
 by Koichi Sugiyama, whom the RPG-savvy might recall also composes music for the Dragon Quest series. 
 The tunes are often simple and pleasant, and they serve as a nice distraction while you contemplate 
 smashing your DS with a blunt object.
  
  OTHER MATERIAL
  
  Aside from the main game, there are plenty of things to keep you interested even if you do manage 
 to triumph. There are additional, longer, more difficult dungeons and 50 "puzzles" which reward 
 you with items for use in the main game upon completion.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  If you have a desire for an RPG with borderline masochistic difficulty at times and a whole lot 
 of replay value, give Mysterious Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer a look. And bring some tissues.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3def1ne
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Unlike games such as Izuna and Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, Shiren the Wanderer is challenging. Not 
 only is it challenging, but it's damn fun, full of memorable characters, has great replay value, 
 beautiful graphics, and an awesome bonus dungeon for people who can beat the game!
  
  Shiren, simply put, is one of the best roguelike games ever made. This game will not hold your 
 hand - it's challenging. Treat Shiren like a game of Pac-Man, where your goal is to achieve a new 
 high-score. Do not treat it like your standard RPG or you will get frustrated really quick. In 
 Shiren, when you die you start all over.. and you WILL die.
  
  Do not let poor reviews sway you: most of the poor reviews were done by noobs that got owned too 
 much and felt the game was too challenging. The challenge Shiren presents adds to its value.
  
  Finally, for those of you who do play Shiren, make sure to share your deaths on message boards. 
 Roguelike death posts are known as YASD (Yet Another Stupid Death) posts and are often very entertaining. 
 And if you happen to be victory, post a YAAP (Yet Another Ascension Post) to brag to the majority 
 of players who simply get repeatedly served.
  
  Bottom line: This is a classic A+ game in a niche genre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
