-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myst
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/myst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The books in the library are still legible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Grainy visuals look worse than in the original Myst.
 Frustratingly strict stylus controls make a dated interface even worse.
 Compressed audio hissing is incredibly hard on the ears.
 Touch-screen keyboard is inadequate for drawing and note-taking on the go.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.6, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 4.2, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Hoplite Research
Genre: Adventure
Date: May 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whatever merit Myst had left has been blown away by a sloppy touch interface, poorly implemented 
 new features, and overly compressed visuals. 

  When the CD-ROM was introduced into personal computing almost two decades ago, Rand and Robyn Miller 
 created Myst -- an adventure game that was considered the fledgling format's killer app. They took 
 the puzzle-solving staples of adventure games, applied them to a first-person fantasy universe, 
 and created one of the best-selling games of its time. Numerous ports and remakes later, Empire 
 Interactive brings Myst to the Nintendo DS with additional features. Yet, these features -- and the 
 original content -- go to waste because poor implementation and design decisions destroy what was 
 supposed to be a surreal journey.  

           These books are your windows to other worlds. Maybe this one will lead you to a better 
 game.      

  Myst for the Nintendo DS stays faithful to the original game's concept. You open a mysterious book 
 and discover a window to another world, Myst Island. Placing your hand on the page whisks you off 
 to the island, alone and confused. You eventually encounter two fellows trapped inside similar 
 books; finding missing pages is the key to liberating them. Perhaps you could find a way home by 
 helping them, so with only your wits and cryptic clues scattered about, you set off to other book 
 worlds -- called "ages" -- to complete this task.  

  Moving around in Myst is a simple affair of touching areas of interest with your stylus. The world 
 is presented via prerendered stills taken from a first-person perspective, so there's no avatar 
 to show you how to get where you're going. In the original game, your cursor -- a hand -- would point 
 in a direction depending on where you placed it. A click would instantly transition to the next 
 scene. Thus it was easy to get lost, and the effect is exacerbated in the DS version. There's no 
 cursor to indicate which direction you'll go in or an option to use the D pad. You also won't know 
 if you're about to touch a navigation point or an interactive object, which can result in you walking 
 around in circles as you try in vain to push a button or throw a lever.  

  Pinpointing where you need to touch to interact with items shouldn't even be an issue, but when 
 the original scenery was shrunken to fit the DS screen the clickable areas got a lot smaller too. 
 The result is a stylus-unfriendly game that takes pixel hunting to horrific new levels, leaving 
 you to stab fiercely at the screen until something clicks. To make matters worse, the low-resolution 
 scenes aren't smoothed out and they appear incredibly grainy. Not only is this visually unappealing, 
 but it also makes it difficult to look for clues, such as numbers or words etched into a wall. 
 Letters and books are spared this fate, with a magnifying glass feature that shows crisper text 
 on the top screen. You can magnify the environment, too, but the result is a stretched out -- not 
 resized -- version of the scenery, which looks even more mangled.  

  Many of Myst's challenging puzzles are harder to endure as a result of these frustrations. Conceptually, 
 the puzzles are still clever, but many require backtracking to repeat actions and rereference clues. 
 Pen and paper came in handy back in the day, so it would have been useful to be able to scribble 
 notes and diagrams on the DS touch screen, in case you're playing on the go. Instead, all you get 
 is a woefully undersized touch keyboard. In a time when Hotel Dusk gives you four pages of scribble 
 space, this is unacceptable. The game does grant you the ability to take one -- and only one -- photograph 
 of clues, as well as an overhead map illustration of the age that you're visiting, but in the face 
 of the rest of this game's problems, these additions are trivial.  

  Even if you wanted to simply enjoy Myst's scenery, the grainy compression has shattered the beauty 
 of the artistic design. What you see is a sad, freckled shell of the original game. The audio from 
 the original game fares only slightly better: Hissing, scratching, and popping have turned CD-quality 
 sound effects, dialogue, and gorgeous, ethereal music into a ham-radio affair. The puzzles that 
 rely heavily on sound aren't terribly affected by this, but there must have been a better compression 
 method out there to fit all of Myst's assets onto the DS card.  

           This gear looked better over 10 years and a hundred colors ago.      

  As one last 
 offering, this port includes the Rime age, which never made it into the original game. Taken from 
 Real Myst -- a reimagining of the original game in a real-time polygonal world -- Rime is short, underwhelming 
 and seems sloppily glued on as a hasty afterthought. Because Myst for the DS fails to take advantage 
 of the stylus, mistreats the source material to the degree that it does, and offers very little 
 to compensate, there's absolutely no reason to take this full-priced game over other versions of 
 Myst or over any other adventure game on the DS.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dinord1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Myst is probably the worst game ever made, and most over-rated, it should be 0, as it has no redeeming 
 features. The graphics are so bad that a two year old could do and the audio could have been made 
 by a one year old. My guess is that it took 4 days to make. The story line is bad, and after all 
 of this, they sold it. shouldnt they test it say "it's very bad," and throw the entire project 
 in the bin. The controls are terrible, and the stylus control is crap. Overall I think this is 
 a terrible game, with bad graphics, audio, storyline and gameplay.
  I would recommend you never buy this game, DO NOT BE RIPPED OFF! I bought it for 17, it was totally 
 broken so I was lucky and got my money-back. Above I have 10 hours or less, I played it for 5 miutes 
 before i got sick of it. I would recommend you get Final Fantasy IV. If yu want a game like this, 
 there are some great ones online, well better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Myst for the DS is a huge letdown. I loved Myst when it was on the PC because back then the game 
 was very innovative in its design and implementation. Though porting the game to the Nintendo DS 
 seems like a spot-on idea on paper given the stylus functionality, it only ends up leaving a bad 
 taste in your mouth when you finally get to physically experience it.
  
  The graphics don't hold up very well on the DS' resolution. A lot of the environments are grainy, 
 making it harder to spot some of the more intimate visual clues like small switches and dials. 
 The game does not offer the option to use the D-Pad so the hand cursor, which would have made it 
 a lot easier for this port, is disappointingly absent. The stylus is not as fun for playing Myst 
 as you might think. First off, it is irritatingly unresponsive. You have to repeatedly tap on certain 
 things like levers and even walking direction to get things moving along. And oftimes, you will 
 end up walking in circles because the stylus cannot recognize walking directions as accurately 
 as the good-old fashioned hand cursor, forcing you to use trial-and-error when you want to move 
 to a specific area. This kind of thing is unacceptable and the people behind this port should have 
 put more thought into this.
  
  I also thought the "notepad" feature was a joke. A touch keyboard? And you only get to snap one 
 picture at a time? At least with End of Ages, you were able to take as many pictures as you wanted. 
 Plus, if the game is so intent on the use of the stylus, it'd make perfect sense to be able to 
 scribble notes. Why the developers stick us with a lame "touch keyboard" is anyone's guess.
  
  The DS port, however, did a good job in getting all the FMV into the game although they move 
 somewhat sluggish. All the voice work from the original game is here and intact. And at the very 
 least, the game provides you a magnifying glass if you're reading Atrus' journals. 
  
  I loved Myst, and still do to this day, but I am not liking the DS port. One of the key reasons 
 why I got it was to try out the Rime Age, because I never got the chance to play RealMyst. The 
 Rime Age is short and underwhelming, and certainly not worth the trouble. And this game is not 
 worth the questionable $30.00 asking price. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This version of Myst is actually pretty good. Unlike some of the others who reviewed this game, 
 I played the original Myst when it was really fresh and I loved it (along with millions of others) ! 
 The DS version has a few qerks, but overall, it is a fairly accurate representation of the original. 
 Myst was never a fast paced game with great graphics, but it was a really original mystery / adventure 
 built with the best tools available at the time. 
  
  What the lousy reviews show is just how far games have come. Here is a game that in it's day was 
 the coolest game ever made. It was ground breaking, and addictive. Now, it apparently seems really 
 lame to today's gamers - I get that. 
  
  Simply put, the concept of Myst has been improved upon at least ten times over since it's original 
 release. This is one of those nastaliga things. If you were a fan of the original, you'll enjoy 
 it. It isn't "abysimal", just quite a bit dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzzard31581
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out on PC it was an amazing one-of-a-kind experience. The puzzles were 
 very challenging, the visuals were great, and the point-and-click interface was extremely easy 
 to use.
  
  Playing this version on the DS however, wasn't challenging because of the puzzles, but rather the 
 control scheme that was used for the DS.
  
  The note taking scheme is laughable and the added ability to take pictures is next to useless. 
 I actually ended up having to go back to the pencil and paper note taking method I used when I 
 played the original Myst on PC. 
  
  The images were extremely grainy and hard to make out sometimes. This can make solving puzzles 
 extremely difficult.
  
  The point-and-click controls show up again in this version of the game. The only difference is 
 you don't know exactly what you can and can't click on. So, you're forced to randomly start tapping 
 the screen until something happens. There's no cursor that changes on the screen to tell you whether 
 or not something can be clicked on like there was in the PC version. This can make solving puzzles 
 difficult when you don' t know what to click on. You may miss important clues to solving the puzzle 
 keeping you from finishing the game.
  
  I also couldn't seem to pick up more than one page at a time. This means that I was forced to pick 
 up either the red or blue page and then repeat the age again to pick up the second page. Fortunately 
 at that point I had already solved all the puzzles and traveling back to Myst Island was easy.
 
  
  The only thing this game had going for it was that it was exactly like the original. The puzzles 
 were the same so I already knew exactly what I had to do in order to solve them. Someone who's 
 never played the game will most likely get frustrated with it and quit playing after half an hour 
 and never pick it up again.
  
  I still love the Myst series. I just wish they had done this one right instead of royally messing 
 it up. If they ever came out with Riven or Exile, I hope they learn from their mistakes with this 
 one.
  
  Reasons for my scoring:
  
  Very Hard: The control scheme combined with the difficulty of some of the puzzles can make this 
 near impossible for some people.
  
  10 to 20 hours: I was able to solve the puzzles quickly because I had played the game before. Other 
 people who have never played before may have difficulty again based on the complexity of the puzzles 
 and the control scheme.
  
  Disastrous: It just plain was.
  
  3.0/10: Glad that the story and puzzles were exactly like the original, but the fact that the controls 
 were horrid, the visuals were grainy, and the inability to do certain things that you could in 
 the original drastically takes away the fun from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  For many gamers, the original MYST back on the PC was probably their first great foray into the 
 adventure drama. In what turns out to be both a positive and a negative in my case, I missed out 
 on playing the original version all those years back, and am just now jumping into the unknown 
 world of MYST for the Nintendo DS.
  
  For those too young to remember, or for those like me who simply never played the game in any of 
 its other versions, MYST stands as one of the best selling games ever, second only to the Sims 
 franchise.
  
  In the game, you are immediately thrown onto a deserted island with no instructions as to what 
 to do next and no way of knowing how you are going to get off said island.
  
  Using the touch screen, you tap in the direction you wish you go, and are shown various still images 
 once you do so. Most of the play environment is stationary, so being able to decipher which buttons, 
 switches, books etc. are able to be interacted with becomes key. When playing on the PC version 
 of the game, your cursor would change shape depending on whether or not you were hovering over 
 a "clickable" object, but with the reliance on the DS stylus instead of a cursor, finding them 
 becomes far more difficult here.
  
  As you make your way around the island, you will notice a constant menu bar along the bottom of 
 the touch screen. On this menu you'll find your basic tools of the game, including your notepad, 
 magnifying glass, camera, map, and save menu.
  
  When you tap on either the magnifying glass or the map, the top screen will reflect such by either 
 showing you a closer view of your current screen or by showing you an overall map of each area. 
 Unfortunately, the magnification ability is lackluster when looking at anything other than a book 
 or an already close up shot, as basic shots that have you looking into the distance really don't 
 increase in size much.
  
  Furthermore, the notepad ability is nice, in that you can tap down quick notes when you're playing 
 the game away from a normal pad and paper, but since you can't draw accurate copies of many of 
 the pictures you will find throughout the game, there's really nothing here that can replace having 
 a real notepad and pencil next to you at all times.
  
  Lastly, in regards to the entire menu bar, the buttons themselves are at times unresponsive, forcing 
 you to tap on each multiple times before the game actually registers that you did so. While this 
 isn't that big of deal, considering as how there really is no time limit here, it is a nitpicky 
 thing that I felt should be pointed out.
  
  After getting accustomed to the games controls, and after exploring the majority of Myst Island, 
 you'll come to understand more about the actual story here, and more about the man named Atrus 
 who is apparently behind all of the happenings around you. Atrus' two sons also come into play 
 early on, and throughout the game you'll be challenged with the task of traveling through the different 
 Ages, or realms, of the game (six in all) in order to save those trapped in these other realms.
 
  
  With the transition of the game from the massive PC version to the much smaller DS, it would be 
 easy to assume that the game would be changed in some way, whether it is in length, depth or other 
 content. However, the depth from the PC version remains here and provides one of the best aspects 
 of the entire game.
  
  While most of the gameplay is comprised of solving intricate puzzles, there is a large section 
 devoted to reading about the different ages you will travel through, by looking through Atrus' 
 diaries. And while some of these diaries do provide clues to help you solve various puzzles, there 
 is also a wealth of information completely aside from the main path that can be read simply for 
 your pleasure.
  
  And while the sheer depth of the gameplay here and the vast amount of hours one could spend with 
 this game without actually finishing it are impressive, the actual transition from the PC to the 
 DS left something to be desired, with the majority of the audio sounding muffled, for the lack 
 of a better term.
  
  Even with the DS volume at its maximum and even while sitting in a completely silent room, the 
 audio here is really quiet, so much so that I resorted to using earphones every time I wanted to 
 play the game. Even then, the actual dialogue comes out in such a distorted fashion that it's almost 
 impossible to understand.
  
  Furthermore, the cutscenes and graphics themselves lost something in the move from the larger PC 
 monitor to the small set of DS screens. Since MYST focuses on real world situations, objects and 
 environments are their average sizes, meaning that some buttons become almost invisible in the 
 dark interiors throughout most of the game. This became a large problem on multiple occasions when 
 I knew exactly what I was looking for, but literally couldn't see it, forcing me to result to using 
 a walkthrough to find the exact location of whatever button, switch, etc. I was trying to tap on.
 
  
  All in all, MYST isn't a 21st century game, and it shows. While the portability factor (along with 
 the new magnifying glass and map tools) is appreciated, the graphics here and overall presentation 
 are lacking when compared to more modern titles. However, the story is one that does provide you 
 will a real sense of isolation, being that you are indeed alone in your quest.
  
  In the end, MYST on the DS falls into a love it or hate it category. For those looking for intense, 
 fast-paced action, this is definitely not a game for you. However, for those who can look past 
 a few technical problems and are interested in a truly engaging storyline, this might be a good 
 place to start, but only if you don't have access to the original version on the PC.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=myst 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LizBennet
Rating: 1
Date: May 19, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The original Myst was, in my opinion, one of the best PC games ever made. It created incredible 
 new worlds to explore and had puzzles which were difficult but not irritatingly impossible (it 
 took you a while, but you'd figure it out eventually - although sometimes you may have needed to 
 take a peek at a cheat guide, just to get an idea of what to do next) .
  The DS version is not so good. And when I say "not so good," I'm being nice. It's really terrible. 
 Myst does not translate well into the tiny DS screen, and the "magnify" option doesn't help nearly 
 enough. As far as I can tell, the creators just decreased the resolution and then stuck it on a 
 DS card. Half the time, you can't tell what you're looking at. The other half, you can sort of 
 guess (if you've played the original and remember what it's supposed to look like) . If you're familar 
 with the original, then you know that there are a lot of books and texts to read - in this DS version, 
 the words are blurry and barely legible.
  This should have been cleaned up a lot before being released for DS; the graphics are just plain 
 horrible. This is especially atrocious when you compare the DS version to the original Myst.
  I was so excited when I heard that Myst was coming out for DS, and now I really regret having wasted 
 my money on this pathetic version. I'll still try to finish it, I guess, since I bought it... I'll 
 just squint a lot and probably use a cheat guide (because otherwise I have no idea what I'm looking 
 at, much less what to do with it) .
  Very strongly not recommended. Buy the original for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I've never played MYST before on PC. I also got this game from England, and even though everyone 
 says it should work fine on US Nintendo DS there still seems to be problems I don't have with other 
 games (like freezing up and sometimes taking long time to advance to next scene, and also I can't 
 seem to take a picture of the star map on the machine, and most of all it sometimes starts me at 
 a different start point in a certain age) . Therefore I'm giving 8 more points to this game as a 
 buffer (its already tacked on, so originaly the game should get 72)
  
  This game reminds me in a lot of ways like QIN. In fact there's four different endings here and 
 in that game. Plus moving around is difficult in both of these games.
  
  At first the game might seem really hard, but even if you need a guide, you definately won't really 
 need one on replay (except for maybe a glance) .
  
  Moving around is a hassle, just like in QIN. You use the stylus the whole entire time in this game 
 too. But after awhile you sort of get the feel for things.
  
  The graphics are fairly decent. There are about half a dozen different islands to score. And there 
 you must solve a few cause-effect like puzzles to move on. The objective is to retrieve pages from 
 certain books to help these people out (I won't spoil the whole thing) .
  
  The sound effects could be a bit better and more realistic (like as you move away from machines, 
 their noises should quiet down OR when you shut a door it should quiet out the noise coming in 
 from outside) . But the music is breathtaking and digiztalized speech is awesome. 
  
  Overall satisfication is that this game is a bit short and most of the time your just trying to 
 move around in the right direction (just like QIN) .
  
  If you liked QIN, this would definately be a MUST BUY. If your in it for the story or graphics 
 you might want to reconsider (like RENT first (although I never rent video games or movies anymore) ) , 
 or it get it USED at a lower price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Myst is a great game, but this DS version is atrocious. Atrocious beyond belief and description!
 
  
  Oh, where to begin. 
  
  The game is horrible. Let me just say that much. On the PC or Mac Myst is still a wonderful game 
 but it simply does not belong on the Nintendo DS. At least in it's current form.
  
  Midway Games made as little effort as possible in re-writing the code for this game. It's a very 
 lazy attempt at making money from fans of the series. The graphics are below average, the close-ups 
 with the magnifying glass use the same animation so it's all blocky and utterly without detail, 
 the sound effects and music are crackly and distorted and for a game that requires a keen sense 
 of observation you'll be unable to finish it since important details are blurred and ugly. The 
 earliest example of this that you will encounter is when you sit in the chair in the observatory. 
 In the PC or Mac versions you can see the starfields when entering dates. On this one all you see 
 is a black screen.
  
  Ugly; such a fitting word to describe this worthless mess of a cash-in. Please take my advice and 
 stay well away from Myst DS. To call it an atrocity would only be too kind. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
