-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: My World My Way
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/sekaiwaatashidemawatteru/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pout system grants you greater control of your adventure.
 Never takes itself too seriously.
 It's cute.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mundane, tedious quests bog you down in filler.
 Bare-bones battle system is outdated.
 Low enemy variety, even for bosses.
 Flat characters and a boring plot.
 Second-rate presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Global A
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
My World, My Way needs more than a charming exterior to sweep you off your feet. 

  There are plenty of role-playing games that capitalize on cuteness in order to attract a younger, 
 more feminine crowd, and My World, My Way openly embraces this category. It also attempts to be 
 more than just another pretty face by introducing a unique ability that lets you personalize your 
 adventure; you can tweak nearly every aspect of the game, from monster levels to cash flow, by 
 pouting. Though this level of freedom is a pleasant, convenient twist, the game is still extraordinarily 
 bland and full of tedious filler, resulting in an ultimately unsatisfying journey.  

  You're cast as Elise, a pampered princess enjoying a life of luxury. Eventually Elise realizes 
 that she has everything except a boyfriend and immediately throws a party in an attempt to find 
 one. When she tries to charm a handsome adventurer, however, the unthinkable happens: He rejects 
 her. Humiliated, Elise embarks on a quest to win him over by slaying monsters. The plot is extremely 
 dull and fails to provide much in the way of progression, hinging on Elise's hope to impress her 
 adventurer. If either Elise or her intended were likable, the plot might be worth muddling through, 
 but as both are spoiled children, the game lacks a key motivating factor. There are very few interesting 
 storyline developments, and the flat, clich characters swamp your screen with annoying, redundant 
 dialogue.  

           Grab your gear and prep your best pout for battle.      

  Navigating through Elise's world is very straightforward. You select the nearest town from the 
 world map presented on the top screen and then maneuver through a panel-based map that replaces 
 it. Each panel holds a terrain type, such as a snowy field or a volcano, as well as monsters, and 
 conveniently lists enemy level ranges. Both the stylus and the regular button control options function 
 comfortably, letting you quickly cycle through a plain menu-based battle system. Battles initiate 
 randomly or as you search for enemies on your panel, with 3D enemies crowding the top screen and 
 a bare-bones party menu with character icons aligned on the bottom screen that makes the battle 
 system feel somewhat outdated. Your arsenal includes the standard attack, item, defend, or magic 
 options and usually results in poor attack animations and limited tactics, but you also have access 
 to Elise's special abilities. Learning new spells is another boring endeavor because you can acquire 
 new magic only after an enemy's spell has hit you, so expect to waste a lot of time repeating fights 
 if you want to advance your repertoire. The game's lack of enemy variety is another irritant, as 
 you're forced to trudge through numerous weaklings to find a decent foe. The battle system's one 
 redeeming feature is that you can speed through spell and attack animations -- something the big-budget 
 competition often overlooks.  

  Elise's fairly comprehensive pout system serves as the game's sole intriguing aspect because it 
 gives you total control of your adventure. Pouting uses pout points and enables you to perform 
 a multitude of impressive feats, from raising the amount of experience you get from battles to 
 forcing enemies to drop more gold or items, though an option to lower the enemy encounter rate 
 is strangely missing. Pouting is also useful during battles, especially boss fights, when stunning 
 or silencing enemies with your pout abilities marginally increases your tactical control to almost 
 make battles too easy. Though pouting is a great concept, the game seems built around the feature 
 to the point that every other element, from story to general gameplay, is tossed aside to keep 
 it at the forefront.  

  Quests are typically included to provide a challenge and help you score powerful rewards, but Elise's 
 odd jobs operate as boring, arduous filler that reveals the game's shallowness and really tests 
 your patience. Most quests are mundane and involve creating a specific terrain type to collect 
 a certain amount of an item or kill a number of enemies of a particular type, and usually you have 
 to wade through numerous enemies before you reach a single target monster. A lot of these jobs 
 are repeated and a complete waste of your time unless you permanently sacrifice pout points to 
 skip them, and while that might seem tempting, pout points are practically required for bosses. 
 A handful of quests free you from the panel-based field map by sending you into dungeons for some 
 refreshing variety; in these you guide a tiny 3D Elise through a child's maze as purple blobs representing 
 monsters throw themselves at you. A random encounter system might have been more appropriate for 
 dungeon segments, as it can get annoying to have to fend off foes in set locations if you're not 
 willing to squander valuable pout points to avoid them.  

           Use your pouting abilities to adjust terrain type, locate enemies, or score extra cash. 

  The game uses very crude 3D environments and mediocre character modeling, with bland, primitively 
 designed monsters and boring dungeons differentiated from each other by swapped color palettes. 
 Spell effects, enemy attacks, and environmental textures are all lackluster but bearable, though 
 Elise could easily be confused with a blonde scarecrow whenever she's on the field. Fortunately 
 the dungeon overhead view makes her a bit easier on the eyes, but it's still difficult to pinpoint 
 any intricate details on her character model. You'll run into colorful anime headshots during cutscenes, 
 however, supported by quirky but cheery music that closely mirrors the action, though there is 
 no voice acting.  

  Elise's journey can easily take you more than 40 hours to complete, but unfortunately there isn't 
 much in the way of secondary features or objectives to add some much-needed depth. Most of your 
 time will be wasted on mind-numbing quests and frustrating filler, which act as a pitiful backdrop 
 for Elise's pouting mechanic. The irony of My World, My Way is that the unique feature the game 
 struggles to focus on is eventually overshadowed by its feeble mediocrity. There are just too many 
 better, more captivating games on the market to make this princess adventure worth more than a 
 glance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  No-nonsense low-frustration RPG. Doesn't take itself seriously, making fun of many RPG conventions.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Too simplistic, not enough variety of equipment or customization options. Quests become dull fetches 
 and hunts. Graphics are literally the same as Master of the Monster Lair.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Despite the warnings, I decided to pick this one up, thanks to getting very frustrated with the 
 endgame in Fire Emblem. Oh, a low-key boring RPG will be just the thing, I says to myself. 
  So, after putting up with the inevitable comments from the staff at the game store about getting 
 in touch with my feminine side, I plopped this into my system. After about an hour, I found myself 
 puzzled by exactly who the publishers were targeting this game to. Play-wise, it is a beginner 
 RPG aimed at youngsters; storywise, though, it is filled with inside jokes about the RPG genre, 
 presumably aimed at an older more seasoned crowd who would find the game-play tedious and dull. 
 I just don't get it.
  
  Anyway, as advertised, this is a very easy to play RPG, with a few funny elements that the publishers 
 hoped would split this one off from the rest, but in the end just can't stop the mundanity, if 
 that's a word.
  
  Like every other RPG ever made, you (a young spoiled princess) set out to save the world by accepting 
 quests in towns to help the little people live happy lives. I won't give away how this takes place, 
 but for a while the premise is actually pretty funny. Once that wears off, however, it turns into 
 a standard runa round killing things until you satistfy the quest requirements.
  
  Battles take place in a you-facing-them turn-based way a la Golden Sun, FF, etc. In addition to 
 weapons and magic, you have a pout system that allows you to cast different styles of magic, like 
 paralyzing people, changing the ground you stand on, increase monster levels, find better stuff, 
 etc. It is an interesting idea, but doesn't change things enough to get away from the tedium this 
 game becomes.
  
  In a fit of laziness, the graphics are exactly the same as those found in Master of the Monster 
 Lair, right down to the same monster models and dungeons. Considering how poorly that game sold, 
 I guess the publishers figured nobody would notice. Suffice it to say that the animations are minimal, 
 the style cartoony. 
  
  In the end, "nothing special" perfectly describes this game. The pout system and offbeat story 
 just don't add enough variety to an otherwise typical RPG. That said, if you were planning on buying 
 Zenses for your blood pressure, you might consider this one as well, since every time you turn 
 it on, you will fall asleep ten minutes later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna_jjang
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  ok, so i just played this game last... week or last last week i cant really remember but anyways 
 i played it not knowing how the game really works. i didnt really know how to use pout system to 
 level up or get some extra cash. i had lack of money at the beginning cause i stupidly bought some 
 stuff and ate a lot of food and thought it was a total waste of time playing. but as u proceed, 
 there are just more and more things to look for. 
  
  
  --little preview/review of game ---
  this games main point is using the pout. u get double exp 
 and cash (usually) and item after each battle if u use pout. this takes care of all the leveling 
 up and cash. i didnt know this and that is why i couldnt level up or have enough cash to feed my 
 MC, sorry princess. pout skills, i think u start with like 10 or 20 and this is too low to have 
 all exp, cash, item pouts and this is when people lose interest because they just dont seem to be 
 able to level up or earn money. this i think marrionette should have considered because this game 
 just gets better and better as u proceed, like i mentioned. also, pout is not only used to level 
 up faster. it changes the landscape of the town or the field u r in. so lets say u r on ice. cold, 
 freezing, freaky penguins attacking u. u want something warm like a garden. then u just use ur 
 pout skills to change the freezing ice to a smelly garden. the smell too strong? then u change 
 it to praries where there are only grass. also with pout, u can change the difficulty level of 
 the game. u can lower or higher the enemies levels by 10s. 10 up would be pretty stupid thing to 
 do it the princess is not prepared, but it is useful to level up. the princess can use the ultimate 
 skill pout, but she cant use any spells. yes, she may be kinda stupid to learn magic, but her trust 
 worthy parrat, PARO will learn magic skills as he is hit by the magic. with ur slimy slime PINKY 
 with u to mimck monsters skills, there is nothing that stops the princess!!
  
  for each town u go to, there will be major quest and side quests. major quests are things u HAVE 
 to do in order to open the gate to the next town. the quests are usually hunting down monsters 
 or collecting from gardens or forests. this causes fights = levels = stats = ur slime mimck. and 
 after quests, a warrior called NERO, hired by ur father will come to test u often. well, he basically 
 stalks u where ever u go, but he would summon gate keepers to give u good looking weapons and high 
 exps. isnt he just awesome?
  well anyways, if u clear about 4 or so towns u will get a last stage for a big boss. once u beat 
 her up (boss always girls  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  As you've read in other reviews for this title, My World, My Way! is a unique take on the JRPG 
 formula, often making fun of the typical bits in a console RPG. When you encounter a large ogre 
 mini-boss, your character informs the creature that he's only there to die and give you experience 
 points, which causes him to pause and ask, timidly, "really?!" There are quite a few fun "make 
 fun of itself" moments throughout My World, My Way. Unfortunately, the unique spins aren't really 
 enough to overcome this dungeon crawler's limited gameplay...
  
  The Good:
  * Nice visuals -- I played this right after The World Ends With You, so this game wasn't able to 
 stack up, but for a DS title, it does look nice. Animations are a bit crude, but things are big, 
 colorful, and reasonably well detailed.
  * Gameplay -- While the combat is basic JRPG turn-based with your party, they throw in a neat wrinkle 
 -- the Pout Points. As incredibly dorky as it sounds, basically it allows your character to vastly 
 alter combat. You can banish an opponent, weaken an opponent (reducing its level and thus amount 
 of experience pts you get) , or at least give you the first attack in combat. You use the points 
 pretty quickly, and they work like Magic Points (used for spells) -- when you go back to the inn 
 to sleep, they recharge.
  * Story -- The story is bizarre, but different, at least. I won't ruin it here, but suffice to 
 say it's... different... (have you ever wanted to play the role of a horridly spoiled princess 
 that decides to become a warrior to win over the heart of an adventurer that thinks she's a spoiled 
 loser)
  
  The Bad:
  * Gameplay -- When adventuring, you move about each region on the world map as though it were tiles 
 in a grid. In each area, you don't get to move around: you simply click to see if there are more 
 monsters or treasures in that spot, then you click down or over to another tile in the grid. In 
 the last grid spot is usually a boss for that region. Sometimes, there will be a "dungeon" in one 
 of the spots. Dungeons are isometric mazes where you do have freedom to actually move your character, 
 but it's a letdown, because each dungeon is a very simple multi-level maze with very simplistic, 
 repetitive visuals. This pattern of adventuring is repeated over and over as you proceed through 
 the story. It gets old. Quickly.
  * Gameplay 2 -- Combat in each region consists of fighting the same 5 or 6 monster types over and 
 over and over. Each region typically introduces 2 or 3 new monsters, so there's some variety, but 
 the game requires you to grind through all of the combat in each region in order to level-up enough 
 to beat the boss.
  * Audio/Music -- There is no spoken dialog, and there are some well done musical pieces, but not 
 enough of them to give you some variety.
  
  So if you're a huge fan of turn-based JRPGs, and want something a little different, My World My 
 Way is worth a go. But if you're looking for a deep, engaging JRPG, I'd pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  It's true, So. I started this game knowing full well what I was in for. What did the reviewers 
 expect? War and Peace in girly game form?
  I mean C'mon. I'm also playing Rhapsody a musical adventure, I knew that wasn't gonna be oh .... 
 Gears of War.
  I wish that just once someone would actually PLAY the games they review ALL THE WAY THROUGH and 
 GIVE IT THE FAIR REVIEW IT DESERVES!! Or Oh I don't know... Maybe you should PLAY that game U complain 
 or Dis Before U SAY or WRITE anything! I like this game for what it is. It's cute and funny and 
 no zombies or guns or any of the REPEATED crap I am seeing on the market now. So. (jumping off 
 soap box) THUD!!
  
  I like this game for the fun of it. It's girly sure, but i am a girl. so what if i like to shoot 
 things every now and then. and so what if i LOVE Persona (All the series so far) . Doesn't mean I 
 can't like this game.
  Does It? How about U dear reader? What DO U THINK? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
