-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nacho Libre
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/nacholibre/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Completely bizarre cutscene work.
 full-motion video clips from the movie.
 a surprising amount of moves available.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 except you don't actually have to use any of those moves since the grapple button takes priority over everything.
 extremely shallow minigames.
 wrestling-match graphics aren't attractive at all.
 story mode takes less than an hour to complete.
 computer wrestlers are insanely easy to beat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.8, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 46 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: BudCat
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 26, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nacho Libre earns some style points for its patently insane cutscenes and use of video clips from 
 the movie. Just don't expect to have any fun actually playing it. 

  Making a wrestling game based on  Nacho Libre , the goofball Jack Black comedy about a Mexican 
 monk turned luchador (wrestler) , is insane. Making it exclusively for the Nintendo DS is even more 
 insane. Throwing in a bunch of Monty Python-inspired cut-and-paste cutscenes using scenes from 
 the film, as well as ridiculous minigames involving bee swatting, salad formation, and bull dodging, 
 among other activities, is howling-at-the-moon insane. So, suffice it to say, Nacho Libre for the 
 Nintendo DS is just a wee bit kooky. And it's this kookiness that saves it from being another hacked 
 together licensed game cash-in. It certainly isn't the gameplay, which might as well not even exist. 

          A wrestling game based on Nacho Libre? Why not just make a hockey game based on Slapshot, 
 or a golf game based on Caddyshack while you're at it? Actually, wait     

  In case you never got around to seeing  Nacho Libre , all you missed was an overly oddball comedy 
 where Jack Black starts out as a monk, decides he wants to become a luchador, tag-teams up with 
 a frighteningly skinny homeless kid, and falls in love with a nun. In between, a lot of random, 
 nonsensical hilarity ensues. It was an extremely strange film that gave off a real love it/hate 
 it kind of vibe, and the DS game happens to give off this exact same feeling. Right from the get-go, 
 the game's presentation is bound to polarize people. The story mode uses a mixture of full-motion 
 video sequences from the film, as well as a number of still frames of the actors, but with various 
 body parts cut and animated independently of the shot, giving a real cut-and-paste animation kind 
 of vibe. It looks bizarre, but you've got to admit, it's at least more creative than your average 
 cutscene work.  

  But what is Nacho Libre, exactly? First and foremost, it's a wrestling game, and not a very good 
 one at that. As you play through the game's story mode, you'll encounter a number of wrestlers 
 from the film, and by defeating them, you'll unlock them for the quickplay and multiplayer modes. 
 Though each wrestler has a couple of unique moves, they all pretty much move and play the same. 
 What's interesting is that there's more move depth here than what you might expect from a handheld 
 wrestling game, let alone something based on a movie. You get two striking attack buttons, as well 
 as a grappling system that works similarly to the Fire Pro Wrestling games. To successfully grapple 
 an opponent, you must time your hold to occur first. Once you have an opponent locked up, you simply 
 press a direction (or combination of directions) on the D pad, as well as one of the attack buttons, 
 and you'll perform a move. On top of all that, you can pull off turnbuckle attacks and specialized 
 lift attacks.  

  That all sounds good, except that you really don't have to use the bulk of these moves, at least 
 in the single-player game. The opponent wrestler artificial intelligence is completely brain-dead, 
 and all you ever have to do to win is walk up to a wrestler, press the grapple button, and do any 
 attack. Even if your opponent pulls a reversal and gets out of it, you just have to walk up again 
 and do the same move until it works. Strike moves aren't very useful, since you can be halfway 
 through a strike animation and then suddenly have it canceled by an opponent pressing the grapple 
 button. The grapple button basically trumps anything, and it's the only move you need to rely on 
 to win. After a couple of matches, you'll have had your fill of what the wrestling has to offer. 

  Beyond wrestling, the story mode contains a number of strange minigames themed after scenes from 
 the film, all of which use the touch screen. For example, there's a rock-climbing minigame modeled 
 after the scene where a water gypsy (played brilliantly by Peter Stormaire) tells Nacho to climb 
 a cliff to find and devour an eagle's egg to give him special powers. In this game, you simply 
 tap a series of handholds as the camera climbs upward. Nacho will jump to each one you tap, though 
 sometimes the handholds will break, forcing you to find another route. Another game is a simple 
 game of avoidance as Nacho drives along a road in his weird tricycle-buggy vehicle. Cows appear 
 in the road, and you have to avoid running into them. There are eight of these games total, and 
 they're all equally simplistic. While the transference of these bizarre scenes into something playable 
 is amusing, the games aren't much fun, and you won't ever want to play any of them again once you're 
 done.  

  There's not an awful lot to Nacho Libre's package beyond the wrestling and minigames, sadly enough. 
 The story mode only takes about an hour to play through, and once you're done, you're left with 
 the ability to play matches solo or against friends. Solo wrestling isn't fun for the same reason 
 it isn't fun in the story mode, and when playing in multiplayer, matches turn into a contest of 
 who can hit the grapple button first. The one mildly interesting component to the multiplayer mode 
 is that you can compete for title belts against other people. You win belts by either winning five 
 multiplayer matches or by defeating other title holders. Then again, you still have to actually 
 wrestle, so that kind of negates the mode's appeal.  

          The gameplay pretty much sucks, but the strange cutscenes and film clips give the presentation 
 some style.     

  The game's graphics are a tale of opposites. We've already mentioned the completely crazy cutscene 
 work and that the developers were able to cram full-on video clips from the movie onto a DS cart, 
 but on the opposing end of the spectrum are the in-game graphics, which are blocky, stiff, and 
 unattractive. Wrestlers are gangly, and the move animations look cheap. Most of them don't really 
 look like wrestling moves you've ever seen before, so much as just random tosses and slams. The 
 game tries to silly things up by having moves that make the wrestlers' body parts fly off, flatten 
 into a pancake, or explode completely, but that doesn't actually make them funny. Still, while 
 these graphics look poor, the cutscene collages and weird minigame visuals do a lot to make up 
 for it. The game has style -- it just doesn't translate into the wrestling matches.  

  There is admittedly not a lot to the audio, but there's something to be said for the amount of 
 film audio encased within. The cut-and-paste cutscenes don't feature dialogue, but there's a fair 
 amount in the actual film clips. Strange Mexican-themed music plays in the background at all times, 
 and there are random grunts and shouts from the wrestlers during matches. None of it really stands 
 out, though.  

  As a game, Nacho Libre can't possibly be recommended. The wrestling looks intelligently designed, 
 yet degenerates into stupid repetition the moment you figure out the trick with the grapple button, 
 and the minigames are mostly valueless and not fun. The only thing that salvages the experience 
 at all is the presentation. It's refreshingly strange stuff that, coupled with a better game design, 
 would elevate the game well above the usual licensed dreck assigned to handheld consoles. Don't 
 play Nacho Libre. Instead, try and trick someone else into playing it and then watch over that 
 person's shoulder. It's enjoyable enough to look at, but there's no sense in getting your hands 
 dirty with such lackluster gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NachoMontana86
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Nacho Libre is one of my favorite movies (mostly because I am a wrestling fan) . So when I heard 
 that a game version was coming to the DS, it did gain my attention. Now that I played it, it might 
 be better to just watch the movie.
  
  Being that it was the first wrestling game for the DS. Nacho Libre was ok, but after playing it 
 for perhaps 15-20 minutes, you might notice that the game becomes repetitive. What was frustrating 
 about the game was that during tag matches, I didn't have a clue how to tag my partner. The cut-scenes 
 are possibly my only positive point in the game. It was pretty funny to read the dialogue while 
 the characters were acting like bobblehead dolls. But it is not enough to save a mediocre game, 
 even with the $20 budget price (I guess you might say this is one of those times where the meaning 
 you get what you pay for might come into play) .
  
  So, if you really, really, REALLY are desperate for a wrestling game on your DS, you might as well 
 look at Nacho Libre. But I recommend that you watch the movie, and wait for other wrestling games 
 to show up on the DS that might be more worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  You cant be serious... You really cant consider this abomination to be a game... god o god what 
 is the world coming to there is a million and 1 things wrong with this game.
  
  Like the last reviewer this game could have been made better by a four year old with his eyes shut 
 closed.
  
  Gameplay is no fun whatsoever its shorter then 2 hours tops... and by the end of that you feel 
 like you just payed someone to take 2 hours out of your life for even considering buying this game! 
 It really is not any challenge in beating this game just the challenge of not throwing it at the 
 mans face who even thought of this idea! Also it hardly lets you use the DS to its full capability's 
 only 1 or 2 areas that make this game function.
  
  God the Graphics.... o god the graphics! Its not what you would call an eye thriller, practically 
 boring you to death. Its literally harassment and abuse to the eyes to view this for the full length 
 of this ridiculous game.
  
  Sound is good quality but the selection of noise you get back just irritates you even more... i 
 muted it threw out the hole game and played some other songs.
  
  Value umm i was being generous even giving it a 2 for value, and the only reason for that is because 
 its unique but in a very bad and painful way... ill never be playing this game again in my life 
 kind of way.
  
  Tilt well it is what it is just take a look at those pictures and video clips if there are and 
 vids haven't checked cause i went strait to these reviews to give you all a fare warning!
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone unless you are in a desperate attempt to try something 
 new that everyone else has warned you that is bad!
  
  For advice to the makers of this game... i will remember your company name for future warning, 
 but directly to you guys spend alot more time and commitment into a game, make it eye thrilling! 
 And environmental, then all you need is cool looking characters and mosh it all together in a good 
 story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_bomb
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  i have never seen such an insulting game in my life. the movie was tarrible so why bother making 
 this stupid game. its a ds game so why are the grafics so bad huh can u give me an answer they 
 proububle spent 2 minutes making this game. my cousen could make a better game with his eyes closed 
 and he's 4. im discused with this game what the poo! u think thed spend more time making the grafics 
 better than sittin around piken there noses. my super nes has better grafics than this. if anyone 
 buys this game i slap them in the face cus ur wasting ur money on this game. it may seem fun at 
 first but it realy is bad (the game is sneaky) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
