-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nancy Drew: The Mystery of the Clue Bender Society
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/nancydrewthemysteryofthecluebendersociety/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Vivid artwork helps bring story to life.
 Elements of a good, kid-friendly Nancy Drew story are here.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is disappointingly short.
 Same few simple minigames repeat.
 Tedious, overly simple gameplay.
 Occasionally horrible graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.8, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Gorilla Systems
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jul 23, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The elements of a charming Nancy Drew tale are here, but the game is far too short and too problematic 
 to be recommendable. 

  Despite the fact that she's been around for nearly 80 years now, Nancy Drew hasn't aged a bit. 
 She's still a hip 18-year-old with a boyfriend named Ned, a devoted single father, and a remarkable 
 knack for solving mysteries. The character has a timeless appeal, and the concept of creating adventure 
 games around her is a natural fit. Unfortunately, Nancy Drew: The Mystery of the Clue Bender Society 
 is an overly simple, tedious product that doesn't do the old girl proud by a long shot.  

  The game kicks off with Nancy Drew receiving a letter from a clandestine organization called the 
 Clue Bender Society. The society is composed, the letter says, of some of the greatest intellects 
 in the world, and Nancy is invited to take part in a test to see if she is worthy of joining their 
 ranks. With the blessing of her very trusting father, she boards a ferry to visit this shadowy 
 group at their mansion on a strange, puzzle-filled island. It's not long before a book containing 
 secrets so powerful that they could threaten the fate of the world is stolen, and it's up to Nancy 
 to find the tome and unmask the culprit. The tale the game tells, with its secret societies, ancient 
 tomes, and mysterious disappearances, has all the makings of just the sort of story that Nancy 
 Drew fans and amateur sleuths should love, and it's told in an effective comic book style.  

           Nancy is so efficient that there's not always a whole lot left for you to do.      

 
  It's a shame, then, that the game fails to both deliver on the potential of the story and build 
 a compelling game around it. You maneuver Nancy Drew from place to place, picking up items and 
 initiating conversations but rarely being significantly involved in anything. Nancy carries around 
 a cell phone, a fingerprint analyzer, a suspect journal, and other objects you pick up throughout 
 the game, but you never have to figure out the proper time or place to use anything, as Nancy does 
 this automatically. Nor do you ever have to piece clues together and form your own conclusions 
 about any aspect of the mystery, as Nancy takes care of all of this for you. Sure, she is the great 
 Nancy Drew and she probably doesn't need any help, but the game would have been far more engrossing 
 if it made you feel like you actually had some part in solving the mystery.  

  Instead, all the game ever asks of you, aside from walking Nancy to the next key location, is that 
 you navigate the occasional very simple maze and play the occasional very simple minigame, typically 
 to unlock doors or one of the numerous puzzle boxes Nancy encounters. The most common minigame 
 involves moving some colored baskets to catch matching colored balls that slowly bounce down from 
 the top of the screen. A few others pop up once or twice, but they're all equally simple, and the 
 game really could have benefited from a wider variety of more interesting minigames. You'll also 
 frequently take brief trips via snowmobile or boat. These trips are presented from an overhead 
 view and have you moving left and right to avoid obstacles and stay on a designated path. There's 
 no challenge to them, but they do serve to break up the adventure a little bit.  

  The game is aimed at younger players, and there's nothing inherently wrong with keeping a game 
 relatively simple so that it's accessible to kids, but too much of Clue Bender Society's design 
 mistakes tedium for simplicity. One thing the game gets right is that it clearly marks any object 
 of interest, so there's never any of the obnoxious pixel-hunting that plagues some adventure games. 
 However, because key items sometimes spontaneously appear in places you may have already visited, 
 you might still find yourself scouring the mansion to see if some vital new clue or object has 
 turned up. It would be one thing if the game gave you some hint that you may want to take a second 
 look in a certain area, but items have a tendency to appear without any notice, and while the mansion 
 isn't huge, wandering around it aimlessly isn't fun. Also, one of your central tasks involves manipulating 
 four different consoles to open doors all over the mansion. Having to run around to four separate 
 consoles instead of just one doesn't make this activity any more interesting or challenging -- just 
 more time-consuming.  

  Despite the time the game forces you to waste running around, Clue Bender Society is still extremely 
 short. The first time through, it's unlikely to take you much longer than three hours. Although 
 there's no incentive to play through it again, if you do play through it a second time, knowing 
 where to go and what to do, it can be completed in significantly less time. Even given the game's 
 budget price, there's just not enough to it to justify a purchase. It's also worth noting that 
 performing certain actions will result in skipping a small but crucial section of the story, making 
 the game a bit shorter still and causing Nancy to refer to clues she's never received and a meeting 
 she's never had. Considering that the story is the best thing the game has going for it, it's too 
 bad the game doesn't do a better job of keeping it straight.  

           Yes, you get to ride one of these. No, it's not much fun.      

  The game's presentation 
 is fine for the most part. Story sequences feature some terrific artwork that gives you a strong 
 sense of the characters and really helps bring the story to life, though some of this artwork is 
 overused during the course of the game. The static environments are nicely detailed, but could 
 have used some movement to make them feel more alive. There's one jarringly bad aspect of the game's 
 visuals, though. At one point, the game switches to an overhead view and you must stick to shadowy 
 areas as you sneak Nancy past a few guards. Oddly, there's no walking animation for the guards. 
 They simply hover back and forth as they patrol the area. The members of the Clue Bender Society 
 may have access to some powerful secrets, but the secret to floating around isn't among them. The 
 music suits the game well but repeats too frequently, and sound effects are kept to a minimum. 

  The Clue Bender Society doesn't feel so much like a game as it does a very short story through 
 which you advance by performing a series of very basic actions. A simple game would have been fine 
 for younger players and those just looking for an entertaining mystery, but players of all ages 
 will still find the gameplay tiresome and be disappointed that the story wraps up so quickly. As 
 for what happened to the fun that should have been included in this game, it's a mystery worthy 
 of the great Nancy Drew.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
