-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nanostray 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/nanostray2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking 3D enemies and backgrounds.
 Sharp touch-screen controls.
 Good range of difficulty won't exclude novices.
 Challenges and simulators offer a refreshing change of pace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 D pad controls too sluggish.
 Disappointing single-card play .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Shin'en
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nanostray 2 is a dyed-in-the-wool shoot-'em-up that offers great action in a shiny, proficient package. 
 

  Hundreds of enemies. Thousands of projectiles. Millions of points at stake. Billions of ways to 
 die. Nanostray 2, in classic shoot-'em-up tradition, pits these mind-bending numbers against the 
 power of one in a relentless challenge that demands precision, rewards determination, and castigates 
 error. Yet despite the daunting challenges it poses, Nanostray 2 does not require seasoned twitch 
 reflexes for admission. This accessibility, along with its competent execution and attractive visuals, 
 makes Nanostray 2 a draw for genre veterans and neophytes alike.  

  The logical starting place in Nanostray 2 is the single-player Adventure mode. In this mode, legions 
 of foes will try to stop you from researching the Nanostray virus, which takes malicious control 
 of modern technology and makes it want to blast you. Each of the eight planets you'll visit features 
 unique backgrounds, enemies, hazards, and bosses, all of which are colorfully and vibrantly rendered. 
 Levels are bisected by a miniboss and culminate with a big boss, with no save points or respite 
 along the way. Levels can last anywhere from five to 45 minutes depending on the player skill and 
 become much more perilous on harder difficulties. The screen will usually scroll vertically or 
 horizontally depending on the level, though the scroll direction does change a fair bit midlevel. 
 This refreshing variation, along with the detailed and appealing graphics, is a nice tonic against 
 the eye strain that shoot-'em-ups inevitably tend to cause.  

           Things can get a bit hectic.      

  Nanostray 2 offers two ways to control the movement 
 of your ship, but you really only need one. The D pad is far too sluggish and imprecise to pull 
 off the skin-of-your-teeth maneuvers that the game demands, so go with the touch screen. The action 
 will play out on the touch screen so your ship will go where your stylus goes, and you can map 
 the two attack buttons to either side of the DS depending on your preference. Stylus controls are 
 precise and make finding those tiny pathways through fields of projectiles much easier, which goes 
 a long way toward making the game easier to play for the unseasoned among you. The only drawback 
 is the blind spots that the stylus and your hand will create as you hold them over the touch screen. 
 But this doesn't prevent the controls from feeling sharp and well-implemented. And don't fret, 
 vets, Nanostray 2 still brings the crazy, alone-in-a-sea-of-death challenge on harder difficulty 
 settings.  

  When it comes to the actual blasting of almost everything you see, your armament is limited but 
 versatile. Your primary gun can continuously shoot straight ahead and can be complemented by two 
 satellite guns that you earn at the beginning of the level when you destroy your first two waves 
 of foes. These satellites can rotate among three set positions around your ship, which you map 
 out at the beginning of each level at the weapons selection screen. Customizing the angles of fire 
 you'll be able to cover is a neat gimmick, and toggling between them proves to be a vital survival 
 skill. You'll also select one of up to six subweapons to load up; whichever you prefer will depend 
 on your play style, your skill level, and the particular level you're on at the time. Some, like 
 the radial attack and the enemy-hopping chain blast, are useful in a variety of situations. Others, 
 however, like the overpowered shot and trigger mine, are more specialized.  

  The niche weapons seem more at home in the diverting Challenge mode, which sets forth four increasingly 
 difficult sets of eight challenges to conquer. These challenges generally last 15 seconds to a 
 minute, testing your shooting and maneuvering skills in short intense bursts. As such, they serve 
 as an excellent training ground for honing your skills in quick, concentrated sessions, rather 
 than the longer campaign where too many mistakes can undo many levels of progress. Completing each 
 set of challenges will unlock a Simulator, which is essentially a minigame based on a popular casual 
 game archetype. Variations of Brick-Out, Asteroids, and Snake are here, as well as a tunnel flying 
 game that feels a bit like Star Fox (SNES) meets Amplitude (PlayStation 2) . None of them are particularly 
 good, but they do serve as adequate diversions from the main gameplay, perhaps best implemented 
 when you're frustrated and need to cleanse your palate before diving back into the breach.  

           Ooooh! Aaaaah!      

  You can play Nanostray 2 with a friend using either single-card 
 or multicard download play. Single-card offers only two competitive modes, each set in a fixed 
 arena. Unfortunately, the player without a card can't use touch-screen controls, and the resulting 
 imbalance really hamstrings the competition. Multicard allows both players to use the touch screen 
 and offers a cooperative Adventure mode, in addition to the Arena mode. The competitive and cooperative 
 modes are interesting play options, but both feel like a pale shade of the single-player experience. 
 Having two ships on the screen following similar paths and often overlapping can get distracting, 
 especially if you're both trying to squeeze through the same lane to safety. The best competitive 
 outlet this game offers is the Arcade mode, which you unlock by beating Adventure mode and allows 
 you to play through any level repeatedly. Being able to compare your high score with your friend 
 or with the world via the Wi-Fi score upload feature feels like the best competitive fit in a game 
 that pits you alone against hordes of opponents.  

  The multiplayer and Simulator modes leave a bit to be desired, but the Adventure, Arcade, and Challenge 
 modes are quite satisfying. In fact, these modes should offer more than enough to satisfy and challenge 
 both newcomers and pros alike. For classic shoot-'em-up action on the DS, Nanostray 2 is the game 
 to get.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 185twewy185
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  In my opinion nanostray 2 is a good DS shooter but it is the hardest game ever!!! You only get 
 like 8 lives through the whole game. I only beat the first mission and then kept dying. The weapons 
 are really fun and cool and so is the sound. All you do is go in space and shoot a bunch of flying 
 spaceships. The reason why I kept dying was because there was so many enemies that it was hard 
 to not run into them and blow up. If you can beat this game then you have to be like the best person 
 at video games in the whole world. Nanostray 2 has great graphics but the difficulty level was 
 far too high for my ability. If you like a very challenging game I would definitely recommend Nanostray 
 2. I think that this game is going to be similar to Bangai-O Spirits. So if you are interested 
 in buying Bangai-O Spirits I would pass in spending $30.00 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Positive: - decent graphics - improvements from the original become instantly obvious - new weapons 
 are cool - space shooter style = cool and fun - lots of extra challenges - two different types 
 of levels - 
  
  Negative: - only 8 levels in the main game - still REALLY hard, even on easy - 
  
  Nanostray 
 was a good game that was fun but way too hard all the way throughout, even on easy. Now, Nanostray 
 is back and harder than ever, but the sequel is better than the first in many ways. 
  
  The main part of Nanostray 2 is the Adventure mode. This only has eight levels, but it's so hard 
 that you'll never know what the fifth level is like, even if you choose 'easy' (which, for the 
 record, is NOT easy at all) . There is even a story this time around. There's some virus that you 
 need to stop and all that stuff. It's not necessarily an interesting story at all but it makes 
 you feel like you have more purpose in playing than just going around shooting stuff like in the 
 original. The levels are a lot longer this time around, which can be a good thing to give it more 
 value but again it makes the game more difficult. 
  
  Aside from the main Adventure, there are a bunch of challenges that are actually really hard like 
 the rest of the game, but they get pretty addictive. I think there are 24 of these challenges, 
 but like in the adventure, you'll probably never go beyond class A into the ninth challenge and 
 beyond. These challenges vary from getting a certain score within a time limit to surviving a short 
 period of time. 
  
  A good improvement on the series seen here is an entirely different view in half of the levels. 
 In the first game, all the levels were from a top-down view, but this time there are several sidescrolling 
 levels as well. This varies the game a bit, which is pretty nice, and the sidescrolling levels 
 can get pretty cool with twisting cameras and a different feel. 
  
  The weapons system has been greatly improved from the original game. Rather than having to touch 
 a spot on the bottom screen to change your weapon mid-level, you select your secondary weapon to 
 use in the level before you start playing and there is only one primary weapon, but you will quickly 
 collect two power ups that make you shoot out three beams at a time, and you can shoot in several 
 directions around you by pressing R. This is a nice gameplay mechanic and nicely makes up for only 
 having one primary weapon. 
  
  The graphics and sound in Nanostray 2 are good as well. The visuals are nice for the DS and the 
 enemies are sometimes cooler and less generic than in the first game. The sound is cool and the 
 effects for shooting and stuff are fun to listen to. 
  
  So all in all, Nanostray 2 is a great game. If you played the original but wanted something better, 
 this is pretty much what you'll want to pick up. If you want to try this series for the first time, 
 it's also good for that too. Even though difficulty of it will likely kill some of the value for 
 most players, Nanostray 2 is still a great, fun game likely worth its cheap pricetag. 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMartinLee
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the ones who loved Nanostray and wanted more; I asked for a sequel and watched the forums 
 anxiously when it was announced. I was really impressed when the honchos at Shin'en even made an 
 occasional appearance there to discuss the game's progress. That's just an awesome thing to see.
 
  
  They did a lot of things very well in N2: The graphics and sound are great. The minibosses in each 
 level are a nice touch, and something fans have been asking for. There is a lot of customization 
 available, and a good variety of weapons to unlock, and no need to try to hit "buttons" on the 
 touch screen. There's a lot of variety in the stages, too, and sometimes feels like a tribute to 
 Gradius V, especially in the new horizontal levels. Even the higher difficulty is a good thing, 
 as are the return of one-hit-kills and no bombs.
  
  Still, it's not quite right, especially in the control department. It defaults to D-pad control, 
 and you can adjust your speed before each level. Touch screen control is also an option, and gives 
 you precise control of your ship, but with a blind spot under your hand or stylus. You're stuck 
 with the weapon you choose before the stage, and the configuration you've chosen for your satellites.
 
  
  Touch controls are an exciting development for precise flying, but controlling the ship directly 
 on the lower screen robs the new system of that sense of ace piloting skills. Instead, you're just 
 tracing your route with the stylus. The missing control options would be either: a way to control 
 speed on-the-fly while using the D-pad, or (what I'm crossing my fingers for in an unlikely sequel...) 
 the ability to use the touch-screen to control the ship through top-screen action. Kind of a virtual 
 analog stick, like Super Mario 64 DS...
  
  I'm glad Shin'en got to release this game, but I think I still prefer the original so far. It had 
 a focused approach that taught you how to play depending on whether you wanted to just survive 
 or get a high score. N2 offers so many options that it loses that sense of focus.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray 2 is an old-school scrolling shooter. This means powerups, limited lives, limited continues, 
 one hit and you die. Sweet classic arcade action. It features a plethora of different modes and 
 difficult challenges to undertake. Like Contra 4, this game is classic awesomeness.
  
  The shooter won't earn any points for originality, thats for sure. You control your ship with the 
 D-pad and shoot with the A button. Collecting power-ups will add 2 more beams to the original so 
 you'll have 3 beams shooting at things. L and R cycles the 2 other beams to shoot diagonally forward, 
 diagonally backwards, and one shooting directly up and one directly down. B button fires your special 
 weapon that runs on limited power. Its a formula thats been done before, but it works and its awesome.
 
  
  Another thing people should know is that the game is hard, really really hard. Not quite as difficult 
 as say, Contra 4, but this is still one of the harder games you'll ever come across. You'll be 
 wondering if the devs tried to make the game as hard as possible in the absence of another difficult 
 but good scrolling shooter "cough cough GRADIUS cough". If you like your games challenging, this 
 one won't disappoint.
  
  Technically, the game is very proficient. The graphics for the environments, beams, enemies and 
 explosions are all extremely good. They really help bring the game from its old-school roots into 
 the 21st century as a modern game. The sound effects are equally satisfying and the slight voice 
 acting doesn't hurt the package but doesn't really help it either.
  
  It goes without saying this is the best shoot em' up on the DS. The tough-as-nails gameplay really 
 harkens back to awesome shooters of the past but the gameplay hasn't aged a bit, and the graphics 
 and sound easily bring this game to modern standards. For DS owners craving for a good scrolling 
 shooter, this is the game you've all been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synapticflow
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  My review is based on a few levels of gameplay, a lot of deaths, and a few gasps of "Wow. That 
 was close!"
  
  Nanostray 2 is here and it's about time. The game delivers more of the same goodness, plus several 
 new twists to keep those fingers twitching.
  
  As expected, the quality graphics and cool techno music is there. I recommend getting some nice 
 "in ear" type headphones and enjoying this game in a darkened room.
  
  The level of difficulty seems to have been upped nicely. There were some areas that I feared surviving 
 and only made it due to having continues remaining. Bosses range from quirky looking spider machines 
 to menacing creatures whose reach extends across the entire field of play. Of course you can adjust 
 the difficulty to suit your preference.
  
  Obvious inspirations from Gradius V and other shooters appear in this game, but it's not something 
 I found myself griping about. It was more of a "Hey, that's like the Boss from game ----" type 
 of feeling.
  
  I like how the game switches the playing perspective. One breathtaking sequence has you dodging 
 barriers while the perspective scrolls up or down, getting faster as well. It gives a "throwing 
 the kitchen sink" kind of feeling to you and has you wondering what's next.
  
  There are various weapons to select and more are available as you progress. The limited use "super 
 weapons" are a blast and it's fun making a strategy of deciding which ones to use. It's neat to 
 be able to look before making a choice and see how much energy any of these "super weapons" will 
 use. Obviously the ones with a bigger power drain give you less shots to fire and keep you constantly 
 on the look for energy refills.
  
  It seems like a lot of thought was put into the game and I am having a great time with it. Nanostray 
 2 keeps the shoot-em-up hope alive and delivers a fun experience to fans of the genre.
  
  This is a recommended purchase. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
