-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nanostray
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/nanostray/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking, fast-moving 3D graphics.
 Big and small enemies make for exciting but brief levels, at least the first few times.
 Multiplayer requires only one copy of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shallow gameplay mostly emphasizes rote memorization.
 Weapon switching is annoyingly limited to the touch screen.
 You'll blow through the eight levels very quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 573 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Shin'en
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Jul 19, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, underneath Nanostray's excellent presentation is a game that's not nearly as good 
 as its sources of inspiration. 

  Dating back to arcade classics like Gradius and Galaga, the best shoot-'em-ups have always tested 
 your skills and reflexes as they challenged you against all odds in one enemy-filled level after 
 another. Gameplay like that ought to never go out of style, so it's good to see a game like Nanostray 
 come out for the Nintendo DS. A true-blue you-against-the-world space shooter, Nanostray pays homage 
 to the genre's greats, and comes from the makers of the similarly styled Iridion titles for the 
 Game Boy Advance. Unfortunately, underneath Nanostray's excellent presentation is a game that's 
 not nearly as good as its sources of inspiration. A weak multiplayer mode, repetitive level design 
 (even for a shoot-'em-up) , and limited replay value put Nanostray squarely in the "almost, but 
 not quite" category.  

          In Nanostray, what you do is you shoot everything that moves. It's cool for as long as 
 it takes to clear the game's small number of short levels.     

  No one's expecting much of a storyline from a shoot-'em-up, but something,  anything  probably 
 would have helped here. But there's no plot whatsoever in Nanostray, not in the game and not even 
 in a sentence or two in the manual (the Web site at least mentions something about the ship's pilot 
 losing his or her memory) . The main single-player "adventure" mode simply throws you from one vertical-scrolling 
 stage to the next, in no particular order, until the credits roll and your spaceship can be seen 
 pointlessly flying around, apparently having killed everything in the galaxy for whatever reason. 
 Gameplay takes place exclusively on the top screen, and for what it's worth, the game looks great 
 and mostly runs smoothly, though there are occasional, distracting instances of slowdown. The eight 
 different stages of the game are based on different planets, and predictably include water-logged, 
 industrial, and fiery landscapes from one to the next. Each stage is only a few minutes long but 
 basically works the same way, regardless of the level. You shoot through swarms of bullet-spitting 
 enemies while also drilling into much bigger, chunkier foes. Some environmental hazards occasionally 
 must be dodged as well.  

  The few twists to the gameplay aren't particularly imaginative or well implemented. Since this 
 is a Nintendo DS game, the developers went out of their way to incorporate the touch screen into 
 the gameplay, but the results feel completely forced. Your ship has four different weapons, which 
 you can switch at any time using the touch screen. Forget that there are face buttons on the DS 
 that are left unused by this game -- it forces you to fumble on the bottom screen if you want to 
 switch from your different ammo types. There's also a radar on the bottom screen, which, much like 
 the switching of weapons, seems to have been put there in order to get you killed more often. This 
 is a very fast-paced game that requires your undivided attention to be focused on the top screen 
 (where the action is) , so the way in which the bottom screen was implemented feels like a waste. 

  The gameplay certainly isn't bad. The four weapons are reasonably different, especially the one 
 that lets you shoot out the sides of your ship, but not forward. You can safely rely on the default 
 beam weapon to do all your damage, though. Your ship also gets screen-killing bombs and an energy-based 
 power attack, which can be recharged after certain enemies are killed. The bombs trivialize the 
 game's boss fights at the end of every level, in which you have to dodge some big, honking mechanical 
 thing's lasers while blasting its one or two weak points. On normal difficulty, you get bomb refills 
 each time you lose a life, allowing you to obliterate each end-level boss without any effort.  
 

  Nanostray's three difficulty settings create less replay value than you'd expect, since they don't 
 actually change the makeup of the levels. Instead, they determine how many lives you get, how many 
 bullets you can withstand before blowing up (collisions are always fatal) , how many continues you 
 have with which to finish the adventure mode, and so on. After unlocking all the levels in the 
 adventure mode, you're free to play them in any order in the arcade mode, and there's also a challenge 
 mode for you to mess around with. The challenges are much, much tougher (for the most part) than 
 what you get out of the adventure mode when you first whip through it on normal. The challenges 
 task you with clearing stages using one life, killing all the enemies, and other tasks that require 
 you to spend lots and lots of time memorizing each layout. Also, for those who get really, really 
 into this sort of thing, there's a Web-based worldwide scoreboard where you can compare your best 
 scores from each level against other Nanostray players.  

          Nanostray looks and sounds great, but it's not as intense or interesting as the shoot-'em-up 
 genre at its best.     

  A seemingly rushed multiplayer mode tops off a game that's flashy but shallow. For starters, there's 
 actually no way to play the competitive two-player mode if both players have a Nanostray cartridge. 
 One player must upload one of four different multiplayer levels to the other player's Nintendo 
 DS, at which point the two of you compete in a score challenge. Different time spans and a one-life 
 "sudden death" mode are available to give this mode some variety, but since you're flying alongside 
 each other while both trying to shoot down as much stuff as possible, the fun really doesn't last 
 long. A few power-ups unique to this mode are suggestive of a few good ideas, but they don't do 
 much to keep multiplayer Nanostray from feeling like a novelty instead of a fully realized multiplayer 
 mode. Even just a straightforward two-player co-op probably would have been better.  

  Nanostray's pretty graphics and catchy music will quickly win over fans of space shoot-'em-ups. 
 But despite their ability to masterfully capture the look of this style of game, the developers 
 of Nanostray didn't quite succeed at capturing the spirit. Unless you get madly addicted to Nanostray's 
 high-score challenge, it seems unlikely that the game would hold your interest for more than a 
 little while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to see a shooter on the DS, but was mostly disappointing when I started to play it. 
 It has great controls and enough guns to keep things fresh. But the game is just too short. I'm 
 not exagerating when I say this game is REALY REALY REALY short. I mean most shooters of this type 
 maybe take 2 to 3 hours to beat. If you are at least kinda good at shooting you will probably beat 
 it in under an hour. There should be at least twice as meny levels then there are. There are however 
 "challenges" which most of which are almost impossible. But they only give you small low-res pictures 
 of the levels or if your lucky a twistable model of an enemy. You can also download your scores 
 to online, but not by using your DS system, but by going on your computer and typing a code on 
 the nanostray website to get your score ranked. This is kinda neat untill you find out that some 
 guy in korea has like  points and you have like 153,387 
 points. It realy makes you feel like crap inside.
  The game is fun...... just way to short, impossible "challenges" and an overall disappointing "ranking" 
 thing. And there is a ok mult-player mode, but it isn't online, just local. And there are only 
 like 3 levels to play on.
  
  Good: fun.... while it lasts.
  there is an ok multi-player mode. 
  you can see how you compare to others.
  
  Bad: you can 
 see how you compare to others.
  WAY to Short and unsatisfying "story" mode.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Since the dawn of the first arcade-style video games, one genre has been constantly done and redone: 
 the top-down shooter. Now, Shin'en bestows upon the DS its first game of this genre: Nanostray. 
 While it follows the rules of the book to a letter, Nanostray still manages to create the tough, 
 fun gaming experience that is the trademark of all top-down shooters.
  
  After powering on your DS, the first thing that will hit you is the quality of the graphics. To 
 put it simply, Nanostray has arguably the best graphics of any DS game. To be honest, games like 
 Final Fantasy III and Super Mario 64 DS look weak compared to Nanostray. The view is top-down, 
 but the game is filled with lush, beautiful 3D environments. There's a vast variety of enemies, 
 and all of them are beautifully done, as well. The framerate is consistently smooth, even with 
 several enemies on the screen at one time. The graphics in Nanostray are probably its strongest 
 point; it's hard to describe in words just how great they are. If your decision to buy games is 
 based solely on graphical quality, then Nanostray is the game for you.
  
  Also interesting about Nanostray is the game play. It operates much like any other top-down shooter 
 you've played. The screen will move forward automatically; you can control your ship around the 
 screen, dodging blasts from enemies and firing off shots at them. Unlike some shooters, such as 
 Star Fox Assault or Ikaruga, Nanostray does nothing to add its own spin on the genre. Instead, 
 it simply takes the given formula, and nearly perfects it. So, while it is certainly not the most 
 creative DS game, it's definitely very fun.
  
  While Nanostray is pretty mundane, there is some creativity in the game. One innovation is the 
 way the game controls. Unlike many games on the DS, where one screen is wasted, Nanostray puts 
 both DS screens to good work. On the upper screen, you'll see the action. However, more interesting 
 than that is the bottom screen, which displays a variety of information. A radar-like map is available, 
 though it's none too useful. Also, as to be expected, there is a health bar and a power bar. Most 
 interesting, however, is the number of different weapons that you can use. There are a total of 
 five different weapons in Nanostray; four different guns, and smart bombs, which incinerate everything 
 on the screen. While the actual power of the guns is relatively similar, the difference in use 
 is pretty cool. For example, the standard gun shoots a beam of blue energy forward; however, there 
 is also a weaker homing beam, and a gun that shoots from the sides of the ship, instead of the 
 front. The variety of weapons helps to break up the slight monotony of the levels, and provides 
 a decent amount of customization.
  
  Adding to the vast amount of fun in the game is the boss fights. After reaching the end of a level, 
 a boss fight will be initiated. While the bosses aren't downright stunning, they are still an enjoyable 
 aspect of the game. You scan the boss for it's weak spots, and then hit the boss with all you've 
 got. The one thing about bosses that differ are their forms and attack methods. Like bosses of 
 nearly every game, they attack in a different manner, and it's up to you to figure out how to avoid 
 and counterattack. The form that the boss is in is also interesting. Each of the levels has a theme 
 of some sort: ocean, swamp, ruins, etc. Therefore, the boss of that level will somehow be incorporate 
 into the theme. While it's nothing mind-blowing, it is mildly interesting.
  
  Unfortunately, beyond the great graphics and fun game play, Nanostray doesn't have much to offer. 
 Probably the biggest problem is the fact that the game is so short. There are only a handful of 
 levels, and they can all be completed relatively easily. All in all, one playthrough of Nanostray 
 should not take you more than a few hours. Levels themselves are not short, but the fact that there 
 are only around five of them severely dampens the feel of the game, and offsets most of the fun 
 that the game has to offer. Without a doubt, the ridiculous shortness of Nanostray is its biggest 
 disappointment.
  
  However, despite Nanostray's extreme brevity, it does offer quite a challenge. Like many top-down 
 shooters, Nanostray is quite difficult. As you play through, you are bombarded by enemies from 
 all sides, and you are never given a break. Enemies swarm and fire from the start of the mission 
 until you reach the boss. This is a very old-school-style form of difficulty, but it's actually 
 pretty enjoyable. It's refreshing to play such a difficult game, in the midst of other easy DS 
 games. However, there isn't any reason to play Nanostray again. There's a feeling of satisfaction 
 once you finally beat the final boss, but the levels aren't so fun that you'd want to play them 
 over and over again. Decent replay value would help to negate the game's shortness, but Nanostray 
 just doesn't deliver.
  
  Nanostray does offer a multiplayer mode, and it seems as if it has the potential to be great. After 
 all, going head-to-head against friends in a 2D space shooter sounds like a blast, right? Well, 
 the multiplayer is another missed opportunity by Shin'en. There is only one form of multiplayer: 
 co-operative. You and one friend (there's only two-player multiplayer) fight side by side through 
 a random level. There is absolutely nothing creative about it. Instead of playing a level by yourself, 
 you're with someone else as well. There's no actual co-operative aspect to the game, as the title 
 implies. It's as if two people are playing single-player mode. Frankly, the multiplayer mode is 
 a huge letdown.
  
  The music in Nanostray is mediocre, at best. The music is cheesy and very forgettable, and the 
 sound effects are nothing out of the ordinary. With many shooters, music and sound effects complement 
 the game and make it a more fun, enjoyable experience. However, the music in Nanostray fails to 
 do this; in fact, you'll likely play through the whole game with the volume off.
  
  The last way that Nanostray fails miserably is in the way of a plot. To be honest, many games on 
 the market today have horrible plots. However, despite the fact that they may be less-than perfect, 
 they still help to draw the player into the game. Nanostray is in desperate need of a plot. It 
 would not need to be elaborate, but there really does need to be something to motivate players. 
 Unfortunately, Nanostray lacks any kind of storyline, and this negatively affects the overall quality 
 of the game. Due to the high level of difficulty, many gamers will be tempted to pass this game 
 over. A good plot can keep people playing a game, even if it is difficult. Think of Advance Wars: 
 it's a tough game, but you're not likely to quit halfway through, because of it's decent plot. 
 If only Nanostray had something similar, I could confidently recommend it to anyone. However, rookie 
 gamers are going to want to pass this game up. If you get stuck, you'll probably put Nanostray 
 down and never pick it up again.
  
  Nanostray really did have enormous potential. As the first DS shooter, Shin'en could have set the 
 bar high and redefine the genre as we know it. However, Nanostray fails to do this. In the end, 
 the problem is not the brevity or the difficulty, but the lack of originality. There doesn't seem 
 to be anything fresh or innovative in Nanostray. The DS has proven its value when it comes to creative 
 games; however, Shin'en never fully took advantage of that. Still, though, Nanostray is a great 
 game if you're looking for a nail-biter, or if you prefer quality over quantity in your gaming. 
 However, for everyone else, you'd best hope that Shin'en does better with Nanostray 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Albiewan
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  As soon as i left the store with a copy of Nanostray i rushed home in excitement. I simply couldn't 
 wait to play this game. But within 2 hours i returned to the store to trade it in. I'll explain 
 why, this game is much to short, even for in the train. Second of all, it's much to easy. And third, 
 it's the worst multiplayer game you can imagine. At least the graphics are good enough to see that 
 you're flying a spaceship, but not good enough to see what you're fighting. There isn't a story 
 at all! The touch-screen is barely useofd. It's supposed to be 3D, but the only directions you 
 can move in are forward (witch you're ship does automaticly) , backward, left and right. Shame on 
 you, Majesco for letting this crap fall upon us! Do yourself a favour and buy Star Fox Command 
 instead of this disaster!
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe. In terms of graphics, this game is terrible (what do you expect 
 from the DS) . The game is also very short and has no story or plot. I guess what I'm trying to 
 say is the game is just a fun time killer. It is also the only game on the DS I actually took the 
 time to beat. If I were a critic, I would give this game a 5.0, but since I am just a casual gamer 
 I give it 7.5. 
  
  
  Graphics- 4.5/10
  
  Story- 0/10
  
  Replay Value- 9/10
  
  Fun- 9/10
  
  Multiplayer- 5/10
  
  This is game that you should probably give a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray is a cool space shooter where you play as a ship and you move forward through enemy ship 
 after enemy ship and blast away. I've always liked that kind of game, so I gave this a try. It's 
 a fun game, but there are a few things that hold it back from being great. First off: IT'S TOO 
 STINKIN' HARD. I like it when there's at least one level that you can easily beat in games like 
 this, but there isn't a single level like that. Speaking of levels, there are only a few of those, 
 8 to be exact, but they're all crazy and hectic, which makes the game pretty cool (and hard, like 
 I said) . There are also four weapons you can use, but you have to touch the bottom screen to change 
 them, which is annoying when you hardly have enough of a break in the action to reach down. But 
 aside from these faults, Nanostray is a cool game. If you're looking for a challenge, look no further 
 than Nanostray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review of a game in almost 3 months because Ive been playing alot of games over 
 again and games that dont really have endings to them.. I had wanted to try out this game for awhile 
 but was uncertain whether it was worth the 20 dollar price tag so I ended up getting it when it 
 went down to 10 dollars.. THe game is incredibley short and although you could play the challenge 
 mode and the extras Im just going to leave it for the main adventure mode for now.. The game is 
 fun and addictive and is too easy.. The graphics on this game are really great for a DS game, the 
 background enviroments scroll and shift as you fly above them and enimies large and small swarm 
 the screen. The effects for the weapons and explosions are great... It seems like you can play 
 pretty much through the whole game with only useing the main plasma weapon and the weapon that 
 shoots sideways.. Sound effects nothing great nothing bad, but either way its still fun.. 10 bucks 
 why not.. can problary finish it in about 3 hours if you really wanted to though.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zomgieee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  Nanostray is a classic example of the DS having its stylus incorperated for no good reason.
  
  By virtue, a shoot-em-up is about mad paced, adrenalin-fueled bullet-dodging button mashing 
 where a momentary lapse of concentration means certain death.
  
  Momentary lapse such as.. looking down to the bottom screen to change weapons via stylus. The easy 
 solution is to not change weapons, and the game is indeed quite playable this way. Difficulty, 
 amount of campaigns, game length and features are otherwise on par with all good shmups. This game 
 truely had the potential of being a classic, however the stylus (again.. what were they thinking?!) 
 limits its true potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Its been many years since the gradius and darius saga of shootem up was made. The most popular 
 of these shootem up acrade style was The Raiden Project . Many fans of the shootem up will remember 
 The Raiden Project as classic that had many chapters the amazing franchise. Since arcade shooters 
 are not that popular anymore, many game companys have dropped and stopped development for them. 
 At last a new one has arrived and its in the handheld portable system. Developed by Shin'en and 
 published by Majesco Games, Nanostray is the new shootemup that takes in 3D elements and 2D sprites 
 making it one of the best shooters since the old times of gradius.
  
  Many shooters back then and even now don't have much of a plot in it since its a game that you 
 just dive in and play. Nanostary is this type of shooter, basically your this airplane sent out 
 on a duty to destroy these ships that have taken over each planet. You wont be able to select any 
 other planes like most shooters that have other abilities. Instead you are giving one ship with 
 4 different beams that you can use to slay your enemies that show up on screen. Many of the beams 
 are pretty powerful depending which beam you choose to use. Some enemies are weaker to other beams 
 and others are not, Its up to you to decide on which beam to use when you play through the levels. 
 The 4 beams consist of a thunder beam, a purple follower type beam, a blue shooting vertical beam, 
 and last is the green side beam. Each beam has a special move that can be used with the b button. 
 Depending which beam you have selected, pressing the b button will use its special beam that does 
 more damage to enemies. When you are using the b button for the special weapon, you will get a 
 meter that shows how much you cna use and whats left that can be used. You can recharge that bar 
 at any time by killing enemies in a wave or group that brings out a blue item that fills the bar 
 completely. Another item you will see on screen while killing the enemies is the yellow items, 
 these are just point items that you can collect to give you a higher score. Sometimes its better 
 not to grab these things because there are just way too many things happening on the screen. There 
 is also a bomb that you can use to whip out enemies in a split second and deflect bullets that 
 hit you. This bomb is very useful in tight situations espically when your screen is full of bullets.
 
  
  Now when you get hit you don't lose a life like most shooter games. Instead you are given a shield 
 meter that is on the bottom of the screen when you are playing. When your shield meter is depleted 
 then upon the last hit you will lose a life. You can carry up to 5 lives and have unlimited continues. 
 One thing that can get people very frustrated is when your in the end of the stage and you lose 
 all your 5 lives, you can't continue from that spot which means you will have to start all over 
 on the stage. But having unlimited continues let you try the stages over and over again till you 
 can master it and finish it with out losing 5 lives.
  
  There are some multi player modes and other modes that you can try out once you finish this game. 
 The challenge mode and arcade mode is unlocked by finishing the game and then youll be able to 
 play these modes. Multiplayer mode is given also but its pretty hard to find lan users to play 
 with. There is no wi fi which is a shame because if you could go online with the mulitplayer story 
 mode, it would make this shooter a wanted game. You can also unlock some of the art and concept 
 art depending on your score when you finish the levels and the game. Your score is marked by letters 
 meaning if you get an A, that basically means you did superb. Any other letters below that will 
 drop your score and make you want to play the game again.
  
  One thing they should really fix upon in this game is the bullets that come from every direction. 
 This makes the game not hard but frustration occurs a lot. Some bullets can be evaded, and some 
 you can't meaning you will have to take that shot on your ship. Many bullets can come from a direction 
 and you want to move left or right but cant becasue of the limit of movement that is set in the 
 game. This really does not help when your fighting a boss that throws millions of bullets on screen. 
 Another big issue that should be fixed in this game is the lag and framerates. Many shooters back 
 then didn't have a problem with lag or frame rates when the screen fills up with enemies and bullets. 
 Nanostray is one of them that has major lag issues. When your fighting other ships and the screen 
 is full of bullets. You will feel a major lag and slow in framerate leaving you a fully wide open 
 target that any bullet can hit you. Big enemies that are larger in size will lag even more when 
 they die. The explosion they cause is colourful yet disastrous on the frame rate. You will literally 
 stop in movement and just sit there like a wide open duck being ready to get shot. These issues 
 can be a big one in the shooter franchise just because your goal is to avoid bullets and shoot 
 your enemies down.
  
  A great thing about this game is the 3D environments and 3D ships that fly around. Almost the entire 
 game is made up of 3D objects and 2D sprites when your blasting your enemies. This makes Nanostray 
 one of the best 3D looking shooters that have been made since G-Darius. Many of the planets that 
 you'll journey across have different level designs that look amazing. There are about 8 - 10 levels 
 that can be played making this shooter one of the shortest games. Many gamers can blast through 
 this game in about an hour or 2 making it not too long to rape up. Each level is each planet and 
 you'll be able to decide on that when you finish a level or come up into the menu. One of the stages 
 that looks great is the astroid field which is taken in space. Almost every astroid that you see 
 can be blasted to tiny bits and give you extra points and blue items. There are a few cutscenes 
 like the intro for each level or each boss you encounter. They are very short, but are very good 
 looking in the 3D style it was made in.
  
  Many typical shooters have some of the fastest beat music you will ever hear. Nanostary is one 
 of them that should be added to your collection of fast beat music. Every track is mostly techno 
 or fast beat songs that keeps you pumped and really want to play more. The sound effects sound 
 great from blasting each beam to blowing up the ships into pieces. Each weapon will have its unique 
 sound when you fire it and blends well with the back ground music that is played.
  
  All in all this is a good start for a shooter game that will be great for fans. I would recommend 
 this game to fans of old school shooters and just want to have a quick game to blast some enemy 
 ships. One thing gamers should do is try this out before you buy it, since this game is too short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray well to put it modestly is way too short. Period. End of discussion. If you were looking 
 for the DS version of Iridion 3-D, you havent foun it yet. Sure, the graphics are good and the 
 sound is better than mediocre, but it still sucks. The easy mode is too easy, medium is too easy, 
 and hard is impossible. You can beat the easy mode in 30 minutes if you dont go for anything better 
 then an F in rank, cuz if you do, the game losses its small fun factor instantly. The game is fun 
 the first time, maybe the second, but not the 3rd. The extra things add very little to this game. 
 The weapons either suck, or are way to overpower. If you look up nanostray, you will find that 
 they are starting a new Nanostray 2. Just some food for the thought. This just might be because 
 I am really good at these types of games and It gets too easy too fast, but even so, just because 
 I rated it bad doesent mean you shouldent buy the game. T would guess that it would by o. k. for 
 most other gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't that good, all it is challenging missons on dull levels that seem to repeat themselves 
 like 30 times. It's nothing that great. Theo box art and name seem cool, but maybe if you play 
 the game you will actually seem to learn that you should never judge a game by it's cover. Why? 
 Cause the clearly blows straight from the bacth that seeded it. Boring storyline, **** missions 
 and nothing too good except the graphics that shouldn't ever be on DS. Why? Cause their SO mother 
 **** good. This game blows, but if you like challenging shooters with radical graphics, maybe look 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Basically, its a 3D shooter where you blow everything in sight to bits. Certain aspects 
 of the gameplay are very great and nostalgic, but other parts of it seem too cluttered and clunky. 
 It is easily noticed that the difficulty was turned way up for this game....... the game may be 
 fairly short, but it is the most challenging shooter I've probably ever played. Even the challenge 
 modes seem to be near impossible to complete.... but as I have said, if you are looking for a great 
 challenge, this is a good game, otherwise there really isn't much of a reason to buy it. It is 
 apparent and noticeable that the developers took little time and effort trying to make use of the 
 second screen, as the only real use of it is to tap the screen and change your weapon. As a majority, 
 the boss scanning does pretty much nothing as well. In terms of gameplay, certain parts are solid, 
 others are just plain horrible.
  
  Graphics: This would be one of the better points of the game. Models are well done and dont look 
 pixelated at all...... plus a lot of effects look really nice. It could have had more detail, but 
 it still is a great looking game visually.
  
  Sound: Not much here that will impress you. You might find one stage that has some good music, 
 but other than that it doesnt feel much different han your average game. It is very disappointing.
 
  
  Value: While the challenge is there, the single player mode is very short. I probably beat it in 
 about an hour or so actually. To sum it up, even thoguht here are a lot of challenges to take up 
 on, chances are you wont want to due to their high difficulty. While difficulty usually isnt a 
 bad thing in my point of view, soem of the challenges are just impossible.
  
  Overall, its a solid shooter at times, but in the main scheme of things this game is just your 
 ordinary shooter used to fit two screens. Disappointing? Yes. Poorly designed? Yes. Boring? Not 
 by any means 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Nanostray is a down-scrolling shooter designed by for the DS by the company Shinen. As with all 
 such shooters, the player of this game must fly through a pre-determined course and rain destruction 
 upon a vast armada of bad guys before reaching a boss at the end of the stage. In order to do this 
 the player draws upon an arsenal of four weapons, as well as the super modes of those weapons and 
 a limited supply of screen clearing power-bombs. There are no health pickups, so the player must 
 guard his or health points with a Midas-like greed if he or she wishes to reach the end of the 
 course.
  
  What makes Nanostray an interesting game to play is its difficulty in scoring. If the player wishes 
 he or she can blow through the course using every bomb and super weapon at his or her disposal 
 and have a decent chance at destroying every enemy on the screen, but the games scoring system 
 is such that such a strategy would result in a very low score. In addition to the enemies destroyed 
 score, there is a wave score (enemies often travel in packs and if the entire pack is destroyed, 
 the player gets a wave bonus) and a valor score. Valor points are given out when a) the player 
 uses only the standard mode of his/her weapon and doesnt use the super-mode or any power bombs 
 b) the player has a high hit-accuracy rate, and c) the player collects bonus point coins through 
 manual means and doesnt use the R trigger pull them towards the ship. This method of scoring 
 forces the player to maneuver more, strategize about what guns to use and where to use them.
  
  Players may post their high scores on an online score board, the only online feature this game 
 has, unfortunately.
  
  Graphically this game is very impressive. I often catch myself glancing away from the combat to 
 gawk at the beautifully rendered, very detailed course that is scrolling beneath me. There are 
 jungles with moving waterfalls, busy cities, dramatic blue water courses (though due to the DS 
 tech limitations there are no reflections for the player or enemies) and generally a very high 
 level of detail whenever there is anything to be seen. Enemies that come out of the water make 
 spray as they surface. Some units have smooth surfaces that gleam in the light. Nanostray is one 
 of the better-looking DS games in my possession, giving a slightly-stylized feel to a very realistic 
 look.
  
  In the review deck I said that the game makes a great first impression but a lousy second. There 
 are a few cons to Nanostray: lack of any real story (though admittedly not much is needed for a 
 shooter like this) lack of online play, insane, unmerciful difficulty levels from the beginning, 
 lack of courses, and lack of a real multiplayer chief among them.
  
  On this last point: Multiplayer is available for single-card play, but not in the Co-operative 
 mode that makes scrollers like this entertaining. There is a choice of a few downloadable courses 
 that two players can compete for a higher score in, but this is about it.
  
  There are also the fact that only eight stages make up Nanostray. As lush, varied, and difficult 
 as they may be, eight stages amount to about eight stages worth of gameplay, about an hours work 
 in order to beat the game, depending on the players skill level. This must be taken with a grain 
 of salt; the games goal is to get you to replay and achieve the best score, and with proper attention 
 mastering each stage can take days of gameplay. For those who live to see ending credits, you will 
 soon be satisfied and your affair with this game will be as brief as it will be poignant. For those 
 who live beyond the name scroll, the game also features an arcade mode, in which the player may 
 select any course to play, and a challenge mode giving the player a series of tasks to do per level, 
 such as achieving a score of 50000 or completing the course using only one life. Succeeding in 
 a challenge course unlocks screenshots of the various zones.
  
  In conclusion: Nanostray is a game which takes the original shooter genre and cranks it up several 
 notches in both the graphics and strategy departments. There are flaws and drawbacks to it, but 
 the games complexity and visual appeal more than counterbalance these issues. Buy it! Used it 
 only costs $16.00 at Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortazavii
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Nanostray is a straight forward shoot-em-up game that takes place in eight 
  action-packed levels!
  
  The game has the best portable graphics I have ever seen in any action 
 shmup game! The on-line score-board is a nice feature and what saves the game it self from being 
 boring. There isn't really a story to this game although makes sense in some ways. The game play 
 can be a bit rough and tricky! Some times you'll be ambushed by a enemy from behind that kills 
 you instantly or running into things easily while moving.
  The games challenge trys to be phenomenal, unfortunately it can get too cheap and can come to a 
 disappointment..
  
  This game is great and enjoyable at times but this game does feel that it's missing some levels, 
 modes or whatever.
  It doesn't really need a story although it would be nice.. it just needs more.
  
  Overall the 
 game is can be fun and it's an awesome challenge and nice to be stored in your DS library.
  
  On-line High-Scores: www. Nanostray. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  The only thing worse than a game with an energy meter that kills your ship in one hit are confusing 
 controls. Unfortunately, Nanostray does that. Because, like Metroid Prime Pinball, the game is 
 just too hard, and the graphics and sound are the only good stuff. And if you play this game for 
 the first time and wanted to try out Arcade Mode, you can't. You have to go through Adventure Mode 
 or something like that. And worst of all, this game is MUCH worse than Metroid Prime Pinball. If 
 you like this game, something must be totally wrong with you. Just put it down and run, run, RUN! 
 'Cuz it will explode on you. If you don't have it, don't spend twenty bucks on that worthless garbage, 
 'cuz that game is worse than your worst times in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jareth86
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  an atari would be proud of this game... plain vertual shooting like a megaman on snes... the graphics 
 of it is great^^i had no trouble with the touch screen when i was playing like i do with other 
 ds games (especially that metroid demo game...) the nanostray has old school appeal... but it lacks 
 difficulty hard work storyline... and pretty much everything else i like in a game, but u dont use 
 the touch screen that much so ur eyes r glued upon the top screen most of the time (which is a plus... to 
 me^^') challenge mode is basically like the games levels you have already beaten... i give this a 
 7.4 cuz it does occupy you i will play it again and its just like any other classic game on atari 
 and snes^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 2, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray definitely sets out to accomplish a number of things. As you fly your particular aircraft 
 over expansive jungles, towering space stations, and rocky canyons, you will begin to see that 
 the games developer had hoped to cater to a plethora of people. From the retro gamer who knows 
 his classic shooters to a tee to the types of players who always love that adrenaline filled challenge, 
 developer Shinen knew just what they wanted. I would also be lying if I said that this wasnt 
 one of the best looking titles on the DS. Intricately proportioned enemy units, smooth rendering, 
 and impressive lighting effects help bring that experience even more alive. Unfortunately, there 
 is a small problem, and it is one that plagues this genre to death.
  
  It is just too short.
  
  An appropriate comparison would be that of the popular online role-playing 
 game, Phantasy Star Online. Though visually unique and naturally addictive, the title gave players 
 a lack of incentive to progress. Knowing that all they had to look forward to was the same four 
 levels, generally goes without saying how much of a disappointment that was. Nanostray has double 
 the amount of areas, but it is all over way too fast.
  
  Nevertheless, what the game does right, is give you an exciting series of moments for as long as 
 each area lasts; which is usually no longer than ten minutes. Enemies are quick and frantic, leaving 
 as quickly as they appear, all the while launching an array of lasers that fill your screen with 
 an imagery of destruction. Your objective will be weaving in and out as much as you possibly can, 
 picking up the score raising and energy replenishing coins strewn along the way. Yet, it is not 
 just the swarms of robotic minions or hulking beasts that oppose your progress, but the entire 
 environment as well. Hellish wastelands full of exploding lava pillars to a graveyard of ships, 
 chock full of obstructive, abandoned vessels, serve as your perpetual fork in the road. And it 
 just wouldnt be a shooter if there wasnt a boss waiting for you at the end now would it?
  
  Each of these eight monstrous machines claim dominion over their respective domains and menacingly 
 impede your progress, as you quickly come to the end of each stage. Nothing you cant handle right? 
 Especially since you have a variety of interesting weapons that can turn those contraptions into 
 cinders. Them being in the form of four unique modes of fire, ranging from an electric pulse field 
 to your basic beam cannon. In addition to this, there are also energy based super attacks (which 
 pool from your respective power source) , and the classic smart bomb. Wisely saving these trump 
 cards is essential to clearing each boss, as is watching your life count and memorizing its attack 
 patterns. It is these confrontations themselves that serve to showcase the fantastic graphical 
 capabilities of the DS. Even with everything going on at one time, Nanostray doesnt seem to suffer 
 from any slowdown or frame-rate issues whatsoever. Unbelievable.
  
  Now while on the surface the title may feel like a progression based adventure, the real meat behind 
 the game comes from the hope of reaching that top score. Cleverly avoiding death while chaining 
 together combo after combo will serve to improve the grade you receive upon finishing each level. 
 This heightens the replay value a tad and gives you a chance to compete against others on the Internet 
 for bragging rights. Ah, nothing like a little friendly competition eh? While this all sounds well 
 and good, the problem I noticed behind each session is the lack of AI variance. Meaning that every 
 time you play the same stage, the attack patterns of your antagonists will remain as they did before; 
 this resulting in easier play sessions every time you soar through the two dimensional plane. Memorization 
 is the key factor here and it is the primary reason that makes Nanostray over so soon.
  
  Sure enough, Shinen redeemed themselves by presenting us with a challenge mode that surfaces as 
 soon as you wrap up the opening campaign. Each one of these challenges sends you back through the 
 same lands you just cleared, but with a twist. Instead of simply worrying about keeping that ass 
 of yours alive, you will now be asked to complete a certain objective. From blazing your way through 
 the Misturin Jungle to assemble an impressive 300,000 points to stealth-fully getting out of the 
 Mokuzu Depths without your smart bombs, these trials can certainly be frustrating enough for the 
 average gamer. Youll laugh, youll cry -- but youll mostly cry.
  
  That is unless you are an ace at these reflex testing titles. Despite the increasing difficulty 
 as you progress from mission to mission, veteran players will definitely have no problem breezing 
 through the game. However, Nanostray certainly does what it originally set out to do, and that 
 is give you something to pass those sleepless hours by. Which just so turns out to be the same 
 thing that the classic Star Fox 64 had accomplished. Giving trigger-happy gunners a relatively 
 short, but unforgettable romp through a series of worlds, all leading up to that final showdown. 
 And while Nanostray isnt as remarkable as the previously given example, it is the type of game 
 that will have you muttering, just one more time, then Ill stop. Believe me, you wont.
  
  Nanostray serves as a fine example to developers everywhere on what to shoot for when making 
 a shooter on the DS. The debut of the genre on the sleek hand-held is a sight to behold and a great 
 option for those long, exhausting road trips. With a great presentation, upbeat soundtrack, and 
 exciting game-play moments, there is little reason to not recommend Nanostray. A relatively unbalanced 
 difficulty scale and short single player mode bring down the package, but you are still left with 
 a solid 15 to 20 hours of action that dont end until you want it to. That philosophy sounds like 
 that of a role-playing game doesnt it? Lets just hope they dont decide to combine the two into 
 one any time soon. We all saw how Kingdom Hearts Gummi Ship feature turned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkafrazin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I was never really into SHMUPS till this game came along. I played Sky Shark on the NES back when 
 I was a kid, and never made it past the third level without cheating. Hell, Inever made it half-way 
 through the third level without cheating. Now, after going back, I've made it past the second boss 
 onece.
  I guess it was harder than I thought...?
  
  Anyway, this review is about Nanostray! This fast paced shoot-em-up is actually one of the easiest 
 ones I've played. Still, it's a lot of fun, and Expert Mode is indeed very challanging, not unlike 
 an Arcade SHMUP.
  
  You start with the main menu, which has a nice rotating background, and some rather repetitive 
 music that you'll soon never be able to forget. 
  To the right is a little box with some wavy things. It leads to the "Soundtrack, concept designs, 
 and enemy models" menu, which is two pages, and assuming you haven't done anything in the game 
 yet, completely empty. You unlock music from levels, enemy models, and some rather dissapointing 
 concept art, which displays a small portion of a level at an angle you wouldn't normally see it 
 at. (I'd rather they have a map of the level with the enemy placement on it. That would be helpful.)
 
  At the top of the menu is the "Adventure" button, and right below it is the "Arcade" button, which 
 you will likely be tapping the most. (All the menus are touch sensitive, which is rather standard 
 in a DS game.) Below that is the "Challenge" button, and even further down is the Multiplayer.
 
  
  When you tap "Adventure" button, you're taken to a menu with three files. tap one to start a new 
 game after selecting your dificulty. The main game consists of eight planets to decimate in three 
 galixies. Unbeknownst to you is that you're being pitted against the entire Iridion army, which 
 has come and reclaimed their planets by force. (See Iridion II.) The actual story of the game isn't 
 mentioned, save for a bit of text on the main site. What it is is, you wake up in a spaceship, 
 and you've lost your memory, but there's a destination on the main console, so you're going there 
 to find your lost memories. The actual event is that you were part of a fleet of 1,000,000 fighters, 
 all of which were shot down, save for you, and you're badly damaged, and have no way of contacting 
 earth. 
  Now that that's out of the way, let's go blow some stuff up.
  
  The controls are basic. You move with the control pad, shoot with Y or L, use subweapons with B, 
 drag "coins" to you with R, and set off a smartbomb with X. You have four weapons, which you can 
 select by tapping their icon on the touch screen. One is basic and shoots forward, another shoots 
 to the sides, a third will home in on enemies slightly, and the final one will lock on to an enemy 
 onece you hit it with the weapon, and not let go till the enemy is out of range, or you release 
 the button. 
  The subweapons for the first two weapons are basically the same thing with more force, the third 
 shoots off a heat-seeking missile, and the lock-on lightning makes a circle around you. Using subweapons 
 drains a bar on the bottom screen, which will be filled by catching a blue coin. If you catch a 
 blue coin without using a subweapon, you get a large wave-chain bonus. The more you get like this, 
 the bigger the points you get from it. Essentially, this is how you get a good score.
  Smartbombs kill everything on the screen but you and the bosses, and makes you invinceable for 
 a short while. You have three, tops, and when you die, depending on the dificulty settings, you 
 can get some back. On easy ("Normal") , you get all of them back. On normal ("Advanced") , you get 
 one back. On hard ("Expert") , you don't get anything. 
  Same with health. On easy, you get five hits till you're dead. Normal, three. Hard, one. (Just like 
 every other shooter...) Collision with an enemy is auto-kill, no matter what mode.
  
  The graphics in Nanostray are incredible. Specular mapping makes everything made of metal on an 
 enemy shiny (Which is pretty much everything.) , the shots habe beautiful four-channel transparancies, 
 when things explode, they look awesome. Nothing ever looks blocky, save for bits of the smartbomb 
 explosion, or boss explosions, and even then, it's not bad. The only thing to have anything remotely 
 not beyond incredible is some of the backgrounds, which can be bland at times, but for the most 
 part, even they're awesome. Mokuzu Depths is one of the most beautiful SHMUP levels I've ever seen. 
 Graphics leave almost nothing to be desired.
  
  The sound is also top notch, with an incredibly high sampling rate (Still one of the best on this 
 system.) , catchy technoey tunes, and awesome audio affects. On rare occasions, sound-affects aren't 
 all that great, but for the most part, they're awesome. I honestly love pretty much every track 
 in this game. Shin'En really knows how to make an awesome soundtrack, as was made apparant by Iridion 
 II, which made the best use of tone'n pitch sound I've heard since the NES days, with Castlevania. 
 The soundtrack leaves little to be desired. Some more tunes would be nice, as well as the ability 
 to listen to the boss themes and other such songs whenever you want, like you can with the level 
 themes. If they released a soundrack of this game in North America, I'd buy it in a heartbeat.
 
  
  Replay value is good, especially for someone competitive, and into score racking. There's an online 
 ranking, which will have you addicted in no time at all. I've had this game pretty much since lauch, 
 and I still play it fairly often, even with Reds, Mario Kart, Puzzle Bobble, and so many other 
 games to take up my time. There's also Challenge mode, where you'll be limited in some way, such 
 as no smartbombs, no subweapons, or no rapidfire. By compleating one of the challenges, you unlock 
 things in your unlocked content menu. (This is how you get those enemy models, and level BGMs.)
 
  I'd say the replay is some of the best I've seen in a SHMUP. Still, it's not a long game, and 
 if you're not into replaying levels to perfect your scoring technique, this won't last you long.
 
  
  The core game system is solid, and works well. The bosses are a little simple, and there's no difference 
 of enemy placement between dificulty settings. Your basic shots won't kill just any enemy, so you 
 need to subweapon or smartbomb some of them, or simply leave them be. There's also a few times 
 where you'll just think "That was cheap", or "What a joke that was". The final boss, for example, 
 in his second form, is pretty much little more than a time consuming blob of polygons. He's also 
 pretty ugly.
  In the end, gameplay is pretty damn good. Some of the better stuff I've seen. The core system is 
 beaten out by RayCrisis, though, which, despite being rediculously easy, save for some unballanced 
 bosses, has one of the best core systems I've seen.
  
  I have a special place for this game in my heart, just because it really brought me into the genre, 
 which has become one of my favorite. It's also a dieing genre of game, and very undercredited. 
 You'd be surprised what you can do with a SHMUP, and I think a lot of people turn a blind eye to 
 the genre in favor of slower, easier games, like Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Nanostray is a very simple game that has pretty much been seen before, it is a vertical space shooter 
 where you can chose from four types of shots and use these to progress through the game. Like most 
 space shooters, the game is relatively short, although this one is shorter than others. But space 
 shooters never were about length of the game, if they provide an enjoyable experience, they are 
 meant for you to go into the game, and play over & over until you can maximize your high score.
 
  
  Gameplay- 7- The gameplay is decent for a space shooter. There is nothing that revolutionary here, 
 the game just provides a strong overall game, but doesn't really shine in any way, either, as far 
 as gameplay. You have four powers, which are touch screen selectable, a super power for each of 
 them, and a a few bombs that can be used. These moves though, are always able to be used throughout 
 the game, so there is no progression as far as abilities go. But the levels are fun & the game 
 is worth a play through or 2... or 3.
  
  Graphics- 9- This game still looks beautiful. There are a couple points where you will get some 
 slight chugging for a couple seconds due to so much being on the screen at once, but this is rare 
 & doesn't take all that much from the game.
  
  Sound- 8- The sound in the game is all good, the music fits the levels & there are many various 
 sounds for shots & enemies
  
  Value- 5- Definately the weakest area of most space shooters, and this one is no exception. Besides 
 some chalenges there are to beat, which just have you playing beaten levels over & over till you 
 clear them, there is little reason to pick this game up, besides trying to beat yourself.
  
  Tilt- 8- Even with some of the inherent problems this game gets by being a space shooter, this 
 game still provided me with a worthwhile experience, plus was a great piece of earlier software 
 that was able to show off the graphical capabilities of the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhfial1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Gamespot gave Nanostray a bad review. For once, I completely disagree with them. Not only does 
 Nanostray look good, but it's also a challenging side-scrolling first-person shooter! When I first 
 saw the screenshots, I was amazed. I didn't think that the Nintendo DS could handle such graphics. 
 Surprisingly, though... it can. The frame rate slows down on an occasion, I admit that.... but only 
 when there are about fifty enemies on the top screen! The gameplay is totally addicting, and in 
 a good way! It's easy to learn how to use Nanostay, too. The whole concept of the game is very 
 basic, but to me and some other people, that can be a good thing for a side-scroller, right? I 
 admit there isn't asa much replay value as I would of hoped, but you still have multiplayer mode 
 and Challenge mode, with really hard challenges. Nanostray is a joy to look at, and it IS fun. 
 If you like side-scrollers, don't listen to all those guys giving Nanostray bad reviews. It IS 
 a great game worthy of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by this game.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a spaceship and you are trying to defend your world. The boses are tought, 
 the enemies are hard but because of that difficult, this game is a blast.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are probaly the best graphics in the Nintendo ds. The spaceship 
 is perfect, the enemies are really well done and the boses and areas are unbelivible.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is really well done. The shooting sound is really good and the music 
 is fantastic and amazing.
  
  Value: You can play for like 2 hours and then finish the game. The storyline is really short but 
 otherwise, it is a really fun experience on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a great Nintendo ds game and you should try this game at 
 all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is pretty decent but the touch screen doesnt really do anything. all you can 
 really do is scan on there and select weapons. It wouldve been really nice if you can use the touch 
 screen to shoot your weapons. A frustrating thing is that when you wanna switch weapons you have 
 to like look at the bottom screen while theres still stuff goin on on the top screen. ull die easily. 
 Plus the real common way of diein is crashing into stuff. U dont really need to switch weapons 
 because the main weapon is fine. The last bad thing I have to say about this game is that the last 
 level is next to impossible to beat. but all the other levels are fun to play over and over again.
 
  
  The graphics are very impressive on the DS and are really neat to look at. The sound is also pretty 
 nice
  
  This game is fun to pick up and play once in a while and you should check it out but rent before 
 you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Review: Nanostray
  
  The Nintendo DS has been lacking something but I can not for the life of me think of what it could 
 be. We got racing games, platforming games, puzzle games, even an RPG. So what type of game am 
 I am missing, oh I know a side scrolling shooter game.
  
  Story:
  Shoot your way through the unfriendly skies. Can you defeat your enemies, or can you survive?
 
  
  Graphics:
  The Look is what we have come to expect from a side scrolling shooter on the current generation 
 home systems, that is right Nanostray looks as good as the current generation contemporaries, R-Type 
 Zero, Castle Shikigami 2, Ikaruga, well you get the idea.
  
  Music:
  The Music is good. CD quality Techno music is what you will find in Nanostray. Explosions are good 
 and are varied. Though if you don't like techno you will want to turn the music off or turn the 
 sound down.
  
  Game Play:
  Nanostray plays like you would expect to play a Side Scrolling shooter to play, controls are as 
 tight, shooting is precise, and action is as frantic as fans of the genre have come to expect. 
 If there is a gripe it is that you must us the Nintendo DS touch screen to change your weapons. 
 While this is a good idea it ultimately detracts from the game play because in the fraction of 
 a second it takes to change weapons you will all too often find that you ship will have bitten 
 the big one before you could switch your weapons
  
  Design:
  Each level is different, lush and engrossing, with a good variety of enemies. There are 7 levels 
 of frantic game play offered in Nanostray. I personally love side scrolling shooting games, however 
 I really don't like who they re usually under 10 levels in each game I have ever played. I just 
 want more levels, 20 to 30 levels at the least. Or at least offer something else a little new than 
 similar game play in a similar short game style that almost all of us know and love.
  
  Lovers of the genre of game will go gaga for this game, the rest of us my want to rent it before 
 buying, that is if you can find a copy. Still it is defiantly worth a look for DS owners.
  
  Nanostray:
  
  Pros:
  Good Graphics
  Good music
  Frantic game play
  Easy to use 
 menus
  
  Cons:
  I wish accessing different weapons were easier
  More levels please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeTecThreaT
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray is a fun but short SHUMP. It features awesome graphics and a killer soundtrack. The action 
 is fast and fun but its over way too soon. It features extra modes and multiplayer but it still 
 doesnt add that much life to the package. But with that said there isnt a portable SHUMP that comes 
 close to looking this good. If your waiting for a movie to start this game will make that time fly. I 
 enjoyed it while it lasted but it was over way too soon. I hope this is fixed by releasing a sequel. There 
 are far better SHUMP's out there but theres nothing portable this good out there.
  
  Pick it up used or when the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray is a ok shooter. It is pretty short but if your trying to be one of the
  top players on the World Ranking List at Nanostray. com then that will boost up the replay value. 
 The graphics are really good but sometimes
  the game slows down a bit when it gets intense. Changing weapons
  gets some time to use since 
 you basically have to use your thumb on the
  touch screen. Challenge mode is really hard. Only pros can be able to complete all of them. If 
 your a shooter fan then you might like this
  game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray is a game that unfortunately isn't suited for the ds, as the touch screen often gets 
 in the way of gameplay rather than enhancing it, but despite the flaws inherent in the gameplay 
 design and rather short campaign, this is an excellent space shooter.
  
  Nanostray's gameplay is a tribute to games like Ikaruga, which are easy to learn but difficult 
 to master. The gameplay works like this; you have a choice of 4 weapons, a sub weapon, and a super 
 weapon. You can switch up your weapons on the fly, which affect your sub weapon function, and you 
 have a limited number of super weapons, which clear the screen of baddies and deal serious damage 
 to the bosses. Unfortunately this is where the poor design choices make themselves evident.
  
  To switch up weapons, you have to touch the screen, which will require you to either stop moving 
 or stop firing. Neither of these choices are very appealing, and there isn't a way to change this 
 with the shoulder buttons. The idea of switching between a frontal focused weapon to one that shoots 
 out both sides is a good idea, but unfortunately because of the execution I found myself just sticking 
 to one weapon for the entire level.
  
  The scoring system the gaming uses encourages playing the levels over and over again to get the 
 perfect score, which adds to the replayability as challenges are unlocked with the completion of 
 levels in story mode. The objectives ranging from scoring to staying alive. 
  
  The game includes a rudimentary multiplayer component, which consists of trying to outscore your 
 opponent, trying to stay alive the longest, or trying to kill the most enemies. While it certainly 
 doesn't hurt the presentation, a few more options would have been welcome, such as a coop campaign 
 mode.
  
  The graphics are impressive, with very few instances of choppy frame rate. The backgrounds look 
 very nice and are well animated; the ships look interesting, and most importantly, the explosions 
 are excellent.
  
  The sound is also top notch, with the music, weapons, explosions, and other assorted bleeps and 
 bloops sounding fantastic. 
  
  While the touch screen unintentionally frustrates, the rest of the game is certainly worth playing, 
 and if you can find this game for less than 25 bucks, there is no reason why you shouldn't give 
 this game a look if your looking for a good ds side scroller. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Nanostray is a space shooter in which you control a jet and blast the crap out of everything. 
 The levels are fast-paced, and there will almost always be enemies on screen, so there's no time 
 for taking breaks half way through the action (unless you pause, but you'll be having so much fun 
 that you won't want to) .
  
  The game is really fun to play, but it has a few problems. For one thing, there's no story. None 
 what-so-ever. As soon as you go into story mode, you pick a level and go through it, and when you 
 beat that one you pick another level. After you beat the game, the credits will role, and that's 
 that. They should've at least added a little bit of story.
  
  Another flaw is that you need to use the touch screen to switch your weapons. This is such a big 
 flaw because you always need to keep your eyes on the fast-paced action on the top screen, and 
 moving your eyes from the top screen to the bottom one to switch weapons could cost you valuable 
 life or even a life! They should have assigned item switching to a button instead of using the 
 touch screen for it.
  
  Despite these 2 flaws, Nanostray is still a fun and addictive game. It's a great game whether you 
 want to play for 5 minutes or a couple of hours at a time. It's not one of those games where you'll 
 have to devote hours on end until you reach another saving spot.
  
  Graphics: When I first saw these graphics, I was amazing. The first thing that came to mind was 
 "wow, I didn't know the DS was capable of these graphics!". For the most part, the graphics are 
 amazing. The backgrounds are 3D and very detailed, and everything from the beams that your ship 
 fires to the ship itself all look fantastic. The only real problem with the graphics is that the 
 framerate isn't consistance, and sometimes drops when there are lots of enemies on screen. This 
 slowdown is annoying when it happens, but it usually only occurs for a second or two, so it's not 
 a huge problem most of the time.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is pretty good. The music for each place matches it's environment 
 well. There aren't any soundtracks that stand out or get stuck in your head, but the music is still 
 good, and there pretty much isn't any bad music in the game that feels out of place. The sound 
 effects are also pretty good. Everything from the sound of your beam firing at your enemy to the 
 explosion of the enemy sounds good. Overall, the sound in this game is very good.
  
  Value: This is a category that Nanostray somewhat struggles with. The story mode is divided up 
 into 8 levels, and each one will take you about 4-5 minutes to complete. This means that playing 
 on normal difficulty, you should be able to beat the game in about an hour if you just rush through 
 it.
  
  However, there is some replay value. For one thing, there's 3 difficulty levels to go through the 
 game on, although the harder two have a limited amount of continues. There is also challenge mode, 
 which is composed of many different challenges spanning through the game's 8 levels. These challenges 
 range from beating a given level with only 1 live, achieving a certain amount of points, or even 
 destroying a certain number of waves of enemies. These challenges can get quite difficult and thus 
 will take numerous attempts to complete. Another neat thing in the game is arcade mode. In this 
 mode, you can pick any level that you've completed in story mode and try to get as high a score 
 as you can. After you get a score on a level, the game will generate a "nanocode", which you can 
 then use on nanostray. com to compare your scores with others and see how you rank against the best 
 in the world.
  
  The game also contains a single-cart multiplayer mode. However, it seems like not alot of effort 
 went into this mode. You basically pick a scenario and then try to outscore your opponent. After 
 the match is over, a trophy will appear on the winner's screen, and that's all. It doesn't inform 
 the loser that he/she lost, it doesn't even show what each of your scores were, meaning you don't 
 know how close the match was. The multiplayer mode in Nanostray is pretty much something that you'll 
 want to mess around with for a little while, but it's definatly not something that'll last you 
 a super long time.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Nanostray is a good game. It's got good, fast-paced gameplay, and top-knotch graphical 
 quality. The music is also very good, and it's got some fairly decent replay value. Although it 
 has it's flaws, Nanostray is still a game that you won't want to miss. Majesco has released limited 
 quantities of this game, meaning it might be hard to find. It is for this reason that I advise 
 you to pick up this game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  [This review appears originally on Trigames. NET]
  
  For all of the innovations that the Nintendo DS has to offer, thus far it's seen its fair share 
 of rather generic offerings that, at best, ended up being a port of a great game... that was 10 
 years old (Super Mario 64 DS) . Thus it's surprising that I find that one of the most entertaining 
 games I own for this system is also one of its least innovative. I speak of Shin'En Multimedia's 
 Nanostray, published by Majesco, which can stake its claim as the Nintendo DS' first traditional 
 shmup.
  
  Nanostray doesn't set out to reinvent the shmup genre. In fact, it doesn't do anything much too 
 differently at all. It plays in vertical fashion (with a small twist) , sends waves of enemies at 
 you, and is content to equip you with readily accessible weapons and smart bombs. Basic gameplay 
 mechanics, emphasis on reflexes and rote memorization, coupled with a fun scoring system, make 
 Nanostray a predictible but highly enjoyable endeavor.
  
  ::Bad News First.::
  
  Nanostray's a top-down vertical shmup in the vein of Radiant Silvergun and Ikaruga, but its perspective 
 is skewed to provide more of a "from-behind" point of view. Therefore when you press "up" on the 
 d-pad, you move up but also "into" the screen. Press "down", and you'll move but also "towards 
 you." It's a similar viewpoint to that used in Shin'En's own Iridion and Iridion 2 for the Gameboy 
 Advance, and the Slipheed games for the Sega CD and PS2. This can seem a bit disorienting at first, 
 as you'll have to learn how to guage where enemy shots actually are in the grand scheme of things, 
 and it also carries the unfortunate flaw of restricting your movement such that you can never ever 
 find yourself in the upper-left and upper-right sides of the screen. It's as if, when skewing the 
 perspective, Shin'En forgot that there was empty space for your ship to be able to move in. Therefore, 
 any enemies and coins that appear in the corners of the screen are inaccessible. To me, this is 
 a small design flaw that should have been rectified.
  
  Once you get used to that, you'll have to get used to weapon switching on the touch screen. This 
 will either slightly bug you or immensely frustrate you; I fall in the first boat. It's seriously 
 not difficult at all to remember where the button placement is on the DS' touch screen, and once 
 I learned it in the matter of a minute, I never had to take my eyes off the screen to use my thumb 
 to select the weapons. Yes, my thumb was taken off the "fire" button, but thankfully you're able 
 to use the L button as a secondary fire button. A simple press of the index finger and my ship 
 never had to stop firing. Yet, some will rightfully have fits trying to get used to this mechanic, 
 and it's bizzare that Shin'En didn't include an option to use regular buttons to switch weapons. 
 It would have provided for less hassle, and made the touch screen implementation seem less forced. 
 This is also a design flaw, and a shame given that the DS has more than enough buttons to handle 
 every weapon.
  
  The button layout makes this all the more obvious. A and L each fire a regular shot; B fires a 
 powered-up shot. X launches a screen-clearing smartbomb, of which you have 3 at the start. R "sucks 
 in" coins that are dropped by defeated enemies, which add to your score. The touch screen is used 
 to switch between the four weapons. Why not an option where each face button is a different weapon? 
 You could hold down L to trigger the powered-up version, and tap anywhere on the touch screen to 
 activate a smart bomb. Opportunities lost, lessons learned.
  
  ::Weapons of Mass Deshmuption::
  
  At least the weapons are fun to use. You're given constant 
 access to four weapons, similar to Radiant Silvergun. The four varieties are the straight shot, 
 a horizontal shot that showers plasma from the sides of your ship, the homing blast which sends 
 two beams of energy that make a slight turn towards the nearest enemy, and finally the lighting 
 bolt - the most useful of the bunch, as the beam both oscillates AND latches onto a single enemy 
 that may wander into its path.
  
  Each weapon has a powered-up variant which drains energy from a finite meter. The first two powered-up 
 variants basically perform the same basic functionality as their normal versions with more screen-dazzling 
 special effects. The powered-up homing shot sends plumes of energy that actually home in directly 
 on a target on the screen, and the lightning weapon's powered version envelopes your ship in streaks 
 of short-ranged lighting that essentially protects you from collisions with lesser enemies.
  
  A negligible gripe with the weapon system is that the lightning truly is the most useful weapon 
 over most everything else the majority of the time, relegating the other three weapons to "special 
 case" usage. Furthermore, defeating large enemies using the lightning shot nets you double the 
 coins that other guns would. The silver lining here, however, is that this will lessen the need 
 to use the touch screen to switch weaponry.
  
  ::HI-SCORE::
  
  As with most shmups, the weaponry at your disposal is provided to the gamer so that s/he may accumulate 
 mass amounts of pointage. The more obvious goal in shmups is to survive. But the meatier goal is 
 to score more points than that other guy who bragged about his million-point conquest. Instead 
 of being satisfied with just scoring more points the more enemies you defeat, Nanostray does what 
 most shooting games do today and incorporates a more structured scoring system that the gamer can 
 master to maximize his or her score.
  
  Like most shmups, a combination of enemy "waves" and large enemies torment your ship. When you 
 destroy all of the enemies in a wave, not only do they leave behind gold coins; the last enemy 
 leaves behind a blue coin. Normally, the blue coins are used to replenish whatever you've used 
 from your special weapon meter. However, if this meter is already full, each consecutive blue coin 
 that you collect contributes to a running multiplier. The first coin you collect - 500 points. 
 The second, 2 x 500. And so on, until you reach a point where you're netting upwards of 15,000 
 points per coin (30 x 500) . But if you ever use a powered-up weapon, thus depleting some of your 
 weapon meter, you're back to square 1 x 500. So this system encourages you to get better: destroy 
 as many entire waves as you can (no ship left behind) , and do it without touching your powered-up 
 weapons.
  
  Another force is at work here, though, in the form of the "Valor" system. There is a set point 
 bonus that's added at each stage's end, but for every frame of animation that you are firing your 
 weapon or sucking in coins with the R button, that point bonus gets depleted. What this does is 
 force you to make sure that you don't fire superfluous shot; every shot must count. It also forces 
 you to man up and grab the coins your damn self, instead of relying on the R button. I like this; 
 to me, the R button is merely a convenience, and I am willing to practice to become a more skilled 
 Nanostray player to get a higher score by grabbing coin bonuses manually.
  
  Finally, the number of lives and smart bombs you still carry after defeating each stage's hulking 
 boss character add 3000 points each to your score. Die less, bomb less, score more. Typical stuff.
 
  
  ::Simple. Shmuppy. Difficult.::
  
  Past the scoring system, the design of Nanostray is basically that of any good shmup: the waves 
 come in one after the other, not necessarily from the top of the screen and sometimes even surprising 
 you from behind. It's not always easy to get all of the ships in a wave, as their larger cohorts 
 will attempt to thwart you by getting in the way. Bullets cover the area most of the time and, 
 though the formations not as elegant and screen-hogging as something like Ikaruga, can still cause 
 fits for those unitiated in the world of shmups - and unskilled veterans such as myself.
  
  Environmental obstacles are few and far between in some stages, and omnipresent in others. In this 
 sense, Nanostray really does not surprise; it does everything any decent shmup does in terms of 
 throwing enemies at you. While not groundbreaking, it's perfectly acceptable and still fun on the 
 go.
  
  It also offers big bad bosses at the end of each stage, each of which take some patience and a 
 lot of firepower to take down. The typical exposed weakpoints and showers of bullets are present 
 here, forcing you to dodge and weave through patterns of attacks with minimal manuevering room 
 - just like any good ol' shmup would force you to do.
  
  In a nutshell, if you're looking for something new from shmups, look elsewhere. If you want to 
 dive into something familiar and satisfying, Nanostray's gameplay should do the trick - it has 
 for me.
  
  "Happy Eyes, Happy Ears"
  
  Regardless of what you're looking for in a shmup though, I think it's pretty obvious that Nanostray 
 is a great looking game given the Nintendo DS' 3D capabilities. It takes a cue from, again, Radiant 
 Silvergun and Ikaruga, and drops you into a totally polygonal world whose backdrops twist, turn, 
 and rotate. Each stage has a distinctly different feel; you'll start off flying over a beautifully 
 rendered jungle and into a valley over a flowing river. In other stages you'll be skimming the 
 water over what appears to be a submerged city, through a heavily armored structure, and over a 
 blazing volcanic disaster where beams of lava shoot up in an attempt to scare you away.
  
  The ship models look fairly decent, though they aren't anything remarkable or original. The boss 
 ships follow suit - some of them look pretty cool, but fail to evoke the same sense of awe that 
 I felt when looking at Treasure's finest shmup boss creatures. One boss in particular is this pink-red 
 submarine that eventually levitates above the water, and it looks slightly amusing when compared 
 to the other bosses. However, they're certainly not bad designs, and they do their job.
  
  All of this runs at an almost-consistent 60 frames a second - Shin'En would accept no less. The 
 only slowdown occurs when the entire screen is filled with bullets, enemies, and environmental 
 obstacles waiting to destroy you. Otherwise, at first glance, you'll almost wonder, "How did Shin'En 
 port Radiant Silvergun to the DS?" It looks that good.
  
  It sounds pretty good too, though not nearly as memorable or impressive as it looks. Like the gameplay, 
 the music is typical but good shooter fare - nothing epic, heroic or unique, as heard in the aurally 
 masterful Gradius V - but potentially memorable, nonetheless. It's good enough for me to stick 
 into my Videogame Music playlist, that's for sure. The sound effects are standard fare, and there's 
 nothing really to say here unless you really want to hear about how rich the explosions are. They 
 sound glass-shatteringly good - again, like a typical shooter nowadays.
  
  ::"I'm taking my wife to the back of my car! And I won't be back for ten minutes!"::
  
  Alright, 
 so as a shmup, you can expect this game to be - from beginning to end - short lived. The game sports 
 eight stages, each of which lasts about 3 to 5 minutes. Of course, the initial replay value comes 
 from the fact that Nanostray is indeed a challenging affair. Nevermind that your ship can actually 
 withstand more than one hit before it goes down - you will die, a lot, without practice. Finishing 
 the game in under an hour after taking it out of the shrinkwrap is hardly a sensible proposition, 
 unless you came out of the womb with the inherent ability to foresee the future of every shmup 
 you play.
  
  After you finish, of course, there's the motivation to go back and get higher and higher scores 
 by playing each stage individually in Arcade mode. You can upload these scores to www. nanostray. com 
 and see where you rank amongst the worlds best. You are also offered "challenges" for each stage 
 you've beaten. These challenges range from "score x amount of points" to "defeat the stage on only 
 one life", and so on, and they are similar across each stage. They're difficult, but attainable, 
 and are interesting enough to add at least a few more hours of extra value onto the endgame.
  
  The multiplayer could have added some spice too, but unfortunately multiplayer is limited to 
 some sparse versus modes where you try to outscore or outlive your opponent in unimpressive levels 
 built specifically for multiplay. A co-op mode is greatly missed here.
  
  ::"Buy me if you can find me"::
  
  When all is said and done, Nanostray is a good shmup for 
 a system which has yet to receive a traditional action game. Matter of fact, it's a good shmup 
 period. It doesn't push the boundaries of what the genre does, and it unfortunately doesn't come 
 without its own quirky flaws. But the core shooting action is very solid, the scoring system is 
 addictive, and the extra challenges and online world ranking definitely add incentive to continue 
 playing this game.
  
  If you're not a fan of shmups, I don't even know why you read this til the end; it's safe to avoid 
 this one. If you're expecting to see rotating multiples, combo-weapons and switching polarities, 
 borrow this from a friend. But if you've got a DS and are just honestly looking for a quality spaceship 
 shooter with which to take a break from scribbling away with a stylus, then Nanostray comes definitely 
 recommended. If nothing else, Shin'En Multimedia has shown that it can design a shmup that does 
 most of the right things and that it has mastered the DS' graphics hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicStyles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The gaming industry has slowly but gradually shifted the title of shooter from games like Gradius 
 to games like Mercenaries. More of the latter are being developed since they have a mass appeal 
 to the casual market, while the former has very few games in its genre left. Therefore its only 
 logical that to an avid fan of classic shooter titles, Nanostray should come as a breath of fresh 
 air, right? Partly true. While it may be the best in terms of graphics and audio on the DS right 
 now, Nanostrays somewhat awkward controls and short length impede on what could have been a great 
 game had more development been put into it.
  
  Developed by Shinen and published by Majesco, Nanostray is the spiritual successor to Iridion 
 II, an overlooked shooter on the Game Boy Advance. So needless to say, the developers have experience 
 when it comes to this genre, and the game clearly shows that as the level and weapon design are 
 fantastic. The smooth frame rate and what could easily be the best graphics on the Nintendo DS 
 to date are something to behold, and the sound quality is simply astounding, as well.
  
  --
  
  Nanostray exemplifies Nintendos new philosophy of shorter, simpler games that are made 
 easy for anyone to jump in and play them. Its fairly simple to learn the controls, but rather 
 difficult to master them, as an awkward button layout is used. Directional pad is for movement, 
 L shoots, and R is used to draw in items. Not a bad setup, even if it leaves the face buttons without 
 a purpose. The only real problem lies in the use of the touch screen to switch weapons, as it takes 
 away from your view of the action on the top screen. However, your default weapon is more than 
 enough to take out every possible enemy in the game, so switching them seems somewhat pointless. 
 There is no incentive or puzzles or anything in which you would need to change your weapon for, 
 so its easiest to stay with the default. There is incentive for not using sub-weapons and holding 
 down the fire and "coin attract" button, as not doing so will raise your score. If you do not use 
 your sub-weapons, every time you get a blue coin the score for said coin will continually double. 
 So the first time you get a blue coin, it is worth 500. Then, if you get another without using 
 any sub-weapon, it will be worth 1000, then 1500, and so forth. However, you lose points from your 
 Valor bonus score at the end of the level if you hold the fire or attract button, so its rather 
 balanced this way.
  
  --
  
  Nanostray is not an easy game. Far from it, in fact, if you play on Super difficulty, where even 
 a single shot is enough to destroy your ship. There are three difficulties, but rather than changing 
 the layout and design of each level, it simply limits aspects like the number of hits your ship 
 can take until you are destroyed, or a different amount of lives, and so forth. With normal mode 
 you can take six projectile hits until you die, but a collision with any other ship is always fatal. 
 There are a few different modes to choose from, but really one has to play the Adventure mode first 
 to unlock things to do in the other modes, which include Arcade, Challenge and Multiplayer. 
 There are also three save files on each cartridge, which is nice if you have other people who want 
 to play.
  
  In Adventure mode you travel from galaxy to galaxy, trying to survive through each planet. Each 
 galaxy has three planets to play on, and you can choose whichever one you want to play first. A 
 nice feature is that each planet has different statistics, like resistance level, dimensions of 
 the playing field, and more. Its not exactly ground-breaking in terms of innovation, but it is 
 a nice touch. Once you have beaten a planet in Adventure mode you can play it again in Arcade mode, 
 where you play for a high score. If you complete the level, your high score will be saved and the 
 game will also give you a code which you can write down and submit to www. nanostray. com to compete 
 with gamers around the world. Although not many will find this too appealing, it is a nice addition 
 for the gamer who loves to compete.
  
  There are twenty-two challenges to play in Challenge mode, but again, you must beat the world in 
 Adventure mode first before you can play the challenges. The challenges are set in the planets 
 you have already beaten. For example, one challenge is to get a certain high score on a planet, 
 while another one is to beat it with just one life. If you beat one such challenge, you will unlock 
 a special feature - artwork or music, for example - so you want to strive for that.
  
  --
  
  Multiplayer is average, but true co-op mode would have been better. As it is, you can 
 play with a friend in a level and there are different time settings you can set. At the end of 
 that time, whoever has the most points wins. Also, there is a mode where it is first one to die 
 loses. Even though it seems thrown together at the last second, the multiplayer runs off of a single 
 cart, which is one of the best features on the DS.
  
  --
  
  The enemy variety and detail is nice. Each planet has many different types of enemies, which shoot 
 out different missiles and projectiles at you, so you have to constantly change your strategy and 
 try to learn how to dodge everything.
  
  --
  
  Buy, Rent, or Avoid?
  Nanostray is a rather short game, but it is enjoyable nonetheless. Final recommendation would be 
 to rent it, unless you plan on competing for a world record. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oz37
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I've been seeing quite a few reviews that dismiss Nanostray (by Majesco) as being 
 "too easy," "too short," or just plain, "boring." But, possibly because of my love for space shooters, 
 I can't agree with these reviewers. 
  
  Gameplay: Though far from revolutionary, Nanostray takes what's good about the genre and keeps 
 it all there, front and centre. There's no enhancing or recreating the genre, but that's no problem 
 when the game is as solid as it is. Nanostray is standard fare, shooting enemy ships with various 
 lasers and collecting tokens (Blue and Gold) which will either re-power your sub-weapons or contribute 
 to your point score. Making the token collecting a bit easier, the R-button forces the tokens to 
 be attracted to your ship, rather than you traveling to pick them up yourself. Some may think this 
 makes the game too easy, but it's not without its penalty. The more you use the R-button magnet 
 though, the less Valor points you'll be awarded at the end of the mission. It's in this deduction 
 of points that it becomes clear that this game wasn't meant to be thought of as epic in scale (there's 
 only eight levels, afterall) , but to be replayed for high scores like old-school space shooters. 
 Considering there are so few games that are like this anymore, a nod has to go to Nanostray.
  
  Graphics: The explosions are well done and realistic, the ships themselves are pretty enough, 
 and the ground below you is what really makes Nanostray shine. It's one of the best looking games 
 on the DS at the moment, and I think any company would be hard pressed to surpass that honor. The 
 graphics are definitely one of the selling points of the game.
  
  Sound: Not being the sound buff I am, most games to me sound fine. Nanostray has a good soundtrack, 
 though I didn't notice anything that would make me rave about it. The music wasn't annoying, which 
 is saying something for games today, though. 
  
  Value: If you're looking for a game that'll keep you plastered to your DS screens for hours on 
 end, look someplace else. The game does offers the arcade (fight for the high score) and challenge 
 (earn a set number of points, complete level using only one life, etc.) modes, which will keep 
 you playing for a considerably longer length of time than if the game didn't have such features. 
 At US$29.99, it may seem a little pricey for a game that could be played in a day or two, but I'd 
 definitely say it's worth every penny.
  
  In closing, Nanostray isn't destined to become a classic, but not every game is. But if you're 
 looking for something to tide you over until Advance Wars DS releases, look no further. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray is truly a blast from the past with a touch of Nds flavor. This game is a true throw 
 back to the days when shooter like 1945, Life Force, R-type were all the rage, but does it measure 
 up to those classic......... almost but not quite, is it a good game for the Nds YES without a drought. 
 I've seen the reviews that just want to point out the games flaws, like the whole ship is too big 
 thing or screen is too small, but really none of these thing are that true, the ship pan in and 
 out on level where there's a wider viewing area, and the Nds screen is small but it does make any 
 of the action hard to see. Also the whole thing about not being able to get to power up in time 
 cause they may be off screen complaint, here's an easy fix just hold down the R shoulder button 
 and they come to you, plus this is not only a cool feature but it really comes in handy especially 
 in those area where there's a lot happening on the screen and the power up (blue coin) are just 
 out of reach. All these complaints aside Nanostray is a great single player shot-em-up that may 
 be short but is fun to play over and over.
  
  Graphic on this game are great, it's some of the best seen on the Nds. While the levels are done 
 in an over the top 3/4 view there are some great looking 3d backgrounds that look great. Plus all 
 the affect in the game are well done with a high level of detail. Nanostray for the most part has 
 a rock solid frame rate with very few times of it dropping.
  
  Sound are some of the best on the Nds too, everything from the techno music to the affect in the 
 game are all well done and really fit in with the games overall tone.
  
  Gameplay for me is some of the best around the control are great and the use of the touch screen 
 is nice and not overdone, it's great to just tap on the screen and be able to switch between the 
 four type of beam weapon ( standard, homing, side-shot, lighting) all with there ups and downs. 
 Or just tap the radar screen to see the boss weak spots ( usually around 2 - 3) . You also have 
 screen clearing bombs that are very useful in tight spots and boss battles (but note these also 
 make the game a little too easy at times especially on normal mode) . You never feel like you're 
 out of control when playing the game which is key in a fast pace game like this.
  
  Is this game a good Value for gamers out there that depends ones personal taste, it a great value 
 to me I found this game to be very fun and while the game can be done in one to two sitting the 
 other modes life arcade and challenge mode give the game extra replay value. The multiplayer mode 
 isn't that great, but really this is a great single player shot-em-up with some of the best sound 
 and graphic on the Nds, and shouldn't be missed by any Nds owner. If you're not a fan of shot-em-up's 
 them I really would suggest you rent it first, but for these fans this a great game worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clearacell
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 24, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I first heard of this game because people were complaining about the DS having very little coming 
 out in July, and this game was supposed to fill the gap between Kirby/Meteos in June and Nintendogs/Advance 
 War in August. I kept an eye on it for a while, and on the publisher (Majesco Games) . Their reputation 
 for bringing out niche games on a large scale had me intrigued. Then, it happened. Rumors of Majesco 
 going bankrupt, their president leaving, and several of their latest high profile games were tanking 
 was a cause for concern for someone who wanted to play their latest game, Nanostray. 
  
  My concern turned out to be with good reason. The internet message boards were flooded with people 
 complaining that the game didn't exist, or that certain store chains were not getting a shipment 
 at all. I personally went to four different stores looking for this game before I found it (and 
 their last copy, at that) . Was it worth the effort? For the collector in me, yes, it was definately 
 worth the effort since it seems like this is going to be one of those rare games that will be a 
 sort of "status symbol" for collectors. For the gamer? Well....
  
  When I first popped this game into my DS and played one of three levels it allows you to play (I 
 chose Mitsurin Jungle) , it was clear that this is best looking game on the DS so far. The futuristic 
 techno music was also some of the best I've heard the system have. But music and graphics can only 
 take a game so far. Gameplay is where a shoot-em-up (shmup) game can become the stuff of legends. 
 As I was playing this, I remembered all the great shmup games I've played in the past, such as 
 Raiden and 1942. This game was no where near the level of those. A common complaint I've seen is 
 that the ship is too big, or that the screen is too small, both of which I don't believe to be 
 true. There just seems to be something missing from a game such as this. There is no personality, 
 no way to distinguish this game from all the other shmups other than this one is on the Nintendo 
 DS. 
  
  The fact that it is the only shmup game on the DS and is one of the few new titles coming out in 
 July would seem to bring up the value of this game, but it doesn't. There just doesn't seem to 
 be enough in the game to cause someone who is not already a fan of shooters to get this title. 
 For example, there are only a few levels in adventure mode, can be replayed in "challenge" mode, 
 where your goal is to get a certain number of points. That's it. There is also an arcade mode, 
 where once you pass a level in adventure mode, you can play it again and try to get a high score 
 (with no set goal) . That's it. 
  
  If you're simply looking for a new game to pop into your DS, if you are a shooter fan, or if you 
 just want to blow away some air-baddies while you waiting for a bus, then I would recommend this 
 game. People not in these catagories could pass on this title. You're not missing out on too much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeFlare
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This summer has been a slow one for Nintendo DS games. We got two great games, Meteos and Kirby: 
 Canvas Curse, but other than that, DS gamers have to wait until the end of the summer for the next 
 batch. But sneaking its way to the Nintendo DS comes Nanostray, a solid shooter with exciting graphics, 
 and although it has a couple of gameplay flaws, it still manages to pull through and challenge 
 gamers with its old-school style gameplay.
  
  The game's plot is incredibly simple, and practically unapparent. Supposedly, you're a man/woman 
 who wakes up in his/her space craft with coordinates on his/her radar, and enemies close behind. 
 Using the directional pad to move, and hitting A to shoot, you'll fly through eight stunning levels 
 filled with many enemies, and a super cool boss. Hitting B fires a more powerful blast, but has 
 a limited supply of ammo, which you can refill by collecting blue coins. The R button sucks coins 
 and powerups into you, which saves precious time. The graphics in this game are great; some of 
 the best on the DS. The enviroments below you change periodically, and it really adds a mix to 
 the game's already fast action.
  
  The touch screen adds for an easy way to switch weapons, although you may only want to switch weapons 
 when you have a moment to spare. Otherwise, taking your eyes from the top screen to the bottom 
 screen for a split second could cost. Also, there is no possible way to heal in the game; once 
 you get it, you'll have taken that damage permanently. For some, the levels may seem a bit too 
 hard at first. That's when our friend practice comes in. Don't worry if it seems tough, you'll 
 eventually get the hang of it.
  
  The multiplayer mode is quite fun. You can a friend fight for the highest score in four continuous 
 levels. Although there isn't as much variety as the single player levels, it's still quite fun 
 and can produce some great moments. Another unique feature in this game is the scoreboards feature. 
 After winning matches in Arcade mode, you can copy your very own nanocode to the internet by going 
 to http://www. nanostray. com/ and see where you stand on the global leaderboards. Quite an interesting 
 feature, and will definately please your interests.
  
  All in all, this game is a nice recreation of a classic genre. You don't see too many vertical 
 shooters these days, and it's nice to see that some companies are still developing them. Definately 
 worth a rental, and if it's your thing, go ahead and buy. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  We've had first person shooters and we didn't like it. However, Majesco and Shinen brings a new 
 shooter, maybe not an FPS, but a shooter all in all. Nanostray, a supposedly new sequel to Iridion, 
 brings the new meaning to shooters. Seriously. Imagine playing Ikaruga on DS.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a really overdone aspect of the game. It's cliche. However, majesco succeeds 
 to create a new substance of gameplay that doesn't get old. It's basically an aerial view of things 
 and you shoot different kinds of beams. It's amazingly easy to get addicted to it, but sometimes 
 gets extremely hard and frustrating. All in all though, the gameplay is between an A and a B-.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Nanostray is going to be famous for this. The graphics are simply AMAZING. It works well with the 
 2D background and the textures are just fantastic. The only problems are the explosions, which 
 can get kinda cheesy. It's nice to see a familiar game go 3D though. This is an amazing work that 
 deserves credit.
  
  Sound:
  While the beams and shooting and explosions might sound a tad bit distorted, the music is energetic 
 and flows nicely throught the game.
  
  Value:
  Like I said again and again, I recommend EVERYONE at least try the game first before actually spending 
 more money on the real thing. It's not practical spending 30 dollars on a game you don't like in 
 the end. But I personally love this game and this kind of game is what I'm addicted to. So I recommend, 
 after you try it of course, buy it. It's an awesome work.
  
  Overall:
  Nanostray is nearly flawless, to a certain extent in my opinion of course. But it's sure to give 
 everyone eye candy and if not just that, everything a DS gamer wanted. The game is consistent throughout 
 and sure to make you not waste a single sweat on this game. Nanostray is probably the best shooter 
 game Nintendo DS has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_nightmare
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 19, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Nanostray for DS wasn't a great game as thought it would be. The game is a starship shooter the 
 reminds me of Iridion 3d for GBA. So far the game lacks in good control a little bit.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is what makes this game lack in greatness. First off sometimes during 
 the game it becomes so ridiculously easy that it isn't even funny. So far the A. I. for the boss 
 is really pathetic he'll give you so many easy chances to take out heavy damage on So far I have 
 beaten 4. The ships fly towards you and shoot randomly which makes this so unchallenging, no matter 
 the difficulty except hard which may give you some trouble somewhere in the game.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are beautifiul and textures flow together smoothly.
  
  Sound: 
 
  The sounds won't impress you but the music is alright, but the sound effects really don't sound 
 that great.
  
  Value:
  It really isn't worth it at all. But if you are really into those Starship games you should at 
 least rent it before you buy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
