-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Napoleon Dynamite
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/napoleondynamite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cut-and-paste graphical style is amusing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The bulk of the minigames aren't fun.
 Lack of audio causes a lot of the gags to fall flat.
 No multiplayer options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.3, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Developer: 7 Studios
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's unlikely that many were begging for a Napoleon Dynamite-themed minigame collection, and those 
 few who were will be disappointed by this shabby effort. 

  It's difficult to imagine a less needed game than Napoleon Dynamite: The Game, and yet, here it 
 is. This handheld collection assembles a series of less-than-stellar minigames and builds them 
 around a number of wacky characters and situations from the 2004 oddball cult-classic comedy film. 
 This is the sort of game you'd see quickly churned out to coincide with a film's release or at 
 least some kind of DVD release. That's not the case here. The developers at 7 Studios and publisher 
 Crave decided that more than three years past the film's height of popularity was the right time 
 to strike with a game adaptation of  Napoleon Dynamite . That error in timing might have been forgivable 
 if the games were even halfway amusing, but sadly, no such luck.  

           In the parlance of our hero, gosh this game is flippin' stupid.      

  For Napoleon 
 Dynamite, the developers cobbled together a collection of minigames that seem like they were cribbed 
 from the most mediocre cell-phone games imaginable. There's the "toss the object farther than someone 
 else" game, the half-baked target shooting game, the idiot-simple bowling game, the occasional 
 attempt at a scrolling shooter, and, of course, the requisite dancing game with PaRappa the Rapper-style 
 mechanics.  

  The games occasionally break out of the realm of pure mobile-phone-download mediocrity, but these 
 attempts tend to be aggressively unpleasant as opposed to merely boring. The few bouts where Napoleon 
 takes on the role of a Rex-kwan-do master, fighting a lot of hapless ninjas and such, are so bereft 
 of coherency that all you need to do is mash random buttons and most likely you'll end up a winner 
 without even realizing it -- though "winner" in this case is definitely relative. Then there are 
 the occasional awful sports games, like the hopelessly dull tetherball game and the world's most 
 awkward dodgeball game not to feature Stephen Root in bondage gear. Dodgeball is especially bad. 
 You're partnered up with your best pal, Pedro, but you can control only one player at a time, and 
 the CPU player is terrible at dodging enemy attacks. The good news is that you can use the same 
 dashing jump attack and hit an opponent square in the face 19 out of 20 times.  

  Dodgeball is hardly the only game to suffer from problems like these. The PSP version of Napoleon 
 Dynamite offers about 30 minigames, and the DS version includes around 25. Out of these, maybe 
 two or three are enjoyable. That's not exactly a great ratio. It's worth noting that the PSP and 
 DS versions of the game offer essentially identical minigames, though the mechanics tend to differ 
 slightly based on each system's control mechanics. However, the differences are slight, and the 
 problems are almost always the same across the board.  

  The game tries to tie all these minigames in to a storyline, which involves Napoleon's grandmother's 
 beloved llama, Tina, escaping her pen, Napoleon's uncle Rico and brother Kip going into business 
 selling anti-aging vitamins, and Pedro's sister having her quinceanera. A bunch of memorable gags 
 and lines from the film are brought into the proceedings, but none of it works, largely because 
 there's barely any audio in the game. Seeing a text bubble of Napoleon saying "Gosh!" or, really, 
 any of Pedro's deadpan dialogue is roughly one-eighth as funny as hearing the actors say the lines 
 out loud. There are a few assorted sound samples chucked into the PSP version (with markedly fewer 
 available in the DS version) , but they're just lines randomly uttered during competition, and they 
 get repeated way too often.  

           Never before has dodgeball been so dull.      

  The PSP and DS games look relatively similar to one another, with a similar style of cut-and-paste 
 animation for the minigames and story sequences. It's not unlike what the Nacho Libre DS game did 
 back in 2006, with photos of the actors cut into pieces and reassembled to create exaggerated cartoon 
 versions of the characters. The PSP version actually looks pretty neat at times, though the DS 
 version lacks a lot of the PSP version's animations, mostly during the story bits, so you tend 
 to get stuck with a lot of still frame shots. The DS version also lacks multiplayer of any kind, 
 whereas the PSP version does have ad hoc and download multiplayer options for up to two players -- not 
 that you'd want to play any of these games with a friend, but hey, at least the option's there. 
 The PSP version has its own problems to balance things out a bit -- the sheer number of load times 
 in the game is overwhelming. None of the loads on their own are especially long, but those short 
 loads pop up in between every single screen, from a still-framed dialogue bit to an actual game, 
 so you find yourself sitting around waiting a great deal.  

  Napoleon Dynamite: The Game is, in a word, irrelevant. Hardcore fans of the movie won't find much 
 content here that hasn't been recycled from the film (and in less funny fashion, at that) , and 
 the gameplay isn't anywhere near fun enough to hold anyone's attention for long. If you were to 
 ask the eponymous hero what he thought of this game, he'd probably say something along the lines 
 of, "This is pretty much the worst game ever made." Maybe it's not quite that bad, but it's a poor 
 effort all the same.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Haloexpert
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 9, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I must say I've never seen Napoleon Dynamite. At the time of it's release I 
 heard nothing but great things about it. It certainly had my interest, but then something happened: 
 People started to quote every damn word from it. For weeks all I heard was "Gosh!" and "Can I have 
 some of your tots?" By the end of the month, I pretty much knew the script by heart.
  
  It was disappointing, because the movie looked so bad it'd be funny (ala Snakes on a Plane) . Since 
 then, I've only seen bits and pieces of the movie but unfortunately no laughs have come. So with 
 that in mind, I knew "Napoleon Dynamite: The Game" for the Nintendo DS wasn't going to be very 
 enjoyable. I try to look at a game like a blank canvas with no pre-judgements. However, Napoleon 
 Dynamite is an exception. "Napoleon Dynamite: The Game" is probably the worst game I've ever played 
 on the Nintendo DS. It's tied with Steel Horizon, but that may be going too far. Napoleon Dynamite 
 for the DS does have some slightly entertaining moments, and I mean slightly. Most video games 
 based on movies usually follow the storyline, or take place before/after it. However, Napoleon 
 Dynamite is neither.
  
  The game is essentially 20 mini games (30 on the PSP) , and nothing more. You may remember from 
 the movie that Napoleon has awesome skills, such as being a ninja. These are more than likely false, 
 but in the game they're true (or so it tells you) . If Napoleon says he has awesome ninja skills, 
 then you'll play a ninja mini game. If he says he acquires awesome bow hunting skills, then by 
 golly, you're gonna play a bow hunting mini game. The same applies for numerous skills he claims 
 to have in the movie.
  
  The mini games are very repetitive, each consisting of about 3 or 4 "rounds", with each round increasing 
 in difficulty (slightly) . For instance, there's a mini game in which you must control numerous 
 toys being dragged behind a bus, and your goal is to hit as many things as possible while avoiding 
 holes and animals. As each round passes, the speed increases. Very simple. Very repetitive. My 
 main grievance with the mini games is that if you're at the last round and fail, you have to start 
 all over again.
  
  This isn't to say all the mini games are repetitive. There's one mini game in which you must throw 
 a football further than Uncle Rio. As each round goes on, Uncle Rio's arm seems to get more and 
 more powerful. You tap the screen when you want the arrow to stop moving up and down to set your 
 direction. You then tap it again to adjust how hard you'll throw it. This was one of the better 
 minigames, and reminded me of Yeti Sports.
  
  However, minigames like that are a rarity. Some of them don't even make sense, such as the dodge 
 ball one. Now when I went to school and played dodge ball, it was fairly simple: shirts vs. skins. 
 15 on one side, 15 on the other. In Napoleon Dynamite, the same basic concept exists except for 
 one minor difference: people on the opposite team standing at the sidelines on your side of the 
 court can also throw dodge balls at you. So, basically, you're surrounded by people who can and 
 will throw balls at you. And just like the other mini games, as each round goes by the opposite 
 team seems to get much better at catching and throwing, while the people on your team get much 
 much worse (everyone is also wearing shirts. No skins.) .
  
  Another little annoyance are the subtitles. Reading them is just fine, but when you have an entire 
 box filled with dialog, and then have to press next just to bring up another box with only one 
 word to finish the sentence, it's annoying. The actual dialog itself is almost non-existent, because 
 all it consists of are one-liners from the movie such as "Gosh!', which I grew tired of back in 
 2004.
  
  In the end, if you or someone you know are still obsessing with Napoleon Dynamite, this might just 
 be the cure. 30 minutes of this and you'll be so sick of Napoleon you'll never want to hear another 
 quote from the movie ever again. If by chance you do give this to a fan, and they find enjoyment 
 in it, then they have some serious issues and should seek medical attention immediately. A free 
 and much better alternative would be Yeti Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite movies, and when I saw this on the game store, I thought it would be 
 one of those  
 but this one is different. Basically you play mini games through Napoleon life, but with a twist. 
 The mini games are good, and easy, but in order to unlock more mini games, you'll have to meet 
 some requirements in the game, which sucks if there's one game you're not good at. If you lose, 
 it's kind of good, because you'll hear Napoleon Dynamite in despair, which is hilarious, so it's 
 kind of a win in each fork. The graphics suits Napoleon dynamite. Controls are easy. If you beat 
 the game, you can beat it again in Hard mode. Some of you might not like DDR, but to me that part 
 of the game makes a great start, and it's not that hard. I wished they had more NDDDR to dance 
 to, that's fun to me. If you loved the movie, then try this game out! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
