-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Ninja Council 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/naruto/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You'll be jumping skyward and dishing out Jutsu attacks in no time.
 attack cutaways and vocal cries provide plenty of fan service.
 includes 28 characters from the Naruto universe.
 the multiplayer party mode is crazy fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not as deep as most fighting games.
 using the touch screen to perform supers feels clumsy.
 mission mode gets old quickly.
 multiplayer is only way to have a regular match with fair rules.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 527 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Aspect
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: May 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Naruto: Ninja Council 3 is a shallow fighting game with a lame single-player mode but an awesome 
 multiplayer mode. 

  Naruto: Ninja Council 3 for the Nintendo DS is a fighting game where as many as four people can 
 duke it out as Naruto, Sakura, Sasuke, or any of 25 other characters from the Naruto universe. 
 The game offers plenty of visual and vocal fan service for followers of the Naruto comic books 
 and animated series. Thanks to its easygoing controls and multitiered arenas, it also bears a striking 
 resemblance to the Super Smash Bros. games that Nintendo has produced for the Nintendo 64 and GameCube. 
 However, Ninja Council 3 doesn't yield the same depth as a typical Super Smash Bros. game, which 
 means that the game is ultimately best suited for diehard Naruto nuts and people who don't take 
 fighting games too seriously.  

          Four players can compete in treasure hunts and battle royal matches.     

  Because 
 this is a fighting game, the main idea here is to beat your opponents senseless and drain their 
 life meters until you're the last one left standing. This is a 2D fighter, but the arenas are as 
 tall as they are wide, and they have multiple tiers from which you can easily jump up and down. 
 You can smash boxes or rocks to uncover health items and weapons that you can throw at your opponents. 
 Some arenas also play host to booby traps, pits, and flying debris that will chip away some of 
 your health when you come into contact with them. If you've ever played one of the Super Smash 
 Bros. games, this should all seem very familiar to you.  

  The character sprites and animations have mostly been recycled from the previous Ninja Council 
 games (which were made for the Game Boy Advance) . But all of the backgrounds and attack cutaways 
 are brand new. The 2D characters looked like tiny renditions of their TV counterparts, and they 
 look fine on the DS as well. The backgrounds are nothing special compared to other DS games, but 
 they're twice as large as the backdrops in the GBA's Ninja Council games. They're also more colorful 
 and flaunt a better variety of cute details, such as flying birds or crumbling walkways. The action 
 largely takes place on the top screen while the bottom screen serves as a radar and a collection 
 of "buttons" for initiating special Jutsu techniques. When you perform a Jutsu technique, a dramatic 
 cutaway put together with the game's characters and hand-drawn artwork will temporarily fill both 
 screens. Fans of the Naruto animated series will really appreciate these flashy attack sequences 
 particularly because they employ the voices of the show's actual voice cast. The music and sound 
 effects that make up the rest of the audio are fine, but they're also generic and forgettable. 

  Jumping around the multitiered environments and trading blows with other people is fun, though 
 Ninja Council 3 does suffer from a lack of depth. The D pad moves your chosen character around, 
 and the system's six buttons matter-of-factly allow you to run, jump, guard, teleport, perform 
 a throw, or perform a single attack. Defensively, you can roll out of a throw or grab on to walls 
 to propel yourself higher. Offensively, you can press the attack button a couple of times to dish 
 out a combo, or you can tap one of the four designated spots on the touch screen to initiate one 
 of your character's special Jutsu techniques. Jutsu techniques are the same as the special attacks 
 you've seen in other fighting games, except that you have to complete a brief minigame on the touch 
 screen for them to work. Most minigames involve scribbling or tapping symbols, but a few require 
 an additional quick scrawl of the stylus or a puff into the microphone. While the inputs aren't 
 all that time-consuming, fumbling with the touch screen just to perform a special attack feels 
 counterintuitive when you otherwise spend the rest of the time using the buttons to control your 
 character. It's easy to get the hang of Ninja Council 3, which may be good or bad, depending on 
 what you look for in fighting games.  

  Besides making use of the touch screen, the other thing this new game does differently from the 
 GBA's Ninja Council games is that it allows you to assign any of the Jutsu techniques of the other 
 characters to your own character. For instance, you can mix and match Naruto's wind and toad magic 
 with Orochimaru's snake magic. This feature doesn't really inject any additional strategy into 
 the game because all Jutsu attacks fall into the same two categories with respect to recharge period 
 and damage output. However, it is useful if you pick a character that doesn't already have a full 
 set of four Jutsu techniques. It's also useful if that character normally only has a couple of 
 first-level Jutsu techniques but none of the stronger second-level techniques.  

          Flashy Jutsu attacks are performed by tapping and scribbling on the touch screen.     

 
  Incredibly, the game doesn't offer a traditional single-player battle mode. The only way to play 
 against CPU opponents is to do so in the mission mode. Unfortunately, out of 62 different missions, 
 just a few provide a level playing field and a fair set of rules. Most missions involve defeating 
 a certain number of respawning enemies, using a specific Jutsu technique to finish off another 
 character in a short amount of time or beating an opponent in an arena loaded with hungry animals 
 and painful hazards. You have to play through the mission mode to unlock characters besides Naruto, 
 but that is literally the mode's sole redeeming aspect. You'll see the same mission goals constantly, 
 there's no story to speak of, and the CPU falls into the same patterns all the time. If you want 
 to enjoy some fair competition and truly see the game's best qualities, you have to do so in the 
 multiplayer party mode. The party mode lets as many as four players link their systems together 
 to participate in treasure hunt and battle royal matches. Unlike the battles setup in the mission 
 mode, matches played against human beings are crazy and fun, especially if you can link up with 
 two or three other people. The problem with the party mode is that everyone has to have their own 
 copy of the game, but this probably isn't the sort of game that your friends are going to buy without 
 major prodding on your part.  

  You won't like Naruto: Ninja Council 3 if you prefer your fighting games to be finely balanced 
 and packed with depth. However, if you're freaky for Naruto and simply want to make some mischief 
 with your favorite characters, then you should be able to enjoy the frenzy of fists and fan service 
 that this game dishes out. Just make sure you can convince at least one of your friends to buy 
 the game so you can take advantage of the multiplayer party mode and see the game at its best. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Naru_stick_6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I found that the lack of (playable) characters, like the third Hokage,2nd state Sasuke and nine 
 tails Naruto a little disterbing. As good as the graphics and missions are I can't figure why go 
 to shippuden if you don't get the truly good characters, like the Hokages, the different Naruto 
 and Sasuke. Also, I find it extremely hard to beat the mission named-"100 man spar"-which you have 
 to defeat 100 enemies without any jutsu, I use Guy and Lee because they're fast and can strike 
 rather quick. I like the part that most follows the story line and are exiting, yet some are challenging-which 
 makes it that much more fun:) . Although it's easy to get to Tsunade, I find it cheep that you 
 unlock the character by doing something so easy:!: . They have awsome stages and even Kabuto as 
 a sprite/character, along with the sound ninja (which are the worst because they don't have any 
 of their own jutsu) . I like the idea of using other jutsu, from another sprite/character, that 
 came from another clan ( I don't get why the person doesn't just hit the opponent and then the back-up 
 person does their jutsu?) . I also like the idea of the galleries, which show you different jutsu. well 
 that's all I have for this review........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This was my first DS game so when i first played it seemed really good but the more games i played 
 the more it seemed to be more disappointing. 
  The graphics are quite good with all the characters being recognisable. The music is also fairly 
 good.
  The Gameplay is hard to describe, there's no story but instead a series of missions that roughly 
 link if you've seen the show otherwise you'll have little idea what is going on. The Jutsu system 
 is pretty brilliant and imaginative which has you performing tasks like blowing into the microphone, 
 forming hand signs and hitting Chakra points. There are no other single player modes making the 
 large amount of characters useless. The game does have a large amount of characters however the 
 US version has even more such as Kisame and the sound 4, however the fact that you can equip any 
 Jutsu to any character ultimately means that all the characters are pretty much the same, this 
 was the most disappointing thing about the game. 
  To sum up the game has nice visuals and a good character selection however choosing your Jutsus 
 really spoiled the large amount of characters, the campaign mode is nothing short of a mess. That 
 said a hardcore gamer or Naruto fan may find a couple of hours of fun in this but ultimately it 
 was disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeenGamer92
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was expecting MUCH more. When I started playing this game and saw that 
 only missions were available, I just thought," this was a HUGE mistake." However, I did beat every 
 mission, hoping that by doing so, I could unlock a story mode. Of course not. I don't know if the 
 other Ninja Council games only had missions, but I'm guessing that they did. I don't know how some 
 people like this game, but I didn't, and I don't think that most of the Naruto fan population will. 
 The only part that I like from this game was forming the jutsu on the touchscreen. It really made 
 you feel like you were a part of the game. You can unlock a variety of characters, but it doesn't 
 make up for everything that this game lacks. Some characters don't even have their own moves, so 
 you have to customize them with other people's jutsu (the other character hops in when you select 
 their jutsu) . If you haven't gotten this game, or are thinking about getting it, DON'T BUY IT!!! 
 You will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 321sponge1
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Naruto ninja council 3 is strange in the way that you so not have much to do really..... When you 
 first start your a bit dissapointed to see that all you get is missions on this game aside from 
 multiplayer... You do a couple missions and you start loving the game, BUT you finish all missions 
 within 4 hours.. I mean thats just not right!! After you finish all missions you are so bored with 
 it, maybe the only reason you would continue playing would be because of the fun specials/jutsus 
 (which are great fun to watch) . 
  
  Naruto Ninja Council 3 is not a bad game, but you will get bored of it after a couple of days especially 
 since every character is practically exactly the same aside from their special moves..
  
  5.0 Presentation
  Very very short... and all you have are missions, nothing more, 2 player does 
 not bring much to the paltform 
  
  6.2 Graphics
  During combat the graphics look very undetailed for 2-D but the special moves do make good work 
 of that 2-D 
  
  7.3 Sound
  The sound during combat is below basic really... but special moves do sound quite amazing 
  
 
  6.8 Gameplay
  Fighting is not at all varied, not unique whatsoever. Only specials bring some life to combat 
 
  
  4.4 Lasting Appeal
  After you compleate missions, all your left with is multiplayer..... You will probably never play 
 this game after more than 2 months 
  
  
  
  6.0 OVERALL
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  If you want Characters this game is the way to go 30 charcters in all! 
  
  Story: Its the only thing you can play unless you have a freind with the same game. Its short for 
 some people but youll want to go back and play as all the 30 characters!
  
  Vs: Only for people with the same game! No Wi-Fi
  
  Naruto: The story goes from the begining 
 of naruto till the fight with Sasuke but if your not a Narutofan then you wont know wats going 
 on because the only explain about 5 missions. If you watch Naruto you can recreate battles if you 
 pick the right Characters or pick who ever you want and kick BUTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT! The final fight 
 is the only real challenge and its agenst Mr. Sunshine, Orochimaru.
  
  Sound: The jutsu music getts annoying because it the same! No voices becuase its on DS.
  
  
 Gameplay: Fun Kick butt action for at lest a week strait! 
  
  Compared: Its like Naruto Ultiamate Ninja!
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Well when I first saw this game I thought that it was going to be like the other Ninja council 
 games where you go on a side scrolling adventure as Naruto characters. On the box it mentioned 
 all the 28 unlockable characters and I thought "wow I can go through area as Itachi!" But I was 
 sadly mistaken. This game is Missions. That's it. Missions. No adventure just missions in which 
 you fight other characters in battle. 
  
  This was dissapointing to me. But besides it's lack of adventure it has pretty much no story at 
 all. The only part of stroy in it is the first mission and even that part doesn't explain anyhting 
 what so ever.
  
  The amount of characters is good and it covers most of the characters released up until there but 
 the lack of any replay value makes this game a one time pick up and play. Once your done There's 
 not alot to do besides fight others in multiplayer mode which requires Another game of the same 
 name. 
  
  In conclusion, if you don' mind senseless bashing of other characters then this games for you... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jlao1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when you look at the cover of the game you immediately think: "This game is going to be good." 
 But that's definitely not the case. Going straight to "bingo board" with letters on it makes you 
 go "huh??" the second you look at it. In fact, these missions have no use other than to exercise 
 your thumbs for a few minutes. You can finish the entire game in one day if you really wanted to, 
 although I doubt you wanted to see Naruto getting his butt kicked for the millionth time. Anyone 
 who isn't a hard core naruto fan shouldn't wasting their time playing some game with disappointing 
 gameplay. All of the things you can do are limited to a miniscule size, and some missions are even 
 pointless, like "getting to Tsunade before the time runs out." Anyway, without anymore comments 
 on this "okay but could be better" game, I regretted paying 35 bucks for this letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dee0789
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ninja Council three is very addicting at first, but once you beat the game, the addiction 
 ends.
  The game would have been EXTREMELY AWESOMLY AWESOME if it had Wi Fi
  the single player it self you cant even do download play on this game.
  The unique twist is probably 
 the jutsu. i love watching naruto use uzumaki barrage to kill people. probably the best part in 
 the single player
  Naruto Ninja Council three would better if it had some sort of a make-your-own-match option. The 
 only fair matches are too easy. and you can only face neji, ino and temari.
  lastly the difficulty. Naruto Ninja Council three has various types of missions that include easy 
 (attack a train) weird ( fight evil clones of your self.) original ( whack a rock up) and SUPER 
 HARD!!! ( kill a 100 guy in half a minute)
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  
  Music: good, but the sound gets annoying after its heard a lot
  Game play: starts off easy, then 
 you'll be wondering why missions are so hard
  Graphics: endlessly recycled graphics are annoying
  Playability: controls are too simple
  Overall: 
 not the best game you'll ever see
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  What a letdown is exactly what this game is, why? Read the text below.
  
  The Good: A huge roster from the world of Naruto. Tons of Jutsu. Good vocals. Multiplayer from what 
 I hear is fun (I havent really tried it myself) .
  
  The Bad: Lets get started: Where the heck is single player battle mode. No Wifi, come on Tomy. 
 It should have at least have ds download. Graphics are outdated so it feels like your playin a 
 GBA game. Performing Jutsu feels shallow and gets repetitive. Some of the characters dont even 
 have jutsu!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. Youll beat mission mode in a day. Some of the missions seem overwhelming, 
 but in the end, theyre too easy. The gallery is gay.
  
  To rap things all up, this is a crappy game that could have been a good title on the ds if they 
 had online play!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I should have saved my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 101_king
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is really short. i bought this game cuz i had a ninja council game for the GBA and im 
 a naruto fan. i took me less than a day to beat this. the only thing that saves this game from 
 being a complete and utter failure is the fact that it has multiplayer. the single player, is, 
 as i said before, short and bad. you shouldn't buy this game unless you are a hardcore naruto fan 
 and you need to have every naruto game. all you really do with the touch screen is when you use 
 your jutsu. they could have included mini-games or something to increase the games value but no, 
 they had to make a short and boring game that was priced much higher than what it was worth. i 
 got this game for $30 ($29.99) and once i had beaten it that same day, i felt like i just took 
 that $30 and burned it then flushed the ashes down a toilet. but then again, it does have a FEW 
 good parts. there are a lot of characters to choose from and the scenes that show up when you do 
 a jutsu are pretty cool. however, if you look at the back of the case and it says there are a lot 
 of characters to choose from, you automatically see the whole horde of characters below and think: 
 wow, i get to play as all these characters? well...... no, you don't, so don't fall for that trick 
 like i did. (i was careless: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is just another ninja game that never involved stealth. Just action and fighter gameplay. Whoever 
 made this game is not good at Black Magic into game design. You can do to playing modes. Party and 
 mission. You will do missions from easiest to hardest, but you just cant get them all done that easily. The 
 controls are bad, which could make you get your hand off the pen. It will take you 30 minutes or 
 more to get those done. Party is probably the best in the game. Playing in a group of four, either 
 if you want to be member or leader. But you need four people. What? Kidnappe some people from the 
 neighborhood to do this? Why four? Cant you guys just do three instead? Although the music is really 
 good. It will just sound like jazz or medieval Japan. The sound effects are not all that bad, since 
 I don't know how they put voices on to a portable system. The special attacks may look good at first, but 
 an hour later, they will just be same old stuff. When your in a fight, initiating you special move, your 
 characters will do taunts or poses which that doesn, t suprise me at all. This game is really boring 
 all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Ninja Council 3 is a Naruto game that takes place during seasons 2, 3, 4, and 5. Although, 
 there are only two missions that have a story, there really is not much to talk about in that subject. 
 The game has missions from the events of the show. Only, instead of playing the exact character 
 from that event who did it, the player can choose who they want to play.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has pretty good use of the DS touch screen. Great 2D art 
 style. Good fighting physics. Cool new jutsu. Some new characters. 
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that the obstacles are pretty complicated. Some fights are 
 too big of a pain to fight. Confusing technique minigame challenges. Annoying extra baddies.
  
  Overall, Ninja Council 3 is a good portable Naruto experience. The biggest thing I didn't like 
 is the complicated jutsu challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsRichie
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, it was very disappointing. First I thought it would be one of the best games on NDS but, 
 always the game you think that will be perfect will have at least a bad thing, but in this case 
 EVERYTHING except characters and special attacks were wrong.
  The story was all messed up like, first you thought the game would always have a little movie like 
 some people talking of a movie because at the beginning there was a senseless talk that was like: 
 LETS TRAIN HYAAAAAAAH, ILL KICK YOU IN THE FACE WUZAT, SASUKE I LOVE YOU CHAAAAAAA, YOU ARE A PAIR 
 OF IDIOTS ZACHIIBIIII and those things, BUT NO that was the only 1 and a little 1 at the end and 
 you didnt understand nothing whe you played story mode.
  The controls were like kick/punch, grab, move, throw kunai and well thats basicly all.
  Characters 
 were a little bit wrong because Sound 4 were there for nothing, they didnt have special attacks 
 so there was no point on having them there and Naruto didnt have his Kyuubi.
  Multiplayer didnt have co-op the only 1 that was a little fun was battle royale BUT, where can 
 you find 3 other people with that game if you dont tell them to buy it?
  Why there wasnt any online? Because there were some lazy people developing the game, there was 
 no excuse because Ninja Council 5 and Naruto RPG 3 (both japan only) had it.
  Well I say that you should borrow it from a friend because its a waste of money.
  Remember dont 
 get too excited, farewell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musica12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game one day at EB Games, as it caught my eye, remembering the video for it that I 
 saw on one of the tvs. I bought it right away and played it as soon as I got home. At first, it 
 was easy, and quite fun, but as I came across some missions, it because quite frustrating. For 
 example, the one mission where you have to kill a certain amount of enemies while sliding down 
 sandy slopes wherever you stand isn't very easy. The game probably would have been more appealing 
 if there was an option after failing the missions... lets say, 5 times, to give you a free pass 
 and move on to the next mission, without smashing up your ds and a lot of other stuff out of frustration. 
 Overall, I'd have to say it was a decent game, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  What can i say i&acute; m a big naruto fan but this game has been a total letdown and ill tell you 
 why:
  
  Graphics: wow when i first played ninja council i was shocked when i saw the graphics but when 
 i saw it on this game it hasn&acute; t improved much. So basically graphics are just like the gba 
 version but a bit better.
  
  Controls: well not so bad if you like pressing x continuously... Jutsus and characters: now this 
 is the good stuff you can finally play with 20 characters including jiraiya orochimaru and the 
 rest. Each character has a jutsu and when you &uml; do&uml; the jutsu you want you will have to 
 do some stuff on the touch screen if you want your jutsu to succeed. This will consist of either 
 moving your stylus up and down, turning left or right, summoning gamabunta style or blow on to 
 the mic. This was actually kinda fun trying it out on every character.
  
  Sound: hmm, not good very simple boring music but overall thats what to expect for a ninja council 
 game.
  
  Value: ok ill be honest here if you really liked ninja council for the gba then i think you will 
 like it on the ds. Oh and if your one of those guys who play naruto chronicles, ultimate ninja heroes 
 or ultimate ninja then you won&acute; t like to play this kind of game because it doesn&acute; t 
 have anything in common with the ps2 and psp games. But if you still want to buy it then i recommend 
 you buy it cheap or borrow it : ) .
  
  P. S. (game can get annoying please have patience on some of the missions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dachwii
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  N: NC3 Has a quite stupid gameplay, Mix other character's special abilities!! You say - Hmm, what 
 a good idea! I'll buy it! But after giving a little though, the idea was very stupid. Why...? Read 
 the points of these game.
  
  Good Points.
  
  -The Anime-Cuts in Special Jutsus are awesome.
  -They made new backgrounds, colorful and big.
 
  -20+ characters, your favorite character must be there.
  -Multiplayer mode is definely the best part of this game.
  
  Bad Points.
  
  -You get sick 
 of hearing always the same, long selection sound. (Trooown)
  -The Mixing Special Abilities (Jutsus) Is stupid, Example: Rock Lee is speedy and strong, two factors 
 which are very important in a fighting game. But, his jutsus suck, The answer? Put any character 
 else jutsus and you got the best fighter in the game, so un-balanced. (You noticed that that Sakura's 
 Jutsus never appear in the manga? Except of Healing Jutsu and Girl Power, but until Shippuuden, 
 and they're not named that way.)
  -Wow! 60+ missions! They divide only in 3 frustrating categories: Kick ass ( Or multy ) with x jutsu 
 or without it, Save someone/yourself or collect something.
  -The mission mode gets old very quickly.
  -The 3 hokage is not a select-able character.
  -The 
 game is verry short, I beated it in 7 hours!
  
  Huuunh?
  
  -In Japan this title is the fourth, the fourth!
  -There are a lot of missing jutsus. Example: 
 Jiraya's Rasengan and Summon, Kiba's Jutsu.
  -Why they didn't added Asuma or Kurenai?
  -The titles are a little cheesy.
  
  Should I buy it... Or I shouldn't...
  
  4 words: Only 
 for Naruto fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game out of curiousity because I never play a Naruto game before this except for 
 Naruto Ultimate Ninja for the PS2. I loved it when I played it the first time. It was so much fun 
 and once I beat it I got bored of it. Well it just does not have a lot of things to do unless you 
 have friends who have this game so you can play with them. I mean once you finish the Missions 
 you have nothing else to do so I say don't get it if you want a game that will last forever and 
 has tons to do beacause all it has is Missions and Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendarzFan
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Ninja Council Three is a pretty good fighting game for the DS system. It combines a huge 
 amount of characters to use almost whenever you want, and an even bigger amount of special moves 
 to use. It makes pretty good use of the touch screen and the bottom screen can prove useful to. 
 And the multiplayer action is really fun (I've only tried it with me and my friend) . But there 
 are some downsides, there are only about 60 missions or so, and they're extremely easy to beat. 
 You will probably get through the game extremely quickly. I chose easy because I was new to the 
 game, then I tried normal and hard and honestly there isn't to much of a difference. Some of the 
 missions are frustrating because they seem impossible, and some of the opponents just feel like 
 they can predict your every move. I wouldn't reccomend this to people who don't exactly like Naruto. 
 But Naruto fanatics will probably find alot of enjoyment out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonahb914
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Ninja Council 3 is by no means a game for the casual gamer, who will likely regret shelling 
 out the 25 clams for this title within a few hours of purchasing. To put it simply, the game feels 
 more like a beta than anything else, a test drive for the possible next iteration in the ninja 
 council series. It is without a plot, character development, or character balance, and the lack 
 of a verses mode is inexcusable. But, it does have it's charm. Blowing into the DS's mic to perform 
 Sasuke's phoenix flame jutsu does wonders to bring the player into the game, and touching the chakra 
 points of the opponent for Neji's byakugan is cleverly implemented and faithful to the manga/anime. 
 In fact, the jutsus are possibly this game's biggest saving grace. Although not every character 
 has them, connecting with one of the 20+ players token jutsus brings you into the Naruto world 
 in a way that only the Nintendo DS can. The diehard Naruto fans will definitely find something 
 to like in this game.
  
  Everyone else, however, should probably stay away. The game offers no connection to any of the 
 character's storylines, and fails to provide modes that even the most basic fighting games have. 
 Man... even Fist of the North Star for the original Game Boy had a vs. mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This is, by far, the worst game I have ever played. I've never returned a game except this one. 
 First of all, the graphics just suck. When one object stretches into both screens, the creators 
 forgot that there is a gap between them, so instead of just not being able to see what's between 
 the screens, it just skips all the way over. To make things worse, it has the same graphics as 
 the past two... On the GBA. Gross.
  
  There's 28 characters. Oh wait, there just one. Becuase you can give your character any combination 
 of 4 Jutsu you want. So really, all you need to do to win is use the most agile character, Tsunade, 
 and give her a Healing Jutsu from Sakura, and you win. There's really only 2 Jutsu. Any physical 
 Jutsu, you just run at the enemy. If you actually manage to hit them, you have to pull out your 
 stylus and, WOW!!!!!! You either make a circle, slide it across the screen, or blow into the microphone! 
 Oh! MY! GOD! What an awesome game!
  In addition to that horrible thing, some characters I've never even heard of (and I'm a big Naruto 
 fan) , and the missions you do in the game (there are only 62, and each one will take you a minute 
 or less) just don't last. Hit Ino with Burning Slap of Youth! Defeat 10 bats! Beat Sakura to the 
 goal! Defeat Neji! Wow!!! The controls just suck. First of all, the running button is B, you attack 
 with X and Y, and you jump with A. Either your right hand has two thumbs, or you're screw. The 
 AI is just crap and there are no comboes in the game. My bad, you can keep smashing the attack 
 button to do a combo! Wow!
  Other than a bad selection of Jutsu and being able to make invincible characters at will, the physical 
 ones almost never hit, and the ones that use hand signs will hit every everything in the microscopic 
 arena no matter what. Another way too easy thing. Also, ALL YOU CAN DO IS THE MISSIONS, and to 
 do 2 player, YOU BOTH NEED THIS CRAPPY GAME.
  And sure it has lots of voice acting, but every time I press a button, my character hits me with 
 a barrage of HA! CHA! HYA! YAAA!!!!!!!!!!! HA! HA! HA! NAH!!! , and in this game, you'll pressing 
 a LOT of buttons...
  
  This simple, mindless button-mashing game requires no skill whatsoever and can be beaten, on your 
 first try and on the hardest difficulty in just nine hours. Do not buy this game, you will regret 
 it. I can't believe I actually payed money for it.
  In the manual, by the way, it says at the end .. And we hope you have as much fun with this product 
 as we had making it. Wow, I thought being a game designer was great. I'd better not work for this 
 company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game is kind of odd when compared to it's previous ancestor naruto games... It has you completing 
 all kinds of missons instead of chasing after oricimaru, or gaara. Essentially, you will be sliding 
 and tapping your stylus alot throughout the game to create jutsu's or whatever. This time around 
 there will be alot more character to unlock and play as instad of just naruto, sasuke, sakura, 
 and kakashi... If you are a fan of naruto then you should definatley get this game. This game has 
 your gliding through the air, unleashing jutsu attacks by sliding and tapping, performing melee 
 and combos in no time! Missions are based on their ranks, D is the easiest, then c, then B, then 
 A, and finally theres S. Once you beat every mission in one rank you move on to the tougher missions 
 of the next rank and so on... I recommend this game although it might not last that long... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arline6
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is okay, but some of the missions are easy and hard to complete. All the missions are 
 graded at the end and the game saved the completed graded mission. The unlocked all the characters 
 required some mission to be completed. It took some elements from Narutoe Ninja Council and Naruto 
 Ninja Council 2 Game Boy Adance games. The controls are a bit easy to understand. If you are a 
 hard-core Naruto fan, this game is a must have. If not, do not buy this game. I like the anime 
 series only. I just wait for Naruto: Path of the Ninja RPG come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorruptGamerGX
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me just clear some things up first. This game is NOT the real Ninja Council 3, it's actually 
 the 4th version in Japan. Since this game has no story at all, D3 decided to take Naruto: Saikyou 
 Ninja Daikesshu 4 and modify it to be in line with the American dub of Naruto.
  
  If you're fimiliar with the previous versions of Ninja Council, prepare to be disappointed big 
 time. The previous 3 (or 2 in this case) were based on platforming with some 1 on 1 battles for 
 bosses. This game is entirely mission based, you start from doing D ranked missions all the to 
 S rank. While this game is easy for the most part, some missions will cause frustration due to 
 hazards in a level or little time to complete a mission.
  
  I'm sure most have heard of a game called Jump Super Stars (or Ultimate Stars) before. This game 
 is a very dumbed down version of that game (which also features Naruto as a playable character) 
 you only attack with ONE button making it a easy game to play. This is a bad idea because matches 
 involve no strategy at all. To make things worse, Tomy added alot of playable characters from the 
 anime in this game, it's too bad all of them play EXACTLY the same.
  
  Another thing that might piss you off is how broken this game is. Certain characters like Naruto 
 have jutsu's that are highlighted in blue, these jutsu's cover the entire screen meaning there's 
 nowhere to hide and are unblockable at the same time. Sakura also has a healing ability that might 
 prolong multiplayer matches. You can also mix and match jutsu's from other characters, but that 
 gets old fast. I forgot to mention that weapons in this game are USELESS, don't even bother picking 
 them up.
  
  The music in this game isn't that bad, but most of it is forgettable, it'll also get repetitive 
 at some point due to redoing a mission many times or trying to beat all 60+ missions. One good 
 thing about this game is it feature voices from the anime while performing a jutsu.
  
  RENT or BUY?
  
  I recommend neither. Not only is this game an embarrassment and rip-off, it 
 was created for the sole purpose of making a quick buck off Naruto fans. Another thing is the US 
 version of this game is missing 8 characters, a few jutsu's and 1 stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay so as you probably know i gave this game a score of 5.8 which equals a Meiocre. i have given 
 this game such a bad rating was it was very boring unless you had somone to play with in multiplayer 
 other then that it was crap. some bad points of the game was that most of the missions were so 
 tedious like breaking rocks, an killing bats.
  
  The gameplay of this game was okay but it was sort of not good the bad points were some of the 
 methods of using special techniques were to hard like one you have to spin this thing to store 
 up chakra and the higher level jutsus were very hard to spin because you have to spin them very 
 fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx102
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  i bought this game at first i thought it was awesome until i beat it naruto ninja council 3 was 
 an alright game but extremly short i beat it in less than 6Hrs. if you buy it i sugggest you immediately 
 put it in hard because normal was extremly easy except in sum battles but not many i am still waiting 
 to try it in 2-4 player i proably would have given it an 8 if it was wifi compatable i beat the 
 whole game with kakashi and saske and a little help with naruto when i got to cetain levels with 
 kill some one with little health i put healing jutsu in my jutsu gauges 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrai_rulez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  D3 really did a good job on this game. It has everything ninja council 1 needed. Its a great game, 
 not a waste of time whatsoever. It has a number of missions to do, 2 gallerys to unlock, and 20 
 characters to play. What makes it more fun, is being able to combine different jutsu all on one 
 character. I havent gotten too far in the game because my DS died and I dont happen to have my 
 DS charger in my house at the moment, but so far its a good game. Surely Naruto fans would enjoy 
 this game, as well as people who dont care for Naruto, its just a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariolander
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is a Naruto game but sadly this is not the Naruto game for you. It will take two to possibly 
 enjoy this game but in the end the novelty of Naruto on your DS will die quickly and you will soon 
 be left high and dry.
  
  Maybe this games most blaring weakness is the lack of any significant single player. While indeed 
 there is a single player mode to be had it is horribly inadequate. The entire single player consists 
 of a series of mission scrolls with generic task such as: kill X amount of the Y generic enemy 
 in Z amount of time, or use X technique to kill Y ninja. I mean sure you have other tasks like 
 your 1 vs 1s your 1 vs 2 etc. etc. heck if youre lucky you might find yourself breaking crates 
 looking for an item while dodging dozens random enemy clones. In the end there is no story what 
 to speak of and just more of the mundane. You will probably want to play through it but once to 
 unlock characters but after than I see no incentive to go through the single player ever again 
 assuming you can muster up enough will from your Narutard reserves to get through it the first 
 time around. As things go on the games unimpressive AI wont do much for any serious gamer looking 
 for a proper fight and the game stacking things against you still doesnt compensate for that sore 
 weakness.
  
  The gameplay is brawl-esq so expect something along the lines of Guilty Gear: Dust Strikers for 
 DS just without as much depth, limited combos, and hit or miss specials. For those uninitiated 
 in that kind of DS fighter expect a flattened out, shallow, super simplified Super Smash Bros over 
 something like Ninja Academy. You can choose from over 20 characters and have the interesting ability 
 to customize your special move set and though they dont do the techniques themselves you can play 
 as Naruto and use Sakuras Healing Jutsu so it really doesnt matter much at all exactly what character 
 you choose in the end with the custom techniques and summoning of allies. Speaking of Healing Jutsu 
 you will find some of the moves horribly unbalanced and if youre doing multiplayer at times even 
 flat out broken and Sakuras Healing Jutsu is the perfect example. At times you will find it numbs 
 down into a race on who can heal first and deny the other the privilege of killing you. Byond that 
 the combat does not have a high/low hit system and the game doesn't reward players for using different 
 moves so much of the actual combat boils down to breaking down your opponent's shield for free 
 hits.
  
  Graphically while having no complaints if you played any other Ninja Council game on GBA you will 
 note that some of the graphics have been reused. It looks good but nothing amazing. The special 
 techniques though can be a sight to behold. Some jutsus can look really good while others really 
 do not do their originals justice. In the end while awesome at times its hit or miss special technique 
 wise with the whole thing overall rubbing off as pretty mediocre as flashy as the special techniques 
 are.
  
  Sound was unimaginative and generic feeling. Really cant say much besides the fact it was unremarkable. 
 While there are sound bites here and there I could have gone without Maile Flanagan shouting believe 
 it! through my DSs speakers. Bottomline: For this game to be fun you need a friend to play it 
 with. Even then the combat system is broken so you will need to come up with special cameplay rules. 
 I wouldn't recommend this for even the most hardcore Narutard. Taking two copies to even possibly 
 enjoy you are better off spending your $60 and importing a copy of Naruto: Gekitou Ninja Taisen 
 4 for Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ck_h4nd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  wow i got this game first day it came out. im not that big of a naruto fan but my friend recomended 
 it and its exelent. the graphics are very cool and smooth very authentic anime. if your fan of 
 naruto get it. if your not try to find a friend who has it. its good for multiplayer mainly. the 
 single player i would give an 8.3 the multiplayer is 9.8 its awesome part is gettting all missions 
 done on hard. wow its great if i were you i would watch a few naruto firsts is alot like mario 
 on the gba and its very very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaforte
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  i cant believe i wasted 30 dollars on this game that is doo-doo the missoins r cool and evry thing 
 but when your done wat do u do thats it is over nothing left to do then play multiplayer but not 
 alot of people have the game. so u just put it there in a cabnit and leave it there for all eternity. 
 i hpoe future naruto hald held games r better. Fans of naruto do not buy unless its 20 dollars 
 or under. Also the graphics in this game is okay and sound and specials r cool but thats the it 
 the rest iz 
  its bullcrap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 30, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is bad there is no story there are only mission and those missions are to short after 
 you finish the missions its over there is nothing left for you to do UNLESS you play with other 
 people but that is olso broken this game could have been better if there was a story line or online 
 play but this game is trash don't waste $32.53 dollars on this game.
  
  This game is bad if you are going to buy a naruto game wait until ultimate ninja 2 comes out .
 
  
  This game is trash Stay away form this game buy naruto ninja cuncil 2 or something. By :Kakashi_itachi7 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aforan2
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  The second I started the first mission, I knew something was different about this game. I immediately 
 took advantage of all the time I had to play this game and it took over my life. This difficulty 
 of the levels vary from finding a lost dog to battling Itachi Uchiha himself, but no matter what 
 the difficulty, each of the 62 levels was amazing. This game is all it's cracked up to be and more. 
 Much more. I even got the prima game guide but that's a different story. There's about 27 playable 
 characters, and this game's on a handheld system! And like I said earlier, there's 62 levels! Don't 
 even rent it if you're a Naruto fan, buy it! Buy it! Buy it! You'll be amazed at the value of this 
 game, whether you're a fan or not!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastaChief191
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don't think i have to go into explaining all about what this game name is or who makes 
 it, just look on the page. So let me get straight into it. When you first start, you get a pretty 
 good roster of favorite characters (Naruto, Hinata, Kiba, Sasuke, Sakura, etc.) . However, you can 
 unlock many others such as Gai and the Third Hokage. Anyways, as i said before, most of the first 
 missions you start out with are pretty tedious such as killing bats or spiders or other creatures. 
 However, if you hold on enough, you'll get to the interesting fights with other characters and 
 that's where the game gets really interesting. I don't have any friends who have the game yet, 
 so I really can't tell you how multiplayer is. All in all, if you're a naruto fan or a beat em 
 up fan willing to wait few a few first missions, I suggest to go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latioszero
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 23, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was disappointed in this game. I had high hopes for the game, and was mostly looking 
 forward to the multiplayer, but was also looking forward to the actual gameplay.
  
  The multiplayer delivered, but that was it. No more, no less. It was what I expected it to be. 
 The amount of playable characters was great, and the fact that you could choose your special attacks 
 made it even better. Lets say you were Rock Lee, but you wanted to have Rasengan available to use. 
 You choose rock lee as your main character, and then select Naruto's special, choose Rasengan, 
 and switch it over to your special list (No, Rock Lee doesn't perform the Rasengan himself, he 
 just summons Naruto to. I know, I know, we all want to see it, but not in this game =P) . Unfortunately, 
 when you start a match, its a race to see who can get to Sakura's specials first, because whoever 
 gets the Healing Jutsu basically will win the match, so its kind of broken. As for me, me and my 
 pals just have a rule not to use it because its so broken, and without that technique, its well-balanced.
 
  
  The single player was a big let down for me, I expected a storyline of some sort, but there was 
 none. Just a bunch of petty missions, Killing bats, finding scrolls, and the occasional boss fight. 
 However, some missions are insanely difficult, or require you to spam a  
 to beat it, and honestly, you can only see phoenix flower jutsu so many times before it loses its 
 luster.
  
  The Specials in this game had only a few that were good. Top of the list would be the Rasengan 
 and [Spoiler, you'll have to play the game to find out =P] . They butchered a few of my favorites 
 though, like Kankuro's Puppetmaster Jutsu, which was horribly bad-looking. Chidori was ok, but 
 not that flashy. To pull off the specials, you had a variety of tasks you'd have to perform, most 
 of which involved making circles really really fast in one direction. Some of which were awesome 
 though, like Phoenix Flower jutsu and Byakugan, where you circle the stylus and blow into the microphone, 
 and touch Chakra points, respectively.
  
  Overall, I would say this game would be worth buying if you get all your buddies to buy it, but 
 if you like playing with yourself (Don't say it &gt;.&gt;) , then I wouldn't recommend this game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
