-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/narutopathoftheninja2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic RPG feel.
 Cool jutsu attacks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No originality.
 Frustrating boss fights.
 Bland combat and story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's an endearing attempt at evoking 16-bit nostalgia, Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2 feels 
 a little too dated. 

  When an anime series takes a break between major story arcs it offers viewers shorter alternative 
 tales that don't correlate to an overarching plot. These outside stories are commonly referred 
 to as filler. Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2, the sequel to the Game Boy Advance-ported Nintendo DS 
 role-playing game, is essentially a filler episode dragged out over the course of eight hours in 
 a portable adventure. Path of the Ninja 2 features more of the outlandish adventure that fans of 
 the long-running anime are used to, though the end result is a soulless, traditional Japanese RPG. 

           The amount of useless chatter in Path of a Ninja will -- ZzzZzzzz.      

  The conventional mechanics, more so than the mundane narrative, are where Path of the Ninja 2 retains 
 what charm it has. The game looks, feels, sounds, and plays like a Super Nintendo RPG you'd expect 
 to have played in 1994, but it's loaded with tons of characters from the modern cartoon. The bright 
 color palette and groovy multilayered MIDI tracks cement the SNES feel while also nailing the anime's 
 vibe. Naruto nuts will surely enjoy the traditional tropes of the orange-clad hero's idiocy and 
 the huge amount of playable characters to battle with during their chat-heavy quest. Path of the 
 Ninja 2 is a loving throwback, but it fails to offer any depth beyond the basic fun of punching 
 gigantic turtles.  

  Naturally, tons of random enemy encounters occur as you wander the world. You'll spend a lot of 
 time in the combat screen trading kung-fu kicks with various ninja, samurai, monsters, and pirates 
 in a pretty standard fare of turn-based bouts. You'll fill your team with three of 30 available 
 characters, each of whom have an array of unique attacks and skills to throw at baddies when you're 
 not juicing your HP and mana-alike Chakra meters with items. If you've ever come into contact with 
 a Japanese RPG, you're well acquainted with this fighting philosophy, so don't expect any surprises. 
 Sure, tactically relocating your squadron of three fighters between a trio of planes adds strategy; 
 the closer you are to your foe, the more damage you will inflict, sacrificing some defence as a 
 result. Nevertheless, the turn-based action often boils down to you tapping the A button until 
 each inanimate enemy sprite disappears. Even JRPG fans will be bored by the monotony.  

  Character-specific ninja jutsu attacks that make use of the DS's touch screen add some flavor to 
 the humdrum fisticuffs. Minigames that will be familiar to anyone who played the first Path of 
 the Ninja will have you spinning, rubbing, and tapping away at the bottom screen to boost your 
 strength, agility, and defensive stats, as well as pulling off megapowerful special attacks and 
 healing spells. Even with the help of jutsu skills, you'll often be frustrated by the infuriatingly 
 cheap bosses. Certain big baddies can and will wipe out your entire team with a single tremendously 
 powerful assault, thus booting you back to the main menu -- it's heartbreaking if you haven't saved 
 in some time. The final boss encounter is the most notably agitating because you'll fight three 
 consecutive, progressively more powerful enemies that don't let you save the game or heal your 
 characters between battles. Nothing hurts more than laying down thousands of points of damage only 
 to get suddenly smoked by a ludicrously overpowered elemental spell in the dying minutes of the 
 finale.  

  Whereas the combat is simply unremarkable, the story and adventuring aspects of Naruto's latest 
 handheld outing are utterly forgettable. There is plenty of treasure to collect during the eight 
 hours of walking you'll endure during Path of the Ninja 2, but most of it is hidden away atop cliffs 
 or beyond poisonous lakes that require you to summon monsters to access. You'll be in and out of 
 menus constantly as you search for and summon the appropriate wall crawler, rock smasher, or lake 
 crosser that allows you access to your desired prize. When you aren't scouring and scavenging, 
 you'll be trying to locate five scattered mirrors with mystical properties. Given that these mirrors 
 are the only items able to seal away an unleashed evil spirit beast, Naruto and company set out 
 on a tedious quest to retrieve the colored reflectors and do away with the nefarious forces that 
 are trying to destroy the world. Are you still awake? If you aren't, the unholy amount of atrocious 
 dialog will surely knock you out with the cutesy conversations that pop in every time you enter 
 a new area, speak to a new person, or discover a new key item.  

           You'll see plenty of the same enemies as well as their multicolored, palette-swapped counterparts. 

  The dated gameplay of Naruto: Path of the Ninja combines with a couple of cool combat components 
 such as strategic placement and decent spellcasting to help keep the game from feeling like too 
 much of a rushed cash-in on a huge name. Even the addition of Wi-Fi multiplayer battles isn't as 
 enticing as it could have been. The overall lack of originality makes this generic RPG painfully 
 boring and a chore to play. Though it feels like a game you'd have loved to death on your Super 
 Nintendo, it simply doesn't hold up 15 years later when the most noticeably new addition is different-looking 
 character sprites.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2 is a turn based role playing game that is set in the Naruto universe. 
 The story starts as a cult of ninja have plans to release a beast from a seal in the Valley of 
 Evil. An old man tells his granddaughter to run from the valley to go get help. Meanwhile in the 
 Leaf Village, Naruto Uzumaki, Sakura Haruno, and Kakashi Hatake return from a mission, but the 
 same girl who left the Valley of Evil runs into the three to see Tsunade of the Sannin, who is 
 Hokage of the Leaf Village. Naruto and Sakura get attacked and learn how to fight (game wise for 
 player tutorial) . After that attack, Naruto and Sakura take the girl to Tsunade and then she assigns 
 them to another mission despite them coming back home, going with them was Shikamaru Nara, Choji 
 Akimichi, and Ino Yamanaka of Team Asuma.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it's quite cool to wander around familiar Naruto locations 
 such as the Leaf Village and Tanzaku Town. A fun side scrolling mini game. Familiar Naruto moments, 
 such as Naruto and Sasuke's brutal fight.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that some parts in combat weren't put out all that good. 
 Non-canon story. Poorly implemented save system. Frustrating moments. Mini game like moments for 
 certain jutsu could be put out better.
  
  Overall, Naruto Path of the Ninja 2 didn't quite cut it for me on tthis one. While there were some 
 familiar moments like Naruto and Sasuke's brutal fight, most of the other things in the game could 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazekick2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:37 am PT
Review:  Naruto Path of the Ninja 2 begins with three shady guys, who are plotting to unlock this sealed 
 away creature, that has the ability to destroy the world! Naruto and the rest of the group set 
 out to seal the beast, by locating 5 mirrors, that are used to lock it up for good. The game possess's 
 so many features that Naruto Path of the Ninja didn't, such as 30 playable characters, an awsome 
 original plot, many new powerful jutsu, the all new Ninja tage power ups, helpful summonings, being 
 able to assemble your own customizable squad, and the all new entertaining Kumite mode! In kumite 
 mode, you can select various characters to battle other ones. Limited Kumite is another feature 
 that allows you to use a selected character to battle another selected character. And Survival 
 Kumite makes you see how long you can last battleing againest various enemys! Believe me, this 
 is one game you just can't avoid, buy it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Senpaisama
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  You begin the game pitted against 3 unknown obviously evil characters, right away tearing away 
 any emotional ties to the show. The whole point is to collect these mirrors for reasons you may 
 not even care to read about. You trudge from place to place on somewhat large map, that is tough 
 to navigate at times. You will fight many battles leveling up enough to take on the bosses just 
 like any other RPG. The battle system is position based for damage and makes use of the stylis 
 for using justus, which is fun at first, but grows tedius. One of the big problems is the opponents 
 lack life bars, even without that you'll find plenty of healing points to decimate the endless 
 eneimies, which change as you get further through the game. Though they never really pose a challenge. 
 After finding a mirror you'll end up fighting characters that you recognize, such as Gara, Itachi, 
 Kisame etc. The upside is a lot of playable characters that you can switch out, but if you ignore 
 a character too long they'll essentially become useless so sticking with your starting lineup may 
 be the best decision for the game. There's still something satisfying about going fox and letting 
 lose a powerful Rasengan against equally powerful opponents. This game can keep your attention 
 for some hours, but will eventially lead you to just want to get it over with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigby590
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  Lots of characters. New jutsus. It is on game you should get right now! Although there are no shippuden 
 characters, It is still super fun. Get your copy of Naruto Path Of The Ninja 2 today. And if you didnt 
 know, Naruto Shippuden is the newest version of the Naruto Anime. Hope you get this game! In Naruto 
 Shippuden, the Akutski make a bigger role in it. All the characters are 3 Years older. I cant wait 
 till the Naruto Shippuden games come out! They will be sooo awesome to have! I dont want to keep 
 writing so i gotta stop here. You know you have to write one hundred words. I hope ypu read this! 
 I i i i i i ii i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i ii i i i i i i i ii i i i ii ii ii i i i i 
 ii i i i i ii i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i ii i i i ii ii i i i i i i i i ii i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i ii i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i ii 
 i ii i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocklee_112713
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2 is the sequel to PoN, an RPG on the beginning of the series until the 
 end of the Leaf Village Invasion. Unfortunately, the original RPG 2 in Japan, covering the Itachi 
 Arc to the Sasuke Retrieval Arc, was not sent to America; instead, RPG 3 was sent here with the 
 title of Path of the Ninja 2. 
  
  Now, this game is quite similar to the first. The fighting's the same, the Leaf Village has most 
 of the same features in the first game, and it gives you the feel of Naruto. Basically, the gameplay 
 is almost exactly the same. You can attack, defend, move around, use jutsus, use items, or flee. 
 Depending on your location on the field, you may deal and receive different amounts of damage. 
 You can use the stylus or the buttons for "chakra builds", which help to make your jutsu stronger, 
 like in the first game. 
  
  However, there have been some changes. Now, you can play as many more people (in the previous game, 
 the only characters you could use were Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, Lee, Neji, Shikamaru, and Jiraiya) , 
 which you will unlock throughout the story and after you beat the game. Now, you also have jutsus 
 that can summon different kinds of creatures (Summonings) , which can be very helpful. 
  
  Now unlike many other Naruto games, PoN 2 has an exclusive story. Very similar to CoNR2, it starts 
 with Naruto and friends coming back from a mission when a group of villains attack a girl. It goes 
 from saving the girl to finding a bunch of mirrors to seal a beast, and the mirrors will bring 
 back a battle from Naruto's past. The story wasn't outstanding, but I found it entertaining for 
 a bit. 
  
  Some of the music has changed, and it's decent; if you liked the music from the first one, you 
 should like the music on this one. Some tracks are the same, but others (Iike the battle music) 
 have been changed. 
  
  Now here's the best part of the game: Wi-Fi! Yes, the PoN series now has Wi-Fi, so no matter how 
 many characters you have, no matter what items you've obtained, no matter how strong your characters 
 are, you can still play for ages because of Wi-Fi. Want to see how good you are at the game, have 
 fun for a while, or just plain annoy your friends? That's what Wi-Fi is for. 
  
  All in all, Naruto: Path of the Ninja 2 is a good RPG and if you enjoy Naruto, RPGs, or both, then 
 N: PoN 2 is a game for you. I found it to be a great game, and I'm sure you'll enjoy it too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
