-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Path of the Ninja
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/narutopathoftheninja/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Control six different Naruto characters.
 Lots of weapons and jutsu magic attacks to use.
 Rips events and conversations right out of the comics and TV show.
 Quest takes roughly 20 hours to finish.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Grinding levels can be boring because battles are repetitive.
 The quest doesn't take any turns unless you try to find secret scrolls.
 Pretty much looks and sounds like a Game Boy Advance game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 299 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Path of the Ninja is formulaic, repetitive, and barely more than a touched-up Game Boy Advance game, 
 but it's not an awful choice if you're a hardcore Naruto fan. 

  Though the following for the Naruto cartoon and comic series has been steadily growing in English-speaking 
 countries for a few years now, video games based on the popular franchise have been slow to arrive 
 on portable game systems. A good case in point is Naruto: Path of the Ninja. This role-playing 
 adventure based on the first half of the Naruto saga was released for the Game Boy Advance in Japan 
 way back in 2004. Now, some three years later, D3 Publisher has finally brought the game to our 
 shores, only we're getting it on a Nintendo DS cartridge with a few trivial touch-screen features 
 added in.  

  If you've watched any of the animated episodes or have been reading the comics, you're already 
 familiar with much of what happens in Path of the Ninja. When the game opens, Naruto, Sasuke, and 
 Sakura have just finished their training at the Ninja Academy. As full-fledged, albeit lower-level, 
 ninjas they now have to go out and perform missions to earn their keep. In the comics and cartoons, 
 these missions send Naruto and his friends through the five lands of the world and ultimately put 
 them up against some deliciously evil ninja villains. The game is organized in similar fashion, 
 except that you have to do a great deal of role-playing-game-style item collecting and experience 
 leveling in the meantime.  

           Random, turn-based battles let you trade jutsu attacks with monsters and other ninjas. 

  As role-playing games go, Naruto: Path of the Ninja doesn't stray too far from the Final Fantasy 
 blueprint. In villages, you talk to people, buy and sell items, and receive missions. When you're 
 walking through the forests, swamps, and deserts between towns, you frequently participate in turn-based 
 battles against random enemies and scripted villains. These battles reward you with experience, 
 gold, and items that you can use to outfit your characters and augment their abilities, along with 
 the occasional chunk of dialogue that helps to move the story along. All of the usual RPG "stuff" 
 is here. During battle, your party members trade turns with the CPU's party members. You pick a 
 command (attack, defend, use item, use jutsu magic, or flee) , and the command plays out. Then, 
 your opponent picks a command, and so on, until one side is eliminated. Magic uses mana, or chakra 
 energy, as it does in every role-playing game, and all of the jutsu magic attacks function pretty 
 much like the fire, wind, lightning, and other stereotypical attacks you've seen in other RPGs 
 over the years.  

  In battle, you can change the formation of your party members to enhance their defense or strength 
 as a group. You can also perform team jutsu attacks, provided you've taken the time to bribe Naruto's 
 friends with candy, sushi, and ramen during your travels. Those little wrinkles are nice, but they 
 don't bring much strategy to the battlefield. If you've spent a ton of time in the wild leveling 
 up your characters, your attacks will be strong, and you'll win. If you haven't, you'll lose, and 
 you'll need to fight some lesser baddies to build your stats first. Either way, you'll participate 
 in thousands of repetitive turn-based battles during the 20 hours or so that the game lasts. As 
 for the story itself, the missions tell you where to go and guide you through each section of the 
 world in order. There isn't much reason to stray from the "path," though you can add some spice 
 to the overall quest by checking previously visited areas for special scrolls, which unlock secret 
 characters and rare jutsu magic.  

  Suffice it to say, people who have played dozens of role-playing games over the years will be probably 
 be bored by Naruto: Path of the Ninja, because it is repetitive and brings absolutely nothing new 
 to the table. However, that doesn't mean Naruto fans won't have a good time. All of the characters, 
 story scenes, attacks, and magic abilities depicted in the game have been ripped right out of the 
 Naruto comics and cartoons. The towns recreate numerous locations and scenery features that fans 
 will recognize, and you'll constantly find yourself running into secondary characters that make 
 in-jokes referencing events that happened all the way up to the beginning of the Shippuden story 
 arc.  

           If it looks like a Game Boy Advance game running on the DS, that's because it basically 
 is.      

  Generally speaking, the characters look and sound like they're supposed to. The audio is understated, 
 but the music has a pleasant Asian flavor about it, and there are plenty of recorded voice comments 
 sprinkled in for good measure. The hand-drawn cutaways used for jutsu attacks and dialogue scenes 
 are also very stylish. Unfortunately, on a technical level, the graphics fall short of what we've 
 come to expect on the Nintendo DS. The characters are tiny, their animations are simplistic, and 
 there's hardly anything moving in the top-view backgrounds. To make a long story short: The developers 
 ported the game from the Game Boy Advance to the Nintendo DS and didn't bother to improve the animations 
 or add life to the backgrounds.  

  About the only obvious upgrade the game received in its transition from the GBA to the DS was the 
 implementation of touch-screen support. You can use the stylus to guide Naruto's movements in the 
 world and to select menu options. There's also a scribbling minigame that appears when you cast 
 certain jutsu magic abilities. You must scribble fast or draw specific shapes to increase the damage 
 output of the attack you've chosen. The characters on the show have to make hand signs to use their 
 magic, so it's kind of neat that you have to do something similar in the DS game to be more effective. 

  Naruto: Path of the Ninja isn't something that diehard RPG nuts will enjoy. It's formulaic, it's 
 repetitive, and it's technically a GBA game running on the DS. However, it still manages to deliver 
 enough of the franchise's atmosphere that fans who have been waiting forever to finally be able 
 to play through the story on the go will probably feel like they got their money's worth out of 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kiro1201
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing this game yesterday.
  I just bought the games so that i could figure out the story to Naruto. I have played and finished 
 the game so now i know the story up to a certain point. Ok the battle play gets boring after a 
 while when you keep running into people and the enemies needed to be a little tougher. The leveling 
 up and gaining jutsus was fairly easy so that was good. The story as ive already metioned is like 
 that of the show. Switching the characters was a good touch to add in there. And i really don't 
 have much else to say about the game because it is basically the show become interactive. There 
 you have the plain and simple of it: fun since i was a fan but others won't like it.
  Oh one other thing was that the game was way too short. It only took me like 10 hours to beat it 
 all the way through. Ok thats it im done now.
  
  Bye everyone!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kemix10061
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Blagh... this game is just horrible, even a naruto fan shouldn't enjoy this game. It's boring, repetitive 
 to the point I want to take a dump on it, and it's not even all that fun to begin with. I seriously 
 hope that, if I can find my copy, I can sell it off to an idiot fan of the game for more than I 
 paid for it and get something that is decent, like Dragon Ball Z. When I got this, it was "Fun" 
 to a point and I was a fan of the series, I've gotten over it and the series. This game is a near 
 abomination. Get something good, and, if you have it, sell it for as much as you can, because, 
 no matter what you can say about it, it will suck. I hope they stop trying to translate these games 
 and stop production completely. And, quite frankly, the dubs suck, so, why shouldn't the games? 
 Get ninja council or the fighting games on the PS2 and stay away from the RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradleyPalermo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  Hello. This is going to be my first review and I'd just want to say that it was good, as I rated 
 it. But then there's the frustratung bit with only having 7 different playable charactors. And 
 to all who play it I bet you've wanted to play as Gaara or Kiba or Choli or even Itachi, well, 
 in that case you should go get the second one because it has a lot more charactors to play as (more 
 on this in my blog, "Naruto path of the Ninja 2 is better than the first) . Any way, the first still 
 has a good story line and battling system. 
  But the downside to both games is that there are a bunch of really frustrating battles. EX: in 
 the first, the final boss, Shukaku, is SO hard and has (I counted when he took damage) around 8000 
 HP!!!! And then there's the part with Neji.... And in the second, EX: the final boss, The Catfish 
 Spirit Beast, has such an immence plethora of HP it's rediculous and unbelieveable! (It took me 
 more than 7 tries to beat him! And I had a pary of LV 68's!) But enough about the second game.
 
  The last thing I wanted to say is if you enjoy all that Naruto stuff, these are the games for 
 you! And that if you get either game and don't get the battle system, you might as well bathe in 
 butter and cream cheese 'cause you'll be toast! Well, thanks for reading, this has been my first 
 ever game review. :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of Ninja follows the first eighty or so episodes of the show. You'll cover inconic 
 events such as the battle with Zabusa, the Chunin exams, and even the amazing battle with Gaara/Shukaku. 
 A lot of the backstory has been cut out, so the characters aren't quite as deep as I'd like, but 
 since this is meant to be a companion piece to the show and not a full on retelling, I can let 
 it slide. There are a couple of wierd holes. For instance, Rock Lee can fight with you as a playable 
 character, even when he's supposed to be seriosly injured after his fight with Gaara. You've also 
 have to deal with the crappy english version of the show, so Naruto is screaming "believe it!" 
 every other sentence.
  
  You can tell this is a GBA port. The graphics are pretty barebones. In fact, I have Kingdom Hearts: 
 Chain of Memories in my DS as well and the graphics in that blow this out of the water! The game 
 tries to recreate several of the iconic moments in the show (not battle related) but can't thanks 
 to the lack of things they can do with such lame sprites. The music also suffers from being a gba 
 port. It's ok and all, but the audio quality is sub par. The random voice acting can be a bit jarring. 
 Why they would have an actor come in for one or two lines is cofusing. 
  
  The gameplay is as simple as an rpg can be. You have three equipment slots for weapons, armor, 
 and clothes. You've got a few stats that gradually increase as you level up. You have no control 
 over how you level up or what skills get increased. Its all set based on the character. This means 
 that Naruto has high chakra and stamina, but low defense. Sakura has really high ninjitsu, but 
 no attack. Sasuke, of course, excels at everything. One of the cool things is that each character 
 will level up differently in terms of how much experience they need. Naruto levels up super fast, 
 while Sauske is slower. This is balanced by how much thier stats are increased. 
  
  You basically walk around maps, looking for treasure, story events, and fighting random battles. 
 You have a basic attack, jutsu (basically magic attacks) , defend, flee, and move. Depending on 
 where you'll move, you'll do more damage with melee attacks, but being up close means you'll take 
 more damage as well. Some jutsu requires one of a few stylus mini-games to build up chakra and 
 do extra damage. It is mostly just rubbing the screen or drawing circles. Works fine though. Veteran 
 RPGers won't be satisfied, but those of us who prefer straightfoward games will be ok with it. 
 It's a great RPG for those who don't play many. 
  
  The game only clocks in at ten or eleven hours long, depending on how much you level up. Ths is 
 ridiculously short for an rpg, where short is often upwards of twenty hours. Still, fans of the 
 show will have a blast with this, as it is a mostly faithful recreation of the show's awesome first 
 half. There are no real problems with the gameplay itself. Its just all been done before. If you've 
 got the spare cash and a love for Naruto, go ahead and grab it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brackamation
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Run around, fight ninjas, talk, equip weapons, find scrolls, fight more ninjas, etc.. Sounds like 
 a really fun RPG, right? Well, if you have ever played final fantasy one, you might know how anoying 
 it is to run into battle, after battle, after pointless battle of the same monster you have already 
 killed countless times. The story seems to follow the one from the Manga and the T. V. show, but 
 it only goes as far as the battle with Garra. Sounds like ninja councel 2! 
  This is pretty much the flow of the game: fight monsters, find items, fight monsters, go around 
 the closed path, fight monsters, talk, find items, fight strong ninja, die, repeat.
  Once you beat the game, you can play with other characters like shikamaru, Choji, and Neji, but 
 it still is the same game that you beat.
  If you like RPG's and you want to try it out, thats fine, but if you don't plan on playing over 
 and over again, then I suggest you find a way to play it WITHOUT buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nell1994
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of things that happens in the tv show but, this game is still awesome! Its 
 pretty short, so, battles are really fun, lots of items, could have been more characters, maybe 
 it could have been a little longer, lots of weapons and enemies, but no multi player. It is not 
 to hard or to easy it is just right. This game could have been perfect if it werent for the game 
 boy COLOR graphics. Theres also lots of jutsu, so keep an eye out for this really fun game! The 
 characters you can play as are Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, Lee, Neji, and Shikimaru. To wrap things 
 all up and it is a lot of fun if you enjoy naruto. This game covers up the first 80 episodes (up 
 to the leaf village destruction) but it skips so much of the story, you might get a little confused 
 during some parts if your new to the naruto world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Naruto Path of Ninja is the first real Naruto rpg released on the DS. Although it may seem that 
 Naruto and rpg wont mix it actually does quite well, and I could visualize it being 10x better 
 then the product released. The game has you playing as Naruto the whole time and you basically 
 go through the story of Naruto from the beginning to where Naruto face's off against Gaara. This 
 is a good amount of story in the game and that's a good thing. However, the whole time your character 
 you use while walking is Naruto. You cannot switch so this makes it frustrating to those like myself 
 who'd rather be seen as Sasuke or Shikamaru then our orange wearing hero. 
  
  Another annoying thing in this game is the battle system. I really dislike the turn based battles 
 used in this game. They could've had it real time where you run up and slash and attack your enemy. 
 But well they don't...
  
  Gemplay: 
  
  The game's story is pretty good although there is parts which don't follow the original story. 
 
  
  I'm pretty sure a true Naruto fan would enjoy the game's story. Although not so sure about the 
 battle system...
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics arn't 3D but they are okay... I think it compares to the likes of pokemon graphic's 
 wise. [I mean the pokemon of late.]
  
  Overall:
  
  Naruto Path of Ninja is a good game for a fan for a series... But if your not, then go for Final 
 Fantasy III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of the Ninja is a story about Naruto's adventures with friends, Saskue and Sakura, and 
 their sensei, kakashi,. This game is based on the T. V. show and has additional  
 and his squad. You start out as A eager Naruto going on his first mission and so forth. Now from 
 this you can maybe determine that this game was long (false) hard (not really) and interesting (not 
 much) this game did not have a skill level and i beat it in less than a week. This game has four 
 or five jutsu mini games with the touch screen. which were very easy to charge you jutsu to full 
 power and do a poison or higher dodge. What actually got me to buy this was it sounded a little 
 like another handheld game. Pokemon. Wrong again, this game wasnt as challengeing, not as long, 
 or interesting as pokemon. This game had reminded me of the pokemon series, doing very well, but 
 had only tricked me out of 30 bucks and failed, earning it a 5.0. Maybe if it was longer because 
 this game was made WAY after the death of the third hokage, and probbly would get alot harder i 
 only died once from the final battle with gaara as the sand demon when he had probbly two hits 
 till death. The stats id give to this game are a 2 to value 6 to gameplay 4 to tilt and 1 to graphics (their 
 game boy graphics!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game was Narutos first RPG, all Tomy was doing was experimenting, and this game still is awesome! 
 Its pretty short, so, battles are really fun, lots of items, could have been more characters, lots 
 of weapons and enemies, but no multi player. This game could have been perfect if it werent for 
 the game boy COLOR graphics. Emphasis on COLOR. Horiible out of battle graphics, but in battle 
 graphics are pretty good. And theres also lots of jutsu, so keep an eye out for this really fun 
 game! The characters you can play as are Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura, Lee, Neji, and Shikimaru, and 
 hers a spoiler: JIRAIYA!!!!!!!!!!!! Im not telling you how to get him though, youll just have to 
 do that yourself! To wrap things all up, its fun and should take you a good 20 hours to beat it. 
 This game covers up the first 80 episodes (up to the leaf village destruction) but it skips so 
 much of the story, you might get a little confused during some parts if your new to the naruto 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampirelord6666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are classic arcade like what you see in Metal Slug games or Pokemon Silver. The top 
 screen displays your team member's stamina and chakra. The bottom shows the squad leader and using 
 the touch screen like in Legenda of Zeda Phantom Hourglass the leader walk towards where you point. 
 While you walk you encounter enemies that just pop-up like in pokemon. You can use the stulus to 
 do battle commands such as attack, defend, move, flee, jutsu, and item. When you start the battle 
 you will be in your custum formation which you can set if you just press the start button during 
 the game. You can save any time using the select button. The game begins when Squad 7 is trying 
 to get 2 bells from there sensei. It ends after you beat the mutated Garra. You can play with Naruto, 
 Sakure, Sasake, Kakashi, Neigi, Rock Lee, Shikimaru, and Jairiya. I highly recommemed this game 
 to fans of nauruto, people that like pokem, or if you like classical games that contain a new twist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrutoz
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  now to you naruto fans out there stop kidding yourselves just becuse it says naruto on it does 
 not mean it is gonna be good. Yes i am a naruto fan too but what im not a fan of is the naruto 
 games and this one is just the worst.
  First of all. whats with the graphics it looks like they just took it from some naruto gameboy 
 game (im petty sure they did too) and the fighting well just leave the turn based fighting to final 
 fantasy ok
  second. now i know by now that some of u are sick of hearing naruto's voice over and over again 
 and with that godawfull music it was hurting my ears they reapet there anoying grunts and play 
 choppy battle music that sounds like it was taken from the super nintendo.
  Third. Ive seen like almost every episode of naruto at least 3 times so that just makes he story 
 boring. what makes dragonball z games for ds better is multiplayer ever hear of it. now how many 
 naruto games for game boy or ds have multiplayer............2. and how many for dragonball z at 
 least 6.
  
  So if your into anime, own a nintendo ds, and are looking for a good game try bleach blade of fate, 
 of dragonball z super sonic warriors 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  its not a bad game could be a lot longer. graphics are ok for a ds game really fun wepons are pretty 
 good jutsu's are strong but you really need naruto and sasuke because naruto's shadow clone jutsu 
 kills everything it has up to 300 damage total but the mutli shadow clone owns... and sasuke if 
 something hits him it barely touches him and his attacks own no one stands a chance with him. and 
 another thing sakura and shikamaru are healers why the heck is shikamaru a healer like really he 
 has shadow possieion jutsu owns it lets them not move which is easier if they're in the front row 
 because there DEF is lower any ways bottom line is the game is really short and the graphics are 
 good they could add new charcters like garra and more people but its not a bad game i would recommened 
 it to people who like naruto and fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of a ninja looks pretty scrappy. The graphics are GBA-level, but in battle, they're 
 significantly better. The battle system is new and unique; kinda like Megaman, giving you 12 squares, 
 like the opposing party. You can move around: The back means you won't take much damage, but you'll 
 be inflicting less. The front switches that around. The closer you are to the opponent, the more 
 damage you'll inflict.
  It follows the plot of the show up to Orochimaru's invasion, unfortunately a bit short. But you 
 get to play as Naruto, Saskue, Sakura, Neji, Lee, and Shikamaru, and even Jiraiya, and have Kakashi 
 on your team, controlled by the CPU. I love the battles, and the music's great. The game never 
 makes you grind for more than 2 extra levels, and offers about sixteen kajillion Jutsu to use, 
 along with a crapload of weapons, armors, and greaves. 
  Sure it can get repetitive, but you can have 2 files, though there's only two sidequests, and I 
 don't think there's multiplayer.
  
  If you really enjoy naruto, and Neji, Shikamaru, or Lee is one of your ultra-faves, get this game. 
 It aslo helps if you like RPG, and not so much the shooty kind ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitnick
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I mean come on man.... the graphics is just rank horrible we're in a new generation not in the 
 old GBA generation. For a DS game its boring. I do not see why people buy naruto games. Naruto 
 fans tend to get these games cuz i dont know theyre fans? they tend to think its good because its 
 Naruto to them. Do yourself a favor and dont but this game. youre only going to support them to 
 make more naruto games.... Compare gamespots reviews and other reviews they practically have the 
 same reviews. Low quality graphics, sloppy controls, bad gameplay, story line the same as other 
 naruto games, the pricing is about the same for a normal ds but not even worth buying..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaze347
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I got this game from wal-mart about 2 weeks ago. At first I thought, wow they messed with poor 
 little naruto's game too much, but as I progressed it got better and better. You will get stuck 
 a few times, no doubt, but you'll get by it if you just level about 3 times and its not excessive 
 or anything just some training. Definitely good for Naruto games and I would love to see the next 
 installment brought stateside as well. It covers from the begining of the anime to Naruto's last 
 battle with Garaa and the Sand/Sound ninja. All in all a really good game for naruto and a nice 
 RPG for the DS as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemy111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game, my main problems with it are the so few characters. You are very limited between 
 6 characters and that is ok but they have guest characters with you for a while and you never actually 
 get to use them. You are limited to the genin and only a select few. They just need to add some 
 higher ranked, powerful allies like guy or kakashi, just some more characters then the 6 that have 
 sometimes absolutely nothing to do with what's going on. But other then that, it's great. The story 
 stays close to the show, the variety and number of techniques avaliable are good, and it has a 
 nice fairly long time of play. If you're a naruto fan, i reccomend it, but if you buy it and expect 
 some characters, don't be surprised if they're not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth619
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  So you have seen Naruto Uzumaki Chronicles and Naruto Uzumaki Chronicles 2. So you have seen Naruto: 
 Ultimate Ninja and Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 2. So you might've heard about Naruto: Ultimate Ninja 
 3. So you have heard about the Ninja Coucil series on the GBA and DS. So what? Sure some of the 
 games I have listed above are better than this, but this game introduces something new: Time-Based 
 RPG (for Naruto series) .
  
  It may not deserve the best score for graphics, but it is still nice for a 2-D game. This game 
 only goes up to the end of Orochimaru's Invasion, but it is still nice. It provides some challenges, 
 such as Gaara, Orochimaru, and the Chunin Exams. It also has real voices and sayings from the anime, 
 such as "What a drag." The sad thing it, they didn't get too innovative on the Fox-Demon Transformation. 
 Sorry about that.
  
  This game utilizes the touch screen very well. You can use it to build up chakra for jutsus or 
 move around in the field. Each person also has their own signature jutsus, such as Byakugan for 
 Neji and Shadow Clone Jutsu for Naruto. They also pretty well divide the supporters and main attackers. 
 Naruto, Sasuke, and Rock Lee are very good attackers, while Sakura, Neji, and Shikamaru are good 
 with genjutsus and such.
  
  This is actually one of the games that actually follow the storyline. So Uzumaki Chronicles 2 was 
 a fun game, but it didn't follow the storyline. So it is nice to have a game that actually follows 
 the storyline.
  
  The Formation System is also pretty helpful. You have a 4x6 field. You're party of one, two, or 
 three will be in the right 4x3 area. The enemy or enemies will be on the right 4x3 area. You can 
 choose where each of your party members can be at the start of the battle. Depending on where you 
 put your party members, you will get special effects, such as immunation from genjutsus or increased 
 parameters. Of course you don't have to put them in a specific formation. You can make up your 
 own formation, but you won't get anything special for it.
  
  Overall, this game is a $30 well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: app3095
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Path of a Ninja is one of the best RPG games i have ever played and one of the best in 
 Naruto following Naruto: Rise of a Ninja, for the XBOX360. The good: RPG system, following the story 
 of the TV show and Anime Manga books (which is good) , feels like you're Naruto and doing ninja missions 
 The Bad: graphics, it's kinda boring when you do missions because it's kinda back and forth (do 
 mission, go home, do mission, go home and repeat which happens most of the time) The story starts 
 off like the beginning episodes of the TV but really starts off when the days of SQUAD 7 (Naruto's 
 group) Kakashi comes ask to about Naruto's, Sauske's and Sakura's hobbies, interests and stuff. Then 
 you play with the beginning 3 characters: Naruto, Sauske and Sakura. First you explore then you 
 fight Kakashi and he tells you the ninja rules. (to find out the rest of the story buy or rent this 
 game!) In the game, you have options when people ask you questions in the Naruto world. (e. g Question 
 then choose answer Listen or Ignore) So this is the end of the review, if you disagree with this 
 review, then i don't care it's you're opinion. APP over and out! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAVID9891
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The story starts at the beginning of the series and it show Naruto grow and get stronger and just 
 when it gets good it ends. The T. V. show is a year ahead I think this game should have been longer. On 
 the other hand for being so short it was one of the if not the best Naruto game i've ever played. The 
 graphics are not that great but what can you expect in a DS game. The story followed the show almost 
 100%.
  
  All the jutsu's you can learn is a new addition to the Naruto series. Battling is a good change 
 from the other Naruto games, you fight in a 3 by 4 area the turn by turn system is something they 
 should put in future Naruto games. Even though it ends so suddenly it's still a great game and you 
 should by it.
  
  The only bad thing I can say is that the only truly great player is Naruto you can play as Sakura, Sasuke, Neji, Lee 
 and shikamaru but they all suck compared to Naruto his shadow clone jutsu gives him a big advantage 
 over the other players
  
  If you have any questions just leave me a massage 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
