-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Ninja Destiny
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/narutoshinobiretsuden/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Teleporting is kinda cool.
 It's challenging on the difficult setting.
 There are characters to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The combat is mindless.
 Weak storytelling, yet tons of spoilers.
 You can beat regular difficulty matches without looking.
 Can only play a friend who was also unfortunate enough to buy a copy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 353 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Takara Tomy
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Feb 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This Naruto-inspired 3D fighting game is little more than a shadow clone. 

  Naruto: Ninja Destiny is a shadow clone of a shadow clone, namely, the Naruto: Clash of Ninja fighting 
 games. Whereas those console fighters were a little better than average, Ninja Destiny offers considerably 
 less. For $30, you get a game as bare and skinny as the sexy jutsu. If you're a young Naruto fan 
 you'll probably eat it up, but anyone else will find this game way too shallow to take seriously. 

  The Ninja Destiny story covers the plot of about 100 episodes with a minimum of effort. The stage 
 is set by a wall of text explaining that the final round of the chunin exams are about to begin, 
 and everything afterward is revealed as bad text dialog between unmoving portraits of the characters. 
 Not only is this a sad and anemic approach to telling one of the most beloved stories in manga 
 history, but it also contains a lot of spoilers. You've probably already seen the first 100 episodes 
 if you're reading this review, but if you haven't, this game may be the worst possible way to find 
 out what happens.  

           What's a Rasengan? Wait, no, don't tell me!      

  In return, it offers an hour-long story mode, a 30-minute single-player battle mode, individual 
 matches, and the ability to fight another player wirelessly, provided that you both have copies 
 of the game. In about an hour and a half, you can completely finish Ninja Destiny on the default 
 difficulty. Things get trickier on the difficult setting, but that's mainly due to the fact that 
 the computer opponents hit you on the ground more, and use special attacks more liberally. Still, 
 most of the 16 characters need to unlocked before you can use them, and collecting them can be 
 tough enough to keep determined Naruto nuts busy for awhile. If a friend also has a copy of the 
 game, you might be able to squeeze another couple of hours out of it. However, you should note 
 that squeezing hours out of a game doesn't necessarily mean having fun.  

  Indeed, Ninja Destiny's combat system is so simple it makes thumb wrestling seem nuanced by comparison. 
 You have two attack buttons, a jump button, a special button, a block button, and a teleport-behind-your-enemy 
 button. You move your character with the D pad. If you mash the attack and teleport buttons, you 
 can beat any enemy on Normal difficulty without even looking at the screen. Kick it up to difficult, 
 and the game becomes a little more engaging.  

  Why the game even includes a block button is a mystery when you can just as easily teleport. Of 
 course, teleporting costs chakra, but its debit is repaid with one landed punch. If you land four 
 or five in a row, you'll build up enough chakra for a special jutsu, which in some cases can knock 
 off more than half of an opponent's life. These, by the way, are not interactive.  

           Neji kicks butt. This game does not.      

  The game becomes slightly more tactical 
 when you're facing a human opponent due to the six random power-ups you can choose from during 
 any given match. These are displayed on the touch screen and confer bonuses such as doubling the 
 damage you deal or reducing the damage you take by 100%. You're still constantly trying to teleport 
 behind one another while mashing the attack buttons to build up a special attack, but at least 
 the power-ups give you extra buttons to push.  

  The graphics aren't terrible. The 3D models animate smoothly and even benefit from some stylish 
 shading, but they aren't very detailed, either. The backgrounds are also pretty bare. One level 
 takes place on a completely featureless grass lawn, with a couple of brown hills in the background. 
 The dirty, garbled music is fortunately very easy to fix by yourself: simply turn down the volume. 

  We've seen that Naruto: Ninja Destiny resembles a shadow clone with its lack of staying power, 
 and we've talked about how, like the sexy jutsu, it is thin and bare. On the default difficulty, 
 you can literally play it without looking, but the harder difficulty provides a better challenge. 
 Most ninjas would likely be looking for something more in their destiny than this game has to offer, 
 but it beats getting assassinated while you sleep.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GamevsWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:19 am PT
Review:  Ninja Destiny was one of those games that you knew you had to have . i have seen many gamplays, review 
 and comments on Ninja Destiny some say its good and some say its bad. But i didn't care what anyone 
 said and i still got the game. And i have to say.. its not that bad!! I was really amazed how good 
 the graphic was.. and yeh it was a semi 3-D gameplay. I was a little confused on the touch screen 
 at first but then i read the manual... (lol) the characters look decent for a DS. Neji looked great 
 and his both best moves were there which was good xD 
  But after playing for a while yeh it did get boring.. the main purpose was just to unlock new characters 
 and i still had trouble with that. It was very easy i could win the game with my eyes closed. It 
 was a mashing buttons game and it was very easy to kill the other opponent
  But still It was surprisngly good. :D 
  -gamevswolf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faithbringer
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I must express that in this particular game i felt the most displeasant feeling of displease (Exactly) . 
 Oh God here i come:
  
  Graphics 7/10: I must admit that in my opinion in DS i seldom see good-looking characters in it's 
 titles, sometimes because the handheld hardware, sometimes because the producers of the games who 
 trully needs to concede their jobs to chimps. The characters, as i said before, are well made using 
 cool shaded models not to mention that the cap. used in their set of moves are well put, HOWEVER, 
 as the Gamespot stated, the scenarios lacked quality.... brutally, nothing but a glued wallpaper 
 in the backgrounds and a what-look-like a lifeless ground to mess up more, a truly waste.
  
  If you are wondering, what i stated before is the best part of the game, and now....
  
 
  Sound 2/10: This is where the game flaw more in the whole. The music of the game is annoying, 
 repetite and makes you be gratefully to have the vol. control in the handheld. The characters in 
 the game are speechless in the fights, with nothing, even in the winning stances (if there's any 
 actually) they remain silent, making the experience in game more torturing.
  
  Gameplay 4/10: It's a well-rounded 1-on-1 fighting, with simple controls to perform the main stuff 
 in the arena and the stylus to perform the use of some items that makes the single player cheap, 
 however, it's to much simple and swallow the gameplay, there's a button to perform a weak combo-friendly 
 attack, other to peform a strong pummel, a jump button, a special button, teleport and a last block 
 button. The biggest issue is that there's nearly no interaction toward the controls, they moves 
 are so much independent that makes the gameplay easy repetitive and boring, not to mention that 
 some characters specials are a way stronger than others, making a terrible handicap that if putted 
 in the series you be a lame. (For fans: In this game Kakashi is far weaker than Neji in the Chuunin 
 exams) . And there's no extra content save the characters meant to be unlocked as you repeat the 
 story mode, who is boring to the extreme (more if you have already completed it or just already 
 saw it on the series) . Didn't managed to play this on multiplayer so about that i can't state.
 
  
  Replay 3/10 : With little to be uncover save for a bunch of characters to be unlocked the game 
 fails to make a "I wanna play just 1 more match" thought. Perhaps it can find a bit more positive 
 rating if played online, but neverless, still makes a bad debut in this, making you wonder why 
 would you play he game again.
  
  Overall 4/10: For the time being this is the least in my score so far in my reviwes here on Gamespot. 
 The game shows great character models put ends by annoying the player with repetitive and shallow 
 gameplay allied with an awfull sound output, making a very poor experience for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears-of-war-99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets get this started...
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Okay the graphics are really good because its on the ds. You have to remember that it is not the 
 best graphics handheld, although when it shows their face you think "Yeow..."
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Its really hard to start with but i got the hang of it after my second battle 
 and the teleporting helps if you are getting whammed. if you think its hard just press up and down 
 to shift right and left and attack them from the side.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The sound isnt bad... but its not great either. I like the background music on the main screen 
 and the battle music and the character phrases are nice too...
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  Naruto ninja destiny is probably one of the best fighters you could find on the nintendo ds. If 
 you dont like Naruto: Ninja council 3, path of the ninja or anything else you can find buy this 
 game... it's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pain9000000
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Ninja Destiny is what you would call, a flop, Boring, lame, with no substance. It has quick, 
 easy fights with horrible jutsu. Yes, it does has more characters than Ultiame Ninja 1, but Ultimate 
 Ninja 1 is better. 
  
  This game has lrible graphics and sub-standard fights. Once you finish the game, there is nothing 
 left to do but reset and do it again. It only takes about 3 hours, if that, to finish the whole 
 game, characters, story, and all. If you want a Naruto game for your DS, then I suggest waiting 
 for one of the Shippuuden games to arrive in america.
  
  Overall, the only way I would suggest getting this game would be if your looking for something 
 boring and repetitive. The only good thing about it is the multi-player, just cause you can thrash 
 your friends. Don't buy this game if your looking for: Quality, Substance, Fun, a Challenge, or 
 an addictive game. If you do buy it, at least get it used from Gamestop, EB Games, GameProz, or 
 Play and Trade Video Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  Naruto Ninja destiny is quite possibly one of the best fighters you could find for the DS. 
  I will admit that the Campaign is really bad, it consists of a series of fights with you doing 
 nothing but reading dull text in between. the fights themselves are the same as the one's you play 
 in battle mode so except for the extra characters there is no point in playing the campaign.
  Now that's out of the way the fighting itself is great, as long as you only play the battle mode, 
 the character graphics are acceptable but not amazing. the background's are all really good and 
 the music is first class fight music.
  The game's battle mode has two different options, Player vs Cpu and single player. In Player vs 
 Cpu you fight 1 match against an opponent of your choice as a character of your choice. Single 
 player is the real campaign of the game. you play as one character that you select and you battle 
 7-8 random opponents. One complaint i will make ,but i make this complaint about nearly every Naruto 
 game, is the lack of Characters. there is a fair amount in this game all the really important Genin, 
 Kakashi, guy, Itachi, the Sanin and Nine tailed Naruto. i would have liked more but this is a fair 
 amount. overall this game is in my eye's the perfect Portable game as you can play it for between 
 2-3 minutes to anywhere up to a few hours. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  at first people were saying it was horrible then my friend who lived in another state got it and 
 told me it was awsome. so then i asked my parents if i could get a ds lite and they said yes. i 
 got naruto ninja destiny with it and it was fun. the graphics arent the best but they made the 
 game like that for a reason. the story mode is 10 minutes long. i beat it without loosing a single 
 round. the difficult mode took me a while to beat it but i finally beat. when i had to face naruto 
 with lady tsunnada it was pretty hard. took me 3 tries to beat it. to get naruto's demon is easy. 
 but he doesnt look that tight in his demon form. its pretty hard to unlock sasuke's demon form 
 without action replay. beat difficult story without loosing once. now come on. naruto's demon easy 
 to unlock. if you have two people who have the same game then start playing. hours of fun. it starts 
 to getting kind of boring if you cant unlock any thing. but still get the game. it is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatobi669
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  This game is okay. When you first enter the world of "Naruto ninja destiny" you think your entering 
 something good... you think. Let's start off with the story mode. The story mode starts you off with 
 Naruto facing Neiji. The story ends with Naruto facing Gaara. The story is short and should not take 
 you more than 40 minutes to complete it.
  On to the graphics. Now at first i was skeptical about the graphics. Though I must say that the graphics 
 are good. You can actually tell the folks at Tomy put effort into making the graphics good. I noticed 
 the game slows down sometimes. Though it is only a mere distraction and should not give you any 
 headaches.
  Now onto the game play. The game play is ok. Some characters are of course stronger than others. Rock 
 Lee is fairly stronger than the others from what I have seen. Kakashi is pretty weak. He is slow 
 and so is his special. Now when the fight starts the game gives you 6 cards that you can activate 
 by touching them. They can give you health, chakra or boost your defense and attack. This is a good 
 system that could a been better.
  In the end "Naruto ninja destiny could have been good but they missed some points. They could have 
 tried to implement wi-fi connectivity. Or single card ds download. I don't think the game is good 
 enough to tell your friend to buy this game so you could play together. I would recommend this game 
 to the hardcore fans of the Anime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingzDbzNaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Well everyone has different needs and wants in a game. To me this game is nothing but the perfect 
 DS fighter. I believe that D3 and Tomy have put the DS to the limit in making this game. This game 
 offers a great variety of 3D fighting as well as a unique engine. for once there is a 3D game on 
 the DS that not a birds-eye of view or first person. Though the storyline is short and disappointing 
 the game makes up for it with multiplayer. The multiplayer is fun if you have friends that went 
 out and bought the game. The multiplayer is fun and enjoyable and you will be playing for hours 
 to come. The game does lack characters because I mean ninja council 3 has more characters and that 
 came out like eons ago. But this game is still worth a try.. you will not be disappointed (at least 
 i hope from my review you won't.) This game is a game for all ages and you attempt it at least 
 once in your lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KJsmashdude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  First of all the people that even graded the game are fat liars. This game rulz! Great graphics 
 awsome jutsus and fighting style. I really don't care if the story mode is short because you can 
 play as charactors you don't even have yet. Plus there are charactors like Sasuke curse seal 2, 
 and Kyubi naruto! (by the way those charactors are completly awsome.) and if you got used to the 
 normal dificulty you really challenge your skills. The single player opition is a way to keep you 
 on your toes. If you play with someone that has the game as well it's an Ultamate way to test your 
 skills and have a whole lot of rampaging fun! When your done read some of the other reviews on 
 games I rated! SEE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when my DS got repaired, not such a bad game, pretty enjoyable at some points, and 
 somewhat, i dont know addictive. I just keep playing it, its not so easy if you play it on Difficult, battles 
 become pretty tougher and balanced (like tsunade v. s naruto or shika v. s Temari) Unfounrlty for 
 the Game, the game itself has HORRIBLE graphics, it is very noticbkle when characters use their super 
 attacks. another bad thing that there arent much stuff to do. Currently theres an arcade mode, a multiplayer, and 
 a sotry mode.
  The Mulitplayer is really fun, so you can have a good time with a friend
  
  -bad graphics
  -not much of varriety
  -Very short
  +somehwat Addictive
  +Kicking @$$ is 
 fun
  
  i reccomend this game for a naruto fan, but still not much to do in there nd the graphics are kinda 
 of a mess.
  
  i`l give this ga, e a 8.5, its not so bad, but it needs to work on ints graphics
  
  GG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srzeczyca
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game really rocks and I play it alot and to say that Naruto Uzumaki is the strongest character 
 in the game. When Naruto is played against you he will kick your butt and is the fastest and the 
 Rasengan is his strongest attack. It is similar to Zatch Bell Mamodo Battles but this game is way 
 better then that game. The difficuties on this game is the story mode when it is on Difficult. 
 The toughest battle is Shikamaru VS. Temari and Tsunade VS Naruto Uzumaki. Kyuubi Naruto is powerful 
 too and not so sure which one is way more stronger. I really like this game and hope to unlock 
 all the characters in the game. This is my very first Naruto game and it is really fun to play. 
 My very favorite jutsu on this game is Naruto's Rasengan because it is so powerful and almost defeats 
 the enemy in one hit that is how powerful the Rasengan is. If any of you don't have it you should 
 definately get it. It is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam250
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  First of all, Naruto ninja destiny on ds is a game... a game, very difficult to explane, ( excuse 
 me :) ) This game is only for those who are ultimate fans of naruto or at least that they are looking 
 the episodes: So im going to give 2 marks on 5, one for a fan player and one for a normal player. 
 First let s say that the graphics are kind of good (3d) so we ll give 1on1.5 for both marks (1on5 
 on the fan player and 1on5 for normal) . The gameplay IS REALY MEDIUM but its on 2 so i give 1on2 
 for the fan and 0.5on2 for the normal. For gameplay, i mean the history that is medium. The most 
 important (for me :) ) is the number of characters and free play that is on 1.5 and i realy like 
 the choice of characters so i say 1on1.5 for fan and 0.5on1.5 for normal. OK TOTAL DRUUUUUUUUUMS: 
 for fan it s 3.5 on 5 and normal is 2.5 on 5. overall: 6 out of 10. Believe me, for fans this game 
 won t be that bad, but don t buy it if you re not *NARUTO FEVER*. In this game you ll be able to 
 control 16 good characters of naruto universe including  
 and lot more... If this review was bad (i think it was) , please correct me by sending messages and 
 we could be friends. Thanks for reading my stupid review by by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin my review, let's just say this. I hate Naruto. I find the series one of the most 
 overrated series of all time, and the narutards are just simple idiots who should really get a 
 life watching a GOOD anime. But when I saw the trailer, I thought for once, this game had potencial. 
 The 3d looked nice, and the DS REALLY needed a good fighting game. So I just played it to see how 
 it was.
  
  Music: Well, to begin with, the Music is just plain bad. It might be your average Naruto music, 
 but it really sucked, in my opinion. And the voices in the game didn't sounded how they did in 
 the anime. 5/10
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very disappointing. There are very limited combos, or anything else. 
 The gameplay was hollow and lacked a lot of elements that made a good fighting game. Also, hell, 
 I could've just beat the enemies with my eyes closed, for you only really use 2 buttons to attack. 
 4/10.
  
  Graphics: It's decent, but still needs some work. But I'd say this is the finest part of the game. 
 7/10.
  
  Controls: They were responsive enough, but the teleporting was not really any useful, and doesn't 
 really have anything speical, like the moves. But just items that may or may not help at all. It's 
 decent. 6/10
  
  Overall: It lacks a lot, and needs huge improvements. However, a serious Narutard, or a naruto 
 fan might enjoy them. If you want a good fighting game, go with Bleach: Blade of fate, or the Bleach 
 the 2nd, which is coming out soon. 5.5/10
  
  Conclusion: 5.5. 
  
  Not worth buying, period.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChrisss1995
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, well what do we have here! A new Naruto game! w00t!!!
  But not for long...
  This game is a total letdown! Yeah, it looks good - the graphics are cute, but nothing else.
  Well, 
 lets begin:
  Gameplay: Fighting game that reminds me of Tekken 2 a little bit... But that doesn't mean that 
 it is good! The teleportation is made pretty good and looks fun. There are 16 characters, everyone 
 with special combos and moves. But I want more.
  Overall: 8/10
  Sound: Total MADNESS! At the title screen Naruto screams: NARUTO! NINJAHHHHHHH DESTINY! Urghhh... 
 I gonna vomit... The fighter's phrases are terribly awful and the soundtrack is gorgeous, I mean 
 stupid. Oh! And don't forget Might Guy's 'You'll never defeat me at your level'
  Overall 2/10
  Graphics: Not bad... Not bad at all. Finally good graphics for a good fighting game 
 for the DS!
  8/10
  Overall:6/10
  MUST RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  While I wouldn't consider myself a huge fan of the Naruto series, I know enough to be interested 
 when a portable fighting game based on the hugely popular franchise comes my way.
  
  Naruto: Ninja Destiny is definitely a fan's game. The available story mode starts at the end of 
 the Chunin Exam Duels and moves on from there, bringing in characters and storylines from the TV 
 show's 140 or so episodes. For those not familiar with the television show, the story will probably 
 seem terribly fragmented, although not wholly impossible to understand.
  
  Luckily, the gameplay itself is enough to draw in fans and casual players alike. While the game 
 may have been released in Japan a year earlier, players can expect more than a simple port. The 
 frame rate here has been given a drastic overhaul, allowing most intense battles to progress seamlessly. 
 Lag still seemed to be a bit of an issue when playing as Orochimaru especially, but the lag wasn't 
 enough to stop combos from hitting when they should.
  
  Like in most basic fighting games, combos and basic movements are executed using the directional 
 pad and A, B, X, Y buttons. As you receive or deal out damage, your Chakra meter fills, allowing you 
 to use both basic power-ups (jutsu) and those specific to each player. Something called a substitution 
 jutsu is one usable by every character, which allows you to not only break opponent's combos but 
 also teleport behind their backs by pressing the L button. This move alone makes most battles almost 
 impossible to lose, whether you're a pro or a complete novice at fighting games.
  
  Other items and power ups are located on the touch screen, in the form of very large buttons containing 
 commands like "Jutsu Lock", which stops opponents from using any Chakra for a set amount of time, 
 and "Full Life" which completely refills your life bar. There are 15 power-ups in all, with six 
 being randomly assigned to you at the beginning of each battle.
  
  In order to add more challenge to the gameplay, there are two difficulty levels to choose from, 
 with the harder mode providing a great test for Naruto enthusiasts. The lower difficulty then is 
 great for beginners, especially those who would like to hone their skills in the game's free battle 
 mode. In this quick battle mode, players can either choose their enemies or go up against random 
 opponents.
  
  With 16 playable characters in all, most of which need to be unlocked, it would be hard to imagine 
 someone not finding a fighting style that fits them. Each character available comes with their 
 own personalities and traits, with some being more powerful but slow moving while others are a 
 bit weaker but very agile.
  
  The differences in characters are, for the most part, easy distinguishable thanks to the game's 
 impressive graphics. With so much going on at once on the top screen, the small amount of clipping 
 present is understandable, but the striking 3D environments (straight out of the television show) 
 and intense cinematic animations make up for any annoyance that clipping may cause.
  
  Another slight area of concern comes in the game's sound department. While the music is a great 
 mix of intense, rock inspired tracks that fit perfectly with the action in each battle, the voice 
 acting during said battles has a tendency of becoming repetitive, if you can hear it at all, due 
 to the voices being so quiet.
  
  While all of these features may seem to create a very positive fighting-game experience, I am afraid 
 Ninja Destiny is not without one epic flaw. In possibly the worst oversight I have ever seen in 
 a game, there is no real save feature, meaning that anytime you want to play in story mode, you 
 will have to start from the very beginning, or keep your DS paused indefinitely. While this fact 
 may not bother hardcore fans of the series who wouldn't mind playing through the same battles over 
 and over again, for more casual fans like myself, playing through 45 minutes of repeated material 
 just to get to where you last left off is almost a deal-breaker.
  
  This also seriously affects the game's attraction in terms of being able to pick-up-and-play while 
 on the go. Sure, you can play through Battle Mode and experience most everything the game has to 
 offer, but it really isn't the same as knowing you're actually accomplishing something that you 
 can come back to later.
  
  What might keep fans trying to fulfill their destinies is the ability to play with friends through 
 local wireless multiplayer, where each person has to own the game.
  
  All in all, if you're a huge fan of the Naruto television series, I see no reason why you shouldn't 
 pick this one up. Even without a real save system, the hours of multiplayer and VS. CPU gameplay 
 available here should be more than enough to keep you satisfied. However, if you're not very familiar 
 with the franchise, I would suggest looking elsewhere for your fighting game fix.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=ninjadestiny 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ninja Desiny is a 3D fighter that features 16 playable characters and about 8 stages. The 
 games first flaw you will notice right when you boot up the game, it lacks a good number of different 
 modes. All it has is Story, Vs. CPU, Arcade, and local multiplayer. The game runs good for a DS 
 game and it is really fun to play just a quick match or a few matches. The games controls are responsive 
 and the graphics are okay but another problem rises and you will definatley notice it right away. 
 On the Normal difficulty you could kick the AI's @$$ without even looking. But on the difficult 
 setting this problem is fixed. The specials are fun to watch and the game is fun online, but these 
 problems hold this game back from being a true great Naruto experience. True the game does have 
 its fun moments the characters all have different fighting styles but you can get everything unlocked 
 on the first day you get the game. If you want a Naruto game and only have a DS then get this game 
 but if you have other options that are better get those instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was 3-D but it actually kinda sucked. It was actually fun for me 
 to play because i knew how to play the game. Several thing that i hate about this game is the graphics, 
 the characters, and the story. Those who don't have this game yet don't buy it. Well for Naruto 
 Fans. I don't care so don't waste your money on the worst game ever.. I guess. Wow 16 playable 
 characters. LOL. It's so stupid. At least it was better than the Japanese version. They added 3 
 new characters which were the 3 Sannin. Orochimaru, Tsunade, and Jiraiya. Oh and BTW ITACHI IS 
 A CHEATER.. His Mangekyo Sharingan killed all. All of their moves are cheap. Dude, Naruto Nine-Tailed 
 Fox. WTH!!, HE FRIGGIN SUCKS... HES ONLY AT LVL.1 ALL THEY HAD WAS CS2 SASUKE. ookk.. i will calm 
 down. 
  OK BYE PEOPLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well Naruto: Ninja Destiny or NND can scare a person away for one reason Naruto but their missing 
 out on one of DS greatest fighters and probly #2 under Bleachs DS game. So DS owning Narutofans 
 must have this game expecily if you like Clash of Ninja. This game has well balenced charaters, 
 Ok graphics for DS, and tons of fighting. Like clash of ninja it has 2 attack buttons and one special 
 and even has the rotating thing found in CON. Sadley there arent as many characters as some people 
 would like but the characters they have are updated with the show and have cool specils. Story 
 is an easy beater but you will have to go back to get more characters. Single player is long but 
 fun and fighting with freind of course is funner. If your looking for a story game try Naruto Path 
 of a Ninja (RPG) If you want tons of characters Naruto Chronicles 3 but if you want fighting this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 321sponge1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is oh so very different to the 2 previous naruto ds games... with brand new fighting styles 
 and combat specials.. its a HUGE step up.... when I first got it I was thrilled with it... but as 
 I played more and more it got a bit disappointing especially story mode. After I unlocked all characters, 
 I was left in a slump... I was bored with it, all your really left with is single player or multiplayer 
 fights... dont get me wrong the combat is still amazingly fun especially with multi player even 
 though the power ups arent used too much since the combat is so fast paced, It still delivers!!.. but 
 in the end.. it lacks depth..
  
  Presentation
  Terrible let down with story, and main menu does not appeal much at all 
  
  Graphics
  Amazing 
 3D for a DS, but some special moves and plain combat can look glitchy at times and a bit undetailed 
 
  
  
  Sound
  The sound is actually very good.. The actual voice over sprinkled on the hits, punches, and kicks 
 sounds amazing, but the specials do lack sound quite often 
  
  
  Gameplay
  GREAT COMBAT!! Awesome fun with multiplayer.. Truely great button combos for all fans who want to 
 see variety and uniqueness in each character 
  
  Lasting Appeal
  This game is great at first but can become very very dull after unlocking all characters, especially 
 since story mode has no replay value whatsoever 
  
  
  
  Conclusion: If you are a die-hard naruto fan (like me xD) you will most definetly like this game, 
 and if you like fighters too... then you wont be disappointed with the combat either. But this game 
 is rather short and extreamly easy even in difficulty level on hard (I unlocked all characters within 
 2 hours) ..... so if you THINK this game looks good to you... then it probably will be =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, this game had a lotta character, depth, and potental, but if your not into fighting 
 games tough luck. naruto and co. have another fighting game. I thought "ohno another naruto game 
 there was only like two I like' and this surprisingly made the third. 16 playable characters (been 
 there done that) story mode (stinks) but this game multiplayer rocks they finally put itachi in 
 a game and took kiba out (thank god) sure the story mode which is like 20 fights at the least but 
 they are so easy to beat its like versing a 6 year old. Turn it to hard in settings its another 
 story. I got stuck on the second level beat got stuck on the 5th stuck now im on the eighth (naruto 
 vs fifth hokage) but when you do beat it im sure you get a character or something, not the point 
 i had it for about three days and cant beat it once it got difficulty and youll be shouting 'SHADOW 
 CLONE JUTSU!" once or twice. Even better with a buddy i think thats the best part owning your friends, 
 its a great game and ill be playing it for probbly more than 'rise of a ninja". STATS MULTIPLAYER 
 (dont usally give a multiplayer stat but this ones was so good ill include it) 10 GAMEPLAY 9 TILT 
 8 VALUE 9 and GRAPHICS 8. Just make sure your friend has it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozizaki
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've ever played. Naruto on the DS hasn't gone right until now. Makes the 
 Japanese version look like crap. The sound is the only thing wrong. More characters ould have been 
 better but I'm fine with this. 3D looks crisp in USA because of doubled frame rate. You need atleast 
 24 fps for your brain to make it move. Japan was 15 fps, America had 30 fps. The Sannin were added 
 so there was an actual story mode with real story from the anime. Story mode was a little short, 
 but honestly I'll never touch story mode again. I like to make my own fights.
  
  For those of you who think this game is bad great, but then why do rant on and on? This game is 
 awesome, and I can't be wavered from this.
  
  Can't wait for the sequel (It'll be in America in under 2 years)
  Hope Sasuke is in it and even 
 better if they have CS2 Sasuke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  What this game is about is graphics and battling, not some stupid story mode! I mean come on, its 
 a ds game, the graphics look like a psp game. 
  
  
  Good: Awesome Graphics, The story mode cutscene characters look pretty good, Single player battle 
 mode (thank you) , Arcade mode is pretty fun and a good way to unlock characters, the jutsus (most 
 of the time) are very clean and fresh and brings a totally different feel to the ds, multiplayer 
 mode, a fairly good character roster, battles are really fun.
  
  
  The Bad: I mastered difficulty mode the first day i got it, Wayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy too short story 
 mode, sometimes graphics can get a little bit glitchy, voices are horrible, doesnt feature a lot 
 of my favorite characters.
  
  
  Above all the bad things i said about the game, i love this game and am addicted to it. so the 
 reviews before me (except the first one) need to get a brain scan!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardorito
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game was to easy and a waste of your money. I think that they tried making it like the naruto 
 game on the psp but that one was WAY better...
  I heard it was bad in japan so i thought of not buying it, but when they said they improved it 
 i thought i might pick it up. So i was realy excited i thought in my mind Yay finally a ds fighting 
 game in 3D!!!! So I played it, it was a total ripoff!! the storyline was TOOO short and you can 
 beat it faster than a DBZ game. I mean how insulting is that?!?!?!?!?! 30 minutes wasted of your 
 lifetime gone FOREVER! A game worth playing is a long game that will last you a week like FF or 
 somethin.. And the thing i hate most is that u can't play Wi-fi! u can't even play ds download 
 play!!! 
  
  How Long it wil take you: 20-30 miniutes
  
  Gameplay: To easy
  
  How Much: $30:00
  
  Worth buying it: 30% 
  
  Game reccomendations similar to review: Bleach: 
 Blade of Fate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmelvin1020
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Even though the game is in 3d it still sucks. It is just like Clash of ninja for the gamecube. 
 There is only 16 playable people. Naruto ninja Council 3 had over 20. Even though everyone almost 
 the the same fighting style i still think it was better the the ThIs game. I shouldn't even call 
 Naruto ninja destiny a game. I should call it a cop out or a waste of time. How is it that in the 
 game u can hit some1 while there blocking. That's mad dump. I'm sorry nintendo but this might have 
 been your worst naruto game ever made. This game really hurt me because im a real naruto fan. Do 
 you know haw many fights are in the story mode? ONLY 8. A story mode is not 8 fights.
  
  Man im getting made just by explaining y this game is so bad. Anybody who wants to buy this game 
 go ahead. BUt when u do don't say i didn't warn you about haw crappy it was. And anybody who rates 
 this game and gives it higher 5.5 is smoking the good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty_99
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  The story consists of around 10 fights, and is linked by text. Not only is this boring but it jumps 
 from one place to another. So for instance, you are in the fight arena. Suddenly you are in town 
 fighting some unknown person over god knows what. Then you are back at the arena to fight another 
 exam match. The game offers no tutorial, so i had to figure out the controls by my self. (Not that 
 difficult but annoying none the less) . Enough **** (although there will be more to come)
  The actual fights are the one redeeming quality of the game. You fight as 20 of the series characters 
 and can use a heavy, light or chakra attack. Chakra attacks are powerful attacks, which I will 
 go over later. The heavy and light attacks are easy enough to pull off by mashing the Y (Heavy) 
 and B (Light) . The chakra is pulled off by hitting the A once you have filled the chakra bar. However 
 the one downside to chakras is that some are overly powerful (with no other downside to the characters) 
 and some are weak as **** For instance the one person who has 2 chakras (everyone has 1) , Naruto 
 has a **** chakra in the beginning and at the end he gains this godly power which takes away 3/4 
 of the opponents health.
  
  Overall i got to say, stick to DBZ or something that has a proper story and balances its characters 
 a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirkaro
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  let's face it, average narutard. I'm sure you're thinking ZOMG, How DARE u Give a NaRuTo gaem a 
 4.0!!!!11111shift+1!! Frankly, I dont like this game. I love the gamecube GNT games, but this DS 
 installment just doesn't cut it. Why didn't I like this game? , you may ask. Well, I'll tell it 
 to you in this simple review:
  
  Gameplay: Seriously the worst aspect of this game. For one, this game is SLOOOOOOOOWWW. and by 
 slow, I mean SLOW. There's a small delay time for each attack. and even though this delay is fairly 
 minor, any delay at all in a fighting game simply isn't right. The control is clumsy, and as much 
 as you pound B over and over again, the characters are as slow as ever. playing this game is comparable 
 to telling an old turtle, who's about to die in 2 days, to win a race with a bunch of other near-death 
 turtles. As much as you keep cheering GO TURTLE, GO TURTLE! the turtle will still go as slow as 
 ever. I mean, c'mon, these are NINJAS for crying out loud. arent they, like, supposed to be fast? 
 so why do they move at a snails pace?
  plus, there are also some other problems. like, why doesn't gaara use his sand? what happened to 
 temari's fan? why does neji's special look more like he's molesting his opponent, rather than fighting 
 him? Graphics: I've seen better graphics from toilet cubicles. no, seriously, if you just bang 
 a bunch of toilet cubicles against a 3d modeling program, even that would look better than this. 
 I mean, c'mon. Super mario 64 DS showed that you can pull off good graphics with the DS. why not 
 this? Okay, I'll admit, some of the character models look pretty good, but outside of that, everything 
 is crap. The backgrounds are completely in 2d, and the special effects look rushed. As I said before, 
 why does neji look like he's molesting his opponent? Why does kakashi's lightning blade attack 
 look so.... stupid?
  
  Sound: Imagine this: take a bunch of ear-exploding GBA quality music and make the characters say 
 thier recycled phrases from GNT, but scrunched up to GBA quality. painful, no? still, props for 
 trying.
  
  Overall: This game is just made of pure BAD. yeah, the game might be fun for the first hour, but 
 after playing the super-short story mode and even shorter arcade mode, thus unlocking the the entire, 
 yet very limited, roster of characters in this game, even though I wouldn't even have the patience, 
 but I did it anyway, cause it's just that darn short, then you cant help but to feel as if you've 
 been ripped off for such a promising game. I mean, c'mon! GNT! On the DS!? How can this game NOT 
 be awesome?! Well, it turned out that takaratomy had to disappoint, and give us this. boo.
  So basically, if you're looking for a good naruto game on the DS, go buy naruto: SND4, and if you're 
 looking for a good anime fighting game, go get bleach DS or jump ultimate stars. Stay away from 
 this one. and, yes, I expect a bunch of people who say No to the helpfulness of this review, but 
 this is simply my opinion on this game.
  ~tirkaro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLEACHNARUTOMAD
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  This game is another creation from Takara Tomy. Its another game for the DS. Naruto currently has 
 three games on the Nintendo DS. This is the 3-D game for Naruto. I can't stop playing it after I 
 started. This game is really addictive for Naruto fans like me. Although, the story mode is short, the 
 game supports Wi-Fi multiplayer like all other Naruto games for the Nintendo DS. The game also has 
 little characters in it, so it is not quite fun. It contains 13 characters. You start with Uzumaki 
 Naruto, Uchiha Sasuke, Haruno Sakura, Hatake Kakashi, Rock Lee, Nara Shikamaru and Hyuuga Neji. There 
 are still six more characters to unlock. I don't want to mention it here because it wouldn't be 
 fun for any of you who got the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
