-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Undercover
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/needforspeedundercover/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good sense of speed with high-performance cars.
 Robust car customization options.
 Performance upgrades are instantly noticeable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Threadbare plot doesn't even try to make sense.
 Wonky physics helps you bounce off walls to victory.
 Miniscule draw distance keeps you guessing.
 Tri-City Bay Area is a lifeless shell.
 Way too easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Vancouver
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed Uninspired would be a better name for this mediocre racer. 

   The Departed .  Donnie Brasco .  Reservoir Dogs . There are many great undercover adventures. 
 Do not count Need for Speed Undercover for the Nintendo DS among their number. With shoddy graphics, 
 bland environments, and dubious control, Need for Speed Undercover is a barely passable racing 
 game. And on the scale of undercover adventures, it's trumped by the likes of  Kindergarten Cop 
  and  White Chicks .  

           Don't expect much from the plot other than shoddy writing and static images.      

 
  Normally it's not fair to compare a video game -- and a DS game at that -- to a film, but the latest 
 Need for Speed title aimed to be nothing less than a cinematic tour de force, promising an "action-packed 
 story of pursuit and betrayal" right there on the box. While EA did enlist some Hollywood names 
 in Maggie Q and Christina Milian, it squandered their talent by only including still photos and 
 text for each character, rather than the cheesy full-motion videos the franchise is known for. 
 And boy, is the writing bad. Out of the blue, a woman named Rose calls and says, "Hey, hey, Pretty 
 Boy! We noticed you! 'Cause your moves are hot! Let's race out on the highway! Then maybe you can 
 be my boyfriend!" Racing ensues. Don't count on any additional exposition. You're forced to pop 
 in the console version of Undercover in order to fully understand the plot, which apparently involves 
 a hot car and some sort of package. Then again, if you're playing a Need for Speed game you didn't 
 come for the story. You came to race. That, too, is uninspired.  

  Events are broken down into several basic categories. In Hot Car, you must take a stolen ride to 
 the safe house, avoiding police entanglements. In Cost to State, you knock over stop signs and 
 phone booths to cause destruction to the city and its budget. In Highway Battle, you take to the 
 interstate and attempt to simply overtake your opponent, dodging the few cars on the road that 
 love changing lanes for no apparent reason. In Scramble, you ditch your undercover guise, grab 
 a Porsche police cruiser, and track down baddies. And in All Points, you simply track down and 
 arrest one of the "boss" characters. There are also standard sprint and circuit races.  

           Fill up your handcuff meter by ramming bad guys.      

  The selection of events in 
 itself isn't bad, but the implementation is. In All Points, these intense boss fights may last 
 only a few seconds, thanks to the speedbreaker slow-motion mechanic. Simply engage the speedbreaker, 
 ram your enemy head-on, and wait for a handcuff meter to slowly fill. The collision physics are 
 laughable, and you can continually ram an opponent, inexplicably bouncing him backward, and then 
 make the arrest. In Cost to State, it's quickly clear that knocking over road cones for $50 a pop 
 isn't going to net you the $15,000 needed to complete the mission. Instead, you learn to actively 
 engage and ram the police, the one thing that you are supposed to avoid. Then you engage speedbreaker, 
 ram the cop until his car is totaled (you don't take any damage) , net a $2,500 damage bonus, and 
 seek out the next cop. Finally, the computer opponents in the standard street racing modes will 
 occasionally refuse to be beaten. But with these few exceptions, Undercover is entirely too easy. 
 You can usually take a sharp turn at full speed, bounce off the wall, and continue on your way 
 without losing much speed, if any.  

  That wouldn't be so much of an issue if the Tri City Bay Area wasn't so generic a racing venue. 
 The morning commute is a breeze because there is absolutely no traffic. The backdrops are a drab 
 collection of lifeless buildings, construction cranes, and an occasional bridge -- you might as well 
 be in Communist Russia. During races, the touch screen is used as a map only, and tapping it will 
 zoom you in and out, much like in Mario Kart DS. Another feature shared with Nintendo's racer is 
 that you can apply the handbrake to drift around corners, though the control is very loose and 
 you're more likely to end up in the wall than on the track. In the event that a wall does slow 
 you down, a quick press of the nitrous button will have you back in the lead in no time. Undercover 
 does a good job of conveying a sense of high speed when you unlock the more high performance vehicles, 
 but it moves almost too fast. You're forced to constantly glance at map and then anticipate sharp 
 turns as you approach them. By the time you actually see the turn on your screen, there's no time 
 to react because of the miniscule draw distance. The speedbreaker helps here as it not only slows 
 down time but dramatically improves your turning ability. And thanks to the aforementioned physics 
 and collision system, you'll likely bounce off the wall anyway. Still, it would be more fun if 
 you relied on your reflexes and vision rather than a top-down map in order to win races.  

           The decal editor is passable, if headache-inducing.      

  Car junkies will get a 
 kick out of the garage, at least. After beating every career race, we managed to unlock a total 
 of 19 cars, including the Ford Mustang Shelby GT500, Dodge Viper SRT10, Nissan GT-R, Porsche Carrera 
 GT, and Lamborghini Murcielago LP640 (13mpg on the highway!) . You can customize your look by purchasing 
 a few body kits, rims, spoilers, and decals, and you can even design your own decal if you can 
 survive the headache-inducing editor tool. There are also three levels of performance upgrades 
 for your engine, nitrous, steering, brakes, and tires, though they do not include real-life licensed 
 parts as in past NFS games. You do get a great feeling of ownership over a high-performance, customized 
 ride because the upgrades are so tangible. A top engine upgrade will likely add 50mph to your top 
 speed.  

  Both single-card and multicard multiplayer are supported, though single-card supports only two 
 tracks and doesn't allow you to select a car. In terms of a racer, it's hard to recommend Undercover 
 over notable DS games such as GRID or even Mario Kart DS. And as an undercover adventure? You'd 
 do better to pass on this and rent  Point Break  or, heaven forbid,  Undercover Brother .     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been anxiously awaiting the release of this game simply because I was curious as to how EA 
 will be able to improve the game even further on the DS. Pro Street in my opinion is the best in 
 the series and showed how the system can manage to have a quite realistic driving experience with 
 acceptable looking graphics.
  
  However, this game in my opinion is a total letdown. The car models used here is not as good Pro 
 Street. We're back with the matchbox looking cars and the car detail is almost non-existent. The 
 map detail is pretty good though, you'll be surrounded with tall buildings which probably caused 
 them to reduce the car details to keep the frame rate at an acceptable level. And now, there are 
 motion lines that shows up at the back of your car when driving at high speeds. It might be necessary 
 if you're reading a comic book, but looks cheap when applied on a racing game. 
  
  Gameplay is not really all that good unless you're a huge fun of unrealistic driving physics. You 
 can take corners without screeching on the road at 240Kph. You can zigzag your way to victory without 
 worrying that you might lose control at high speeds. And the only time that it will happen is if 
 you use your handbrake. Collision detection is also broken, it properly detects 'em with some of 
 the cars. But there are a couple of cars that will react like you have side-swiped them eventhough 
 your car is still a meter away from them. It seems like they have generated a fixed distance for 
 collision regardless of the car model. And frustration will surely become an issue on levels wherein 
 you need to follow an arrow pointing you in the right direction. That's because the arrow changes 
 direction almost at the same time the corner comes a few feet away in front of your car. Running 
 at high-speeds with an arrow asking you to turn just a split-second away from the corner is an 
 irritating experience. And for the fans of maps with shortcuts, this game has 'em. Problem is it's 
 a bit tough trying to find them. I sometimes end up taking shortcuts by accident. But if you're 
 going to play this game a lot, you might be able to memorize their locations.
  
  There's a good amount of cars here and can be purchased pretty early on the game. Which is a good 
 and a bad thing because it defeats the purpose of upgrading your car. You might as well just purchase 
 a new one since they're pretty cheap and at the same time it will cause the car to be unlocked 
 in quick race mode. Which brings me to another issue with this game. I just don't see the point 
 why you should purchase the cars in career mode just for them to become usable in quick race mode. 
 And don't get me started about the race types, eventhough I have already raced in pursuits, knockout, 
 and checkpoint races ... none of them can be found in quick race. Granted that I am still just 
 on the early stages of the game and they may get unlocked later on. I still feel like it's not 
 proper to keep them locked if they are already available in career mode.
  
  If you're looking for cutscenes, well there's none. What you get is a bunch of screenshots of Maggie 
 Q and subtitles for you to read. It's boring at best, and there might be a clip on the later stages 
 (or at the end) of the game but I haven't seen a single one even after winning quite a hefty number 
 of races. I'm sure that EA could have squeezed a few of them in the game but I guess they just 
 chose not to.
  
  The sound effects is okay, but the soundtrack is not what the usual NFS games have on offer. I'm 
 not even sure what genre some of those tracks are ... 'coz they sound reggae to me. Not something 
 that I would want to listen to while I'm driving though.
  
  For those gamers who love playing racing games with total disregard to realism and wants an almost 
 instant gratification, this game is definitely for them. Why upgrade when you can just purchase 
 a new car ... and why worry about loosing car control when your ride hugs the road like a 5 ton 
 truck? The game might offer some new features that wasn't available over the previous releases 
 but they all feel half-baked to me. None of them made the game feel like it's a better version. 
 It feels like the game was rushed to meet a deadline and the result of that is a mediocre racing 
 game that is not all that fun to play.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
