-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Most Wanted
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/needforspeedmostwanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Game is often playable if you control it the right way.
 Punking the cops is fun.
 Good way to trick out a Lamborghini or Porsche for less than one hundred grand.
 Sharp car models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Flaws in the controls, physics, and AI are rather annoying.
 Too few police.
 Graphics are passable, albeit buggy.
 May as well turn off your speakers rather than listen to the lawn mowerserr car engines.
 No sign of the console game's humorous story or characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 4.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 360 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 15, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This watered-down imitation of the console game has some glaring problems. 

  Compared to its console counterpart, the Nintendo DS version of Need for Speed Most Wanted is far 
 less ambitious, and in turn, not as interesting. It's basically just another generic racing game 
 with a few police cars mixed in among the competitors. Furthermore, there are problems with the 
 game's controls, physics, and artificial intelligence, which often make the process of playing 
 the game more frustrating than fun.  

          Watch out for the cops -- well, the three or four you might run across during an event.  
    

  The first things to hit the cutting-room floor were the console game's story and cinematic video 
 scenes. The development team didn't even try to duplicate these features with, perhaps, still screens 
 and text -- a mild shame considering the dialogue in the console game is so corny that it's actually 
 lovable. The open-ended city was axed too. Taken together, these cutbacks mean that the DS version 
 is organized primarily as a collection of menus that let you choose individual events in the game's 
 quickplay, career, and two-player Wi-Fi modes. Race types include the standard point-to-point, 
 circuit, and time trial events, which are part and parcel of any racing game, as well as an event 
 that's unique to Most Wanted called "barricade." In this event, you have to try to drive through 
 a series of police barricades without running into the cars and vans holding the wooden crossbeams. 

  Despite the addition of police to the mix, avoiding the cops in non-barricade events isn't too 
 difficult, primarily because there really aren't that many of them. Unlike in the console game, 
 which constantly ramps up the law enforcement's numbers until you're being chased by dozens of 
 cop cars and a police helicopter, you'll only find yourself being followed by as many as two police 
 cars at any given time in the DS version. They'll give chase when your car's "heat level" is high 
 enough. Heat level is an indicator of your wanted status and is increased by bumping into other 
 cars, trashing street signs, and speeding past police cruisers. When your heat level is maxed out, 
 the police try to knock you off the road or lay down a spike strip ahead of you. If you finish 
 a race with your heat level filled, you can also challenge the cops to a double down race, which 
 gives you the chance to wager that event's earnings on a one-lap face off. Ironically, should you 
 happen to get busted, the only punishment you'll face is the few seconds you'll lose getting back 
 up to speed in the race. You can also "get out" of the bust by participating in one of two minigames, 
 either four-card monte or a tire-spinning contest. Both minigames use the touch screen. That's 
 the full extent of the so-called police presence in the DS version.  

  The racing itself is generic and plain, which wouldn't be so bad except that there are also various 
 problems that crop up frequently to inject needless frustration into the game. Most events place 
 you with three opponents out on the course, along with a few cops and dozens of innocent commuter 
 vehicles. Each course is a good length, and most have a shortcut or two. The cars, in general, 
 all feel heavy and mostly handle the way they should. You don't have to worry about the nitro boosts 
 or slow-motion cameras that the console and PlayStation Portable versions of the game have, since 
 they weren't implemented in the DS version. You'll want to take first in every race so that you 
 can unlock additional car upgrades and boss challenges, and you'll probably end up replaying some 
 races multiple times in order to do so. Obviously, getting nabbed by the cops or colliding with 
 commuter cars will slow you down, as will nudging into or smacking into walls. Unfortunately, the 
 controls tend to oversteer, so it's easy to smack into cars, walls, and everything else. To make 
 matters worse, the game's collision physics are unforgiving. Run into or rub sides with any other 
 vehicle, opponent or otherwise, and you'll be pushed backward every time. Meanwhile, the CPU can 
 often pass through oncoming traffic and always gets a helpful boost whenever you so much as bump 
 fenders. Needless to say, racing on tight roadways isn't fun.  

  Also frustrating is the game's AI, which ranges from normal to dimwitted to absolutely unfair, 
 all during the span of a single race. When the AI is functioning as it should, it's tough, but 
 not impossible, to pass opponents and evade cop cars. When it isn't functioning properly, your 
 opinion may vary depending on the outcome. It's not so terrible when an opponent suddenly turns 
 the wrong way for no reason. On the other hand, it absolutely bites when an opponent inexplicably 
 jumps out to a large lead or when oncoming cars start swerving toward you in order to hit you. 

  Should you attempt to acclimate to the game's flaws, you'll certainly find a healthy amount of 
 content to dig into. The garage includes 15 licensed vehicles, ranging from the lowly VW Golf to 
 the beefy Lamborghini Gallardo, and there are 10 different courses to pick from. Dozens of performance 
 upgrades, body kits, and vinyls can be unlocked by playing through the career mode, which includes 
 75 events spread throughout 15 chapters.  

          Graphics are passable, but a step backward from Need for Speed Underground 2.     

 
  Just don't plan on showing off the game to your friends, because the graphics, while passable, 
 aren't worth bragging about. Visually speaking, the game has a smooth frame rate and there are 
 enough polygons to go around, although the environments sometimes suffer due to instances of seam 
 tearing and disappearing textures. Commuter cars also have a habit of suddenly appearing on the 
 road a few feet in front of you. Commuter and police vehicle models are extremely basic, but actual 
 competitor vehicles are colorful, shiny, and intricate -- right down to flickering taillights and 
 custom body kits. All of the action is shown on the upper screen, while the lower screen is used 
 to display the course map and driver positions.  

  The audio, meanwhile, is just plain pathetic. Car engines sound like lawn mowers and crashes sound 
 like soup cans being banged together. Instead of using licensed music tracks, the DS version employs 
 the same cheesy elevator music that the Game Boy Advance version has, albeit recorded at a higher 
 quality.  

  On the whole, the DS version of Need for Speed Most Wanted is a flawed and pale knockoff of its 
 console counterpart. At its best, it's a standard racing game that coincidentally happens to have 
 a few police cars roaming the streets along with the competitors. At its worst, it's downright 
 frustrating.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Elektromag
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  I've been through many poor, run-at the mill DS games: A few textures, a few models, a few stages, 
 a few touch screen actions. But never before have I seen that kind of game used to advertise. LOOK 
 at the BMW: it's on the box! it has the highest stats! Its controlled by the best racer! This is 
 an ad! It's not a game; racing games dont have such abominable handling! Had it not been partially 
 their own fault, I would have sympathy to bmw for such a letdown from ea. It has poor multiplayer 
 (2 players, multi-card) , and no free roaming unlike in other NFS games. On the bright side, however, 
 it brings a lot of the features of older games of the series. There is traffic, elimination mode 
 (whoever is last at the end of each lap is eliminated until there's 1 left) , sprints (part of a 
 lap) and reverse races. Still, I seriously recommend you buy either another version of need for 
 speed or on another console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This was my first DS game, as soon as i played it, i stayed away from my DS. I'll tell you why.
 
  
  Graphics: VERY UNATTRACTIVE. The Car Models are alright, but when they move they look like boxes!! 
 Where's the great visual design from the Console (or psp) versions? Seriously I liked all that 
 street crap with all the writing everywhere, this SUCKS!! 3/10 Sound: Crap, Crap and more crap. 
 The music is HORRIBLE Considering it's a street racing game! I can make better music with my mouth 
 than in this game, oh by the way, the car sounds suck too. 3/10
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is UNEXICTING, BORING, EASY and there's no story AT ALL. When you just go 
 into career mode it just shows the blacklist 15, there's no interduction at all, it just shows 
 the races and they expect you to beat them, i mean come on, at least put some effort into it! There's 
 gamemodes like Barricade where you dodge cop road blocks, there's your standard circuit and sprint 
 races and there's elimination.. what? That's it? Wow that sucks. 2/10
  
  Replay Value: After you finish the Career mode (If you finish it) There's nothing else to do. 2/10
 
  
  Overall, This game SUCKS! It was my first DS game and since about the third time playing, i stayed 
 away from my DS, I thought it sucked just playing that game, when I got my Next DS game, Fifa 06, 
 I was addicted to my DS for months. Now THAT'S a good game! Also, I Picked up the next DS need 
 for speed game, Need for speed carbon: Own the city. It's very impressive, and actually I was playing 
 that just before i started writing this review. Who knows, i might write a review for those 2 games! 
 Oh, by the way, DON'T GET THIS GAME!! (Sorry I got Off-Topic there, haha) .
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 2.0/10. Work harder next time EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game only becasue it was $20 at Gamestop. I hate it. It was a waste of my money and 
 time. This is why:
  
  Gameplay: Crap! All you do is drive around a stupid track and race, dogeding the police, and stupid 
 time trails. Notthing much else but you will get borde I gurantee it.
  
  Graphics: Crap as well. Enviourments and veichles look very bad. The cars have no detail at all.
 
  
  Sound: The worst part of this game. You have no music at all. All you do have is a schreeching 
 annoying sound that trys to make you think they have some ok music that has no lyrics but it is 
 not. I just keep the noise off cause it sucks!
  
  I say don't buy it. Use the $20 on Cooking Mama, Brain Age, Sims 2, or something else but don't 
 buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwildgun
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  So I start playing NFSMW and I was surprised by the graphics, not bad pretty sharp. Then I start 
 playing the game, the steering is too sensitive. So for the first 15 minutes the game is frustrating. 
 I allmost dicided this game was a lost cause, then I decided to try and adjust they way I press 
 the keys and presto the game was playable. The A. I. is horrible, EA could have stopped wasting 
 our time by keeping the A. I. difficulty ramped up. I believe the development cycle was really rushed 
 on this game. The best racing games I've played for the DS are Race Driver Create &amp; Race, I 
 will review once I'm done. Next is Juiced 2, I own but have not started getting into yet. SO EA 
 I CAN'T SEE WHY YOU GUYS WASTE MILLIONS DEVELOPING A GAME FOR THE DS, ONLY FOR US LOYAL NFS FANS 
 TO GET A RUSHED PEACE OF CRAP . EA do us all a favor and take your time. We would rather take a 
 complete peace of software over a peace of crap software!!! Most of us won't be angry that it is 
 for our own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aghasouren
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  i dont recemend it at all. waist of money if u want to buy it so you can braek it then buy it at 
 all cost dont buy it unless youre planing to breke it with rage this was the 3rd game i ever got 
 for the ds and it sucked come on ea im pissed of at u you littel`****** i haet you dang newbie 
 youre a noob you noob get a life and share it u noob everone hates you lol jk or am i noob noob 
 noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob 
 nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob 
 nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob 
 nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob 
 nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob 
 nooob noob noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob 
 noob noob noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob 
 noobnoob noob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob nooob noob nooob noob noob noob noob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibblebobbyson
Rating: 1.7
Date: May 9, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  What is EA thinking? You'd think it would be good, but it's total ****! It's is a really bad version 
 of the console alikes, and it has the worst experience you could possibly have on the DS.
  
  The game's graphics are pretty dull, They [Electronic Arts] should of got off their lazy butts 
 and make them detailed. What's the fun of driving a blue blob, supposively a Mustang, and beat 
 other blobs? It just makes me annoyed for even having it on store shelves.
  
  The handling on the vehicles are very, very, very, very loose! Whenever you turn you get oversteered 
 and smash against the wall. Steerings half of racing in driving games, and screwing up the controls 
 is half the reason why this game blows!
  
  The sounds in this game can be so much of an annoyance, it isn't even funny! The engines sound 
 like a low-pitched mower, and who the heck likes to listen to a niusance? No one!
  
  If I could sum up this game in one sentence it would be... 'Playing it is like grabbing a bee hive, 
 painful and you regret doing it!' because the game is so bad I regret buying it! I hope no more 
 games like these come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The XBOX 360, PS2, PSP, GC, PC etc. versions of this 'Cops on Camera' like game was flawless. But 
 when it comes to the DS, oh god! My friend has this game on his DS, and it is rubbish. The graphics 
 are poor, the gameplay is boring, it's impossible to complete the first boss, and the handling 
 isn't what you call, 'Top Gear' standards. And there is no fun whatsoever, i mean, you'd be better 
 off doing real-life Motorstorm, then playing this. A complete waste of time, button bashing, eye 
 using and, above all else MONEY. Get it on the 360 or the PS2, please! Your fingers and eyes will 
 thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted isn&acute; t the worst title for DS, but surely is the worst racing game 
 for it. The graphics are not ok, worse than playstation era, and the challenge is too easy.
  The gameplay isn&acute; t that bad, since all the reactions are quite good, but the pursuit of cops 
 cars should be better.
  Some car models are better than others, but the physics are a joke... A bad choice if you want a 
 racing game, even racing games of gameboy advance era are better. The sound is very disappointing 
 too, with repetitive musics and bad effects. Sometimes the effects desappear, while other took 
 its place. Run away from this title!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris140391
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  this was the worst game on DS i have ever pllayed it has rubbish graphics, terrible customisation 
 and the police chases also suck!
  seeing as im a 15 year old boy you may understand how shocking it is that i find super princess 
 peach a work of art next to this trash they call a game.
  by the way im a BIG need for speed fan and this was the most shocking thing ive ever seen on my 
 two little screens.
  i opened my ds up last christmas and my first thought was must have need for speed most wanted! 
 any way i brought it on boxing day and couldnt wait to playit i thought it would be great but then 
 i put it in my ds and halfway through the first race i just turned it off . i was feeling sick 
 with the thought that i was stupid enough to buy this and waste a good &pound;35 and i have truthfully 
 not played it since.
  also the box art and screenshots make it out toi be something its not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The new Need for Speed game has its new title called most wanted as the developers stop calling 
 it underground and created Most Wanted players enjoyed the consoles and its PSP version of it but 
 actually EA also creted one for the DS and while players soon start theyl will then say oh crap 
 i just wasted 30 bucks on this crap junk and if player were to compare DS with the PSP of both 
 versions then i would say that PSP would definately win and so called '' own the DS surprisingly 
 EA had actually mad burnout legends for the DS but it didnt really came out that good and yet burnout 
 legend for the DS had typically sucked alot and i would say that this NFS MW and burnout legends 
 are by far the worst ea title but while this was mostly suppose for teenager well...
  teenagers wont work well with this title
  but basicly kids who are 8 to 12 who are able to control 
 the game controls and ignore or stand form the bad graphics should enjoy this crap
  
  The graphics are no where near as good as the Xbox,360, PC, PS2 nor the PSP as the DS sucks alot 
 at its environmnet players will also realised that cars wont bumb into the wall and will clip trough 
 it like there a ghost car
  anyway the environments dont look ghetto at all as they dont have all those graffiti sprayings 
 on the wall like the others do and the area environments sucks alot
  cars are not nicely detailed but are quite nicely desighned and my favorite car, the gallardo, looks 
 a little fine
  
  while sounds there isnt much to talk as cause to tell ya it dosent sound nice at all and sparks 
 sound more like my grandma shredding her toe nails overall NFS MWfor the DS just dont make out 
 so well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair29
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is so broken it shouldn't have ever been released. It has dreadful graphics, and it oversteers 
 all the time. The physics are dreadful and when I crashed into a car at 160 mph, I was thrown backwards 
 and nothing happened to the other car. The cars look like odd shaped blocks. The only reason why 
 most wanted has been called most wanted has practically been taken out of the game. You can only 
 be chased by 2 police cars max. The custimization is pointless because you can't really see the 
 difference the graphics are so bad. So in other words, don't buy this ds game. It just overall 
 sucks and all copies should be destroyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty much plain fun. You're just suppose to race these many races, so you can move 
 on to the next Blacklist member. It didn't take me too long to get there. Unlike the PC version, 
 that almost took me a month to get there.
  
  The graphics were Ok, but I think they could have been a lot better. In the PC, and console versions, 
 you can feel the speed that you're going at because the surroundings become hard to see, 'cause 
 you're going really fast. But in the DS version, even if you're going at 200+, you don't see any 
 difference, well, maybe harder to control the car, of course.
  
  The AI in this game, simply sucked. I really didn't like that cops came out from thin air. They 
 didn't really put a whole lot of fight to stop you, even if you were pretty high in your heat level. 
 They were just going to follow you, and do nothing, except put some spikes every now and then. The 
 racers that you raced against aren't that challenging either.
  
  I really did miss the hilarious cinematics that were included in the PC, and console versions. 
 I though that the DS at least could have had some of those cool cinematics, but not even one of 
 them were included.
  
  All in all, the game is just plain fun. I'd recommend this game to people that just like to race 
 in a handheld, and that are really bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendan253
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted was my first game for Nintendo DS. As soon as I started playing it I 
 thought it was the best game.
  Later that week I completed the game, but up to this I still play this game when I am bored with 
 my other games.
  Need for Speed Most Wanted has excellent graphics and as I said before it has great gamplay. This 
 game also has multiplayer. You can play against your friends any were you go.
  You can also own up to 15 cars, which you can custimize any way you want. 
  Need for Speed Most 
 Wanted also has a new racing mode called toll booth races. In this new mode you are timed and you 
 have to race to one booth after another before time runs out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is just a waste of time, and money. It seems that this game has been a downgrade from 
 NFSU2. That game was put up so well, now it makes me think. 
  
  On the brightside it still has cops chasing after you, but not too many. Nice roster of cars, but 
 what are cars without the control? Its not the way the cars handle that make the cars crash, its 
 the game itself. The career mode on the consoles were great, while for the DS there is only about 
 16 taces, far too easy/
  
  For the PS2, XBOX AND XBOX 360, NFSMW was a superb game, while on the handhelds its just a complete 
 mess. Is there any hope for racing games for the DS? Still the NFSU2 tops this game any time, lets 
 just hope that Carbon wants to bring us back to racing on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGjossy
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  At the start when I create a user and wrote my signiture with the pen I thought this game may well 
 be cool, but when I first started a race I seen that the graphics were terrible, the cars didn't 
 go very fast, and when I ever hit the traffic the car would completely stop.
  
  In career mode it is far to easy, there are only 15 races, it was to easy to get money because 
 if you won a race you get like 1500, there were only a few cars to buy and even with the upgrades 
 you buy, the car hardly makes a difference.
  
  Need for speed fans you will be ashamed if you buy this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepper1205
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When you first play the game the graphics look good and any fan of the Need For Speed games will 
 be excited, I know I was, but then, about 15 minutes into the game, it suddenly gets a bit boring 
 and difficult to control, the cars don't go very fast, even with performance upgrades, the steering 
 is terrible, the music is a tad repetative and every time you accidentily hit traffic you come 
 to a complete stop. My advise to anyone even comtemplating buying, don't wastle your time or money, 
 go buy something else or buy it on a different console, then it's much better. There isn't really 
 a wide range of cars and challenges, they're all pretty similar. 
  
  Frankly, don't bother with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romaru
Rating: 1
Date: May 24, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This was quite possibly the worst game ever made for the DS and the company should never had made 
 them. The controls were absolutely horrible and no matter how much you tweaked the car, it always 
 performed the same... crappy and your car moved at the same rate no matter what speed you are traveling. 
 The game was too easy and there were way to little tracks to race on. Money for upgrades for your 
 cars was too easy to get and it wasn't at all challenging. The graphics were bad and the replay 
 value was lower than anything I'd ever played before. This game should never have been made. If 
 you actually plan on buying this horrid game, think again. Buy a better game like Mario Kart DS 
 or Metroid Prime: Hunters. Just never waste your money on this absolutely abysmal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supotnik123
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 8, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite cool for a while, how you can create a graffiti for your profile and everything, 
 but that's about it.
  
  The races are a little hard to win with the cars you start with. I mean, how could you win with 
 a max speed of less than a hundred? It gets frustrating when you lose.
  
  The unlockables? They're really hard to unlock! Like in the first chapter, you can race the boss 
 after getting 500 respect points, but you still have to win the other races in order to unlock 
 good cars. PLUS, you still have to buy them.
  
  The only cool thing about this game, is that it is NEED FOR SPEED. It doesn't matter how stupid 
 you think the game is. Unless you're a street racer, you can't experience racing illegally everyday. 
 It's just the feel of actually being inside that car and being chased by the cops while trying 
 to outrun the other guys.
  
  The audio is good. It actually sounds like the real thing. You know, when using manual transmission (which 
 I prefer) , you can tell when to shift gears just by listening to the sound. I don't have to look 
 at the bottom right corner of my top screen to know I have to shift up. I simply have to listen 
 to the engine having a hard time.
  
  Graphics are OK. I kind of like it, even.
  
  So my verdict is to try to rent first. If you don't "feel" the game, don't buy it. As for me, it's 
 a fifty-fifty situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to sat that you will not play the game all the way through. One reason may be 
 because you got bored of it. I say this because it gets very very very very repetitive. You get 
 bounty you gett milestones and you beat reces. That is all. Another may be ebcause it got hard. 
 IT gets real hard as you go on. The storyline is decent and the cutscenes are great. Yuo are just 
 better off renting this game first. Borrow it off somebody or somthing and don't believe the hype. 
 I hoped this helped you buy it, or not buy it! I am out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKvsGANON
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Could have been a lot better, and i mean alot better. Reason for that being is the graphics are 
 too blocky, out of the four action buttons (a, b, x, y) not one has nitrous oxide. Steering all depends 
 on how much you leveled up you cars chassis throughout the story mode. But in all this isn't something 
 you would let you friend borrow because they will get piss off and break it. But if you still want 
 need for speed: most wanted just buy it for the console platforms, where there's a actual story 
 line, nitrous oxide, free roam around the city easier controls and better graphics. So save yourself 
 some time and $30.00 and just don't buy it for Nintendo DS, or save up $20.00 more and buy it for 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted returns the Need For Speed to its "get away from the fuzz" roots. NFS: MW 
 is the first non- underground Need For Speed since Hot pursuit 2 and may very well be the best 
 Need For Speed yet. Need for speed: most wanted has amazing graphics, where every effect looks 
 incredible. The A. I is smart for the most part, but at times can be inconsistent. Sometimes you 
 will be far away from the cops and they will somehow catch up to you in a split second. Need for 
 speed: most wanteds engine noises are ridicously realistic, and the soundtrack has a good blend 
 of hip-hop and rock. If you like racing games you must own Need For Speed: Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM101
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has the worst graphics and the controls are really dodgy. Myself, I love the DS but this 
 game gives it a bad name. Its pretty CRAPPY compared to all the others for PS2 and XBOX. Its graphics 
 are only just 3D and the controls are completely dodgy. You tap the left button and the car flies 
 away and crashes into the barrior at the side. Its sounds are off key and it is very, very disatrous. 
 It would be better to buy it for PS2 or XBOX. Its quite easy to complete and I have never seen 
 such terrible controls. Oh, and by the way buy the DS and dont blame it for that game. You should 
 blame EA and whoever else inveneted it.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  this game shames the need for speed series. It shouldnt be allowed to be sold thats how bad this 
 game is. the sound makes your ears bleed and the steering is sooooooo ridiculous making almost 
 impossible to race. the graphics on this game are also horrible, the look like a watercolor painting 
 done by a retard. unlike the console versions the DS version has no explorable city or storyline, 
 just the same stupid races over and over and over and over. The bottem line is dont buy this game 
 because it is a piece of crap and all copies of this game should be burned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0wn4g3_14094
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Its not wat i xpected it to be, just not as good, they make need for speed out to be great, but... 
 wasnt up to par this time. The game is kinda easy-ish to learn, the graphics are nice and everything... 
 but the worste part by far is the steering, its hard to control, u tap the d pad to the right, 
 it keeps going for a second, but i need the car to be able to react in shorter time than that, 
 or ill lose, ive played it for like, maby an hour and a half, maby 2, i dont know, and ive easily 
 made it to chapter 5, out of god only knows wat. And its not very realistic either, u drive inbto 
 dirt, no smoke behind u, and whats the point of putting decals on ur car?? when u drive, u cant 
 c them!!! u press L for the reverse view, u only c part of the windshield!!, i mean, show the whole 
 front end, i would really apreciate it!!! Also, the traffic is just plain idiotic, the taxis r 
 the worst, they will drive head first into you, and this is where i need better steering, cause 
 the traffic dosnt avoid me, its not realistic at all, and when i buy a racing game, i want it as 
 realistic as possible, not with this game though!!
  
  Well... 69% is passing, right? barley anyway.
  
  If u dont already have this game... DO NOT 
 BUY IT!!! its a WASTE OF $35!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jh3isme
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  WELL I WAS VERY EXCITED TO SEE THIS ON DS AGIAN HOPING AND PRAYING THAT THE MADE IT BETTER THAN 
 NFSU 2 BUT NOPE ITS ALLMOST THE SAME ONCE YOU HAVE PLAYED ONE YOU HAVE PLAYED THEM ALL BUT I WAS 
 WILLING TO KEEP PLAYING IT AND GUESS THAT IS ALL THAT MATTERS FOR EA .THEY GOT MY MONEY DIDNT THEY. BUT 
 MAYBE YOU COULD FIND THIS GAME USED OR EVEN BORROW IT ITS NOT THAT BIG OF A DEAL. ITS A RACING 
 GAME THATS BETTER THAN FORD RACING 3 AND RIDGE RACER. WELL ALL IS TO BE EXPECTED I DID LIKE THE 
 NEW CARS THOUGH. AND DIFFERENT WHEELS LIKE AS IF I COULD SEE THEM ITS A OK GAME OF THE DS I HAVE 
 ALL THE NEED FOR SPEED GAMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  The graphics are OK but not excellent. The menu looks alright but no where near as good as the 
 console versions. The controls are very disappointing. For example if you tap left or right while 
 driving the car keeps on turning for a few seconds when your not even pressing nothing. This game 
 has the worst controls ever seen in a DS game. The tracks aren't very interesting and are dull. 
 This game is not worth wasting your money on. You might aswell get the PC version and play it at 
 home, My advice is to steer well clear of this game and get a game that is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetraswarrior
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  why do they do this to themselves? if their graphics are pour on the ds why don't they stick with 
 games like pac-man instead of trying to do decent graphics, its pointless! Nintendo are going to 
 run themselves into the ground if they carry on, which is a shame because there will not be enough 
 competition for sony... honestly. pethetic. i dont mind nintendo but they should leave good graphics 
 to the psp. an utter waste of money in my veiw
  
  the graphics are pethetic
  
  the gameplay is rubbish on any platform
  
  the sound is usual driving
  
  the value - what 
 value
  
  so basicly what i am saying is DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsonbz
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  this is a game you think is good but when you play it its controls are totaly rubish!!! dont buy 
 it for the ds buy it for a console like a gc, xbox, ps2 because i have played on the x-box 360 version 
 and it is brilliant i think its to do with just having a simple control pad but they could of used 
 the tuch screen and use the ds to its full petental. also the sounds on the game are like those 
 used on the game boy pocket, the grafical detail of the cars are good and can be easily spoted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediBmoney
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is EA's BEST try at the arcade racer that they've had for a LONG time
  
  Ever since EA got the rights to it they have spent every penny to make it Perfect for ever Concole 
 on the market today and future days.
  
  In this racer you play as you'reself raceing the 15 Star Blacklist
  
  it gets harder each level 
 and sometimes it gets easyer
  
  EA has chosein a FINE selection for this year cept it was missing a Key Car that makes the need 
 for speed series go... the Nissan 350z
  
  as you can tell i am to lazy to finish this review.
  
  3 out of 5. Cmon EA get the Nissan's 
 in there next time and keep the Lambo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monsta54tokar
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is so graphically bad for the grrrreat ds quality. do not pick it up yet again dont even 
 rent it. i wish i could take it back to the store. buy it for ps2, xbox, or gamecube but not for 
 the ds. it lacks the quality that nfs underground took on. so all in all buy nfsu and not nfs blacklist. 
 if you are lookinf for a great ds game get animal crossin wild world or afe of empires ds which 
 comes out next month. thank you all for not buying this game for the nintendo ds because it sucks 
 so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_a_gamer152
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  How can anyone play this game for more than 15 minutes? I have no idea. It has the worst graphics 
 i've ever seen on a racing game. I liked the graphics better on Mario for the NES! It's an outrage 
 that some people can play this game and not find the terrible flaws in its gameplay and graphics. 
 If you love NFS, don't buy this game. They could've at least tried to put some effort into making 
 it. That's all I wanted. A game that they at least tried to make worth playing. They worked harder 
 on Nintendogs than on this thing. If you're a racing fan with a DS, all hope is not lost. Just 
 get MarioKart DS and you'll love it, guaranteed. It has Wifi and a lot better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  It's fun (is you only have a ds) . it is better then the gba version!!! But i think ea Canada could 
 have pumped out more!!! But compared to all the rest it sucked!!! I liked the smooth graphics, 
 and the music but that is it!!! I hated the game play because you just raced i wish that you could 
 roam around like the other versions!!! There is a new ds the ds lite coming out maybe them it will 
 be better!!! Only time will tell!!! Like I said been there done that!!!
  
  I want you people to tell me if the ds lite does come out will it be better? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Terrible... Just terrible. 
  
  There exists no sound within gameplay other than the drone engine loop that never changes and never 
 ceases. There is only music on the main menu throughout 99% of the game. The graphics look like 
 someone's leftover kebab, and the controls are not only terrible but due to level design, and mechanics, 
 do not even fit in the game. You'll get sudden squared corners, which are impossible to turn, and 
 if you even so hit another object (the side of the road, a curb, a piece of cardbaord etc... and 
 of course, other cars) - you'll come to a complete stop within half a second! Just don't get this 
 game... I didn't buy it, but got it free and I still don't even want it for that... It's the dark 
 secret in the basement of my DS collection... EA are nazis, but should disown this game if they 
 have any sense to 'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_dj
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really bad and i think they shell improve it next time. 
  
  Maybe they shell need to improve it as other games that nitendo had. 
  
  I dont think its really 
 bad game but it should be better, as its PC version its much much better and great!
  
  I am really adicted to the game in the PC version but not in nitendo at all.
  
  Maybe the next 
 game will be better we sill see next time;)
  
  But please dont forget that the real game is really good and all the series of the Need For Speed 
 games. All the Need For Speed games are really good and i played with all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME SUCKS. i own a DS and i am embarassed that this game even exists its that bad. Its all 
 pixelated and the frame rate is junk .
  
  I give this game a 0.5 maybe a one if the cars looked like cars but let me think 
 
  
  I mean come on i bought need for speed underground 2 and i mean that wasnt even this bad. It makes 
 me wonder do the developers even play these DS games before they come out. Just one look at this 
 game and you know this has to go back to the drawing board. Oh well you got to take the good with 
 the bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbystick190
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out and what a disappointment when I played it feels like your 
 driving shoeboxes instead of cars this is the worst NFS game ever. I am about to sell my ds because 
 all of the games suck please if your going to get this game get it for ps2 the only some what good 
 thing about it is the soundtrack I think they did more work on the music than the game. This put 
 the NFS reputation down the drain because it is like going back to the first game boy pockets. 
 Take the ds and compare it with the psps graphics. The steering is to touchy too if you tap the 
 d-pad twice your into the was and if you hit a car it wont make them wreck it just makes them go 
 10ft further in front of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckytheman
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  The game sucks? crap to burnout? what the heck are you people thinking? the look for burnout and 
 need for speed most wanted for DS... good or total crap?
  
  Burnout's: gameplay was just as bad as ps1 maybe worse, i thought it could have been made a lot 
 better. When i first saw burnout for DS i thought it would be cool cause i played it for ps2 and 
 it was fun and i played it for ds i thought that is was still kinda cool but the look of everything 
 in the game looked like a bunch of crapy looking boxes. Yes i said crapy looking boxes... geez the 
 game only has one new thing persuit yeah thaqts cool and all but it looks like crap. 
  
  Most Wanted: Now i'm not going to say that is sucks cause the idea of it doesn't suck just like 
 burnout doesn't suck but the look of it is a bit better than burnout... i looked at pics of burnout 
 and most wanted and most wanted looked better but i have to tell every one this i have only played 
 burnout and i thought it looked like crap... in a small way both games need work. but when it comes 
 to the best games?
  
  Most wanted have the best Sound, Graphics
  but every thing else are the same for both games
  
  If you hate what i have told you then ... i 
 don't care it's your life you mess the crap out of it not me.. buh bye.. Bakas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dethtouch
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  As an avid EA hater, I was a bit disappointed when my girlfriend's dad gave me this game for Christmas. 
 However, because I enjoy racing games that involve licensed cars, upgrades, and running from cops, 
 I decided to give it a try. Gamespot has no review up for this game but I was encouraged by the 
 great score its console counterparts received, while being weary of some less-than-par performances 
 of ds ports. So I hesitantly broke the cannot return barrier by freeing the box from its cellophane 
 prison and popping the little cartridge into my ds. Whoops.
  I really wanted to like this game for the sake of he who bought it for me, but it is just plain 
 BAD. The first noticeable trait when you start a race is the texture on the cars, or rather the 
 lack of texture. Then, when you go to round your first corner or two, youll notice there is something 
 seriously wrong. Your instinct will tell you to tap left on the d-pad to begin a left turn. Your 
 tap has done nothing, so you hold left, only to hear the only tire screeching sound in the entire 
 game, and you will hit the opposite wall. There seems to be only this one sound universally used 
 on every tire-screeching turn. As you might guess, its only funny the first few times you hear 
 it, then it gets old. After careening off the first wall, youll inevitably over-correct and hit 
 the other wall, then the next, and so on and so forth. But thats ok because little speed is lost 
 by scraping the wall, ala gt3. The way the car behaves reminds me of a game whose name escapes 
 me for the original game-boy. Instead of the car moving around the curves, the curves move around 
 the car. Collision detection is hilariously non-existent, especially when barreling headfirst into 
 on-coming traffic. Doing so will bring the car to a complete stop with no recoil from the impact. 
 No congratulations are given after winning a race. Nor should they be if racing against the dim-witted 
 AI cars.
  In short, dont buy this game. Buy Mario Cart or even NFS Underground, but just not this one. EA 
 has given us yet another example of a cheap port used only as a means to extort hard-earned money 
 from those uneducated enough to buy it. TELL THE WORLD!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  This game can be very funny, it's not very good, but I think it deserves some credits.
  
  GRAPHICS: I think that everyone who has played it agrees that the graphics aren't very good, but 
 they aren't terrible neither, that's why I wrote in the deck ''so so''.
  
  SOUND: It has very decent sound fx, you can have a good time hearing your car's engine and the 
 cop's siren, and a backgroung music :)
  
  CONTROLS: You get to use the touch screen a couple of times, it's easy to control, like most racing 
 games.
  
  In few words: Not to great, Not to Terrible.... FAIR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaboZucher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I thought it would be harder on the ds without an analog stick but it's really good compared to 
 other consoles with an analog stick which makes it a lot better. If you buy all the new items you 
 can run out of money really quickly and not have enough to upgrade your car for the bosses. I suggest 
 buying cars and upgrades only when you need to.
  
  If you have any feedback e-mail me at madd1dogg2@yahoo. com. au and leave your e-mail address so 
 I can get back to you.
  
  p. s. does anyone know how to delete profiles if so e-mail me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangecoolz
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have got a DS, and i was really looking foward to this game because i have the pc version. the 
 first thing you notice is the quite useable menu's, for once i think they have done alrite, but 
 a soon as you get into the games you notice it....... the sound....... engine noises are the same 
 for all cars (pretty much) and the brakes the tyres even squal if you apply the brakes when you 
 a stationry!!!! As for the music... uggh...... no licenced EA TRAX here just repetitave rubbish annoyin 
 music but in game the bad thing is if you want to get rid of the horrible music in game u have 
 to put up with tht damn sound FX! but if u want a quick thrill its ok! as for the controls the 
 cars all seem to handle the same all pivot when u go round corners and go over 70mph round one 
 and you will slide, which is not bad! the graphic's Arent that good and it does not have a free 
 roam in between races plus it does not TOUCH the pc or ps2 / xbox / xbox 360 versions for gameplay!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Underground 2 came not to long ago now it's most wanted to be on the DS. First off it looks better 
 and plays better. You can customise more. But yet this game still falls flat. With Mario cart out 
 with wi-fi this just cant really make it. This game can also get boring. Real boring. It's more 
 like been there done that and we have. With the last game. Also the fame rate can get bothering. Some 
 will be annoyed by it and others will not mind. In the end this is just an improvement but not 
 any thing that will Chang racing for the DS. If you want a real like racing game that's not Mario, about 
 crashes, or a big ford add then get this. But be awarer it is sub par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drexegar
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes folks, this game is most wanted... for its bland graphics and ugly programming.
  Ok. I not going into to many technical details but this game to compared to NFSU2? No. Just , No. 
 I dont want to hear it. Why is this game run at a 30 FPS frame rate barely no texture on awful 
 models cars (I seen better car models out of my happy meal) and whats with the computer control 
 cars? Do I have to really slow my car down just to have fun with the cops? But i do give you credit 
 for the wonderful AI they have, The programmed it in a way that the computers seem to struggle 
 as much as we are with the controls. amazing. just amazing.
  allright... allright... thats enough of this the only point i have is this:
  
  Why EA? Why? 
 WHy did you slap the pocketeers in the face? That right you heard me! After they made a great game 
 like NFSU 2 (60 fps car models with textures and lighting and yes you can feel the speed quite 
 nicely) Why did you let a company like "Sensory Sweep" do this game? Yeah they made tiger woods, 
 yeah they made marvel nemesis which was god awful The only godd was the graphics so why they had 
 a problem doing cars? But even this game is a huge huge dowgrade form NFSU 2. Honestly not letting 
 the pocketeers make this game was a bad move an a insult to us DS players. I understand there busy 
 and may not have the time but it would be worth the wait and i know they were looking foward to 
 making this game. This game could have been way better than NFSU2.
  Shame on you EA. Shame on you.
  
  4.0 If you have the need for speed, get NFSU 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzbladex
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  the game sucked soooooo bad. they shouldn't put racing games on small system and if they do they 
 should make it more appealing with better steering like in midnight club 3: DUB edition. This was 
 the first racing game that i hated. If there gonna put a racing game on a portable system they 
 should put some more effort into it. The graphics on the DS is good but not for this game. If u 
 would like a short cheap thrill try this game. The one that is coming out for the xbox 360 will 
 be totally awsome because of the graphics. One of the firstr things people look for in a game is 
 decent graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steeler882000
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  When I heard a Need for Speed game was coming out that mixed the elements of Hot Pursit 2 and Underground 
 2, I was ecstatic. I decided to purchase this game for the DS, and to say the least, it was the 
 worst racing game I've played other than the old 2D racers. The worst part is, I cannot return 
 it. The turns were horrific, if you hold down turn for more than a split second, you find yourself 
 next to a wall. Do yourself a favor and pick up mario kart DS, it is a great racing game. The soundtrack 
 is bad, the graphics are bad, collision is bad. Worst racing game on any platform... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nlew365
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game on the DS but it turned out to be pretty lame! Handling was 
 lame, graphics lame and sound was awful. Did down load the demo for the PC and it plays a lot better. 
 For a portable, I expected a lot better. There really ins't a need for the touch screen at all 
 for this game. Disappointing all around. NFSU was a lot more fun and I thought the graphics on 
 the GBASP was a lot better than the crap they left for the DS. I'll probably return this and but 
 it on the PC. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
