-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Underground 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/needforspeedunderground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of races.
 Great sense of speed.
 Smooth frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly environments.
 Silly minigames.
 Suboptimal control.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 26, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: May 10, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's enough variety here to keep you busy; it delivers a strong sense of speed; and the control, 
 while not perfect, is good enough to keep you coming back. 

  EA's Need for Speed series has come in several different shapes and sizes over the years. More 
 recently, the series has taken to the late-night city streets with the import tuner-focused Need 
 for Speed Underground games. The popular subseries now comes to the Nintendo DS with the release 
 of Need for Speed Underground 2, a game that packs in cars, upgrades, and a decent number of different 
 races. However, less-than-optimal control holds the whole thing back a little bit.  

          Underground 2 delivers a good sense of speed.     

  You'll start your street racing 
 career by picking one of two fairly weak licensed cars. As you win races, you'll earn points, and 
 these can either be spent on upgrades or new vehicles. New cars are unlocked as you play, so you 
 won't be able to simply start saving up for the most expensive car right away. You'll incrementally 
 work your way from car to car, improving your chances by buying cars with higher base ratings for 
 speed, acceleration, and handling.  

  You'll also unlock visual upgrades for your cars as you play, which lets you customize your car 
 by putting on body kits, spoilers, hood scoops, rims, and so on. You can recolor your car and put 
 plenty of vinyl stickers on it as well. These changes are purely cosmetic, but they do let you 
 differentiate your car from the pack pretty well.  

  There are really only two different ways to race in the game, but the standard circuit style gets 
 broken down into a handful of variants. Sometimes you'll be racing against the clock, other times 
 you'll face off against opponents, and occasionally you'll participate in knockout races, where 
 the last-place driver is eliminated after every lap. "Own the zone" races break the circuit up 
 into different segments, and you need to claim as many segments as possible by having the fastest 
 time through each one. The other style of racing in Underground 2 is the drag race, which takes 
 place on a straight track and is more focused on your shifting properly and avoiding obstacles 
 than on your steering prowess. The drag racing is exciting, has a great sense of speed, and is 
 probably the game's high point. You can also play with up to three other players wirelessly, which 
 is great if you happen to have race-hungry friends in your area.  

  A driving game is really only as good as its control. You could stack on a billion tracks and the 
 most elaborate damage model in the world, but if the cars themselves aren't fun to drive, none 
 of that extra stuff really matters. Given the fairly limited control options of the Nintendo DS, 
 NFS Underground 2 takes a stand and assigns all your steering control to the D pad, rather than 
 trying to concoct some sort of unwieldy touch-screen steering, like Ridge Racer DS did. This has 
 its ups and downs. The standard, conventional control is easy to pick up, but the inherently coarse 
 control of a D pad isn't as smooth as an analog-based solution would be. So you'll have to tap 
 the D pad carefully to navigate turns, or you'll have to deal with a lot of oversteering and correction. 
 Either way, it's something you'll get used to, although the game still doesn't control as well 
 as any other recent entry in the Need for Speed series.  

          Drag racing lets you focus on shifting properly instead of navigating heavy curves.    

  Graphically, Need for Speed Underground 2 has made a trade-off. The plus side is that the game 
 runs at a great, smooth frame rate at all times, something that's key for a fast-moving racing 
 game. But that speed comes at the cost of graphical quality. You'll notice a great deal of pop-up 
 as you drive, and the overall look of the tracks is pretty muddy and poorly defined. Still, the 
 car models look quite good, and overall, the smooth frame rate and nice-looking cars make the graphics 
 palatable. The sound in the game doesn't fare quite as well. The MIDI-style music just doesn't 
 fit with the action, in most cases. It just sounds hokey. Stuff like engine noise and the screech 
 of your tires sounds much better.  

  Overall, Need for Speed Underground 2 gets the job done. There's enough variety here to keep you 
 busy; it delivers a strong sense of speed; and the control, while not perfect, is good enough to 
 keep you coming back. If you're a DS owner in need of a good driving game, NFS Underground 2 most 
 definitely fits the bill.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ramzes64
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 na Nintendo DS?  a dlaczego nie, mona i tak. Seria NFS Underground 
 pojawia si ju chyba na wszystkich platformach do grania, dlatego pominicie 
 takiego tytuu na najpopularniejszej konsoli przenonej byo by wielkim bdem 
 ze strony wydawcy. Z mojego punktu widzenia wydanie tej gry jest tylko i wycznie dla 
 zysku (pienidz rzdzi wiatem) . Gra od wersji na konsole stacjonarne rni 
 si bardzo  cho motyw przewodni nielegalnych wycigw nocnych zosta zachowany.
 
  
  W gwnym trybie rozgrywki, tak jak na konsolach stacjonarnych mamy za zadanie wygrywa 
 kolejne wycigi, aby odblokowa kolejne trasy, pojazdy i podzespoy niezbdne 
 do tuningowania naszych fur. Na samym pocztku mamy dostpne dwa z osiemnastu samochodw 
  te dwa, to: Nissan 240SX i Volkswagen Golf GTI. Innymi jakie w pniejszym etapie gry przyjdzie 
 nam odblokowa bd: Toyota Celica, Mitsubishi Eclipse GSX, Lexus IS300, Mazda RX-7, 
 Mazda RX-8, Audi TT, Toyota Supra, i jeszcze kilka, a take ju odkryte modele, ale z 
 jakim dodatkiem od EA (np. spoilerem  ktrego nie moemy ju zmieni) . Po 
 wyborze naszego czterokoowca, ktry kosztuje 10 PTS, a nasz budet pocztkowy wanie 
 tyle wynosi  spukani, gotowi jestemy stan na linii startu w pierwszym 
 wycigu. Jeli go wygramy, dostaniemy te punkty?/pienidze? = PTS", za ktre moemy 
 kupowa i wypenia gara wypasionymi furami, a aby byy wypasione, naley 
 je odpowiednio tuningowa czyli wszystko w NFS: U2 po staremu.
  
  Z naszym nowo zakupionym ZWYKYM samochodem, w kolejnych opcjach wybieramy wyzwanie:
  
 
  CIRCUIT" - to wycig skadajcy si z kilku okre. Wystpuj 
 tu rwnie odmienne tryby: na przykad musimy by pierwsi na mecie ze wszystkich 
 startujcych, lub wygra wycig skadajcy si z czterech okre, 
 w ktrym ostatni zawodnik odpada przez nokaut co okrenie i tak, a zostanie dwch 
 najszybszych. Moliwy jest jeszcze zwyky time trial z wyznaczonym czasem liczonym do 
 zera. Warto zaznaczy, e w CIRCUIT" mamy trzy poziomy trudnoci: Level 1", Level 
 2" i Level 3"  tumaczc na nasze atwy, redni i trudny  cho rnie 
 to bywa, bo i tak gwn rol odgrywaj tu osigi naszych pojazdw.
  OWN THE ZONE" -czyli wycig, w ktrym na mapce nasza trasa zostaa podzielona na kilka 
 sektorw. Przez kady z nich przejecha musimy jak najszybciej, wtedy dany odcinek zostanie 
 zamalowany przypisanym do nas kolorem. Im bardziej mapa zostanie zamalowana przez nas  tym wiksze 
 szanse na zwycistwo.
  DRAG" - na prawie prostym odcinku drogi (z przeszkodami lub bez) musimy w odpowiednim momencie 
 zmienia biegi, a krzyakiem w lewo i prawo pas, na ktrym si znajdujemy.
  BONUS EVENT"  to mini gierki, ktre co jaki czas wystpuj midzy kolejnymi 
 wycigami. Wykorzystuje si tu ekran dotykowy i tak musimy w odpowiednim momencie klikn 
 stylusem w ekran, lub w odpowiednio zamalowane keczko, gdy na czym podobnym do oscyloskopu 
 przeskakuj rnego koloru punkty. Takie to rednie i nie fajne, wcinite 
 chyba na si. Nie jest to nic konkretnego, a trzeba wykona zadanie osigajc 
 odpowiedni wynik, aby odblokowa kolejne czci niezbdne do zmodyfikowania 
 pojazdu. Gierek jest zaledwie cztery, ale na trzech poziomach trudnoci. Gdy ju zostan 
 one odblokowane, moemy w nie zagra, z gwnego menu wybierajc MINI GAMES".
 
  
  Need for Speer Underground 2 na DSa nie jest zy, ale te nie rewelacyjny. Graficznie 
 wyglda wszystko OK., ale nie jest to pikny, kolorowy Mario Kart. Gra jest ciemna, bo 
 wycigi odbywaj si przecie nielegalnie w nocy. Akurat w momencie, kiedy 
 postanowiem gra w NFS: U2 na Dual Screen'ie, czekaem na DS lite, a miaem 
 pierwsze wydanie tej konsoli. Grajc na zwykym DS'ie mona si strasznie zmczy 
 wysilajc wzrok, bo czasem sabo byo wida przeszkody w postaci innych pojazdw 
 poruszajcych si po naszej drodze, co gorsza - czsto koloru szarego, nagle pojawiajce 
 si gdzie w oddali. Po kilku dniach przerzuciem si na DS lite i na lepszym 
 wywietlaczu gra staa si atwiejsza  no ale chyba nie powinienem opisywa 
 rnic wynikajcych z gry na DS i DS lite  bo to sprawa techniczna, ni wynikajca 
 z samej gry. Warto jednak o tym wspomnie, bo gra nie naley do bujnie kolorowych, wrcz 
 przeciwnie, jest dosy ciemna  co trzeba zaznaczy.
  
  Sterowanie nie przynosi wikszych problemw, zaley te ono od pojazdu, ktry ma 
 swoje osigi i jest szybki, ma lepsze przyspieszenie, bd jest sterowny. Pojazdy 
 musimy ulepsza i przebiera midzy nimi, czy potrzebny nam taki, w ktrym prdko 
 odgrywa gwn rol, czy moe ten, ktrym bdzie nam si lepiej kierowao. 
 Niektre samochody maj nadsterowno i lekkie otarcie si o band wprawia 
 je w drgania, nad ktrymi przy duej prdkoci trudno zapanowa, jedynym wyjciem 
 wtedy jest dachowanie i kilka przewrotek lub zatrzymanie pojazdu. Fizyka i kolizje nie s 
 wcale zblione do realizmu. Jadc dug prost z maksymaln prdkoci, 
 gdy zdarzy nam si rypn w pojazd z naprzeciwka, to albo wylecimy gdzie" 
 i przekoziokujemy kilka razy, lub staniemy jak wryci z takim dziwnym odczuciem spowolnienia, 
 e chcemy jecha, ale musimy si odbi i troch cofn  taki 
 matrix.  Jak si sprawuj nasi rywale? Hmm  lec jak pociski, czasem wida 
 z tyu zbliajcego si oponenta, ktry z pewnoci przypierdzieli 
 w nas z caym impetem i albo stanie z nami w poprzek, albo tylko nas wybije z trajektorii, 
 stracimy panowanie, a jemu uda si jakim cudem przejecha dalej. Wrg nie pi, 
 zapierdziela jak gupi, ale  jest gupi. Na ostatnim okreniu nie warto si 
 poddawa, bo wszystko si moe zdarzy i nawet bdc ostatni, moemy 
 by pierwsi - wyprzedzajc przeciwnikw, porozbijanych na innych pojazdach lub bandach.
 
  
  Tuning samochodw tak jak w wersjach na konsole stacjonarne polega na doborze koloru, spojlerw, 
 rnego rodzaju wlotw powietrza na masce i dachu, wyboru felg i kolorowych naklejek itd. 
 Jest te moliwo wykonania wasnej grafiki w prostym edytorze, ktr 
 pniej mona zamieci na masce pojazdu i drzwiach.
  
  Podsumowujc gra nie naley do hitw na DSa, jest to redni produkt i tak te 
 do niego podchodziem. Przez pewien pocztkowy okres grania nawet zaciekawia mnie 
 ta wersja na chwil, pniej jednak ju znudzia. Tras mamy kilka, cztery, 
 moe pi. Dla utrudnienia s jako tam pozmieniane lub w odbiciu lustrzanym. 
 Utrudnienie stanowi te intensywno zwykych pojazdw ktre naley omija 
  czyli takie przeszkadzajki na drodze. Mona w NFS: U2 zagra, ale spodziewa si 
 czego dobrego nie naley, cho konkretnym crapem te to nie jest  co 
 pomidzy.
  
  Grafika: 6
  Dwik: 6
  Grywalno: 6
  
  ----------------------------------------
  recenzja ukazaa si w portalu:
  www. retroage. net 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Hurray! Another DS game that is good but not great. This is a pretty fun game for those people 
 who are racing fans and this is the perfect game for the DS because it is so easy to pick up and 
 to put down. I say easy to pick up because you can do one race and then finish, and easy to put 
 down because the career mode will most definitely make you want to throw your DS at the wall sometimes. 
 Graphics wise this is a very good-looking DS game. The cars look smooth and there is not too much 
 pop-up to worry about. The main thing here though that you do not get in a lot of handheld games 
 is an actually sense of speed, which this game does actually have. That really did surprise me 
 especially during the drag races. This game has all the modes of the console and GBA versions except 
 one. That would be the most fun mode in the entire game Drift racing. The one thing that surprised 
 me the most was that this mode was available in the Gameboy Advance version of the game but is 
 for some reason missing in the superior Nintendo DS game. Other than that though this game is a 
 pretty fun game. There is the EA Trax missing so really all that there is, is the sound of the 
 cars and things of that sort, which do not sound bad. However makes me less likely to actually 
 play the game with the sound on then just having the sound off and just playing the game. That 
 is the only real complaint that I had about this game. So Need For Speed Underground 2 for the 
 Nintendo DS, is the best racing game on the console as of right now. This game looks very good 
 and even though the touch screen is rarely used the controls are nice. This is a must have for 
 any racer fan with the system that does not feel like waiting for Mario Kart DS. My only complaint 
 is that this is the most expensive game on the DS right now so, its up to you to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpenceTheThug
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was expecting a good racing game (as far as handheld games are concerned) , 
 and I discovered that I wasted my money. The graphics were not good and the cars were hard to steer. 
 Customizing the cars with images that you create was a good idea, until I tried it. Good images 
 were hard to make and they were badly pixelated. I do not recommend even renting this game. I was 
 very dissappointed, especially after enjoying the PS2 version of this game so much. All in all, 
 if you really, really love NFS games, then maybe you might consider getting this game, but otherwise 
 it is a complete waste of money. The only way I would waste my time playing this game again was 
 if I was payed to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3112
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 29, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The game is really good because you can get cool stuff for your cars if you race a lot for money. 
 The upgrads are pretty good but the only problem with this game is that you only race and theres 
 relley no point but geting upgards. Theres no story  And gameplay 
 stinks!!!!!!!!!!!! You can get this game if you want to get cool upgrads but theres no fun to it. 
 The only thing that makes my rating relly good is grapics and sound. The gameply stinks. sory trying 
 to take up  THATS THE END OF MY REVIEW THATS 
 IT THATS THE END WHY WONT IT END!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! LOL THE END!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  there are some bad things about this game, first of all, there is no story to it.. all you do is 
  and you sort of get sick of it, in NFS carbon 
 there is a good story mode, and the audio actaully has music! which is a good change. NFSU2 has 
 no music, but some cool beats to it which isnt to bad.
  
  i say this game has great graphics, and easily better then alot of other DS racing games. all they 
 need is a story some music more upgrades
  
  and then this game is PERFECT.. still, it was worth the money and a good driving expirence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smigetz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  awesome has good sound amzaing gameplay and a ton ofcustomization i have been playing 4 months 
 kick ass DS game i borught it months ago its my only ds game and ive been playin it aweomeness 
 ever since cant wait till christmas when i have a ds off my own to play on instead of borrowing 
 a freinds or my sisters well worth what you pay to buy it if your a cars dinatic or into racing 
 havent tried out the multiplayer yet because none of my freinds own it but i will on christmas 
 a freinds is gettin it so i look forwad to smokin him 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics are blocky which is a shame they could have made it look like Super Mario DS. The 
 number of cars is disappointing and the races are annoying. Half way through this game my file 
 got erased automatically. So I had to start again. The same thing happened again. The best thing 
 about this game is the nitro and thats only fun for a few minutes. This game doesnt deserve to 
 be on the DS. There isnt even a story line. No one should buy this game it is a complete waste 
 of time. The music is irritating as well it just keeps on getting worse and worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  i had pay 54 euros for this game because i love all need for speed games
  i cant found it in a other shop because there is no need for speed game
  all buyed to others.... 
 then ive finely buyed it for 4 euros extra the exacly prize whas there 50 euro 4 euros extra ive 
 paid there i had play the game but the graphics are realy poor bad you can see the cars realy badly 
 on your screen the game play is a realy much better sometimes its realy hard because the small 
 ways in the game sound is badly to
  the good points: the garage is good lot of pimp your car functions
  and good elements to like 
 that airplane as you gonna do drag race!
  but my opinion is that the game must be cheap and not cost so much money as it is a bad game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed undergroud 2 for the DS lacks the gameplay depth that you hope for in a good game. 
 In the previous games your car roams around the city and finds places for a challenge. In this 
 game you click on a menu and pick a place to race and then you're off.
  
  When you complete a challenge you earn points and usually unlock something, like a new challenge, 
 better equipment, decorations, or a new car. You have to use your points to buy the car before 
 you can drive with it.
  
  You can reach speeds over 200MPH in this game and its fun going this fast. The only bad thing about 
 this is when you go too fast and crash into a car, you fly high in the air and usually end up in 
 last place. The challenges are easy at first then they get harder.
  
  I dont think there is really anything special about this game. Its just the average racing game 
 in my opinion. Gameplay- Like I said, the gameplay depth isnt very good
  Graphics- Meh...
  Sound- Repetitive and only a few boring tracks
  Value- I forget the price but it wasn't too bad
 
  
  Recommendation- Fun for a few weeks, but then after that it gets boring. I wouldnt recommend it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make this review short and to the point because there is not too much to say about 
 this mediocre game.
  
  The Good: Brings the DS up a notch and shows that its more powerful than it seems. At first, an 
 entertaining game. Good, long race courses, and challenging races/tournaments and minigames. It 
 can keep you captivated for hours. (only if you like racing games) .
  
  The Bad: Grainy, glitchy graphics, races are sometimes extraordinarily difficult, controls are 
 very insensitive, (very hard to turn corners-you crash into many things) , and sometimes unrealistic 
 gameplay. The game eventually becomes too difficult and tiring, and its becomes quite boring. I'm 
 not too sure if its worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXKINGPINXx
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
 no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mississippi_mil
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  this is my first need for speed game and i don't see how they sell so many need for speed games. 
 For starters you only get to choose 2 different cars to begin with and both of them are horrible. 
 after you win you're first race you're like sweet now i can get a better car well wrong they keep 
 you in that horrible car until you finally earn enough points (which are on the edge of impossible 
 to get) and then the next car u can buy really isn't that much better. To get a decent car u have 
 to get more ten half way through the game. the only good thing about this game is the sound isn't 
 as repetitive as it is in most games for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  The DS isn't exactly the racer king the PSP is, but the it does have a fair amount of them. The 
 problem is, all of them are medicore. NFSU 2 has graced every almost known system and it's popularity 
 knows little bounds. NFSU 2 is a fairly accurate port of the console titles, except they weren't 
 too hot either. 
  
  The graphics are nice, if a bit dinky. They are not as blocky as the other racers, but it also 
 lacks style. All of the game takes place during the night. The draw distance is also poor, for 
 some reason. The game obviously focused on the cars, which look fine, but lack color. The decals 
 you can draw onto the cars are nice, but after your second decal, you realize you have to UNLOCK 
 the place you put it on. That does not make any sense. Also, the screen they give you sucks. You 
 have your color selection and and delete buttons on the same screen as the patlette, which leads 
 to MAJOR mistakes. They could have mapped it onto buttons (L for delete etc.) but that was a design 
 mistake. 
  
  Customization Is very poor, simple body kits. Its a shame that the NFSU2 for XBOX and the PS2 had 
 amazing customization, why couldn't it be transferred to the NDS? 
  
  For Now you can play it, or you are interested in a Street Racer game. For a more better racer 
 (that includes Wi-Fi connection) just stick with Mario Kart, or even Ashphalt. Don't get Need for 
 Speed Most Wanted for the DS also, waste of money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylchew91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  my first racing game was the burnout legend and i thought racing was a no no for DS. traded it 
 for need for speed underground 2 and never look back since. played the same game in PS2 and must 
 say this feels quite the same giving a sense of speed. the turning, stopping is realistic ans smooth, 
 not like the burnout which feels like someone is using his hands to help turn a hotwheels car.
 
  
  there are many different underground games to keep you busy and coming back. however, this is not 
 a good handheld game if you need your attention elsewhere ( eg, travelling and needs to look out 
 or your next station , cos once you have started, its hard to take your eyes orr the screen ot 
 the car will crash.
  
  if you are considering a racing game, this is one of e better ones around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskyspegal
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 for the Nintendo DS is in short a very straight forward racing game. 
 You have all the races from the console counterpart and very many upgrades you can unlock. Apart 
 from the upgrades you can also unlock many different models of cars including Mitsubishi, Ford, 
 Nissan and many others. The gameplay is very solid and the control of the car is very tight, but 
 sometimes a little unbelieveable in that when you touch another car just barely you feel like you 
 are a lightweight piece of ice sliding across a table. The graphics are very smooth with a great 
 framerate, and you can even see the street glow shine with all it's glory... Very nice!!!
  The Nitrous boost is controlled by either using the touch screen or by pressing the left trigger. 
 Other then that the only thing the touch screen is used for is the map, the nitrous and the little 
 mini games that personally don't really appeal to me.
  
  If you are into street racing and want it on the go then go ahead and grab yourself a copy it's 
 fun to pick up and just race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingadopollo
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 14, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I had this game just one week and It didn't take me anywhere. It looked great at first, graphics 
 are OK but the buildings just pop up from nowhere! I though I was playing a pretty cool game when 
 I started it, but somehow when I reached a 47% of the game, missions became impossible all of a 
 sudden! Frustrating! You could spend a whole day trying to beat just one mission, 'cause when you 
 are at top of a race and make a single mistake, then you'll have to restart. There's no chance 
 you'll ever catch up with your rivals again. Anyone for a multiplayer match? Oh no, there's no 
 single-card nor wi-fi either. It just sucks, stay away, I repeat, STAY AWAY! I tried to get rid 
 of it, but like it was cursed, nobody wanted it! So I stopped at a gamestore where I exchanged 
 it for Spiderman 2, which also sucks, but at least I got rid of that ugly NFSU2, thanks Spidey, 
 you saved the day again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 for the Nintendo DS is a racing game lacking a lot of elements. The 
 main game consists of plenty of matches between you and the cpu, but after you beat the single 
 player, there isnt much left to do for fun. The car upgrading system is primitive compared to 
 the console versions. As a result, you cant pimp your ride on the DS nearly as much as you can 
 on the consoles. You can play against your friends on local WiFi, which is kind of fun. You can 
 also make your own car decals. Maybe if the game was Nintendo WiFi compatible, the feature couldve 
 been used. The visuals arent too good and the only time you use the touch screen is when you activate 
 the nitrous oxide. This game really isnt worth the money unless you are a hardcore NFS fan or 
 you have plenty of other friends who play this DS game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hionspeed64
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 for the Nintendo DS is a racing game lacking a lot of elements. The 
 main game consists of plenty of matches between you and the computer, but after you beat the single 
 player, there isnt much left to do. The car upgrading system is primitive compared to the console 
 versions. As a result, you cant tweak your ride on the DS nearly as much as you can on the consoles. 
 You can play against your friends on local WiFi, which is kind of fun. You can also make your own 
 car decals. Maybe if the game was Nintendo WiFi compatible, the feature couldve been used. The 
 visuals arent too good and the only time you use the touch screen is when you activate the nitrous 
 oxide. This game really isnt worth the money unless you are a hardcore NFS fan or you have plenty 
 of other friends who play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  the game is worth playing but a little dissapointing the game needs to be worked on if it's to 
 be a great graphics are not very immpresive bit of work the would sell so many more copies on the 
 DS it's great on PS2 and XBOX but the portable nintendo version needs to pull it's socks up and 
 get its working caps on because this game can't be good enough and it needsimproved the nintendo 
 version isn't good enough it needs real thinking about but I liked the game in the end the gameplay 
 is the best thing about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emocheese
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  So when i bought this game i was thrilled i mean ive played NFSU and i couldn't stop playing it 
 for a month. So i was thrilled to hear the second 1 was coming out for the DS. I bought it played 
 it that day like all night but when i woke up it had lost its touch the levels to begin with are 
 VERY easy than all of a sudden they become so hard you think its impossible. But i am no quit-er 
 so i carried on playing. After i few hours i pulled the game card out and play on a different DS 
 game. I haven't played it since. Its a big let down really! I mean i do love racing games but this 
 just felt more of a chore and lost its touch after the first couple of hours!!! If you ask me dont 
 buy it. I havent played on it for over a year its that bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty_123
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This ame sucks cliping is horrable worser then raw 2. graphics suck there like ps1 graphics. its 
 too hard because i'f you make a mistake or i'f a car past you its almost imposable to pass them. 
 gameplay is sucky. I'ts like **** made this game its not in my book. wwe wrestlemaina 21 is better 
 then this and also I AM SICK OF THIS CRAP. they need to start makeing better games out there. DO 
 NOT GET THIS GAME EVER! EVER!!!! AND I MEAN EVER!!! this is the suckyest game i ever played! and 
 it is just plan crapy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe87man
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  For one the gameplay is great, they creators do a good job with the d-pad for the steering, and 
 that well get you going on the game. The speed is good, and thats all good.
  But for the letdown the music in the game bites, but the car soud effects are great.
  The graphics 
 would almost be awsome, but short-scale drawing is every where when going through the track. 
  the game might not be worth getting if you have asphalt or mario cart. u just might not find it 
 interesting. .. . .... ....... ....... ........ ....... .... ... .... .... .... .. ..... . ............... 
 ...... ........ ........ .... ........ ...... ...... ....... ........ ...... .......... ......... 
 ........ ..... ....... ........ ........ ...... .. .. . . ..... . . .... . .. ... .. ... ... .. 
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... ...... . . 
 . . . . . . . . . .. . .. ... .. ... .. .. . ... . . . . . .. ..... ... .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinez91
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The best part about NFSU2 is in my opinion, the drag racing. The regular racing is whacked up and 
 the steering is way too touchy. The whole game is pretty much the same as all the other consoles.... 
 only you get to use your stylus... (once or twice) . So i give it a 0 for uniqueness. I also think 
 that the mini-games are kinda cheesy. And the Drag racing is the shortest part of the game so dont 
 expect it to be extravagent. But besides the cheesiness this game deserves an 8 out of 10. 
  
  Also you can design your own decal which I thought was pretty cool it can be anything and you 
 can put the decal on your car as soon as you earn it....
  Good job nintendo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdirauf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics , good controls and good gameplay. There are a lot of cars to choose 
 from although you have to unlock them first. When you do , the game gets a whole lot interesting. 
 The graphics are excellent. The tracks are brilliant and challenging. The controls are very easy 
 and handles very well. The gameplay is nice. The best thing of all is that you get to pimp out 
 your car. Adding new rims and putting on new vinyls. There is a lot to choose from when pimping 
 out your car which makes this game even more enjoyable and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angultra
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 27, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  NFSU2 for the DS is an average racing game. Good graphics and smooth framerate, however the backgrounds 
 are quite pixelated so it's hard to see turns sometimes. Consists of circuit, "own the zone", and 
 drag racing. It would've been nice to have a bonus drifting competition or something else, but 
 it has just enough options to make a game.
  
  I spent many hours trudging through the single player to unlock all the cars and upgrades. I say 
 "trudging" because the CPU opponents get TOUGH. Thank god they crash every now and then, but later 
 in the game they pretty much floor it 100% of the time and you usually crash more than them. Plus 
 the critieria are very stringent, you can't move on unless you get 1st place (out of 4) . 
  
  Own the zone would have been fun except for a flaw: Most courses are split up into 4 sections, 
 and over 2 laps you need to get the fastest lap times for more sections than the computer. The 
 flaw is that the CPUs are treated as a team, and you alone are the other team. So if you get 2 
 zones, "john" gets 1 zone, and "billy" gets 1 zone, then you'd think you have the most zones, right? 
 Not so. It says you fail, you need 3 zones regardless. That's just plain stupid, and many hours 
 of frustration was spent until I was good enough to actually get 3 zones. 
  
  For circuit and own the zone modes, you'll pretty much have the tracks memorized in order to get 
 1st place later on, while driving at 250km/h with heavy traffic (traffic ranges from none-light-heavy) . 
 I've had many rematches because on the 3rd lap I slam into a bus and the CPUs come flying past 
 me.... argh! The CPUs also tend to stick close together, unless one of them crashes. The controls 
 will seem strange at first, but by the end the steering felt second nature to me.... give it time. 
 In terms of cars, there are a handful, but definitly leave a lot to be desired. 
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer but it'll be the saving grace of this game, because the A. I. isn't 
 exactly that realistic. Unfortunately, no single-cart play so it makes it even harder to find friends 
 to race. Passing the circuit and own the zone modes was frustrating, so the only mode I care to 
 replay is the drag racing. The drag racing was a lot more fun, except at the end instead of a crowd 
 or beautiful women celebrating a win with you, you hit an invisible wall a few metres after the 
 finish line (with a loud crash) , and back to the menu. Also, you can't tell how a car will perform 
 other than a rating from 1-5 for speed, acceleration, and handling. No idea why they did it this 
 way but little things like no girl to start the race, and no car stats like HP or maximum speed, 
 take away from the experience. Overall, more realistic physics than Asphalt or Ridge Racer, but 
 not much better quality overall. Race fans will probably enjoy it, as will those who can play multiplayer. 
 At full price, probably not worth it, but if you can find it used or on sale it's not a bad value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Nfsu2 is a good game thats just a little bit too hard, well to me. Usually, i take about a day 
 or two to beat a game, sometimes 3, but it took me a good long week and a half to beat this game, 
 which means it was a really hard game. This graphics were better than i expected. The controls 
 sucked at first but then you start to get used to it, and the cars get better also, providing better 
 speed, acceleration, and handling. Sound is also not bad. For example, when you and other cars 
 are in a tunnel, your engines actually sound like thery're in a tunnel. So I would rate this game 
 overall 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanXZeroX7
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this game are horrible. Every thing that is on that game looks unrealistic. When 
 you run into a wall or something, the car does not show any damage.
  
  The minigames, I dont even think they should have added those. They are just plain stupid. They 
 are pointless too. Some of the races are stupid and easy. I beat some of the oponents by a long 
 shot. It was a resently bot car too. I didnt custamize my car at all and I still beat them.
  
  You cant do alot of custamizing of your car. Most of the custamizations look ridiculous. I 
 just think this game isnt worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is an okay game for the DS.
  
  The gameplay on this game is just like any other Need for Speen game. You race and go really really 
 fast. I was actually suprised that this game was as good as it was though. I underestimated DS 
 after got one and I didn't think I wasn't going to get more than one good game (Super Mario DS, 
 see my review forthat) but I geuss I was wrong. This game is actually a fun game. One thing I thought 
 was cool was that you could make your own logo. That took some time getting used to and took a 
 lot of patience. The controls were really good too.
  
  The graphics are better for the DS but not as good as they should be. The DS has some problems 
 with graphics so a lot of the games get ruined because of that. This was almost one of them and 
 without good gameplay this game would have been really bad.
  
  The sound on this game is good. The cars sound cool but I didn't really like the music. It was 
 like a techno thing. I have a thing with techno on games that are pretty good (see my review of 
 Air Force Delta storm for X-bob for annoying techno soundtrack) and would be like .4 more than 
 they are.
  
  Overall, this game is a pretty good game and at a cheep price can be worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symerwizkid22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  To date, Need for Speed Underground 2 is the best racing game available for the DS. It includes 
 
  
  1) Agreat sense of speed (Nitrous, drifting, etc...)
  
  2) Best of DS graphics
  
  3) Large variety of things to do (Circuit, drag, time attack, etc...)
  
  4) Good multiplayr
 
  
  5) A GREAT RACING GAME!!!
  
  Some competetors for this game MIGHT be:
  
  1) Burnout Legends - Turns out to a mediocre game with its fair share of flaws.
  
  2) Mario 
 Kart DS - Now that its out... it IS the best driver... it isn't the "realistic" driver like this 
 game, but it still places under the category of racing so it is the BEST.
  
  3) Need for Speed: Most Wanted - Not to good compared to this game, but still a DECNT racing game.
 
  
  If you want a fun, hard, sometimes agrivating racing game = get this game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground 2 DS was the first game i bought for the DS, it only cost me 30 so 
 i got it, i was playing it and is turned out realy good, BUT in some cases the races starts getting 
 less good and turning boring and the way you can make your own Vynals is cool and all, but you 
 can make good ones,
  
  Theres alot of levels and cars and lots of improvments to the cars, great game but does'nt last.
 
  
  The graphics are pritty ok for a DS Starter, same with the gameplay
  but i know they could have done better if they wanted to!.
  
  I would olny recomnd this game 
 if they've testes it and is a fan.
  If you have NFSUG2 for the PS2 like me, then dont get this one, theres realy no point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't the greatest. I suggest that you don't buy this game. It is a waist of money. The 
 multiplayer is fun but it isn't the greatest. There isn't too many good cars to chose from. It 
 is hard to upgrade the cars. The game is more boring then it looks. The game isn't that fun, the 
 only time it is fun is when you win a race and unlock new cars and tracks and get points to upgrade 
 the cars. The drag racing is also fun. If you are thinking of buying this game don't. Buy a different 
 game like Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellas-rule
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Although writing this review after the release of the incredible game that is Mario Kart DS, this 
 is still a contender for one of the best racers of the year, and here's why.
  Despite its lack of magic that appealed to PS2 and Gamecube owners of the game, this is still as 
 successful port from the home consoles. The graphics are decent to be honest, ans could be improved 
 from blocky objects in the background and large pixellated track, however, the car designs are 
 impressive and colours and lighting have been worked well, aswell as the realistic feeling of speed 
 as you hurtle down speedways in a drag.
  Sound is basic, as there is not much variation in the tracks playing while your race, however sound 
 effects are realistic and are pleasing to hear from a portable device.
  Gameplay is what increases the quality of the game most, as the game acheives realism but does 
 not lose that sense of imagination as you master control of a mazda rx-8 reaching speeds of 150 
 mph!!!
  Overall a satisfying game but lacking in areas that could make it contend with the racing greats 
 such as Mario Kart, Burnout and Project Gotham. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invdrcats
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  its good old fun when you play first time and you keep thinking to yourself this is fun but after 
 the sound and and the controls and the bad mini games get to you after a race you`ll put down and 
 an hour win a race down one more hour the same thing for a long time so i thing you should trade 
 it in somewhere like gamestop or EBgames and get something like Mario Kart DS or Castlevania . 
 i had more fun Metroid demo than this game is the second i had and i sold two day later mabe you`ll 
 have more fun but i think that you get borrow it from a friend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theoj911
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game is nice I think the graphics could be better they look kinda blurry and the areas are 
 not to good. The cars rock you have so many things that you could do with to make them look better. 
 The sound is well not great but fair, it doesnt really fit the games though. But overall I love 
 this game. I would recomend it to any racing fan who is diying to get a racing game for their ds. 
 If you are not a racing fan well I would say check it out before buying but overall its a great 
 game that doesnt dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  Well ive played many portable racing games ive never really played one like this. As with any other 
 DS game the touch screen menu is always intresting. The cars themselfs all have different handling 
 that is fairly realistic. The variety of mini games although car related are very dull and boring. 
 They could have used a lot more improvement . I like the good choice of available upgrades and 
 the variety of different cars is very refreshing compared to many other DS games. For a DS game 
 this is definialtely as must have. la la la l a la la la l ala la la l ala la la l ala la la l 
 ala la la l ala la la l ala la la l ala la la l a (ugh 100 words is to much) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright it could have been better. The graphics are good and crisp and makes you feel 
 the speed of the racing and you can pimp out your ride to make it look sweet there is a varity 
 of parts, tools, and cars to choose from. The sound was alright it has an upbeat tone to the music 
 and you can hear the tires squeel. The gameplay was alright you can dodge traffic and if you crash 
 basically you'll be in last and some times stay there. I say this game is kinda worth the money 
 and the game is pretty hard. Thanq for reading my reveiw! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  ITS OKAY WHILE NOT PERFECT BUT GOOD ENOUGH TO BUY. i got bored of this after maybe 7 months so 
 that means its pretty darn good. it couldve been better but its great the way it is. this game 
 starts out really easy and it gets a little bit harder then when ur about 70% done it gets really 
 hard so u have to work on ur racing skills on the tracks. the only reason im still writing is because 
 the stupid thing says i need more words. well this should be just about right. i still cant submit 
 this dumb review, i mean whathaheck i cant just write a crappy review for fun what is this world 
 coming to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dblockcentral
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game would be an instant classic if the races and the mini games wasn't so hard and the game 
 was longer. The gameplay is good, you can turn and stop easy enough so the controls aren't bad. 
 The problem is the CP cars are way too fast and rarely crash so this should be improved in the 
 next need for speed game for the ds. The graphics are great in my opinion, I have no complaints 
 in this area of the game. The sound is basically one or two beats, theres not even a regular song 
 on this game. This game doesn't have good value because it doesn't keep you entertained for a long 
 time. In fact I only played this game for about five hours, it gets very frustrating at times. 
 So basically I really reccomend you don't buy this game no matter how much you thought you wanted 
 it. Just buy it for PS2 or Xbox or just save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntyking117
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The DS isn't exactly the racer king the PSP is, but the it does have a fair amount of them. The 
 problem is, all of them are medicore. NFSU 2 has graced every almost known system and it's popularity 
 knows little bounds. NFSU 2 is a fairly accurate port of the console titles, except they weren't 
 too hot either. 
  
  First off, controls. The game handles like a horse. There are little shortcuts, but there are a 
 lot of obstacles and sharp turns that aren't meant for the sluggish response of the controls. It's 
 not the DS itself, although an analog nub a'la PSP would be nice. The problem lies in the sensitivety. 
 There is something fundamentally wrong with it. Ridge Racer tried to add an option of touch controls, 
 which could have worked if tuned properley. Too bad, this game could have controlled much better, 
 especially with all the bumping and obstacles that EA so carefully planted.
  
  The graphics are nice, if a bit dinky. They are not as blocky as the other racers, but it also 
 lacks style. All of the game takes place during the night. The draw distance is also poor, for 
 some reason. The game obviously focused on the cars, which look fine, but lack color. The decals 
 you can draw onto the cars are nice, but after your second decal, you realize you have to UNLOCK 
 the place you put it on. That does not make any sense. Also, the screen they give you sucks. You 
 have your color selection and and delete buttons on the same screen as the patlette, which leads 
 to MAJOR mistakes. They could have mapped it onto buttons (L for delete etc.) but that was a design 
 mistake. 
  
  Sound is pretty poor. It's more of EA's 'let's add MIDI instead of attempting any good music'. 
 While it's not good, neither is EA Trax so either way, ears will bleed. The game attmpts to sound 
 like techno and rock, respectivley.
  
  Overall, if don't own a PSP and need a racing fix, this your best choice until Burnout, Mario Kart 
 or the next NFSU game, Most Wated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsonbz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  if tou like the games in the need for speed series then you will love this game!!! its a must have 
 for all gamers!!!!
  
  it has amazing graphics they may be the best graphical game for the nintendo ds!!!
  
  you can 
 race youre friend have a quick race and even championships.
  you can chose from 4 types of game all as adictive as each other!!!
  
  you can allso custamize 
 youre ride by adding spoilers, sideskirts, neons & even custom graphics wich you can make on the 
 touch screen.
  
  there are such cars as (nissans, subaru, vw & even mazda etc.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riff60
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The DS just isn't powerfull enough to run this game. If I had to use one word to desribe it, it 
 would be ACWARD! At first this game was fun. Being able to upgrad your wheels on a handheld system. 
 But the graphics stink, the controlls feal very wierd and the game is so repatitious... Doen't 
 buy this game, doen't rent this game, its a waste. I really like the DS and the PSP, I own both, 
 but the PSP is far superior in power and these kinds of game need to stay AWAY from the DS for 
 that reson, its just to weak a system. This is a very diapointing game and makes the DS seem alike 
 a bad peice of equitment, when its not, it just wasen't made for games like this. I can't really 
 say anything good about this game, the graphics, sound, gameplay and over integrety fall very short 
 of any arcade style racer in years. The one cool thing is you can use the touch screen to draw 
 your own symbols for cars and there are a decent amount of unlockble gear for you wheel. Unfortiantly 
 they look awfull. I didn't rate this game to low becuae it was the first of its kind and they had 
 to start some were, so I gave them credit for that, and that only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akash23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  NFSU2 is (in my opinion) the best car racer the ds has to offer. It has plenty of cars, plenty 
 of tracks, and 6 types of racing. It has the normal circuit mode, where you finsh the race first. 
 The second, which is knockout, is where you must try not to finsh last on each lap otherwise you 
 will be knocked out of the race. Time trial is just you against the clock. Own the zone is where 
 you must get the best time for each 'zone'. Drag is a simple straight road which you must come 
 first. the last type of race is a free run. it's not really racing with opponents as it's only 
 a 'free run' of the track.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay on NFSU2 is really good as u will have many hours of gameplay. i bought NFSU2 in May, 
 and i hav only restarted in twice, and i havent finished.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  I giv the graphics 8 because i really liked the car models, but i took away a point because the 
 'pop up' isn't something i really liked. i took another point off because of the actual road graphics. 
 they are really pixelly (if thats a word) and i don't really like it.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  
  The sound....
  the music was a bit awkward, and the car sounds were all the same so i really 
 didn't remember the car i was driving.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  I really think ppl should consider buying this game if the want a real good car racer
  
  Reveiwer's 
 Tilt: 9/10
  
  This is a great game, with a good frame rate, and real nice looking cars. The sense of speed is 
 really awesome, better than ridge racer and asphalt. This is really good racer, hope u enjoy it 
 as much as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 24, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  The title clearly explains its feel, and what a feel it is. This game is much more about racing, 
 gotta built up the SPEED man. You have to built enough speed, and keep the speed, and that's when 
 the game gets hard. The game may get exciting because how fast the game plays, but the A. I sort 
 of plays unfair. You have to keep this high speed in order to stay in the lead, but once you crash, 
 or run into traffic, you can fall behind to 4th place right off the bat once you get the move on 
 again. But the A. I also crashes, and lets you take the lead, but it doesn't happen as much as you 
 do, unless your an expert of dodging traffic, and that could take time.
  
  The game has its single player mode called the underground. There are 4 different. Types of things 
 to participate: 
  
  1. The Circuit race- this is the area where you'll spend the most time in, since it has more events 
 to beat. This has either circuit races, where you race your opponents throughout the entire course, 
 or knock out your opponents in the Lap KO. This event knocks out any driver that lasts passes the 
 line, and the last reminding car wins the match. Or, this is the time trial, where you must finish 
 course in certain amount of laps, in a certain time.
  
  2. Own the Zone-this area has a great number events that is all based on the Own the Zone races. 
 The tracks are divided in 4 different areas, and you must go through each area as fast as you can. 
 Having the best time on the most areas makes you a winner.
  
  3. Drag-this area has great number of races based on drag races. These are short races where you 
 must race from point A to point B. The tracks are straight, with few obstacles included, and each 
 event has its difference in traffic. The driving system is otherwise different than the standard 
 control. The A button is still to accerate, but you must use the shoulder buttons multiple of times 
 to keep your speed. There are two meters on opposite sides of screen. The left keeps track if the 
 engine is going to be overheated. If the arrow reaches the top, it is overheating, and the arrow 
 on the right bar raises. If that bar reaches the top, than the car can't take it anymore. The L 
 button raises the acceleration a tad bit, and raises the left bar dramatically. The R button lowers 
 the arrow on the left bar, but the speed changes to lower, or higher, depending on where the arrow 
 was in the first place. If the arrow was close to the top, than it's likely to gain most speed.
 
  
  4. Bonus Event-You actually can't play these until you unlock them on the other 3 areas. These are 
 minigames that make use of the touch screen. There aren't many minigames, and only a couple is 
 quite satisfying, but doesn't entertain for long. Each minigame completed will unlock a bonus power 
 to your car's abilities.
  
  Other than the Underground mode, there is Race Now, where you customize your own race. You can 
 determine of how many laps to do, number of opponents, type of race etc.
  There are also minigames you can play for fun. Like I said before, most aren't quite satisfying. 
 There is a satisfying multiplayer mode where you face friends. You can also go to your garage where 
 you buy, customize, and upgrade your cars. There are many cars to unlock, and many customizing 
 options to unlock.
  
  Gameplay is thrilling, control is tight. and great sense of SPEED. It cost $10 more than standard 
 game sales, but it's worth the money, but I recommend peps should get this only for people looking 
 for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biker_86
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  After reading Gamespots review i was a little wary of buying this game, but as i needed a new game 
 for my holiday and in the UK theres very little choice in DS games. Im a fan of this game on PS2 
 so decided to try it out.
  
  Im not sure what game Gamespot were playing because this one is brilliant! The controls seem fine 
 to me, press lightly you move slowly, hammer the button and you powerslide. Simple! as for these 
 "muddy undefined" graphics, i was blown away by the detail cramed in. I havnt experienced the pop 
 up yet, but i only have slow cars at the moment. 
  
  Car customisation is understandibly more restricted than the console versions, but you can still 
 get bodykits, spoilers, hoods, roof scoops, rims, neons, vinals, paints and window tints. The one 
 disapointment i have is the custom decals, because theyre too small and only take up a small section 
 of the car and dont really look like they should be there, but its a nice concept.
  
  If like me your DS collection is simply Star Wars and Mario then youl be blown away by NFSU2
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  In late 2003 EA released Need for Speed Underground, which was an import tuner street racing game 
 which featured some deep customization and great visuals and overall fun racing. Then in late 2004 
 Need For Speed Underground 2, which was one of the most highly anticipated games for 2004 but it 
 was just a big disappointment, the racing was the same and it was just to boring and repetitive 
 to be any fun. Now EA looks to make up for the mistakes on the console version by releasing Need 
 For Speed Underground 2 for the DS and though it does have its problems Need For Speed Underground 
 2 DS is a challenging and enjoyable DS street racing game overall.
  
  The racing though fun has one problem. The control isn't to good, no im not talking about the turning 
 corners type of controls I mean the trying to go straight control. When your driving straight your 
 car will uncontrollably swerve from side to side meaning your will be constantly tapping the left 
 and right D-Pad buttons just to drive straight. its not really as bad as it sounds, its just one 
 of those things that you have to get used to. Another thing about this game is that the road is 
 really narrow which makes it a bit harder to control your car.
  
  The computer A. I in Need for Speed Underground 2 is excellent. Unlike the CPU A. I in Need For Speed 
 Underground 2 for the consoles where the cars would almost never crash, in the DS version they 
 crash about as often as you do (well that actually depends on how good the player is but the CPU 
 controlled cars crash often enough to make them feel around your skill level) . However there cars 
 always seem to be able to go a little bit faster than yours, but that makes the game challenging 
 (in the good way) .
  
  There really isn't any story in Need for Speed Underground 2, but thats no problem because the 
 story in NFSU2 for the consoles occasionally got in the way. Basically you'll just be going in 
 racing to get points, which is essentially the same as money and you use these points to buy all 
 the cars and performance upgrades that you have unlocked by winning races. But one strange thing 
 about the DS version of NFSU2 is that all the visual upgrades are free, so once you unlock the 
 rims, spoilers, front/back/side bumpers and all of that kind of stuff you can just enter your garage 
 and get it for free. But this works a lot better than you would expect because you can have plenty 
 of fun changing your cars visual upgrades over and over again until you get it exactly how you 
 want it. And there one unique feature with the decals, you can create your own. Using the touch 
 screen you can draw and/or write what ever you want and put it on the sides of you car or the hood 
 of your car.
  
  There is also a good amount unlockable cars. Though in some cases there are 2 or 3 of the same 
 car but there just a lot faster than the last version of the car, take the Skyline for example. 
 There are 3 unlockable Nissan Skylines, each one is faster than the last, it sounds a bit pointless 
 but it works just fine. From the start of the game you'll be able to view every single car, whether 
 you have unlocked it or not you can still view it. And just to let you know, the last unlockable 
 car is Rachel's 350Z which looks awesome.
  
  There is a variety of race types. There are circuit races which are essentially racing a few laps 
 around the city and sometimes you will be racing the clock trying to beat the set time. Circuit 
 races are still the main focus but there are also 2 other types of races. Drag racing which is 
 probably the most enjoyable race type of the bunch. Theres also a new race type called Own the 
 Zone, basically you'll be racing one opponent and you will have to perform the best in a section 
 to own that zone. There are 4 zones (or sections) in each level and in the end the player with 
 the most wins.
  
  Need For Speed Underground 2 DS features some blocky graphics, which aren't very impressive. The 
 cars themselves look great but the environment and traffic cars don't really looks that great. 
 Theres this problem with the environment where whenever you approach a new part of the track the 
 background just pops up which is weird and doesn't look good at all. But still you don't buy a 
 game for fancy graphics so it doesn't really get in the way of anything, but still it would have 
 been nice if they were improved even if it ment an extra month or so in development.
  
  The graphics aren't really anything special and the sound is even worse. The actual car sounds 
 aren't to bad but the soundtrack is terrible, it features mainly instrumental music and its just 
 a lot better if you turn the sound of. It will take you a good 15 - 25 hours to finish the Underground 
 mode, mainly because you'll be racing some of the same races again and again because some of the 
 races are pretty hard. The multiplayer is pretty fun and you only need one NFSU 2 DS cartridge 
 to play with up to four players.
  
  Though the graphics, sound and overall presentation isn't to good the great sense of speed and 
 the depth of unlockable comes through here. Need For Speed Underground 2 DS is for the most part 
 a good lengthy, fast, challenging and enjoyable experience and if your in need for some street 
 racing for your DS look no further than Need For Speed Underground 2 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  NFSU 2 is a non-free range version of the NFSU 2 games released earlier this year on the consoles. 
 The game isn't as solid as another DS racer title, Asphalt: Urban GT, but it does fair, especially 
 considering the other DS racers
  
  Gameplay- 6- I think this score could EASILY have been a 9 with one more weeks worth of coding 
 & development. First, the steering mechanics have been converted decently from analog to digital, 
 but its still a bit wonky. But that isn'tthe problem... the problem is the crash mechanics, or 
 "rubber car" as I call it. If your car hits anything, you will boune off that object with more 
 force than you originally hit it at. It is irritating, especially when you go from leading by half 
 a track, to fourth place cuz of the bounce & recovery time.
  
  Graphics- 7 - This game is the second best looking DS racer. Decent graphics, but the cars coulda 
 had more detail
  
  Sound- 4 - EA cheaped out using bad techno music... bad EA, BAD!
  
  Value- 8 - There is a LOT to be unlocked and customized in this game. It adds SO much play time 
 & replay to this game, the best part about the game, definately. But you have to get past everything 
 else to do all that
  
  Tilt- 6 - Ok, but not the greatest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-bad
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 14, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  The game is fast but that speed comes at a price Control for one Graphic another. It hard to turn 
 on a dime in this game and when in heavy traffic in the later stages this can really be a issue 
 more times than others losing the race. The graphic are not bad there are just some pop in meaning 
 the levels seem to be made as you approach them result in poor distance viewing, knowing where 
 to make a turn when doing over 130 mhp is really important. 
  
  Does this make the game bad NO this is a fun racer that really holds up well when compared to other 
 racers on the NDS (Asphalt or Ridge Racer) the touch nitrous control is cool, the custom decal 
 are great, the selection of cars is good, and the since of speed is great. The Decals are cool 
 to show off in the Multi-player mode of the game, which has 4 player support and is really fun 
 to get into.
  
  The Single player mode is cool there are some different mode that are fun plus the Own The Zone 
 mode is the best, the Drag is second, followed by the Standard race, KO race, time trial. There 
 are also mini games that use the touch screen and are fun to play plus they add extra up grade 
 to your car. Upgrading Your car is a hallmark of the underground games and it here and fun. 
  
  The game has flaws but it is really a good racer one that every NDS owner should as least rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbrethil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a typical game you should rent first to see if you really like it. I can only tell how 
 I feel about this game, a positive feeling indeed. 
  The first impression in the first race was that the graphics are great. Of course, you might have 
 heard about it, but on the DS, this is good! The cars look smooth and respond naturally, the tracks 
 are diverse and so are the landscapes. A special wow goes out to the lighting effects, they're 
 really stunning! 
  Actually, there is a lot to tell about this game. I will start off, after just giving a little 
 bit of attention to the graphics, with the game modes. Of course, all the menus displayed on the 
 bottom screen are controllable with the stylus. In the main menu, six modes can be selected: Race 
 Now, Go Underground, Mini Games, Garage, Profile and Multiplayer.
  No explanation needed for Multiplayer of course, up to four players compete with their own cars, 
 so forget about single card play.
  Profile is easy, this is where your progress is saved. Here, you can see your stats, like the longest 
 jump, number of collisions, lost games, you know what to expect. Also, this is where you adjust 
 the options such as audio, camera modes, hud etc.
  The Mini Games are next in this, as you can see, little confusing order of explaining modes. There 
 are several mini games, to be controlled with the stylus. They're quite difficult to unlock, but 
 in Underground mode, they submit bonuses to your car performance.
  Garage lets you change your ride. Do whatever you want, once you have unlocked it, that is. From 
 rims and spoilers to neon and your own custom-made vinyls. But not only visual, that is free, also 
 the performance can be enhanced. This costs some points, but once bought, they're free on every 
 new car. If feels good to express yourself and make your ride unique!
  
  Race now delivers all different modes that are already arranged for you in Underground, where you 
 have to go through everything in a specific order. In Race Now, Random or Custom are available. 
 Just go for a quick ride or select all changes. There is Circuit Race, some laps through the scenes; 
 Lap Knockout, the last of each lap drops out; Time Trial, race against the clock; Drag, a straight 
 road, where you have to watch the road and your engine; Own the Zone, extremely difficult: get 
 the fastest time on each zone of the lap; and finally, Free Run, with just you and the street.
 
  In all these modes, the amount of opponents, amount of traffic, reverse or forward, number of 
 laps, are ready to be adjusted too. 
  
  Apart from all these outside features, the main thing is whether the game drives like it should 
 or not. To be honest, this game is really difficult. Especially Own the Zone gave me headaches 
 at times, in almost all races you are not allowed to hit another car, or you're out for sure. And 
 even then it's hard to be first. This is a great challenge, and it makes you feel a lot cooler 
 when you win, but I had rather seen a difficulty level change. So before you crash into frustration, 
 be sure you are ready for the challenge and play an advanced race before buying. This is truly 
 a game for the question: 'do you think you got what it takes to take on the Underground?' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed underground 2 is a remake of the highly acclaimed street racer. in this game you 
 are an unknown street racer trying to build rep. to do this you have to win races on underground 
 mode on the race catagories including drag, which is probably the funnest. There are loads of tracks 
 and cars and the pimping aspect of the game is just like the console version but this time you 
 can draw your own decals on the touch screen.
  
  Gameplay: The games cars each handle differently giving it realisim and the crashes can ruin a 
 race for most people unlike on say asphalt urban GT where when you crash into traffic your car 
 does a spin but at the same time maintains speed. At first when you need to pick a starter car 
 which have low accelaratio , speed and handling your car will go everywhere making the game frustrating, 
 but play on and as soon as you tune the engine, chassis etc. the car will handle much differently 
 makin you even more impressed.
  The create a decal option in the garage is extremely fun and makes you feel more in control of 
 what your car looks like plus some fun mini games are thrown in.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are amazing. PS2 quality almost. it would look like the console 
 versions if it werent for the backgrounds which even so it is its low point is still vrey good. 
 There seems to be a lot of pop up on oncoming traffic which will some times cause you to crash 
 but i guess if the pop up was improved they would have to sacrifice the garaphicsAll the realism 
 makes for some blistering speed especially when the Nitrous kicks in, and now there is an option 
 of using 2 at once for a double boost.
  
  Sound: There are some funky tunes on the main menue and lots of variety but it seems to be recycled 
 in races which is then drowned out by the revving of the engine which again is very realistic added 
 to the sound of the gears changing.
  
  Value: There are loads of races and cars to unlock, not to mention parts and upgrades to pimp out 
 and turn your car into the meanest on the street. The creat a decal option and minigames will also 
 keep you on this long after you complete the all the races.
  
  Tilt: Overall this is a good buy at any price, is a challenge and is the dream handheld game for 
 any car lover.
  I even favour this game to the console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpke122
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was thinking back when I first played Asphalt DS. I have to say I'm 
 very proud of this new purchase. Well, I say: Aphalt DS is just a small copy of NFS Underground 
 2 and a very bad one too... you've played Asphalt in a couple of hours,
  while NFSU2 requires at least 2 weeks or so to get finally done!
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The 
 gameplay, is really hard... as for the driving , steering is very hard! When you push your thumb 
 a full sec on the left button your on the other side of the road... really depressing. What I need 
 to say, is that the A. I. is very high, opponents knock your car to the right side of the road when 
 you want to go left & visa versa... Also, there's very much to unlock. You've got 6 menu options: 
 RACE NOW, GO UNDERGROUND, MINI GAMES, GARAGE, PROFILE and MULTIPLAYER. In RACE NOW you must try 
 to end first in the race of the so many areas. In GO UNDERGROUND, you have to complete some challenges 
 in 4 different ways: circuit, own the zone, drag or bonus event. When you can complete them all 
 together wit the RACE NOW mode you can yourself the Master Of The Underground.
  At MINI GAMES, there are games to play like moving a rectangle upwards or downwards on the Touch 
 Screen to let the ball go between 2 lines. At GARAGE, you can modify your car and paint your own 
 drawings that you made with the Touch Screen on your car. At the option PROFILE, you can check 
 what you've completed in the game and also what your name was, what your maximum speed was, to 
 check your high scores, etc... .
  For the last option: MULTIPLAYER, a very fun one, you can play wirelessly up to 4 people. Very 
 cool if you want to show your skills!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  -----------------------------
  
  The graphics, you might be thinking like you're playing a 
 PC-game like -just better- than NFS Porsche 2000. I was really amazed when I saw how detailed the 
 cars and areas were!
  The only thing that bothers me is the short draw distance.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  -----------------------------
  
  The sound of NFSU 2, well, I don't have 
 much to say about this. The sound is very good, but sometimes it might be irritating like the cars 
 that have the same sound for each one of them. So I say, it's not bad. It's like it has to come 
 out. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  -----------------------------
  
  The value of NFSU 2, ah yes. Well, if you're a real race dude, go get yourself this game, it's 
 pure racing and the cars are from the real life. Also, the game lasts very long. If you want to 
 beat the game, you're busy for days and days! So, I say, racing fans, buy it. And non-racing fans... 
 try before you buy!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT
  ***********************
  
  I myself, love the game. I am not a racinf fanatic, but I like to play a racing game for once.
 
  The racing fans out there, buy this game. It's just great!
  
  
  --By cpke122 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 25, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This is defintly the best racing game on the nintendo ds. It wins easily, from its gaeplay to graphics 
 from graphics to audio. The game has great tracks and actually plays music instead of just hearing 
 racing noise. The graphics aren't the best but the game offers a lot to play. There are street 
 challenges and 4 difficuilties to beat the game in. Theres novice, pro, master and car spec. There 
 are many real- life cars and the custimization in the game is brilliant. You can choose the  
 and tail lights, etc... all to your car. It s pretty easy to earn new cars in the game and unlock 
 them. Cash isn't something to worry about and this game can last you a very long time. There aren't 
 to many tracks, about 12 but they are still fun and can be challening agaainst the computers. There 
 is a wi-fi mode in which you need 2 cartriges to play a friend. I'd say this would be a cool game 
 to play online. The bottom screen is used for a map and the top screen is for the gameplay. It 
 costs 40 dollars and i'd wait for it to lower because it is not a must have game for your nintendo 
 ds. When it lowers I totally reccomand this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJ23
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Through the past few years, Need for Speed Underground has established itself as the 
 biggest street-racing video game series, and EA has brought Need for Speed Underground 2 to the 
 Nintendo DS. NFSU2 was not just a simple GBA port, or just a handheld version of the console game, 
 it was a whole new game, the best racing game currently out for the DS. NFSU2 combines stunning 
 graphics with great, realistic gameplay, and many cars and customizations.
  
  Gameplay:
  NFSU2 is easily the best racing game for the DS, so if you skipped over Ridge Racer and Asphalt 
 Urban GT, this is a must buy game. Easily the second-best game for the DS (after Super Mario 64 
 DS) , NFSU2 starts you out in Underground Mode with one car, and completing races gives you Points 
 to use on buying new cars (which must be unlocked first) , and Performance Upgrades, to make you 
 car go faster, handle better, and other things, like better brakes, and nitrous. Completing races 
 also unlockes visual upgrades, like rims, body kits, different paint jobs, vinyls, hood scoops, 
 and more, so opponents can stare at your sexy car after they get left behind. There are six tracks, 
 plus two different tracks that are only in Drag Racing mode (Runway and Main Street) , and fifteen 
 cars (plus three tricked-out EA cars, and a few secret cars) . Also, you can earn special bonus 
 upgrades by unlocking and completing different levels of simple touch screen mini-games, which 
 are kind of lame, but hey, it gets you new stuff. Advancing through the Underground, you can pimp 
 your car, add custom decals, drawn with the Touch Screen, and make it go faster and faster. EA 
 tried to make a more realistic crash effect so that youy don't run right over obstacles, but they 
 overdid it a little. When you are going 150, and ram into a car head-on, going only about 40, you 
 don't expect to bounce back 10 feet and spin in circles. One crash can ruin your whole race. Even 
 if you have a HUGE lead on the second-place car, one crash, and they probably pass you, so you 
 have to work even harder to not crash. It can get really frustrating at some points in the game, 
 but the crashing effect just makes you try a little harder, maybe going a little slower, but in 
 control, which helps. For Nitrous, you can use up 1, 2, or 4 bottles at once if you have unlocked 
 them, giving you a bigger boost. In drag racing, it's best to use it early on, to help you go faster 
 through the shift points. In normal races, you should use one bottle for accelerating after a crash, 
 or use 2 or 4 combined for a huge boost. But just using one bottle at your top speed doesn't help 
 much, you may go up 5mph, but you'll notice that you don't move ahead of the competition at all, 
 and they speed up with you. All in all, NFSU2 is a fun ride for the DS. 
  
  Graphics:
  NFSU2 features nice, realistic graphics, and each car looks somewhat similar to its real-lfe counterpart, 
 and all levels are fairly detailed, some of the best graphics for the DS. On the other hand, there 
 is a bit of a "pop-up" effect, where you can see objects like buildings and signs forming in the 
 distance, and the end of a tunnel is just all black, until you get much closer. And, many levels 
 are dark, so you don't see an oncoming car sometimes, and you get nailed. Although, you don't
 
  notice it too much when you're driving, you sometimes don't see traffic coming at you from the 
 edge of the screen, coming around a corner. Overall, the graphics are nice, and EA did a good job 
 on the graphics for this game.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is not bad, but it could have been a bit better. The sound effects are nice, although 
 all of the cars you drive sound the same. The traffic noises are pretty good, good crashes, cars 
 honking their horns, and other sounds. I was very disappointed with the soundrack though, I was 
 expecting some actual music, but you just get some techno-rock beats, a different one for each 
 track, which aren't too bad once you get used to it, but can get a very repetitive if you race 
 the same track too many times.
  
  Controls:
  This game is what you expect for a handheld racer; D-Pad steering, A button to drive, B to brake, 
 L and R/X and Y to shift (if in Manual) , or one of those buttons for Nitro. Steering isn't too bad 
 with the D-Pad, but not too great, and your car responds quickly to the touch of a button, if it 
 has good handling, so you will only need a quick tap for a short turn (or crash into a wall) . You 
 can also tap the Touch Screen to activate the Nitrous menu, showing 4 (or however many you have 
 unlocked) , so you can use them by tapping one, or use 2 or 4 at once by touching a small icon in 
 between the nitrous canisters. 
  
  Value:
  This game will last you a LONG time, upgrading your car, unlocking new nes (with a few secret cars) , 
 and plenty of other things. The custom decals option also gives you move choice in design. Want 
 your ride to be a Batmobile? Do it, go make it black, change the body kit, and put in some Batman 
 logos. Want it to look like your favorite NASCAR racer's? Choose your color, put the number on, 
 and add some logos. This game will last anyone a very long time, and you can also work on improving 
 you race times. Want to get your drag time down a few seconds? Go upgrade your car and practice! 
 So many things to do make NFSU2 a long-lasting game for the DS.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  Anyone who is fan of racing games, likes cars, or wants a new game for the DS, should get this. 
 This probably going to be the last racing game before Mario Kart, and that's months away.
  [b] Buy/Rent? [/b]
  As I said above, this is a game that you should buy, especially if you like 
 racing.
  Overall Score: 82%, 8.2/10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
