-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Carbon: Own the City
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/needforspeedcarbon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Driving is fast-paced and vicious.
 Wingman and unwreck features are fun to exploit.
 Slaphappy opponents and saucy cutaways give the game attitude to spare.
 You can customize your car with a ridiculous number of parts and decals.
 Multiplayer mode greatly extends the replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some features from the console versions are scaled back or missing.
 Hardware limitations hold back the graphics and audio.
 You might not like how common crashes are.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 292 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Oct 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed Carbon is an enjoyable and stylish street racer that offers plenty of customization 
 options and a few sweet gamebreaker features. 

  Aficionados of scrappy, arcade-style racing games will feel right at home with Need for Speed Carbon 
 for the Nintendo DS. While the DS game doesn't include all of the features that its counterparts 
 on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox have, it does ape enough of their features and atmosphere such that 
 it delivers the same sort of spirited street-racing experience. Beyond that, it's also a fun, sometimes-hectic 
 game that gives players a good selection of cars, parts, and courses to fiddle with.  

          In Carbon, you can rewind your crashes and send your wingman ahead to trash opponents. 
     

  Generally speaking, Carbon is set up like you'd expect it to be. You compete against opponents 
 in various circuit, elimination, sprint, and endurance-type races; new courses and cars unlock 
 along the way; and your victories net you points that you can use to buy new cars and upgrade your 
 old ones. Each of the game's 12 courses emphasizes a different setting and structure, and you'll 
 find shortcuts all over the place. The driving is fast-paced, and the cars feel sufficiently heavy. 
 The artificial intelligence, meanwhile, does a good job of nudging fenders without coming across 
 as unfair. Smashing into oncoming traffic can lead to a spectacular crash, but the AI usually isn't 
 so harsh that one or two collisions will knock you out of contention. At least CPU opponents are 
 subject to the same mishaps, unlike in last year's game when they would simply pass right through 
 commuter traffic. As for the controls, everything you'd want at your fingertips is there. Steering 
 is mapped to the directional pad; the shoulder buttons handle braking and acceleration; and the 
 main buttons activate the handbrake, wingman, and nitro functions.  

  Three exciting new gamebreaker features help distinguish Carbon from previous Need for Speed games. 
 Two of these are rewind and slow-motion abilities, which let you recover from crashes and slow 
 down the action just by pressing a button. The other, more significant new addition is the wingman. 
 In a nutshell, you have a buddy in the race that will come to your aid with a helpful block or 
 draft whenever you summon them. Blockers will try to nudge and T-bone the other CPU cars. Drafters, 
 on the other hand, will get in front of you and cut down on your car's wind resistance, helping 
 you achieve a higher top speed. They also refill your nitrous, rewind, and slow-mo tanks while 
 you draft behind them. Wingmen are a welcome addition to the Need for Speed formula, as they can 
 instigate some awesome crashes and change the pecking order in an instant. About the only downside 
 to them is that you can't have both a blocker and a drafter in a single race. You must pick one 
 or the other before the race starts. As such, you have to decide which strategy is more important, 
 slowing down the other competitors or being able to refill your nitro, rewind, and slo-mo tanks. 

  Of course, Carbon is still very thick with the unique features that people have come to associate 
 with the Need for Speed franchise. You're not just racing to win a title. Instead, with every win, 
 you're taking away turf from six rival gangs and bringing their members into your posse as wingmen. 
 Some animated comic-book-style cutaways gradually reveal the ins and outs of the story as you capture 
 more turf and enlist new allies. In true Need for Speed fashion, the game lets you amass a stable 
 of as many as 15 real-world cars and provides a ridiculous selection of performance and visual 
 kits to upgrade them with. We're talking dozens upon dozens of engine, transmission, and body upgrades, 
 as well as spoilers, hoods, paint jobs, and vinyl decals. And then there are the crashes and nitro 
 boosts. Bumping and plowing into opponents is OK. Or, if you need to blow past them, you've got 
 a nitrous button that you can push to kick the car into overdrive.  

  For the most part, the graphics and audio convey all of the excitement with gusto, although the 
 limitations of the hardware are obvious. The 3D environments are busy with tunnels, overpasses, 
 buildings, and the like, and the frame rate is usually silky smooth, but the textures are grainy 
 and some of the polygon work is just plain boxy. The flat-shaded cars are nice and shiny, especially 
 when you dress them up with decals and neon kits, but the graphics engine can only display four 
 cars and a couple traffic vehicles at any given moment. Loneliness can set in if you rock first 
 place or bring up the rear for too long. Crashes don't involve explosions or splintered glass, 
 which is a shame, but they do cause both cars to flip end over end for a while. Similar trade-offs 
 are apparent with the audio. The various engine noises are sufficient and the sounds that the cars 
 make when you rub bumpers are suitably crunchy, but nothing stands out as particularly realistic 
 or memorable. They didn't record any speech for the numerous story scenes. Reading the dialogue 
 in the story scenes isn't as satisfying as hearing the characters speak it would be. They did at 
 least incorporate real music with lyrics in this year's game, although the seven different tracks 
 are B-grade grunge that nobody will pay attention to. Basically, the development team did the best 
 with what the hardware gave them to work with.  

          Like any Need for Speed game, Carbon lets you customize your cars with dozens of different 
 parts and decals.     

  It's also worth mentioning, at least for the benefit of some of you out there, that the Nintendo 
 DS version of Need for Speed Carbon isn't a perfect feature-for-feature replica of the console 
 versions. Canyon and drift races didn't make it into the DS version, for example, and they didn't 
 include the "scout" wingman type. Other aspects were scaled back, likely because of the hardware's 
 lack of overall horsepower. Races in the DS game only involve four competing cars, along with commuter 
 vehicles, and the video story scenes from the console versions have been replaced with lightly 
 animated comic-book-style cutaways. The important thing is that you never really notice that there 
 are only four cars out there or care that the cutaways are hand drawn, because the races are exciting 
 and the cheapie cutaways still convey a good sense of attitude. As long as you don't expect the 
 console version of Carbon in the palm of your hand, you'll probably enjoy the Nintendo DS version. 

  Should you decide to bring the Nintendo DS version of Carbon home, you'll probably squeeze at least 
 a couple of weeks of play out of it. Capturing all six turfs and winning the 70-something events 
 in the career mode will eat up a significant chunk of that time. If you're a car buff, you'll want 
 to make sure to buy all 15 cars and customize them with your pick of parts and decals. There are 
 also two multiplayer modes. The single-cartridge mode is mostly worthless, since it limits players 
 to a single tiny track. The multicartridge mode, however, lets as many as four players compete 
 on any of the game's 12 tracks. There's no lag in multiplayer races and competing against other 
 human beings is a blast, for all of the obvious reasons. With the right group of friends, you could 
 easily end up making Carbon a regular part of your gaming get-togethers.  

  All told, Need for Speed Carbon for the Nintendo DS is a solid street racing game that should provide 
 you with many hours of enjoyment. It isn't a feature-for-feature replica of the console versions, 
 but it's close enough.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon: Own the City for the Nintendo DS is the third Need for Speed game EA release 
 on the DS. The first Need for Speed game on the DS was was Need for Speed: Underground 2 which 
 was a ok game. The second Need for Speed game on the DS was obsolutely garbage, i wouldn't recommend 
 Need for Speed: Most wanted DS to my worst enemy.
  
  Need for Speed Carbon have a good story that you can follow and have an understanding of what the 
 story is about. The story also have a twist, that will shock you. the story in this game starts 
 out with you racing then someone came an crash into you and your brother's car taking both of you 
 out. Your brother died in the accident, but you survive the accident. Then you were in comer for 
 a year or more, when you woke up from the comer. You find out that someone from out of town toke 
 over the city and all your old crew members are working for him now. So you set out to regain control 
 of the city and become the the king of the street. And also find out and take revenge on the people 
 who take you out and kill your brother. The story in this game is pretty straight forward. When 
 you beat the game and you found out what happen your going to be shock or stunned. The only thing 
 i said when i had finished the game was WOW.
  
  This game also have crews, As you advance in the story mode you can recruit people into your crew. 
 For example if you beat a crew you take over his or her territory and you can then recruit a person 
 to your squad from their crew. You get to have two team members, Drifters gives you speed boost 
 and help full up your nitro tanks, and Blockers take out opponents cars that are in front of you 
 which i think is a good think because i use the blockers a lot of time and win races. You can summoned 
 the help of a wingman with the push of a face button x, y, a, and b it's that simple.
  
  All in the end Need for Speed Carbon: Own the City is a great racing game for the DS. It have a 
 good story, 15 license cars, and beautiful city's to race in. A lot of customization to tune up 
 your cars. the only thing this game lacks is Wi-Fi play. My final thought is go get this game, 
 it worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnreaLuigi
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty fair, but all of the tracks are only in a night setting which is quite 
 bland. There are plenty of customizable cars and parts that you collect after winning races, but 
 once all of them are reached, there is really nothing else to do in the single player portion of 
 the game. The multiplayer is ok but since there is not much variety in the tracks, it gets boring 
 quickly. Traffic in the tracks can get annoying but is a reasonable challenge. I dont reccommend 
 you do single card multiplayer since it only allows you to play on one track and usually if a person 
 is ahead, that person will easily win with little challenge. Customization includes color, bezels, 
 kits, and part upgrades. The story of the game in the single player portion in not in the least 
 bit interesting so there is really not much motivation in going along with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a top racing game for the Ds, but it still isn't great. I also owned most wanted for 
 the Ds. I think from that game to this game they've made good progress. In Most Wanted there was 
 no nitro boost, and you weren't able to do that much to your car. They fixed those problems in the 
 Ds and they made the graphics slightly better. The controls are still annoying and I don't think 
 they'll be able to fix that until they get a joystick. It's not that long of a game and isn't hard 
 neither. I like unlocking all the new cars and designing them myself. However, I noticed in Most Wanted 
 the cars go faster than in carbon. I thought that was weird. I really enjoyed this game for a short 
 time. I think all NFS games are just for short enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  a great game. almost as good as its xbox and X360 counterparts. but the concept is the same race-win-own 
 area. and its great graphics and easy to use controls help a lot. the customization is one the 
 funner parts of the game. customize your dashboard, car performance, and car visuals. each has 
 a wide variety of options to choose from. expecially for cars. but if only they put in a lambourgini 
 like in all of the other need for speed games. but need for speed carbon is lacking just one thing. 
 online. this would be a great game to play online and i would play online with it for hours on 
 end if i could. but it does have some good features that almost make up for it from the cars, to 
 the creative circuts, to the cinematics. but i still reccomend it to anyone who enjoys the need 
 for speed franchise. my score: 8.3/10. believe me, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eherosparkman
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  the game was pretty fun, the only problem, not a long enogh carrer mode!
  now, if carrer mode was a bit longer, like another world or a longer last one... it would be alot 
 better! now to its positive sides!
  the game has great cars, great paints, and great parts! the not so good thing is... if you get 
 a ford GT, dot put its performance parts the best, it goes out of control! it so funny!
  but the game all together was not a masterpiece, not a toatal blow out, but somthing in between 
 one of those two.
  this has been another awsome review by the allmighty eherosparkman! go team!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 15, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for a while but don't expect a high replay value from this title. The multiplayer 
 is where this game shines, racing against friends and not the A. I. The game is easily beaten by 
 using the slowest car since the other racers has to have a car equal to yours. Well there aren't 
 a wide selection of cars or items of customization (to be honest a lot of them look the same) but 
 it's fun while it last. If your a hardcore street racer than this title is perfect for you, if 
 not it's worth buying used, renting, or borrowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa_demon
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is something special because i have a hot wheels game thats just like it. The game graphics 
 could be better it could be more realistic also there should be more car options. The game does 
 not suck but i think its a waste of money for something of this poor quality but i would say its 
 not bad for the ds because nintendo is not known for their graphics because their graphics are 
 horible compared to psp. But this is just my opinion you may find its the best racing game ever 
 but i do not so i end my review here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  What I can't understand is why EA keeps shortening their games and lessening the replay value.
 
  
  We start with Hot Pursuit 2 for the PS2, which kept me busy for around 40 hours, then there was 
 Most Wanted, which I've played for 30 hours to date, then we stoop down to Carbon for the Xbox, 
 which I've played for 20 hours before I got tired of it.
  
  But nooooo, here's the DS version proving that games can be shorter than you've ever imagined!! 
 Waaaaa-hooooooo!
  
  I literally beat this ENTIRE game in less than 8 hours, getting 100% Career mode and everything. 
 Plus, after career mode there is NOTHING, and I mean NOTHING else you can do to occupy your time. 
 A shame, considering Need for Speed is one of the strongest racing series out there.
  
  The sound effects are okay, but suffer when it comes to the overused and cut-down versions of officially 
 licensed songs. You'd think: Hey, whaddya know? A DS game with actual songs for a change!? GASP!!!!!11!1! oune!1
 
  
  I assure you however, that after listening to the 1-minute versions of each of these songs around 
 3 times, you'll want to either turn off the music or turn off the volume.
  
  Unfortunate that the graphics are the only thing that will catch your eye. While it does look nice 
 and clean for a DS game, the other faults the game has are something the graphics could never heal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psgraffix
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon: Own the City is a racing game for DS. Its is nothing different or new.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are nothing amazing. The car models are really good for DS. The cars lighting engine 
 is good, and the environments look great for DS, but other then that, the graphics are nothing 
 special.
  
  Sound
  Between 7 and 13 tracks (I dont know exactly how many) from the Need for Speed carbon soundtrack 
 are in the game. That would be good if the soundtrack for the console game didnt completely suck. 
 At least the Lady Sovereign song wasnt included. The car noises are really good for a DS game.
 
  
  Gameplay
  You can select which race to do from a menu. There is no free roam in this game unfortunately. 
 There are 4 race modes in the game, sprint, circuit, elimination (lap knockout) , and hunter mode. 
 In hunter mode, you earn points by crashing into rival cars, and you lose points by being crashed 
 into. There are features in the game that are not in previous nfs ds games. You can slow down time, 
 rewind, and use wingmen. You can use the drafter wingman to refill your NOS, rewind, and slow-mo. 
 You can use the attacker to crash into a racer that is in front of you.
  
  Replay Value
  There are multi and single-card multiplayer modes. It is really easy to beat, and 
 you can pick it up and play it when you are bored after you have beaten it, and it will keep you 
 busy for a few minutes. Overall, this game is OK, but not worth thirty dollars. If you want a decent 
 racing game besides Mario kart for DS, buy this game. It is better than any other realistic racing 
 game that is currently out there for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is great many ds owners should own this game even if you dont like handheld racing games 
 but unfortunatly thanks to the lack of online play not much people would want to own this game 
 also not to mention because of the games length that only lasts for two days. Ok gameplay is great 
 it feels like a console game but just in your hands so because of this you should own it because 
 it's always good to have a big system game on the road (for the ds) . The graphics aren't that impressive 
 because of what I've heard it could've been better like Underground 2 but i don't know cuz i didn't 
 get that game. The sound is like perfect because I never thought that you would be able to hear 
 music that good on the DS. I'd say if you can gather four people than this game could truly last 
 long but if you can't gather four people than you must be really bored (like me) for this game 
 to last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowrath4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I was wayyyyyy surprised when i played this game. I beat it on the third day i had it and im only 
 allowed to play 1 hour a day! The story line wasn't the greatest, and made little sense (especially 
 toward the end) . At the least, EA should have made the game longer. The customization could have 
 been more in-depth and they didnt have enought body work on the car. MAKE SURE YOU ONLY RENT THIS 
 GAME!!! All-in-all it's a good game but way to easy. I regret putting this in my toybin for $35, 
 you will too...... Unless of course someone else you know has it, cuz i hear the multiplayer is 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkej
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is the new Need for Speed game that is out on all consoles but on the DS 
 there is something other consoles can't do is draw your own graphics but the DS has a touch screen 
 which you can use to make new graphics for your car to look even better than it is and it has a 
 new racing game it is called Hunter, in hunter you have to score as many points as possible by 
 getting points you have to hit other cars but if they hit you than you lose points which you don't 
 need a fast car but the skill to doge the other cars in the end who has the most points win. There 
 is now rewind so if you make a mistake, crash or turn a sharp corner bad then you can rewind it. 
 To boost up your Nos, rewind and speedbreaker you have to go behind your wingmans car and he/she 
 will reload all of those things. I rate this game 8.9!!
  
  Reviewed by parkej 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  NFS carbon is a good game, and good use of the lower touch screen as a dash board, another good 
 thing about this game is the customizing the car, and the music. the music was a good add-on for 
 the game, and makes it look alot better, and gives you a better driving expirience.
  and the storyline is good, and makes it more worth playing and gets you more excited in doing races.
 
  
  then what are the bad things?
  
  every game has a bad bit about it.. a minus about NFS carbon DS is that there is no skid marks, 
 or smoke when your turn, or skid around corners. this looks really awkward when doing a skid around 
 a corner. some of the graphics arnt as good as previous NFS ds games, i compared it with NFSU 2 
 and need for speed underground 2 has alot better graphics during racing, but no story line.
  
  bottom line: this is a good game, and worth buying, but concider other games such as asphalt 
 urban gt 2 and other racing ds game...
  
  Curt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natdadanator
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon (ds) is a game were you take part in races to find out who killed your brother. 
 you must beat each crew and their leader wich will lead you closer to the killer. The graphics 
 are amazing the game play is incredible but not so much on realism since you can rewind and slow 
 down time. i bought it yesterday (27th dec) and finished it the next day! its way to easy! but, 
 good value for money, since even after youve finished you can still do unfinished races, because 
 you only have to do half the races and one more to unlock the crew leaders number two wich in turn 
 unlocks the crew leader. Cars (in order) : volkswagen golf gti. chevrolet colbat ss. mitsibushi 
 eclipse gt. mazda rx-8. toyota mr2. mazda rx-7 .
  ford mustang gt. Audi tt 3.2 quattro. mitsibushi lancer evo 9. subaru impreza wrx sti. toyota supra. 
 porsche 911 carrera s. ford gt .
  mercedes-benz sl65 amg. aston-martin db9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  I have waited a long time to buy this title, i knew that there will be a NFS title that will be 
 worth it, and it came.
  
  This game is really great. Ill start with one thing that bugged me with all the racers i played 
 on the ds, and its the game controls. Every race game i played on the ds had terrible controls, 
 but no more, in carbon the racing controls are so tight and intuitive its just great, it realy 
 feels like you handle the car like you wonna and there is a great street grip while racing. After 
 playing burnout and asphalt, i was really concerned about how the controls will behave, but finally 
 a title with great controls.
  
  Another great thing about this title is that its not just race tournaments, it has a story line 
 and a great gang / rule the city career mode. The game play is great, if you choose to play in 
 a career mode, you have 66 challenges over all while trying to take over and rule the city. They 
 also added great new features like crew members that can help you in your race (you can read it 
 in the main review, i will not elaborate on this issue) and some cool nitros and back in time.
 
  
  It is obvious that the dev team put a lot of effort in the graphics department. The game looks 
 great, the environment looks pretty good and there are attentions to little details, like when 
 your car drifts under spot lights in the street, you can see the light changes and reflects on 
 your car, i mention this cause other race games didnt pay a lot of attention to those little things 
 that make your graphics experience much better.
  
  Besides this, theres a lot of customizations from visuals to performance.
  The game include 12 
 licensed cars and 12 tracks, that doesnt sound a lot, but with all the career modes and all the 
 customizations, you want notice it.
  
  The game music is great, although each song is about 30 - 40 sec, there is a long play list. The 
 game sound could be better.
  
  This is the best racing game for the ds, i believe its the one we have been waiting for, i enjoy 
 it a lot, plenty to do, this game will last you for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  It's better than Most wanted I'll give it that but thats probley the nicest thing you'll read in 
 this review. Need for speed looks like a good ol arcaide racer and palys like one two with the 
 drifting and all. But the uneven diffculty really makes this car crash. In a zone one race can 
 be way to easey while another can be damn near imposable. I had LV 1 equpiment in zone 2 (the right 
 equipment) I stall for 3 sec use all my nitro and im still im last place. Even if i drifted wrong 
 i would some how end up in last in a matter of seconds even useing a full tank of nirto i was stil 
 lway behind. So as i said the uneven diffculty holds this one back. Some may think well it cant 
 be that much worse. Well how bout oner track per zone. Race on the same track 12 times. Theres 
 really no diffrence between the modes. Hunter, (bump cars to get points) , sprint (short race) circut 
 (full track) elimnator 9dont come in last each lap) So it gets boring quickThe muisc is poor as 
 can be. it's good quilty and real music but no bands i heard before the songs are just annoying 
 and probley only a minute long. Theres likev only 5 songs so expect to hear them over and over 
 with extended paly. The music plays over EVERYTHING! so it seems slopey. The cars sound like toy 
 cars. Turn the sound off. Custmizeation is more like leavelinng up and lacks virity. id like to 
 say this game is good in smal ldoses but it's better in no doses. Don't wast your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidpogi21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  rea
  the way you use triggers for gas and brake gives NFSC that trigger feel and it feels like you have 
 control over speed of the car. d-pad is set up so you can control your turns easier. No overturning. 
 Your car actually slides unlike its predecessors. Graphics 10/10 Cars look realistic, lots of customization, 
 rims look fantastic, kits and spoilers look great, lack of variety for hoods but you wont really 
 notice because the car models look awesome. All cars look like thier real life counterparts.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Great sound, soundtrack sounds great. But the game doesnt tell you what are 
 the names of the songs that are playing
  
  value 9/10
  
  Everything is great but the carreer mode is too short and the story is unclear but the gameplay 
 is awesome so i really recomend this game
  
  Overall 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konamix05
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  We all know that Need for Speed Underground 2 was somewhat decent and Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 was absolutely horrible. However this year's Need for Speed Carbon is actually a rewarding game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Sure the Nintendo DS is a very underpowered system but handled well, it can really come out as 
 a really nice looking game. EA must have picked up on that because this game is looking pretty 
 nice this year. There is now an option for High Contrast which makes the game kinda look like it 
 has that overbright kinda thing that Need for Speed Most Wanted had. It's kinda pulled quite nicely 
 but a little annoying also so you may just want to turn it off anyway. There is some popup in the 
 game but not enough to make you want to put it down in disgust.
  
  Sound:
  EA decided to give a try at licenced music this time around for Carbon. The downside however is 
 that it only has 5 songs that last only a minute long. Why can't EA just spend the extra money 
 and just upgrade to 512Mbit cartridges. Then there are the stock acceleration, screech, and crash 
 noises but most of these wont bother you if you the type of person who has the sound turned down 
 on your DS in the first place.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's still the same gameplay from before except now you have to battle for territories. This is 
 the part of the game that can get really repetitive mainly because of the shortage of tracks. If 
 I remember right the game consists of 8-10 tracks. This gets really old especially when you have 
 to race on a track from the beginning of the game when you're near the end. Carbon now has SpeedBreaker 
 and Rewind implemented into it. Both are pulled off with the select button. Press for SpeedBreaker 
 and hold for Rewind. They really need those on seperate buttons. The Speedbreaker option is okay 
 except for the fact that the cars don't really handle that well in the first place. If you're used 
 to playing Need for Speed Most Wanted on the console and you switch to this, it'll feel really 
 akqard when you play this because when you go in to SpeedBreaker and turn sharply you end up hitting 
 a 180 and almost out of the race for a while. Rewind is another good option but it doesn't recharge 
 like the SpeedBreaker does. Another thing new this year is the addition of wingbacks. You have 
 attackers and drafters. If you're lower than first place you can activate your attacker wingback 
 to knock them out for a while. You can use drafters to come ahead of you and you can draft behind 
 them to recharge your nitrous. This is sometimes a good thing but often enough times your wingback 
 will randomly get stuck in a random place and leaving you stuck without a wingback for half the 
 race.
  
  Value:
  This is another one of those games that you'll want to hurry up and finish just to add to your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungDre360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  NFSC: OTC is my first DS racer and I must say I'm very impressed with the near-console quality of 
 it. I haven't played any of the other versions of ityet, but from my experience with the two Underground 
 titles, the DS is extremely able to reproduce most of the console elements.
  The graphics are far better than I anticipated. My last racing game for a Nintendo handheld was 
 GT Advance 2 and I was disappointed that it looked basically like a flat picture of a car would 
 traverse through an extremely angular almost-3D world. Not so with this game, my friend. This is 
 a fully 3D world with atmosphere. Street lamps flicker, neon signs flash, and traffic is colorful, 
 unlike the fleet of gray cars that plagued the console NFSU2. Also of note, when paused, the top 
 sreen fills with a blurred effect, which makes the game look like a current or even next gen game, 
 which is a neat trick that I get minute upon minute of fun out of. The amount of detail in the 
 game is impressive. Far more than a N64 is capaple of, which the DS is often compared to. Another 
 technological feat is the use of actual songs with lyrics, instead of the usual fruity MIDI tunes 
 that handhelds were previously known for. The usual sound effects all make appearances. Engines 
 roar, tires squeal, and crashes crunch. Sure, it's not in 5.1 surround sound, but it is decent 
 none the less.
  The game plays relatively smoothly. Thankfully, it relies more on the face buttons than the touch 
 screen. if I'm not mistaken, you can control everything without using it. the only thing you can't 
 do is choose which mirror to use. NFS veterans or anyone who's ever played a racing game will have 
 no problem jumping right in. The new wingman mechanic is easy to use, although I haven't used the 
 Hunter one yet. All in all, a decent racer. If you've got a DS, it wouldn't hurt to buy this version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed franchise has had some ups and some downs over the years, with editions consisting 
 of undriveable/uncontrollable cars, or decent racers with unbelievable load times (i. e. the PSP 
 version) .
  
  With Carbon, they've attempted to remedy some of the complaints of earlier games, which is good, 
 but in the end, the game is just too darned short to recommend. When I started playing, I found 
 the graphics very nice, rivalling the first PSP NFS. Not bad, considering the severe difference 
 in specs from the DS to the PSP. As well, the cars are very easy to control, but not easy enough 
 to get boring; the control over the cars is good, with easy to manage steering and drifting. A 
 nice sense of speed is conveyed, and the oncoming traffic is never too dense to be annoying. Lots 
 of shortcuts in each track make for some variety, and the frame rate is smooth as warm butter, 
 with only the occasional pop-up (when using nitro, usually) .
  
  So what's the deal with my rating?
  
  The game is short short short. Playing it off and on 
 over two days, I managed to finish the entire set of races, failing to be first only once or twice. 
 They either made this version too easy, or just didn't have enough events to extend the life of 
 this one. If you have friends with a DS, you can go multiplayer, but otherwise, this one has a 
 short lifespan.
  
  Even with all the bells and whistles of unlocking new items, it clocks in at under ten hours of 
 game time.... too short for the $35 pricetag.
  
  So, although it *is* a good game, it is one of those games you may just want to rent, unless you 
 spend most of your time in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffdan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The previous two NFS attempts missed many marks including the most important one: gameplay. Carbon 
 thankfully hits this previously rusty nail on the head and gives us an overall satisfying arcade 
 racing experience. Race modes include circuit, elimination, hunter and sprint modes. There are 
 also new ingame features to play with such as an AI controlled wingman, slow motion bullet time 
 and rewind, which are unlocked as you progress through the career mode and also become more powerful 
 just like the mods do.
  
  New Gameplay Features:
  
  Race Rewind allows you to rewind time up to 8 seconds or so. After you hit an SUV that some idiot 
 is inconsiderately driving on your racing line around the blind corner you just took sucks. Now 
 you can rewind time and take the corner a little differently to avoid the accident. It doesnt 
 rewind your lap time though, so you wont be getting any lap records when using rewind.
  
  Slow Motion allows you to enter bullet time for a short period. Your cars handling changes in bullet 
 time allowing you to turn sharper to avoid a crash or to make a corner you saw too late.
  
  The Wingman feature allows you to take a wingman with you into a race. You unlock wingmen as you 
 beat the zone bosses in career mode. There are two classes, the Attacker and the Drafter, each 
 offering different abilities. The Attacker is for the offensive player, hunting out cars in front 
 of you and ramming them off the road. The Drafter is for the tactician, racing in front of you 
 and allowing you to slip-stream him. While slipstreaming you recharge your nitrous, slow motion 
 and rewind bars. This allows you to use them a lot more in the race.
  
  Controls:
  
  There are a few different control methods that can be selected from the options. Select from using 
 the shoulder buttons or the face buttons for accelerating and braking. The touch screen is also 
 used for input during the race and displays the dashboard of your car in game. It has left and 
 right wing mirror icons in the lower corners which when touched, give you a rear view as seen from 
 the mirror on the top screen, this is a nice touch. You also use the touch screen to activate your 
 wingman and also change car setup settings for the advanced player during the race to tweak handling. 
 The dpad is used to steer and allows you to hold up while turning for a gentler turn, or hold down 
 for a sharper turn. This is a little awkward at first but is great when you get use to it. It doesnt 
 need to be mastered to complete the game but could make the difference in a multiplayer game.
 
  
  Physics:
  
  Some other racing games available for DS such as Urban GT, previous NFSs and Burnout suffer from 
 jittering and jerkiness in their physics that youd expect from an early PSX title. Carbon doesnt. 
 The camera and cars always move very smoothly just like a modern console game. Impressively the 
 game also holds a 60fps despite this clearly sophisticated console-like physics engine even when 
 all the AI and a bunch of traffic cars are visible.
  Each cars physics model is claimed to be based on the characteristics of the cars in the real 
 world. I havent driven all the cars in real life so I cant 100% confirm this (I havent driven 
 a Golf GTI yet) . All the cars certainly do feel different from one another and also feel as youd 
 expect them to. The smaller cars such as the golf are easier to get around the bends without the 
 use of power slides, while the bigger more powerful cars are much faster in a straight line but 
 require you to master the tricky power slide to maximise their speed in the bends. The Porsche 
 911 even feels heavy at the back end, being quite a hand full to master.
  
  Performance mods do make dramatic changes to your cars handling. Its a close call between buying 
 a new car or improving an existing car. A fully modded out golf will destroy basic spec cars from 
 higher classes.
  Crashes however look canned. When you hit a traffic car you quite often just flip onto your roof 
 and kinda spin and slide around. There doesnt look like any sort of physics is happening at this 
 point at all. It looks like the development team spent the physics budget on the car handling rather 
 than the car crashing and I cant fault them for that.
  
  Tip: Power sliding is difficult to master. Just tap the powerslide button with just a little tap 
 of left or right to initiate the slide. Dont hold the powerslide button or hold the direction 
 button as you will loose it end up facing the wrong way. Balance the slide by short taps left and 
 right as needed.
  
  Tip: Nitrous use should be used for accelerating as it doesnt increase your top speed. Use it 
 coming out of a slow corner or after crashing, keeping an eye on your dash instruments to know 
 how long to use it for.
  
  AI:
  
  The AI is to a good standard and there are no surprises, positive or negative. If you race well, 
 youll finish in first and you will have some room to make a mistake now and then. If you make 
 a lot of mistakes you will finish last, a long way last so there doesnt seem to be any rubber 
 banding during the race. It is said that the game adjusts its difficulty based on previous race 
 results and this does seem to be the case. When I lost a race, I would usually win on my second 
 attempt, and looking at the lap time differences, the AI is slightly slower during the second race. 
 The difficulty increases when youre winning, and decreases when youre loosing making the AI balance 
 to each individual players abilities.
  
  Wingmen when used are reasonably successful. They will always be just behind you no matter how 
 fast or slow you drive meaning theyre always ready to jump into action when you trigger them. 
 The attacker will overtake you and try and ram an opposition off the road, while a drafter will 
 overtake and drive the racing line in front of you allowing you to recharge you nitrous slow mo 
 and rewind abilities if you can slipstream him. They can hinder you sometimes by actually crashing 
 into you when they try to overtake you. They also count in the race positions, so if you use your 
 attacker just before the finish line to take out the car in first place, you might find that you 
 finish third instead of second. Same holds true for the drafter, dont use him in the later part 
 of your final lap.
  
  Tip: If continuously loosing a race, dont just keep restarting mid race, as this doesnt appear 
 to affect the difficulty of the AI. Race to the end and then retry, itll be a little easier then.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are pretty stunning. The sense of speed from the constant 60fps and motion blur is 
 great; this is further enhanced when you use your nitrous, giving a shaking tunnel vision effect 
 where the cars and track stretch away. Sparks look nice especially if youre looking in your wing 
 mirror and scrape another car or barrier. Cars look good with great detail. You can clearly tell 
 what each car is, and you can also clearly see the mods youve bought for your car in game. Car 
 lighting is great; driving under streetlights does change the lighting on your car. This makes 
 the cars feel part of the environment which the previous version failed dismally at.
  
  Tip: When playing on a DS Lite, turn off High Contrast in the options. The graphics are sharper 
 and it removes some distortion that can be seen. I imagine High Contrast is for a regular DS 
 which has a much darker backlight and is hard to play with it disabled.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is nothing special. Sound effects are in stereo and pitch bend as expected. You get traffic 
 cars beeping their horn at you drive by and a whoosh when experiencing a near miss with another 
 car or a wall. Engines for each car do sound different with the masculine V12s sounding much beefier 
 than the **** Inline 4s. Music is thankfully proper licensed tracks and if its to your taste 
 then great, if its not then tough.
  
  Tracks:
  
  There are 12 different tracks in the game. Each track is raced forwards and backwards. There are 
 also 3 sprint sections on each track which can also be raced forwards or backwards. Thats 96 different 
 ways of racing the tracks, giving this game a lot of playability, especially in multiplayer. The 
 earlier tracks are pretty easy but they do get much more technical later on, especially when racing 
 them with faster cars. Some tracks are clearly taken from previous console NFS titles which is 
 a great advantage if you know them. There are also short cuts that can be taken to gain advantages. 
 The AI also know the short cuts and will take them.
  
  Career:
  
  The career mode isnt completely linear. The story is told via 2D, comic book style, animated stills 
 (if that makes sense) with speech bubbles. There are six zones to conquer and each zone contains 
 a number of races. When you complete a zone, the next zone is unlocked but you can complete the 
 races in the zone in any order. Each zone contains a sub boss and boss race. Beating the boss unlocks 
 him as a wingman and completes the zone. You earn money for completing races which you can use 
 to buy a new car for your garage or modify any of your current cars.
  
  Customisation:
  
  There are of course all the usual performance and visual mods you can make to your car, and 
 different cars have different numbers of mods. All cars have 4 tiers of performance modes, but 
 different cars have different numbers of body kits. There are also a large selection of rims and 
 side vinyls although no hood vinyls. You can however design your own side and hood vinyls (which 
 can be mixed and matched with the built in vinyls) . The editor allows you to see the vinyl being 
 drawn on your car as you draw it which is pretty cool. The side vinyls are mirrored though, so 
 drawing letters or words appear fine on the left hand side, but are inverted and read backwards 
 on the right hand side.
  
  The dashboard on the sub screen can also be configured to how you want it. It has three different 
 skins, and then the placing the speedo, tacho, sat nav, stereo and other components are as you 
 feel like it. There are also many different types of each component, speedos for instance range 
 from analogue needles and discs to digital dot matrix to lcd displays.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  This game is 2-4 players but not over the internet. Local wifi in the form of single and multi 
 cart are supported. The single cart is unfortunately limited to only one car and one track, but 
 multi cart has no such limitations. You can race with any cars that youve unlocked from career 
 and any car youve bought in your garage. If you pick a car youve unlocked but you havent bought, 
 you will only get the base version of that car. If you do own the car, you can race the car at 
 the spec it is in the garage. You can also race with any of the single player race modes, giving 
 surprisingly lots of value to the multiplayer mode.
  
  Overall:
  
  A solid racing game, by far the best non-Mario racing game on DS by a long way. The racing experience 
 is satisfying and controls are responsive. Besides the modding, the addition of other gameplay 
 features which are unlocked as your career progresses keeps the game fresh. Graphics are smooth 
 and the tracks and cars look great. Carbon is easy to pick up and play for 3 minutes or 3 hours 
 with good multi cart play making this a game youll carry with your DS when out and about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Much better than NFSU2 and MW for the DS. You have your Race Now which is an arcade mode, 
 and your typical career mode where you will spend most of your time in. There are 4 different race 
 types in the game, and they are:
  
  Elimination- Last place racer in each lap is eliminated until there is only 1 racer left
  
 
  Sprint- Short race on a portion of a circuit track
  
  Circuit- Multiple lap race where the first car to cross the finish line wins
  
  *NEW Race*
 
  Hunter: You gain points by hunting down your opponent (Going right behind them) and by smashing 
 into them (Worth +20 Points) , but you can also lose points if the opponent smashes into you (Your 
 life meter will be deducted by -30)
  
  You can also use the wingman by pressing X. This feature will gurantee you to be in first place 
 or second, I personally like using the attacker more than the drafter.
  
  Graphics: This game actually looks good for a DS game. Its a slightly updated version of NFSU2 
 when it comes to graphics, but it looks so more efficent. The graphics are superb for a racer.
 
  
  Sound: Actual music this time in the game while playing! Though this a plus, the engine and crashing 
 sound doesn't live up to its part, but however for a DS game, it suits itself well.
  
  Additions in NFSC:
  -New Dashboard which can be customized
  -Body Kits, Spoilers, rims, paint, 
 Neon, vinyl, hoods and performance upgrades for your car
  -Nice roster of cars (Including the Ford GT)
  -Nice comic scenes
  -Good looking menus
  -Race 
 for control around neighborhoods 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yianaki
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I am halfway through the game. Looking at the available cars there are no lambos :&lt; This is 
 a really fun game the cars look really great for a ds title. However more importantly the racing 
 courses are all the SAME. No Not the same background settings I mean there are only two courses 
 per 'Krew' Area you play through (counting the same courses reverse) . With only a couple of crews 
 to beat this game has a pitiful amount of different non reversed courses! The really odd thing 
 though is that you play the SAME TWO courses whenever you go through a crews area. I realize that 
 since your in their area you should be driving the same courses but this is a game not reality. 
 I mean they should have hundreds of different courses. I mean they could just cut up most of the 
 course into tile peices that they place into different courses. If they cut and reused the different 
 sections making them into different courses it wouldn't take up much memory space on a DS cart.
 
  
  The car control is really good and ingenious I think. It lets you have analog with only a thumb 
 pad. Holding up and left or right is a slight turn. Regular left and right is a normal turn. Down 
 left and right is a hard turn. Really works well in the game.
  
  There are a good amount of cars available and they all handle differently.
  
  The car graphics 
 are top notch for a ds game. Of course you have a lot of stuff to customize your ride with. I just 
 wish you could change the colors of the vinyls like on the other versions of the game.
  
  This game is certainly no Mario Kart then again it isn't supposed to be. I like the ancient Asphalt 
 over this title really. That game as a launch title seems better than this 'polished' game from 
 EA.
  
  This is such a letdown. If there were more courses it would be a really great game. The car customization 
 options make this a fun game to replay. Also there are a very sizable amount of differently handling 
 cars available. We'll I just read Asphalt 2 is coming out 11-2-06 interesting.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
