-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nervous Brickdown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/nervousbrickdown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylus controls are intuitive and responsive.
 Tons of catchy music.
 Constantly tweaks breakout formula to make it feel fresh again.
 No shortage of visual flair.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Levels are occasionally too involved for their own good.
 10 levels can be burned through in a few short hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Arkedo Studio
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With plenty of panache and some clever twists, Nervous Brickdown manages to make the classic Breakout 
 formula feel fun and fresh again. 

  There are plenty of ways you can make an old video game concept feel fresh again. You can gussy 
 up the graphics, turn 2D into 3D, or maybe even slap some recognizable personalities on the box, 
 be they fictional or otherwise. However, Nervous Brickdown goes its own route -- or should we say 
 routes? It offers a suite of unique variations on the classic brick-and-bat gameplay typified by 
 such games as Breakout and Arkanoid. Some of the variants in Nervous Brickdown offer just a simple 
 twist, while others virtually rewrite the formula, sometimes making the game feel more like a shooter 
 or a dungeon crawler than a Breakout clone. The differences also go beyond just the mechanics, 
 with each variant sporting a striking visual style and some fitting, often quite catchy, music. 
 The results aren't always consistent, but Nervous Brickdown hits more often than it misses.  

 
           Who knew a Breakout clone could be so much fun in 2007?      

  The beauty of using such a familiar gameplay template is that Nervous Brickdown feels immediately 
 familiar; before you even realize anything weird is going on, you can jump right into the game. 
 Using the stylus, you drag a paddle back and forth across the bottom screen, bouncing a ball into 
 a field of destructible bricks on the top screen. The game acknowledges its biggest influences 
 in its first stage, a very sincere homage to both Breakout and Arkanoid. Power-ups will drift down 
 the screen when you hit certain bricks, there's a glassy, vibrant visual style, and there's repetitive 
 but undeniably catchy synthesizer music that could've been ripped straight from an '80s arcade 
 game.  

  After you clear the first 10 levels and advance to the next stage, things start getting a little 
 stranger. The game shifts style completely, looking like a notebook full of doodles accompanied 
 by a blipping background track that makes interesting use of vocal samples. Instead of rectangular 
 blocks, you'll be knocking the ball against ink blots with a paddle that you'll actually have to 
 draw yourself. How you draw the paddle will determine how the ball will bounce off of it, implicitly 
 encouraging some avant-garde paddle design. Furthermore, in this stage, as well as a few others, 
 the paddle isn't restricted to horizontal movement, allowing you to move the paddle freely about 
 the bottom screen and making it possible to put some real heat behind your hits.  

  From there, you'll travel through a haunted house where you'll blow into the DS's microphone to 
 bust ghosts, use a submarine to save people from the threats of drowning or marauding sharks, attempt 
 to contain a laser beam with an increasing velocity, and more. There are 10 stages in all, each 
 of which consists of nine regular levels and a boss fight. Although it's not hard to tear through 
 the game in a few hours, there are so many novel concepts at work, so many well-realized art styles, 
 and so much catchy music that many will inspire multiple plays. Additionally, there's a simple 
 cooperative two-player component where color-coded blocks determine which player's paddle will 
 actually be able to make contact with the ball at any given time. The blocks slowly but surely 
 push down from the top of the screen, and a single game can last as long as you keep the blocks 
 from pushing too far down. It's novel, and the dreamy, minimalist music is sublime, but it wears 
 out fairly quickly. However, this shortcoming is at least partially mitigated by the fact that 
 you only need one copy of Nervous Brickdown to play.  

           In one level, you're fighting ink blots; the next, you're fighting ghosts. How great is 
 that?      

  The radical shifts in look and feel from stage to stage do a lot to keep Nervous Brickdown feeling 
 fresh, but there are problems. The ambitious concepts can occasionally outstrip the actual gameplay, 
 and there are certain moments when it feels like blind luck is a greater factor in whether you'll 
 make it to the next level. This creates an inherent trial-and-error pattern, but because levels 
 are presented in groups of three, you'll regularly have to play through two problem-free levels 
 before you get to the one that really stumps you. To its credit, the game rewards you with bonuses, 
 such as extra lives and the ability to affect the trajectory of the ball by blowing into the microphone 
 the more time you spend on any given stage.  

  Underneath its slick presentation, as well as inspired gameplay twists and turns, Nervous Brickdown 
 is still basically just a fancy version of Breakout. This makes it all the more surprising that 
 it is so fun and captivating to play. It doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it goes to show you how 
 far a strong sense of style and some solid basics can get you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sensei_Pong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this on the shelves, I originally thought to myself: "Oh great, another Arkanoid 
 wannabe." Then I saw the review on gamespot, my curiosity was spurred into buying it.
  
  What first got me when I played this were the graphics. They were beautiful! I mean, this game 
 has the most amazing graphics for the type of game it is. Even better was that the graphics felt 
 so natural that when I began to dive myself into the game, I wasn't distracted by the pretty scenes 
 and colors.
  
  Everything about this game is groundbreaking for it's genre. It's your basic "ball and paddle," 
 but with objectives as traversing a haunted mansion and literally blowing ghosts away and breaking 
 paths with your ball to break open the final door is... well... takes breakout and turns it into 
 it's own kind of game of it's own.
  
  The "paper" levels really got me with their crazy goodness. As the player, you draw your own paddle, 
 knock things out of the way, then finally knock out these blobs of ink that slowly trickle towards 
 the bottom the screen. Ultimately causing you to lose a life.
  
  Each group of levels hold their own objectives, dangers, style, etc.
  
  This is a a truly amazing 
 game for any fan of Arkanoid. It's the point where almost anybody would have a lot of fun with 
 it.
  
  "Shuffle" mode adds some good replay value to the game. You randomly play through levels of a mode, 
 then battle a boss level of a different style.
  
  But in then end, the true replay value comes fromt he crazy amount of defferent game modes
  
 
  The only problem with the game would have to be the somewhat easiness of some of the levels once 
 you get the hang of them. Them the hard skill involved with some of the other levels. Ultimately 
 this game is great for long trips, a quick puzzler fix, or fun with the Arkanoid style genre. Old 
 school and neo gamers would love this game no matter what.
  
  Another great thing about this game is the music, as said by the gamespot review. It's hard to 
 explain the true beauty of the tracks on this game. 
  
  There was truly a great amount of work, skill, art, and love put into this game. Ultimately creating 
 a truly great game that shouldn't be missed.
  
  By the looks of it, this game is starting to seem like a glass of fine wine or great art. It gets 
 better with age and you love it the more you experience it.
  
  This is definately of my favorite games on my DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
