-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neves
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/neves/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More than 500 tangram puzzles to solve.
 Touch screen makes moving, rotating, and flipping pieces a breeze.
 Timed and two-player modes spice things up a little.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Barebones presentation and Zen premise may bore some people.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 32 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Yuke's USA
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Touch-screen controls will help you achieve Zen with this large collection of tangram-style puzzles. 
 

  Neves is "seven" spelled backward. It's also an appropriate title for a puzzle game that involves 
 creating specific designs by rotating, flipping, and placing seven unique shapes in such a way 
 that they form the requested object without overlapping. Basically, this is the Nintendo DS equivalent 
 of the traditional tangram puzzles that have existed for hundreds of years.  

  Of course, carrying around more than 500 puzzles in your DS is much more convenient than toting 
 around a 500-page book and a set of wooden pieces. Manipulating those pieces with the stylus is 
 pretty comfortable, too. You can tap and drag to move pieces around, tug on their corners to rotate 
 them, and double tap them to flip them over. The seven discrete shapes look a little different 
 than the shapes that come with a traditional Chinese tangram set, but the total surface area and 
 overall number of possible permutations bear out roughly the same.  

           When you manage to fit all seven pieces into the silhouette, you've solved the puzzle. 

  There isn't much to the presentation. You can see the different shapes clearly on the game board, 
 which is a solid background imprinted with a silhouette of the final design. The various designs 
 span the gamut of faces, animals, plants, machines, vehicles, and so on. Jazzy but repetitive music 
 and chime-like sound effects accompany "the action." When you lock a piece into the silhouette, 
 you'll hear a satisfying click.  

  Initially, you have four sets of puzzles to pick from, each of which contains approximately 45 
 individual puzzles. When you finish one of those sets, another set becomes available. In all, there 
 are more than 500 unique puzzles. Three different play modes let you tackle those puzzles with 
 or without a timer, or with a special restriction that challenges you to finish the puzzle in only 
 seven moves. There's also a no-nonsense multiplayer mode, which lets you beam puzzles to a friend's 
 DS and then compete to see who can solve them first.  

  Tangram-style puzzles are brain teasers that challenge your spatial-reasoning skills. Some people 
 enjoy the intellectual stimulation brought about by the act of turning and placing the shapes. 
 Some people don't. Neves doesn't really do anything to inject energy into the process, apart from 
 the added timed and competitive modes, so it's not going to change your mind about tangrams one 
 way or the other. It simply offers a convenient way to carry around and solve more than 500 unique 
 tangram puzzles. If that's your idea of a good time, you won't regret the purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 4
  Sounds: 7
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 7
  
  At first glance, youll probably wonder what on earth is Neves is? Some will say its 
 Portuguese for snow (in plural form) ; others may say its a common surname in Brazil (check 
 out those soccer players surname and youll see) and yet the clever ones will say 
 its seven backwards (close but no cigar) . Neves is indeed seven backwards 
 but the style of game play is none other than solving a massive five hundred plus tangram like 
 puzzles for the DS.
  
  To anyone who is unfamiliar to what a tangram is, it derives from two words: tan 
 meaning pieces and gram meaning pictures. Now if you add the title Neves 
 into the equation youll have the general gist of the game: making shapes with the same seven 
 pieces. Yet the DS version of tangram doesnt use the exact seven pieces but a slightly modified 
 version of the original seven piece Chinese version.
  
  There are three main playing modes in Neves being silhouettes: the normal version where theres 
 no time or move restriction; time pressure: trying to solve the puzzle within three minutes and 
 if you manage to clock it under one, a gold star is rewarded and lastly seven steps where every 
 move counts therefore there's no room for error.
  
  Each silhouette are categorised under four rooms and each room has three levels with 
 approximately forty five puzzles each. The only way to unlock the next room is to complete the 
 previous room in any of the three different modes so there's ample of puzzles to solve. Arming 
 with the stylus in hand, you will be flipping and rotating all the seven pieces until they are 
 precisely connected so you can move on to the next one.
  
  Visually the game isnt exactly the prettiest however the game isnt designed for intense 
 graphics as after all its a puzzle game; yet the entire package is still appealing enough 
 to serve its purpose. Its like comparing a puzzle book to a comic strip where just because 
 the puzzle book mainly has black and white pictures its real purpose is to fry up that grey matter 
 and the comic strip is to visualise (graphically intense) . Not all is lost though as you do have 
 the option to change the colour of the pieces or if you prefer to randomise the effects.
  
  The sounds are basic but again like the graphics do serve the purpose of the game. In hindsight 
 its actually quite soothing as some puzzles at first glance can look damn right impossible 
 to solve (as a sidenote, every puzzle can be solved so theres no fallacy here) . There are 
 a few jazz like type musical pieces but at times can be a royal pain to listen to as they're all 
 looped together, but of course you can switch it off or listen to some Caf Del Mar. Yet like the 
 graphics, you can change the sounds under the options menu.
  
  Considering there are over five hundred puzzles to solve within three different modes, youll 
 be spending some serious time to finish off the entire game. But like all puzzle games or books, 
 the game isnt designed for serious playing but for causal pick me up type; 
 especially if you are waiting for the train, bus or even a friend. And if you happen to find another 
 person with the same game, you can hook it up for some multiplayer fun and see who has the total 
 bragging rights.
  
  Neves isnt a serious game; its designed to fire up those brain cells by thinking 
 spatially and theres none other that can do this effectively than on the DS. Like similar 
 types of games that really challenges your thought pattern (e. g. brain training) , Neves on the 
 surface doesnt put the player on the spot as the presentation is quite entertaining and 
 fun-looking to boot. There are well documented instances that Neves is used in schools to teach 
 children how to think spatially therefore places this age old debate of whether gaming 
 is bad for you right into the bin. Overall, its good fun to anyone who likes a casual challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  It's tough to give a score to a game that everyone knows exactly what they will get the moment 
 they pick up the box. Neves is a portable tangrams puzzle package. With about 500 puzzles to solve, 
 it will take a while to solve them all. What else can one say about it?
  
  This is all that it is. Nothing flashy, nothing loud. It is not "Tangrams Extreme" or anything 
 risky or crazy like that. It feels like it should have been a budget title. It is just plain.
 
  
  It is a pretty good game to play before going to bed. Or something to fiddle with while waiting 
 for a bus.
  
  It is a good game to introduce to someone who doesn't normally game and doesn't like flashy things 
 or scrambly things on a screen.
  
  If you like tangrams, you must have it. If you are looking for a good puzzler, this is one to consider 
 because it is just good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloexpert
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I must admit I've never been a fan of strategy/puzzle games. I've never been 
 able to find enjoyment from games like Jewel Quest, or even Tetris. That's right. I'm not a fan 
 of Tetris. At all. In fact, I can go so far as to say I hate Tetris. I know many people my age 
 who could spend hours on Tetris, and even a few mothers. But those kind of games never really did 
 it for me. Where's the bang? The explosions? The guns? I mean, at least give me a little blood 
 for all the work and time I put into completing each stage. With that said, I went into Neves expecting 
 pretty much the same experience. How wrong I was... Simply put, Neves is a great time waster. When 
 you first start up the game, you are given a tutorial on how to control each of the seven pieces 
 available. It's a decent tutorial, but it isn't really needed. A few seconds of playing and you'll 
 pick up on what to do. After the tutorial, you can then select from four different game modes: 
 Silhouette, Time Pressure, 7 Steps and Multiplayer.
  
  Silhouette mode is the easiest mode. You are given shapes in which you must fill in with the seven 
 default pieces given to you. It sounds rather easy, and it really is. Until you get to some of 
 the latter puzzle. The hardest ones are, ironically, the most simplistic of shapes such as a light 
 socket. I spent a good 20-30 minutes on this particular one, and was embarrassed at the one mistake 
 I did which caused me that 20-30 minutes of agony. You can easily get frustrated by having just 
 one piece facing the wrong direction.
  
  There are four different rooms in silhouette mode, with each having three levels. Each room contains 
 about 43-49 puzzles each. So in silhouette mode alone you have plenty of puzzles to chose from, 
 but the difficulty increase is non-existent. I noticed no differences between each level, just 
 different shapes to chose from. That's my only gripe about silhouette mode. Perhaps giving me different 
 pieces to use might've shakin' things up a bit, but it really isn't something that hinders the 
 experience.
  
  The next mode is Time Pressure, which is rather self explanatory. It's the same exact layout as 
 silhouette mode, only with a 3 minute time limit. Once you've beaten silhouette mode, it's rather 
 ridiculous for them to give you 3 minutes to solve each puzzle again. I was able to complete a 
 few of them in less than 30 seconds, however, others did take me the full 3 minutes (but not a lot) . 
 Having the exact same puzzles to solve in three minutes wasn't a whole lot of fun, to be honest. 
 Maybe giving us the option to change the timer to, say, one minute or even thirty seconds would've 
 been nice.
  
  Next up is 7 Steps. This is easily the most challenging and difficult mode. In 7 Steps mode, once 
 you touch a piece a "step" is taken away. You can touch that piece however many time you want, 
 but once you touch a different one, another step is taken from you. Trial and error is out of the 
 question. You must be perfect with every move you make or else you fail, because it keeps count 
 of how many moves you make. Watching the top screen countdown the number of moves you have left 
 is rather stressful and intimidating at times. But again, you're given the exact same puzzles as 
 before. If I were to make a sequel to this game, I'd get rid of Time Pressure mode and combine 
 it with 7 Steps, leaving an open spot for an all new mode. Now that would be stressful.
  
  The final mode is multiplayer, which unfortunately I wasn't able to play. From what I hear, it 
 sounds pretty good. It's rather simple, in that you must solve the puzzle (s) before the other player 
 does (only supports one additional player) . However, there's an added twist: you can see what the 
 other player is doing. If there was ever a time for screen-looking, this is it. Not only do you 
 see how far ahead or behind the other player is, but you can also pick up a few clues as to how 
 he/she is solving it in case you're stumped.
  
  Besides the four modes, you also have an achievements room. In the achievements room, it shows 
 you what percentage of each mode you've completed thus far. It also allows you to see how well 
 you do in each puzzle category, such as plants, animals, people, ect. It's a nice feature which 
 you don't often see in many puzzle games nowadays.
  
  Finally, you have the options menu. The options menu also goes one step further in that it allows 
 you to chose what color scheme you want. White and blue hard on your eyes? Then you have 10 different 
 schemes to chose from. You can also turn on/off the navigational arrows when controlling a puzzle 
 piece. I currently have mine set to off, because I already know what my pieces are going to do 
 when controlling them.
  
  The last two options are for the sound. There are 6 different "tunes" you can listen to while solving 
 a puzzle, along with a random option and on/off as well. The second option is to toggle the sound 
 effects on or off.
  
  One thing that does bother me about the game is that it's stylus-control only. The D-pad and A, 
 B, X, Y buttons serve no purpose whatsoever. I thought at least I could use them when at the main 
 menu, but this proved to be false. It isn't a big issue, but rather an annoyance. I also have difficulty 
 controlling the smaller pieces at times. If I want to rotate a piece, it'll sometimes just move 
 it to the left or right. Again, an annoyance that occurs every once in a while, but it doesn't 
 hinder the game play at all.
  
  In summary, Neves is a great game if you ever have time to waste. It isn't a must-have for DS owners, 
 but it is a nice addition, especially if you're into the Brain Age and Big Brain Academy games. 
 It has its flaws, but they certainly don't hurt the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calibus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Neves is basically the same as the ID test you took as a child where you had a silhouette and you 
 had to fill it in with different shaped pieces. Neves only uses 7 pieces and they are the same 
 for every puzzle but considering that there are about 400 puzzles it will take quite a while to 
 complete them all, especially because some tend to be very difficult. When you start the game there 
 are approximately 150-200 puzzles unlocked. There are 4 rooms and each one starts at level 1. For 
 example, once you complete Room 01, Level 01, then Room 01, Level 02 unlocks. You start with Rooms 
 1-4, all at level 01.
  
  And it doesn't stop there. Neves employs three different modes and each has it's own challenges. 
 The basic mode is called Silhouette mode and the idea is just to fill in the silhouette with the 
 pieces given. The next mode is a time trial mode and you are given three minutes to finish each 
 puzzle. If you complete it within one minute you will receive a gold medal and if you complete 
 it within three minutes you receive a silver medal. Finally, the last mode is called 7 Steps and 
 definitely the most difficult of the three. In 7 Steps , you are only allowed to put the puzzle 
 together in, you guessed it, 7 Steps. Once you touch the first piece you get a count of one and 
 you must put it in the correct place before you touch another piece if you want to complete the 
 puzzle.
  
  The most surprising aspect of the game is that even after you complete the puzzle on Silhouette 
 , it is still difficult to do it again later in time trial mode and 7 Steps.
  
  All in all, it is not a complicated game by any means but the difficulty ramps up nicely and it 
 is a great game to take with you while waiting for an appointment or anything of that sort. Neves 
 has great replay value because unless you are a super-genius, it is impossible to memorize every 
 puzzle so you can always go back and do the same puzzles over again after complettion. It is also 
 a great game for children as a brain growing tool. I highly recommend this game to fans of Picross 
 and others that want a logical challenge. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
