-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: New International Track & Field
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/internationaltrackandfield/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Eight classic Konami characters to unlock.
 Good multiplayer, both online and off.
 24 different events with their own strategies.
 Touch screen or standard control options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 High learning curve.
 Uneven difficulty.
 The game's stylus controls can scratch your DS.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Olympic Sports
Date: Jul 22, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rapidly tapping buttons is still exhausting, but tight controls and a bunch of unlockables make 
 this a worthy update. 

  The formula that most track-and-field games follow was established in the early '80s with Track 
 and Field. The majority of events demanded that players slam alternately on two buttons as fast 
 as they possibly could, a controller-breaking maneuver that has carried over to just about every 
 virtual sprint competition since then. Konami's latest spin on the series, New International Track 
 and Field, adds in online play, a wide array of events, and big-headed characters from Konami's 
 far-reaching past. However, the controls are largely unchanged. Although it's still utterly frantic 
 and exhausting to try to keep up with your competitors, the tight controls and wealth of unlockables 
 make this a solid game.  

  There are two different control options this time: standard button-tapping and new touch-screen 
 scribbling. Though Konami has taken advantage of the Nintendo DS's touch screen for this version, 
 the new controls require just as much stamina from you as the original version. Both methods are 
 extremely responsive, but the touch screen serves as a better entry point for participants who 
 are new to the field. It's easier to get your speed up to a respectable level, but your peak performance 
 will be compromised. Experts should stick with the standard controls. Although it requires more 
 energy from you, tapping buttons provides a potentially higher top speed. Either technique will 
 get you through the main challenges without too much trouble, but if you want to flaunt your talents 
 online, you had better learn to love the button-tapping.  

           The flame is actually coming from Sparkster's feet, not his jetpack.      

  For those 
 who demand more nimble-fingered skill than hard-headed determination in their athletic competitions, 
 the majority of the events in NITF require good timing in addition to frantic tapping. The best 
 button masher in the world won't even be able to jump over the foul line or throw a discus straight 
 ahead without mastering the ultraprecise timing that these events demand. The initial learning 
 curve is surprisingly high before you figure out optimal throwing angles and when you need to stop 
 running to avoid getting faults. The tutorial doesn't provide too much help with easing you into 
 these events, either. The controls are spelled out, but you'll have to discover on your own, through 
 trial and error, exactly how to excel. It can be quite rewarding to finally pass an event that 
 has plagued you for attempt after failed attempt, but getting through that initial frustration 
 is an athletic feat on its own.  

  Some events wont result in such physical exhaustion. The shooting competitions are really well 
 done. In skeet shooting, you quickly slide your aim to the clay pigeons flying out in front of 
 you, stringing together consecutive hits for massive points. Double trap is even better; here you'll 
 have targets flying from either side, and you choose to shoot either left or right. The concentration 
 required in these two events is quite demanding. You have 15 seconds to hit as many targets as 
 you can, so one mistake could cost you the gold. Other events, such as gymnastics and diving, are 
 not quite as exciting. The score is determined more by how many flips you can pull off rather than 
 how well you land, so it's possible to qualify after doing a massive belly flop. All of the events 
 require their own technique and, given that the controls never get in the way, they all have their 
 own charm.  

  The career mode sets you off in six different sets of four events across three difficulty levels. 
 The difficulty is sometimes erratic, though, which can make some of the easy rounds far more difficult 
 than they should be. For instance, while flipping off of the vault, you can land on your back and 
 still move on to the next event, but swimming requires a near-perfect start and finger-crippling 
 determination to place. Nevertheless, the requirements are kind enough in the early goings that 
 you can learn the events before you take on the harder tasks.  

           Shooting clay pigeons using a touch-screen is one of the better events.      

  There 
 is plenty of reason to keep playing long after you've tried your hand at all 24 events. NITF is 
 loaded with unlockable goodies. New outfits for your characters may not sound too enticing, but 
 there is a much cooler treat if you stick with the game long enough. There are eight classic Konami 
 characters that you can earn that add a lot more personality than the generic-looking stereotypes 
 that you start the game with. Little-known Sparkster makes his first appearance since 1994, but 
 if that doesnt get you dancing, old standbys like Solid Snake and Simon Belmont can try their 
 hand at the steeplechase.  

  New International Track and Field doesn't reinvent the genre, but it does throw in some much-needed 
 diversity to the standard mashing action. The online, single-, and multicard four-player competitions 
 add a lot of life for people eager to show off their skills. For those who would rather play the 
 computer, the bevy of unlockables should take hours to earn. At its core, this is the same basic 
 game from the early '80s, but the cute visuals, different control options, and classic characters 
 make it feel like it belongs alongside modern games. If you're anxious for more track-and-field 
 action and don't mind putting your Nintendo DS through some extended wear and tear, New International 
 Track and Field will satiate your need for button-mashing chaos.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GogetaLP
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  The game it self is based at the olympic game of beijing. it isn't a very good game but is well 
 to play for children about the age of 7 or 8 kinda like that: P
  don't know what you guy's thought about the game bit i thought it was boring.-.-
  the game play 
 by itself was easy and the graphics were good but the game was too small that was the biggest thing 
 that bothered me.
  there are good game explanation's at the minigames and because of it the game was very simple. if 
 the producer's were smart they made the gameplay a bitt harder.
  my oppinion about this game is a bitt hard but if you play it you may agree me.
  
  if you wanna 
 play a olympic game go play mario and sonic at the olympic games.
  that game is full of good graphics to and easy to play to but the gameplay is more fun.
  GogetaLP 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatblade12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I buyed this game because I really wanted it so i decided to get it.
  
  so when I brought it it looked amazing and when a put in the cartridge it was even better so now 
 im going to tell you what its like!
  
  First gameplay.
  When you start up your first game on this i would say the first thing you look at are the colours. 
 it looks so good and feels a bit animie. Its a really good looking track and field game. now lets 
 look at what you must do. to race you must swipe the touch screen side to side to run which may 
 damage the screen a little so use a screen protector. and you can use the touch screen to jump 
 or the buttons. (I prefer the buttons)
  
  Now for selections.
  you can select from single player, multiplayer, profile, options, sign in and rankings. You know 
 what single player is and multipliplayer so lets look at profile. basiclly it shows what youve 
 unlocked your stats and so on. rankings is comparing scores from other players around the world. 
 and sign in is signing into your online user. now all my time playing ds this is my favioute online 
 game. but if you wanna know what olnine is about get the game yourself.
  
  So overall i give it 8/10
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
