-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: New Super Mario Bros.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/supermariobrosds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Terrific control.
 Classic gameplay that still works.
 Great presentation.
 Evokes the original games without feeling shameless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Additional modes aren't nearly as interesting as the main game.
 Some levels seem a little too short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 78 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 12,000 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: May 15, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New Super Mario Bros. is a terrific 2D side-scroller that makes you think of the old games but never 
 feels like it's just cashing in on past success. 

  Despite the sort of weird title, New Super Mario Bros. is exactly what it sounds like. It's a new 
 Super Mario Bros. game that pulls off the series' classic 2D, side-scrolling gameplay without feeling 
 contrived or like a needless nostalgia trip. While there's plenty of old memories referenced in 
 this game, it is most definitely new. You rarely see 2D platformers at all these days, and it's 
 even rarer when it's done right. While experienced players might blow through the game quickly, 
 New Super Mario Bros. is still completely awesome and absolutely necessary.  

          Mario's got more than enough moves to deal with his enemies.     

  The story is simple, 
 provides just enough to get you going, then gets out of the way. Bowser Jr. kidnaps the princess, 
 and Mario needs to save her by running to the right and jumping on the heads of his enemies. You'll 
 cruise through up to eight worlds in the game, though the occasional use of Super Mario World-like 
 secret exits and a few alternate paths mean that you'll only really have to play through six of 
 those worlds. Of course, the quality of the levels means that you'll probably want to go back and 
 see everything there is to see, but if you're bent on blazing through the game, you could burn 
 up the minimum number of levels in a day or two.  

  You'll get a full SMB-like variety in the game's levels and worlds, including underground and undersea 
 levels, as well as an ice world, a desert, a few forced-scrolling levels that may make you lose 
 it, and so on. The visuals are fantastic, simultaneously reminding you of the older games while 
 using polygonal graphics and effects very well, making the levels and characters all look really, 
 really impressive.  

  The level design in the game is great, taking advantage of Mario's moves in a few key spots. Mario's 
 move list isn't terribly deep, but he's got more than enough to get by. The game reverts all the 
 way back to the NES games' two-button control scheme. One button jumps, while the other runs when 
 you hold it down and shoots fireballs when you're equipped with that ability. The game includes 
 some of Mario's 3D platforming acrobatics from Super Mario 64, too. You can cling to walls and 
 slide down them or use them for wall jumps, which really comes in handy. Many of the game's secrets 
 seem to be built on knowing exactly when and where to wall jump up to some otherwise-unreachable 
 spot. You can push down on the D pad to execute a butt stomp, too, which is handy for busting through 
 columns of blocks. The game's power-ups are roughly the same, too, though there are a few new options. 
 The mega mushroom makes Mario grow to fill the screen, making him invincible for a short time and 
 letting you just run right through obstacles. The mini mushroom makes you really small, letting 
 you fit in a few tiny pipes. And the blue turtle shell lets you crouch and slide along like an 
 empty shell, taking out enemies as you move. The new power-ups are interesting, but they don't 
 really pop up very often, so you're usually just rolling with fireball power. Overall, the level 
 of control you're given and the moves and power-ups at your disposal are put together very well 
 and help make the game fun.  

  Fun, definitely, but not especially challenging. There are a few levels here and there that can 
 get frustrating because they demand that you take your time, but for the most part, the individual 
 levels feel a bit short, though there are plenty of them to go around. You'll get into several 
 boss fights along the way, but some well-placed fireballs make quick work of your foe -- and you 
 keep facing the same foe over and over again in boss fights that feel like they were lifted directly 
 from Super Mario Bros. 3, with some occasional twists that attempt to make the battles feel different. 
 But you're really just trying to beat Bowser Jr. over and over again, usually by jumping on him 
 unless you have fire power, making the boss fights pretty underwhelming. Though they're so short 
 that they don't have much impact on the game one way or the other.  

  The initial single-player quest is the main chunk of the game, and it's the best part of the game, 
 as well. But there are additional modes. There's a two-player Mario versus Luigi mode that puts 
 you up against another player in a short level that wraps around. Big stars appear in the world, 
 and you attempt to collect more than the other guy. If you can hit your opponent with fireballs, 
 jump on his head, and so on, he'll drop stars. It's a fun little diversion. Also, the game has 
 a mess of touch-screen minigames, just like the ones found in the DS remake of Super Mario 64. 
 Some of these games are OK, but for the most part, they're a little tired.  

          Mario's main adventure is the real action here. The other stuff isn't quite as exciting. 
     

  The game really rides the nostalgia line very well. There's just enough old or remixed Mario music 
 and sound effects in there to remind you of the older games, and there's just enough newer-sounding 
 stuff to prevent the whole thing from feeling shameless. In short, the audio is another one of 
 the game's many high points, containing plenty of great sound effects (both old and new) and the 
 standard array of speech you've come to expect from Mario.  

  With its ability to recall the older games without leaning too heavily on its famous name, New 
 Super Mario Bros. is an essential new classic that lives up to the legacy of the series quite well. 
 If you're looking for a quality DS game, look no further.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bladex8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The original super mario bros on the nes takes place on the almighty DS.
  
  The story is just like in the nes : mario and peach are walking in the garden of the mushroom castle 
 but mario sees that the castle is being attacked by thunderclouds. Mario runs to the castle and 
 peach who is completely distracted get's kidnapped by bowser jr..
  
  Mario must jump his way trough all mushroom kigdom levels. defeating all new bosses, going trough 
 pipes, picking mushrooms or shooting fireballs.
  
  They have added a lot of extra levels, castles, new worlds to discover. some minigames from mario 
 64 and they have added some. Great graphics. Catchy amazing music. A vs. mode for two player trying 
 to catch stars.
  
  A amazing platfomer with a lot off new stuff. This game will juste explodeeeeeeee of awsomeness. 
 You should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeian2014
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros is definetly one of the best games of the ds so far. It totally makes the 
 series look good to tell the truth I didn't like the super mario bros games until I played this. 
 Then the past was history I now like the mario bros games and they are now cool in my book. Honestly 
 I like luigi better than mario but any way the game includes new power ups like the blue shell 
 which lets you protect yourself, the giant shroom which makes you as big as the screen where you 
 can smash anything. These are the kinds of innovative things that makes this game amazing. This 
 game is a totally new way to play the game. At first I thought the game would be the same as all 
 the others. But no this is a totally different game entirely. I would highly recommend this game 
 to anyone living. So go out and get this game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigirulez
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  NSMB is a relive of classic mario goodness, Plain and simple.
  
  The good:
  Fun
  Addictive
  Good music
  Retro
  Come on! It's Mario!
  Great multiplayer!
  Dude! It's tetris! (oh 
 wait wrong game)
  Portable awesomeness!!
  
  THE BAD:
  Short adventure if you don't go back to collect items.
  Dude! it's tetris (DARNIT NOT AGAIN!)
 
  A tad easy for experienced people.
  
  Overall:
  A great game that perfectly fits in with the Mario games and is a well worth $35
  
  Extra words (to 
 be able to post this review) a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpred2007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  While everyone else was playing Super Mario World, I was playing the original Super Mario Bros. 
 And I loved it.
  
  Yesterday, I finally got New Super Mario Bros for DS. And I really love it.
  
  It has many 
 elements from the original games, plus many new features that improve the game. Which I didn't 
 think was possible. 
  
  My favorite two things of the game are:
  
  1) The Mega-Mushroom, which makes you a giant and able to run into everything, and getting 1-ups 
 if you smash enough things
  
  2) The ability to hold power-ups for later. I wouldn't have beaten World 2 without that!
  
 
  Also, you can go to past levels and worlds without having to start a new game, which makes getting 
 lives easy. Seriously, I have only had this game for a night, and I have 99 lives!
  
  The minigames are fun, and are good if you want a break from the main game.
  
  
  In the end, 
 New Super Mario Bros is a great game, and is nostalgia without being the exact game as before.
 
  
  I give New Super Mario Bros:
  10/10 Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianfbuan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  INTRO:
  A Classic game from the old days.
  
  It's great, and that's all I can say really.
  
  New Super Mario Bros on the DS is just a revised 
 and 3D (but technically, still 2D) version of the original Super Mario Bros on the NES. I think 
 i might remove the "just" and say, "It's THE revised and 3D version..."
  It is a revised version of the original. But now, its in 3D (2D) !
  
  A lot of people might say, 
 "Wow, its just Super Mario Bros in 3D, been there." I also said that until I played this game.
 
  
  
  THE REVIEW:
  I first played this game in cousin's DS. Back then, I still dont have a DS of my own. I really 
 got addicted to it, and its the first game I got when I got my DS lite (my cousin only has the 
 original "heavy" DS, hahahaha, I hope he's reading this) .
  
  At first, it may just seem as an ordinary 3D revised version of the original. Well, it is.
  
 
  There are a lot of added stuff on the game. More enemies. More Power-ups: Super Mushroom, Fire 
 Flower, Mini Mushroom, etc. It has 8 worlds. Each world has more levels. There are added Mario 
 twists. It still follows the same concept; to go to flagpole then castle then next world until 
 we get to save Princess Peach. It is still a side scroller. It still has a time limit. You stomp 
 the Goombas. You stomp on Koopas. You throw Koopa shells. You get a 1-Up. You get pissed when you're 
 running and suddenly a Goomba hits you. You get pissed at Lakitu. You curse the Boss levels.
  ITS JUST THE SAME THING, ONLY WITH WIRELESS MULTIPLAYER AND MINIGAMES AND ENHANCED GRAPHICS THAT 
 MAKE IT LOOK LIKE 3D!!!
  
  You may think I'm ridiculing the game, but I'm not.
  
  New Super Mario Bros has something in it. It makes you remember about the old days with Super Mario 
 Bros. It has this form of charm that makes you want to play it again and again. Addictive gameplay. 
 
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  It has the Mario Factor, that what makes this game so great yet so simple.
  
  Nintendo made 
 a great game a lot better. Thats it.
  
  GREAT GAME!
  
  [Buy it, You won't regret it] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of the game: New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Read the information below to see what I think about different kind of ratings.
  
  Graphic (8 
 out of 10) The graphic is just right for this game. This game have no 
  problem with the graphic. I'll make sure that the gra [hic is not that bad. If you
  like "Okay" 
 graphics and a fan of mario games, buy this game. Make sure that
  you read my review though.
  
  Price (7.5 out of 10) The price is not that great, but I think its okay. I think they
  should 
 have lowered it a little bit just to make sure that the game is going to
  sell out really quickly I guess?
  
  The Fun of the Game (8 out of 10) The game is lots of fun 
 except that if you 
  are weak at these kind of games, this game will give you lots fo trouble. Me?..
  I'm not that great 
 at this kind of game, but I can do well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse-the-Legend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is takes a classic series and gives it a new look. The game runs similar 
 to how your typical Mario Bros. game runs in that you are moving from left to right and have to 
 either move to the end of the level or defeat the boss in a certain time limit. New things are 
 introduced such as being able to become gigantic Mario and demolish everything in your path, and 
 you can also become Mini Mario and reach places that would normally be impossible to reach. 
  The New Super Mario Bros. is neither challenging nor long in length. To beat the game you are only 
 required to complete 6 worlds, most of which have about 8 levels including your boss fights. The 
 game is also not very challenging. Most worlds will be beaten in two tries or less and you can 
 take this entire game down in a day if you do not have anything to do. I will not complain though 
 because I actually enjoy an easy Super Mario Bros. game every once in a while. 
  The price of this game is not really too friendly. (30 or 35 bucks brand new) and it may be wiser 
 for you to spend 18 dollars on Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World on 
 the Virtual Console. The fact that the New Super Mario Bros. is a game that you can take on the 
 go is one of the great things that this game has. Overall, the game is solid, but not revolutionary. 
 If you can borrow from a friend or find at a cheap price, I would recommend it though. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Nova
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great. It has a lot of content from previous games, but enough new stuff that it 
 doesn't seem like some sort of remake. It tops the series
  
  PROS
  A lot of replay value
  Easy to learn. Two buttons. Not hard =)
  GREAT graphics
  Fun animation 
 and colors
  AWESOME MUSIC!!!
  The new items are fun
  The map on the bottom screen is handy
  So is the extra item
  
  CONS 
  Okay. I admit it. 
 It only took me about 4 hours to beat first time through. Second time. Maybe 2. But that's just 
 it! I played it again 'cuz it's sooo fun!!
  Last level is reallllly hard.
  Controls aren't QUITE as tight as original. After playing a level 834,768,937 times... it MAY get 
 frustrating ;)
  A bit too easy to obtain Fire Flowers and other power-ups
  The two player only entertains you for a few hours
  Would be nice if you could ride Yoshi =) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros sets the mark for classic game on the DS. Its so addictive and simple gameplay 
 that stretches over a variety of levels with all different kinds of enviroments and worlds. The 
 multiplayer is fantastic to play with friends and there is thousands of levels in the story levels. 
 Its great fun and is a classic. The simple controls are easy and simple. Dodging is fun and brings 
 back the memory of the 2D games on the Sega Megadrive. Its a great game for the DS and something 
 that you will get a lot of fun out of. The jumping action is fun and there is different ways of 
 going about levels. The obstacles are fun to avoid and the gameplay is challenging including a 
 couple of boss battles. There is also a few amusing cut-scenes before each world in Mario-animated 
 style. Its funny as well and enjoyable. There is one problem thats a bit annoying though. That 
 the saving does'nt save until you complete a world. It sometimes does though but not all the time. 
 Despite the saving problems, its still a fun and enjoyable experience that you can share with your 
 great grandparents if they feel up to it! The simple controls make it great and really classic. 
 Its 2D and amazing. The arcade style really suits the DS and the use without the stylus is really 
 good. The keypad controls work the best. Fantastic! I give this a 9/10. Fantastic and an instant 
 classic. Great and addictive gameplay makes this a must get for the DS and theres great prices 
 for it. Get it cause you wont regret it. Classic with few problems. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The new super Mario bros is old style gaming that's been given an upgrade to look like new style 
 gaming. This game is kind of like Kirby 64 in a way, as it offers the main character in a 3d, while 
 everything else might be in a 2d environment. The campaign of the game is like any other Mario 
 game, is to save peach from browser except it's the little bowser guy instead. With each level 
 that you complete, unlocks more levels to go through and at the end of each world is a boss and 
 like anything in a Mario game the only way to kill the boss is to jump on their head, or is some 
 cases in this game hoard the giant mushroom around with you and use it against the boss in order 
 to kill him in one shot just by walking into him or it. All but some power items in the game are 
 the same as any other Mario game, there is power flowers that shoot fire, invisible star power, 
 normal mushrooms that make you a little bit taller, but some power items are especially built for 
 this game like the tiny mushroom, the giant mushroom and the blue shell. This game also offers 
 something new and hidden in each level, it's a giant coin and there are three of them in each level. 
 The purpose of these giant coins is to use them a peak moments in the game to shorten your path 
 in some way. Each time you open a new path five of these giant coins is deducted from your total. 
 There are some worlds in the new super Mario bros that seem to be unreachable, (worlds four and 
 seven) but you can get to them by defeating the last world boss before them over again but this 
 time using the mini mushroom power to get to these worlds. In some cases some people don't actually 
 go to these worlds and just go to the last world instead which is a mistake because then you don't 
 get the chance to go to the real finale boss level to defeat the real bowser. 
  Overall the new super Mario bros is the best Nintendo ds game I have ever played so far and they 
 should make another one soon. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JebranRush
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  The good: Lots of great platforming, some great mini games, great graphics and sound, good level 
 design
  
  The bad: It's over all too soon, some annoying levels, extras and unlockables are weak, additions 
 aren't enough to keep this game from feeling a bit stale
  
  
  After 10 years, Nintendo finally came around to make a new Mario platformer. New Super Mario Bros. 
 is a great game that fits the DS perfectly. It still contains that great Nintendo and Mario charm 
 that it's always had while adding some small additions, while not that great, help to make this 
 a nice new adventure for Mario.
  
  The game starts off with the usual Mario affair. Mario and Peach are taking a lovely stroll through 
 the Mushroom Kingdom when they see that a thundercloud of sorts is attacking the castle. Mario 
 runs down to investigate while Peach waits for him. Big mistake. Bowser Jr. sneaks up and takes 
 Peach as his captive. Mario comes back and tries to chase him down but to no avail. Bowser Jr. 
 escapes to his tower and Mario chases on down after him. It's your job as Mario to go through several 
 levels and worlds looking for Peach only to find out she's at another tower or castle. The plot's 
 never been strong in Mario games, nor has it ever tried. It's all about the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is typical of Mario games. You run, jump, and stomp your way through levels until 
 you reach that flag upon which you try to jump your highest on it to get maximum points. Mushrooms 
 and stars aren't the only power ups this time around, though. As Super Mario Bros. 3 introduced 
 the racoon suit, New Super Mario Bros. introduces new power ups such as the Turtle Shell, Giant 
 Mushroom, and Mini Mushroom. These power-ups add a fair amount of refreshment to the Mario platformer 
 formula but unfortunately, these power ups don't come around as often as you'd like. Other power 
 ups such as the Regular Mushroom and Fire Flower are still here. Some notable additions to the 
 platforming is the ability to do the triple jump previously only usable in Super Mario 64. This 
 makes the platforming a bit speedier, jumpier, and a bit flashier. 
  
  As well, multiplayer battle mode is a nice diversion. The minigame's, while a worthy and fun addition, 
 are the same as Super Mario 64 DS's. Even so, for those who didn't get Super Mario 64 DS, these 
 minigames are a nice distraction from the main game and good amount of fun with friends. Altogether, 
 these new additions don't add as much as you'd like. It still feels like the same thing but with 
 shinier graphics. It's still the same old Mario run and jump but with some new ways to go about 
 doing it. 
  
  One thing that's not the same as previous Mario games is the visuals department. This is where 
 New Super Mario Bros. really shines. Fully 3D polygonal models fit perfectly on the DS and everything 
 flows very smoothly. Backgrounds are appropriately designed to fit each level's theme. Everything 
 is as it should be, graphically.
  
  Audio is well done, too. Catchy tunes play throughout each level and you'll find yourself humming 
 them when you're not playing. Although none of them really stick to you, they adequately match 
 the rest of the game's quality. Sound effects are a mixture of both new and old. The older sounds 
 effects were kept to keep the reminiscent feel to it so you know that this really is a Mario game.
 
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is an exceptional platformer with a lot going for it. Lot's of fun 
 levels with great design and great graphics and sounds. Although the main game is over quickly, 
 the collectible coins are still available for extra play. In the end, they aren't really worth 
 it, although they can be fun to find. There isn't much reward for collecting all the big coins. 
 As well, multiplayer battle mode comes up short and is only a nice diversion. The mini games are 
 a nice touch but can be found in the launch game Super Mario 64 DS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shouldwork
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically 
 appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters 
 to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred 
 characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for 
 eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, 
 time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically 
 appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters 
 to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred 
 characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for 
 eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, 
 time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically 
 appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters 
 to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred 
 characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for 
 eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, 
 time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically 
 appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters 
 to magically appear, time for eight hundred characters to magically appear, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. was released in early 2006 as the most expected game for the DS in that year, 
 and it's still one of the best titles for the Dual Screen for both players who love Mario games 
 and ones who hadn't played any yet.
  
  Besides the usual adventure mode (Mario Game) , there is the new Mario vs. Luigi mode, where two 
 players "battle" for stars spread all around the scenario. This game mode reminds a little of that 
 mini game from Super Mario Bros. 3, where both players had to beat enemies in order to decide who 
 would play next. This mode requires of the two players a DS and a NSMB cartridge. And there's also 
 the Minigames mode, where one to four players may play. Some of them came from Super Mario 64 DS, 
 while some are brand-new. They make usage of the touch screen or the microphone, but most of them 
 doesn't do more than kill time. 'Course some of them are very addictive, like "Wanted", but the 
 whole thing is like a gift from Nintendo to us players in my point of view.
  
  Just after you start the Mario Game, you'll see Bowser Jr. Kidnapping Princess Peach, then Mario 
 rushes after him, is hit, become small and then the game begins. After the scene, you'll see Bowser 
 Jr. carrying Peach to a tower, and you'll find yourself in some kind of board game, just like in 
 Super Mario Bros. 3. As you start the first level, you'll see how things changed a lot and at the 
 same time, are still the same. Pipes, most items and most enemies are on the game, but there are 
 a lot of news. Some new types of enemies, but the main focus are the items. There are three new 
 ones, and my third favourite is the Mini Mushroom, which shrinks Mario to a very tiny size. In 
 this form, Mario's jumps will make him to almost fly, he'll be able to enter in mini pipes and 
 go through some small paths. He can also run on water's surface while in this form. And there is 
 the Blue Koopa Shell. With it, you can withdraw yourself into the shell, so enemies won't hit you. 
 But the best part of being a turtle-plumber is the Shell Dash. Just hold the Dash button for a 
 while and Mario will spin in the direction you were walking. While performing a Shell Dash, you 
 cannot control his direction, only jump. And finally, the most loved item for almost every player, 
 the mighty Mega Mushrooms. Huge items which transform our hero into Mega Mario, taking almost the 
 whole screen in height. You'll see a bar on the top of the screen, that is the Mega Meter. It keeps 
 track of the damage caused by Mega Mario, which can destroy almost everything. Blocks, bricks, 
 enemies and pipes. Depending on the destruction you make, you'll receive a certain number of 1-Up 
 Mushrooms (from 0 to 5) when Mario shrinks back to his normal size.
  
  The simple game controls of the past Super Mario Bros. are still alive on NSMB. Inside the levels, 
 players use only one button for jumping, one for running/holding shells/throwing fire balls plus 
 the D-pad. Besides the usual stomps, enemies can be defeated with the Ground Pound now. This "butt 
 attack" is performed by pressing down while jumping, then Mario will dive straight to the ground. 
 This can also be used to get items from blocks. Another nice feature is the Wall Jump, used to 
 reach high parts where there are two parallel walls.
  
  Visually, the game's pretty. The scenario is 2D, but the backgrounds, items and models are all 
 3D. All different world's elements were recreated very well.
  
  The sound is smoother, but it isn't as remarkable as the past Mario's. The new background musics 
 are good, though. Enemies kinda dance'em in some parts.
  
  The only problem of the game is that it's too easy and not as challenging as its older parents. 
 There are over 80 levels, spread around eight different worlds. Some elements of past games weren't 
 explored yet, but we're expecting for a NSMB 2, or a New Super Mario World. But seeing the whole 
 game, NSMB is a must-have for any DS owner of respect. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game definately adds another gold star to Mario's great adventures. With an exciting twist 
 on an old classic, this game just reinvented the wheel.
  
  The gameplay is a little different than that of the "old" Super Mario Bros., but it is up to par. 
 In this one you can not only grow a little bigger, you can get absolutely massive and destroy everything 
 in your path with a super mushroom, which is one of the highlights of the game. Also, you can get 
 a mini mushroom to make yourself itty bitty. The game requires you to use both of these new mushrooms 
 in order to complete the game. 
  
  The graphics are definately better than the original, but take away a little from the overall feel 
 of it. They made this sidescroller semi 3d if that is possible. I guess they didn't want it looking 
 like paper mario, but it is kind of disappointing... I guess that is why they called is "new".
 
  
  Overall this game is not as good as the "old" one, but im alright with that because you can't touch 
 a classic like the original SMB. This game is definately worth buying and there is some replay 
 value in it as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is the true soul of gaming. That may be a bold statement, but it does make 
 sense. This game is a expertly crafted platformer that feels just as fun and revolutionary as its 
 famous forebears did 20 years ago. It has great graphics, wicked smooth gameplay, and literally 
 the best controls in a 2D game ever. That is another bold statement, and this review is going to 
 be filled with them, but they are all true because of one thing. This is pure Super Mario Bros 
 action. In other words, it is as close to perfect as gaming can possibly get. 
  
  As in all of my reviews, I will start with the eye candy. To compliment that overused, gaming cliche, 
 this is sweeter than any Hershey's candy you may find. What Nintendo has done here is injected 
 3D capabilities into the most wonderfully old-school setting. The overworlds are an isometric view 
 of level maps that seem similar to those found in Super Mario Bros 3, complete with secret levels 
 that can be seen but not accessed until a special exit is found or toll payed in one of the normal 
 levels. There are also warp pipes, and cannons that when accessed have a similar effect to SMB3's 
 warp flutes.
  
  The actual levels have beautiful, 2D backgrounds reminiscent of Super Mario World. But after that, 
 everything has taken advantage of the DS' 3D capabilities. Mario and all of his enemies are rendered 
 totally out of polygons, and though they are made from only about the same amount as was possible 
 in Super Mario 64 on the N64, the small screen makes these character models appear much better. 
 The framerate is also smooth, and while the DS obviously can't render effects like a current gen 
 console, there are definitly some pretty splash and particle effects bouncing around here.
  
  The soundtrack is great as well. The hit or miss Mario voice samples return, but no matter 
 your feelings about it, it wouldn't be a Mario platformer without them. The songs are wonderful 
 and have that 16-bit style of Super Mario World 1 & 2. The original Super Mario Bros theme has 
 been remixed well for the item houses, and best of all, the enemies actually REACT to the music. 
 It doesn't really effect Mario, but when a levels music hits a certain part of its beat, the enemies 
 will actually hop up into the air a bit on cue with the music. It is an incredibly charming touch 
 that you will love. 
  
  The gameplay is the star here. I really can't say more than I already have about the controls; 
 Mario responds quicker than some real people I have seen. The momentum based platforming just feels 
 natural, and they actually added some of Mario's 3D moves like the butt-stomp as well, and those 
 moves all feel as good as they did in the 3D games. I can't say it any other way; the control is 
 perfect. Mario's wide assortment of power-ups are here, too, along with some new ones that you 
 will surely love. The super mushroom, fire flower and invincibility star returns, but now you have 
 access to a Mega Mushroom, a Mini Mushroom, and a blue Koopa shell. The Mega Mushroom makes Mario 
 as big as the screen, allowing him to smash through pipes, all enemies, and even the flag at the 
 end of the level without taking a hit. If you manage to wreak enough havoc as Mega Mario, some 
 1-up mushrooms wll even fall out of the sky that you can snag for some more men. The Mini Mushroom 
 does the opposite, shrinking Mario down to only a few pixels, allowing him to run on water, get 
 through some previously inaccessible areas, and hang in the air a bit longer after jumping like 
 Yoshi could in Yoshi's Island. Finally, the blue shell makes Mario do everything a spinning, ricocheting, 
 Koopa shell would do if Mario kicked it. You have total control over when the ability starts and 
 stops, and you can jump while spinning to hop ledges, though it takes some practice to get it right.
 
  
  Finally you have the game design. Levels are designed perfectly, and while plowing through the 
 game is easy, those who are interested in two more, full WORLDS of levels, alternate level exits, 
 and some neat backgrounds are in for some, more-satisfying challenge. Overall, the quickest path 
 through the game will only take a few hours, but really experiencing the entire game will take 
 much longer. Finally, if you actually manage to feel bored of the game, and believe me, it is tough, 
 you can head over to the game's multiplayer. Don't worry, this isn't just the arcade Mario Bros 
 found in the GBA game re-releases of the NES and SNES games. These are full out, well designed, 
 single player or multiplayer, touch-screen minigames that resemble the ones from the Super Mario 
 64 DS release and they are incredibly addictive. The game also has a platforming multiplayer minigame 
 across scrolling environments with a similar appearance to the single player. In it players compete 
 to get 10 stars throughout the stage, and it can get pretty chaotic. Plus, only one game card is 
 needed for all the multiplayer via wireless game share, which is pretty convenient. 
  
  Overall, this is probably the best 2D platformer ever made. The graphics are gorgeous, the gameplay 
 is delightful, the music is magical, and the controls are simply untouchable. Nintendo is known 
 for the quality of its franchises, and this is one of the best examples of why. Mario revolutionized 
 gaming way back in 1985, and now he is back to show us why we let him do that in the first place. 
 Games, above all, are supposed to be fun, and it is difficult for me to think of any games that 
 have been more fun for me than New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Between the time span from 1985 to 1990, three legendary platformers were released, Super Mario 
 Bros. 1,2, and 3. New Super Mario Bros., now released in 2006, obviously with the title is a nod 
 to those three games, though it also has many things from other games in the Mario series in common. 
 Does it live up to the name? In terms of classic gameplay elements, yes. In terms of being as perfect 
 as them, not as much, but it's still a great addition to the series, even if not perfect.
  
  
  
  Good:
  
  -Original soundtrack
  -Great control
  -Great visuals
  -Superb, creative 
 level design
  -Lots of variety to keep you guessing
  
  Bad:
  
  -Most of the stages are way too easy
  -Some stages are very short
  -The game itself can be 
 beaten in less than 3 hours.
  -Mini Games are poor
  -Other than being fun, there is no replay value
  
  
  New Super Mario Bros. follows the same 
 rules as it's past 2D games, from it's red Mushrooms enlarging Mario to getting hit to shrink and 
 having the Fire Flower suit to blast enemies you normally couldn't get rid of and turning them 
 into coins. Though even with it's similar elements, it adds quite a few original gameplay elements 
 that are a pleasant surprise, especially to those who have played the original games long ago. 
 The story is quite simple like the older games too, Peach gets captured by Bowser and Bowser Jr., 
 and it's up to Mario to rescue her, nothing more, that's it, seriously.
  
  The visuals by DS standards are excellent, it has the same 2D gameplay, but it's using 3D graphics. 
 Like other Mario games, every world looks different from the last, they're all colorful and well 
 designed, though not all of them original, it's still that "Ice Land to Lava Land" feel, though 
 that's not completely bad.
  
  The game is really, really short. You may even be able to complete it faster than Super Mario Bros. 
 3 for the NES. This is due to lack of stages in most of the worlds, having some of the stages being 
 short, and the fact that you only need to go through six worlds to finish. Having barely any challenge 
 in a lot of the stages doesn't help either. The stages are put together creatively, but only a 
 newcomer to platformers will have a problem going through the stages. The stages may or may not 
 bring a little nostalgia to you, as they are like tributes to the older games, with similar obstacles, 
 but requiring you to pull things off in a different fashion from the old games, to prevent it being 
 exactly the same. There are eight worlds, the two extra ones require you to do a certain thing 
 in the last castles of two certain worlds, that are before the last world. These two extra worlds 
 are actually a lot more challenging than the normal stages, but that's still not saying much, and 
 they're only optional, but even though all the stages are easy, they are a blast to play through, 
 and you won't want to miss any of the stages.
  
  The control is unsurprisingly great. It doesn't control like Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario 
 World though, it controls more like the original Super Mario Bros. , by not letting you turn around 
 in my air and not letting you stop in mid-air as easily either, but this is obviously done purposely, 
 and it still controls better than the original. The dashing is also changed slightly, only in the 
 sense of how fast you go, Mario runs pretty much like Sonic the Hedgehog if you give him enough 
 time, increasing the length of his jump. Mario can do wall jumps as well to get to higher areas, 
 it controls exactly like in Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  The soundtrack is mostly original, new music, it's good, but no where near as memorable as other 
 themes in Mario games. A few old classic themes make a return, but very few times. The sound is 
 good, Mario and Luigi sound pretty clear, some old sounds are back like the mushroom and coin sounds, 
 and the flag is back at the end of stages too, and the sounds remain from the classic, slightly 
 remixed, though you get the 8 bit version if you complete the level fast enough, with the 8 bit 
 fire works. If you close the DS while the game is on to save power, Mario will say "Bye-bye!", 
 which isn't special, but when you flip it back up, he does the awesome, amazing, absolutely extraordinary, 
 "It's-a-Me! Mario!!" straight out of Super Mario 64, you'll do it like ten times back to back just 
 to hear the epic line.
  
  There's a Mario vs Luigi mode outside of the main game, which is two player. You two race through 
 an overlapping world and collect star coins, with certain power ups you can stomp on each other 
 or shoot fireballs at each other to have them drop some of their star coins. This mode can be pretty 
 funny and enjoyable, but it wears thin after a while. There are also quite a few mini games, but 
 they get old really fast, not too many that will interest you.
  
  There aren't as many new enemies as you'd might expect, you do fight Bowser Jr. a lot a lot but 
 he's terribly easy and the other bosses aren't all that challenging either, but you still get a 
 ton of older enemies from past games, from the first Super Mario Bros. to Super Mario 64, and even 
 a few Super Mario Sunshine enemies show up too. None from Super Mario Galaxy, but that game wasn't 
 out yet when this was released, in fact it seems like New Super Mario Bros. is not only a tribute 
 to the older games, but a way to get people ready or Hype Super Mario Galaxy, unfortunately that 
 plan failed, but even so, Galaxy is still probably the greatest 3D platformer ever made.
  
  Rare power ups are also an aspect in this game, there are three rare ones. The Koopa Shell, an 
 original suit that simply puts you in a Koopa Shell and if you start to run fast enough you will 
 begin to slide across the floor rather than run, knocking out any enemy in your path, but it can 
 be hard to control and get use to. There's the tiny shroom which shrinks Mario to... Well tiny 
 size. He'll die if he gets hit in this form but in replacement he can jump father and go into holes 
 leading to secret paths that he couldn't before. Also used to get to the two extra worlds. Last 
 but not least is the Giant Shroom, which increases Mario to screen size, he'll knock everything 
 out of his path, and he's basicly invulnerable, after it wears off some 1ups will come down, depending 
 on how much you destroyed. Though this power-up doesn't work in all areas and can sometimes just 
 get you stuck in a tight spot.
  
  
  
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a mix of Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World and 
 Super Mario 64, all done in 2D fashion with great 3D graphics. Though it being short and way too 
 easy puts it down, but it's the best "on-the-go" game because it's so easy to pick up and put down, 
 and the levels are so well designed that they'll keep you coming back every now and then, but if 
 you're not that type, New Super Mario Bros. is only a worth a borrow, and if you're someone who's 
 been following the series since it's growth, or a big fan of Platformers, then you won't do yourself 
 any wrong to get New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey_Face
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a solid game with no weaknesses. I has a pretty good story and great levels. 
 The game is 3- D making the game better than it could of been. It's an easy game until you get 
 to world six. After that levels start to get a bit a challenging. Bosses are different every time 
 and always fun to beat. There's good replay value because after beating the game you can replay 
 levels to collect coin stars. (There's three on each level) If you collect them all you get a second 
 star beside your file. (The first star is for beating the game) If you get three stars beside your 
 file, you unlock a secret background for your file. If your tired of playing as Mario, after you 
 beat the game you learn how to play as Luigi. The mini games are a great addition to the game. 
 They are fun to play and you can always try to beat your high score. Multiplayer is also very fun. 
 There are two modes in Multiplayer: Mini games or Mario Vs Luigi. Both are good to try. Over all 
 a Excellent game, and if you liked the older Mario Bros games you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros: A two-dimensional side scroller in the vein ofMario Bros.
  
  Story : A dystopian tale of love and loss, examining the inner workings of the human psyche under 
 extreme duress in an age of industrial crisis. Just kidding, Princess gets kidnapped. Though in 
 a sign that this is one of the less important Mario games, it's Baby Bowser and not full-grown 
 ordinary Bowser that you'll chase after. I will say this; it's nice to have a game that doesn't 
 start with 5 minute introductory credits or forced tutorials explaining how to walk or even any 
 dialogue. There's a 10 second introduction, and then you get to the jumping and goomba-killing. 
 
  
  This game is meant to be some kind of homage to the original Mario games, which to me seems frivolous 
 being that every Mario game is a homage to the original Mario games. Though NSMB could be considered 
 a homage people actually wanted to play being that it's a old fashioned sidescroller, akin to the 
 Mario games people actually liked, and not some lame duck baseball or soccer game. You run, you 
 jump, sometimes you fling fireballs, and you like it because it reminds you of when your mom told 
 you to stop sitting in front of the television all day rotting your brain and neglecting your math 
 questions. 
  
  A small aside, there are way too many people in the world that don't quite understand that there's 
 a button you hold to run faster and thus jump farther. You know who you are. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros is supposed to be a spiritual successor to the Old Super Mario Bros, and it's 
 a strong success in that field. The level design is diverse and stimulating enough to put this 
 game miles ahead of the many, many, many rom hacks, Flash imitators and other attempts to create 
 Mario games by normal people. Though if I had to say that if the game had a weakness, it's that 
 it's not trying to be the greatest song of all time and only a tributemeaning, little in the way 
 of originality.
  
  The big Mario platformers, and especially the recent Mario Galaxy, were so memorable because they 
 were sostrange. It doesn't make sense for a plumber that can jump really high to deal with giant 
 teethed plants and bullets with angry faces on them, much less doing so wearing a frog suit and 
 on a flying pirate ship. Here, almost all of the enemies, locales and ideas came from the most 
 basic of Mario clichs. And despite rendering the world and all the characters with 3D polygons, 
 there's no "2 and a half D" use of enemies attacking from the background or anything existing on 
 a plane aside from your own. The level concepts are the usual ideas; land world, water world, fire 
 world, another land world, and so forth, and there's not a zany suit power-up to turn you into 
 a statue or anything equally absurd.
  
  Well, there's a few new items. The Fire Flower is here, as is the star, and 3 new toys (which can 
 be bought at certain stores with big coins in case you want to hoard one.) The highly advertised 
 Big Mushroom turns you into a giant behemoth that can plow through everything in your path. It 
 makes a good first impression in the first level watching Mario shrug off koopas and pipes like 
 they're just rubble, but none of the other levels seem to be designed with this 'shroom in mind, 
 so I've often found myself too big, too trapped or just plain unable to avoid death. Inversely, 
 the mini-mushroom makes you smaller, lighter, more vunerable and able to fit into rare smaller 
 passages. The most dubious and entertaining power-up, however, is the blue shell, where running 
 too fast will transform you into a pinball, bouncing off walls at full speed and probably into 
 a bottomless pit. Reckless shelling will lead to your demise, often actually but I have to admit 
 that pinballing it up has its zany sense of fun.
  
  It seems that bringing back old 2D franchises in their semi-original glory is the hip trend in 
 gaming and New Super Mario Bros is a worthwhile follower. It's far from the most memorable game 
 in the franchise, and it'll fit on the lower end of the totem pole of Mario platformers, but a 
 lower-end Mario game is still better than the vast majority of portable games on the market. The 
 levels are mostly short, but that works for the game's handheld format; as levels are ideal for 
 a quick bus ride or such. It's certainly one of the stronger DS titles out there, and you'd do 
 well to carry a copy on you.
  
  Pros: The Single-cart multiplayer mode, where you and an opponent race in a single area for stars, 
 makes a fun minor distraction.
  
  Cons: Very forgettable bosses, very forgettable touch-screen mini-games. The "hidden" levels are 
 mostly the more forgettable stages.
  
  4 stars. 
  
  And my word that I'll review Mario Galaxy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh811a
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Theres not much I can say that hasn't already been said so I'll be brief. It's been more then 14 
 to 15 years since I've played Mario in the standard format it was famous for, in fact that was 
 always one of the things I really missed about the franchise. Sure the 3-D mario games still have 
 some of that gameplay dynamic retained but still it just wasn't entirely the same, for me anyway. 
 But thankfully that platforming format has made a major comback, they have made something old new 
 again and reminded me of why I still love the franchise as I have since I was six.
  
  There is so many great things about this game, the graphics are suprb a beautiful combo of 2-D 
 and 3-D giving it beautiful detail in both background and characters with it, but most of all creating 
 a vast beautiful fantasy world. The control is flawless so when you die on the game it's not just 
 the obsticles themselves but it's your own fault; a couple new moves lto add to the gameplay ike 
 sliding and jumping off walls and jumping down hard. There are the standard power up but a few 
 new ones like a small mushroom where you shrink to the size of a fley you have higher jumping power, 
 glide down when falling and can access certain areas you can't access regular sized, but your attacks 
 are ineffective due to you small size so us this power up only in the right areas. But my favorate 
 in the game is the giant mushroom that turns you into a giant which I think is awdsome, like "Godzilla" 
 you can tear though the level with no problem and your indestructable but be carefully this power 
 doesn't last long and there are only a few of these in the game so don't waste them. The minigames 
 are a lot of fun but I recomend playing them with a friend, it's just a lot more fun with competition.
 
  
  But the true highlight is in the level design it's just well crafted making nothign feel monotonious, 
 each level within the elements of each world is always a new chalange, just when you think you 
 can handle anything think again it's not too hard but not that easy. Though probably the trickest 
 part of the game is in the castle stages , going into the castles always made me nervious because 
 each is always one big deathtrap, everything in them is clearly designed to kill you, one wrong 
 movie and that's it. There is also the feature in alternate routes where you can beat the game 
 in direction of world and order you want so this give the game some replay value which is cool.
 
  
  Well that's all I have to say, Super Mario Bros is new once again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular graphics by any standards; classic, catchy Mario music; multiplayer is in 
 place the right way; it's actually possible to beat the game; plenty of new additions to the Mario 
 gameplay; some worlds that aren't necessary to explore the first time add replayability.
  
  The Bad: The game is a tad on the short side despite its moderate difficulty; it's pretty easy 
 to die; newcomers might be put off by having to learn how to time their jumping.
  
  Mario has been around since about 1980. Back then he was the main character in games called Donkey 
 Kong, where the big monkey was the big bad guy. Donkey Kong has turned good since then, Bowser, 
 the king of the Koopas, has taken his place as Mario's enemy, and Mario is in games where his name 
 is in the title.
  
  With the inclusion of Baby Bowser, it's explained how Peach was captured for the first time in 
 Super Mario Bros., the 1985 debut of the plumber on NES. This was Mario's first attempt outside 
 of the arcades and was one of the biggest hits on the platform. Now the game has been brought back 
 in glorious 3-D in conjunction with the release of the DS Lite.
  
  And let me tell you, the game is even better than it was in the 80's, in literally every facet. 
 Multiplayer still has Luigi, Bowser is still a massive beast there to shoot flames at you, there 
 are plenty of Goombas to stomp and Mario's theme song won't get out of your head, but this DS version 
 isn't just abusing a game from the past, ever.
  
  The graphical overhaul is the first obvious change in the game. Mario has gone from a little 8-bit 
 sprite to a 64-bit... dude... And he looks a lot better as a result. He's in his classic red and 
 blue, and he now makes his funny faux Italian chuckles, as he's been doing for a while now. And 
 the graphics aren't just updated, they actually look really really good for a sidescrolling DS 
 game. In fact, Prime Hunters and Mario Kart don't really look any better than this one.
  
  The sound is basically upgraded MIDI of the original stuff, and therefore it's just as great, and 
 you'll be whistling the theme song for the next two weeks. Excellent work, even with the Mario 
 and Peach voiceover.
  
  The gameplay controls are plenty of fun. You can jump, obviously, but you can now speed up running 
 too, which is very helpful for avoiding enemies or making larger jumps.
  
  This might be a tiny nuisance for those who don't play a lot of platformers, like myself. Learning 
 to time the jumps has a small learning curve, but then, you'll still be having fun.
  
  There are eight worlds to this Mario, as is the case with all the old Mario titles. You won't be 
 going to all of them the first time through, unless you go back and explore (which you are indeed 
 allowed to do now) , but this allows for more people to be able to make it to Bowser.
  
  You can now become many new forms of Mario, including the giant Mario on the cover, Fire Mario, 
 Koopa Mario, Rainbow Mario, and Super Mario. Every time you get hurt you'll lose one of these abilities 
 (save Rainbow Mario) . For example, if you're Fire Mario you'll revert to Super Mario, then normal 
 Mario.
  
  This means that it just take a couple injuries before you'll die. Even though you're now given 
 more lives and it's easier to become Fire, Koopa, or the invincible giant and Rainbow Marios, and 
 there are more save points, the game is pretty hard. That's to be expected from how hard games 
 were back in the day, but it should be duly noted for younger audiences that they might not be 
 able to make it to the final boss.
  
  On the other hand, it's rewarding to get to Bowser, though he's a very easy boss, and exploring 
 is in fact fun. The save points aren't all over the place, but it's an improvement on the original, 
 where there was no saving, period.
  
  Multiplayer isn't the main focus, and neither are the newly added minigames (which will remind 
 you of the Super Mario 64 remake) , but they're both pretty fun, and rather addictive.
  
  There's quite a bit of content there, in other words. However, if you're pretty good at platforming 
 and you don't die very much, the main quest will be pretty short. There's some replayability and 
 exploration to do, but it's still not a twenty hour epic or something.
  
  But is it worth it? Certainly. As of this writing, it's still worth every penny, and it's cheaper 
 by now. If you want to know where Mario's come from (in a semi-modernized kind of way) and the 
 real history of the famous Italian plumber mascot, here's your best chance.
  
  I don't know if it's better than Elite Beat Agents (which I've never played) , but New Super Mario 
 Bros. is going to be worth your time and money regardless. It remains one of the best games on 
 the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicMegaFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. Is The Second Greatest Mario Game Ever (Super Mario 64 DS Being First) , Because 
 It's Fun And Great To Play! You Can Play Loads Of Mini Games Which Use The Touch Screen, Plus Some 
 Old Ones From Super Mario 64 DS And The Mini Games In This Game Are Multiplayer.
  Adventure Mode Is Great Because You Get To Play As Mario And As Luigi And Get Cool Powerups Such 
 As (The Infamous) Mega And Mini Mushrooms, Koopa Shells, 1+ Lives, And You Can Now Be Fire Mario. 
 A Brand New Way Of Being Mario, With The Exclusive Power Of Being Able To Throw Fireballs! A Great 
 Game, I Advise You To Get It And Get The Official Strategy Guide With It, Because Without It The 
 Game Is Quite Hard To Complete. So, Overall I Would Give This Game A 5/5 Because It's Fun, Simple 
 And Has Very Good Graphics... But OBVIOUSLY NOT As Good Graphics As Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcogamer07
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so to start with this review, I'll give a pros and cons comparison.
  
  The Pros: Great graphics, traditional Mario Bros. gameplay, creative enemies, decent fluent controls.
 
  
  The Cons: Way too easy, not enough power-ups, not enough secrets, music is boring, levels are repetitive 
 and uncreative, unlike other Mario Bros games (Super Mario World, Super Mario Bros. 3) , boss fights 
 are easy and repetitive.
  
  The bads outweigh the goods in this case.
  
  At first, the game may seem decent, traditional Mario side-scroller gameplay like the original 
 Mario Bros. However, just because it has the Mario Bros. in it does not mean it's a good game. 
 It's cool the first time, but there is hardly any replay value to it. This game is boring and way 
 too easy, it is almost a no brainer. Sure, you're Mario and you have to get through levels like 
 the original Super Mario Bros. on the NES, but there really should've been more challenging aspects 
 and more secrets and power-ups to keep the game entertaining long enough. Like Super Mario 64 DS 
 for example. It is a remake of the original Super Mario 64, but they also added more secret stars 
 and power-ups. Also, not to mention, they added new characters you can play as, and mini-games 
 you can play! That's why it was so good, they did a good job remaking the game. You see, it's good 
 to bring something back, but it's not good to make the game monotonous and easy for little kiddies 
 to play. It's just not fun.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but the music is really repetitive, not to mention it is not catchy 
 at all. Usually in Mario, there is catchy music in the background to go along with creative gameplay, 
 but this is not the case. I personally think they focused too much on the graphics. The graphics 
 are better than any other side-scrolling Super Mario Bros. In fact it's 3D! But that doesn't mean 
 it has good gameplay. The levels are way too cliche and repetitive, and most of the levels look 
 the same. Also, not the mention there is hardly any secret levels.
  
  The boss fights are super, super easy. It is really cool though how there is some variety with 
 the bosses, you have a giant fish, some grey cactus that comes out of the ground and other cool 
 villains. That isn't to say that it is still too easy. Most of the time, it just repeats dodge 
 enemy fire, jump, dodge enemy fire, jump and so on. The fights are easy, cliche and simple to master 
 if you know the controls of the game well.
  
  This game is okay, but it is definitely not the good Super Mario Bros. I know of. All the other 
 Mario games in that style were fun, creative and challenging, and it only keeps me coming back 
 for more! This game, you play for a couple days, you beat the game, and never play it again. I 
 also have to say this is one of the most overrated hyped game on the DS. Kinda like Nintendogs. 
 It's also pretty sad because the DS had only a handful of good games, most of the DS games are 
 utter garbage. Pet simulators, puzzle games, Hannah Montana, High School Musical, Naked Brothers 
 Band, what the hell is that? The majority of the games are designed for kids 8 years old and younger, 
 and New Super Mario Bros. fits in there.
  
  Overall, rent this game first if you decide to play. You might like it. 
  
  Bottom Line: Just 
 way too damn easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Larizza
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  I have always been fan of the old-school Mario games, so I was eager to play this. Game-play is 
 excellent as always, but somehow this game doesn't feel like old Marios. At the start game feels 
 fun to play, but after a while game gets repetitive. Level design is not so creative as in Super 
 Mario World or in Super Mario Bros 3 and the structure of the game worlds are too linear and the 
 game is really short. Graphics looks good with all the 3D flavours. New Power-ups are funny, but 
 there should be more new stuff! It's not "New Super Mario Bros", I would say it's more like "old" 
 in a good and a bad way. There should be more use of the touch-screen, but that's just an opinion. 
 Game extras (mini-games) are just a waste of time. This Mario game doesn't come even close to Super 
 Mario World, Super Mario Bros 3, Super Mario 64 or Galaxy. Even this game wasn't as great I hoped 
 for I still love all The Mario games. If you still love the first Super Mario Bros you'll like 
 this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamevsWolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I love Super Mario its the first game i have ever played now its playable for The Nintendo DS console.. EXCELLENT!! 
 .. Nice fantasty music which matches perfectly with the game. New interesting graphics. Cool animations. 
 Just totally addictive!! :) 
  Longer Gameplays. Cool power stuff. There are new powers like fireball shooting from mouth i know 
 it was in the original one but this one is in a new package its much more brighter. And it is easy 
 to play at the start to get use to the game. Although jumping over turtles and shell things and 
 head butting bricks might sounds lame. But after you have played this game. You wouldn't be able 
 to stop playing. I can't really name some bad points about the game but i was sure there was a 
 little bit bad about the game.. hmm
  
  Yeh i remember, the levels get quite hard and it gets quite annoying which might make you slam 
 the power button and press your face againest your pillow. LOL xD (thats what i do)
  But im sure the harder it gets the more fun it will become for some people. And i find it quite 
 hilarious after saving the princess somehow bowser will get his hands on her again. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -insert_coin-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:36 am PT
Review:  Say what you like but nothing truly beats a 2D sidescroller. Yes, theres those fancy 3D shoot em 
 ups, and those kill everything thats around you smash em ups and the ever popular smack-whack-button 
 mash beat em ups but.... a good side scroller is just the thing you need to play in between, in 
 replacement and instead of.
  
  2D platformers havent changed much over the years. A simple concept that doesnt need its formula 
 messed with. New Super Mario Bros. manages to stick to what Mario does best. Running, jumping and 
 squashing them foes dead.
  
  Stage designs are as colourful as ever, with the occasional challenging swimming level. The different 
 worlds are also very beautiful and well detailed. The music is whacky yet catchy. Written really 
 well, I barely got irritated with the loop tracks. 
  
  Boss fights, however, are still too easy. Fireballs make it easier. Something more of a challenge 
 like a Castlevania boss would make me love this even more.
  
  Difficulty is medium at best. Newbies will find it okay, but veterans can clear this quite quickly. 
 A difficulty curve thats a bit more slanted wouldve been welcome. (Something like Mario Brothers 
 World) .
  
  Overall, fun. And thats all I need in a game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatlizard13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The game's main mode (single player) has 8 worlds (like every Mario game) , and in each world there 
 are about 8-9 levels. This mode is the second best.
  
  The best part about this game is the multiplayer mode. It is so much fun with 2p. And you can do 
 it with only one game pak. The gaming was also very fun. The only down side to this game is that 
 it is a little to easy and the mini games are kind of pathetic. They are fun for the first week, 
 but without multiple people playing them, they are very boring. Mario vs. Luigi is fun, as long 
 as your partner doesnt give up. But, other than that, the gaming experience was great! This was 
 a great game. I really enjoyed it, even though it wasnt mine. Haha! I would really recommend it 
 for beginners at Mario and for experienced players. In my honest opinion, this is the third best 
 game of Mario I have played. (1) Super Mario Galaxy, (2) Super Mario Brothers [the original] , and 
 then (3) New Super Mario Brothers. If you see it, buy it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkaar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:11 am PT
Review:  At first New Super mario bros. is a very entertaining game, but it can get very annoying. First 
 the good things: very good graphics, great sound and enjoyable gameplay. Then the bad things: annoying 
 that you cant save whenever you want and the level dififculty is too hard. It is very annoing that 
 you get past a very hard level and then you cant even save. The levels in the first world have 
 a good difficulty level, but then suddenly all of the levels became far too hard. Well those are 
 the bad things, but there is a lot of good things too. The graphics look classic enough but they 
 still are Nintendo ds quality. The sound is very good. The soundtrack is full of classical Mario 
 tunes which brings the old game back to live. So overall if your a Mario fan this game is a must 
 have, but if your not so intrested in the series your propably not going to like this game very 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigcol1611
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:48 am PT
Review:  A very, very good game if i might say!! Nintendo has pulled it off again, going back to its roots 
 with the original mario bros and updating it but still trying to keep that retro feel about it!! 
 The idea of using the touch screen for your usable items is a nice touch, but could of been used 
 a lot better! The game itself is very well presented and the graphics and sound are top notch!! 
 Controls are very responsive and the multiplayer aspect is a nice touch, (as long as you have 3 
 friends each with a copy of the game to take full affect from this added bonus!)
  
  One little gripe would be how short it all feels!
  
  Of all the 8 worlds and numerous levels 
 to complete, constant and worthwhile playing will have the game completed in or around the 3 week 
 mark, and thats including world 4 and 7 being opened and all the coins collected!
  
  The game is still a must have, but if you are a hardcore gamer and want that option of 'very hard' 
 mode as well, then give this a rental chance!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  It has everything the old Super Mario 2D games had - easy stages, hard stages, a lot of secret 
 passages, a great soundtrack, and a bad turtle kidnapping the princess for I don't know why.
  The gameplay is smoother than the 8-bit and 16-bit games, and I loved the running thing it has 
 now, like in Super Mario 64. By the way, one of the greatest thing in this game is the way they 
 mixed stuffs of almost all of the earlier Mario games - map style like in SM 3, but you can go 
 back on the stages like in SM World, the red coins of SM 64, and a lot of other things - with new 
 stuffs like the micro mushroom, the giant mushroom, the wall jumping.
  The gameplay is the smoothest of all, for the gameplay I would give a 10. The soundtrack is nostalgic 
 but new, just perfect for a game like this. The design is beautiful, all colorful and 3D, but scrolling 
 in 2D style.
  With just enough secret passages, some easy to find and other not that much, which's cool, because 
 when you are able to open some secret stuff you feel comfortable and confident to open others, 
 but that aren't so easy to do.
  I didin't like at all the saving thing. Yeah, is old-school when you can't save whenever you want, 
 but it sucks! Imagine you opening a lot of stuffs, gathering all the star coin and suddenly... 
 BAM! Battery's off. I dunno.. didn't like at all, and that's the reason I didn't give a 10 to this 
 one.
  
  This game accomplished everything it wanted to, that's what I felt. I didn't miss a thing in the 
 game.
  The Minigames are... well, you won't want to play. Not that is bad, but boring. Aw, if you want 
 to play some real cool minigames go purchase Wario Ware, or even Tetris DS. Well that wasn't the 
 reason why I got this game in the first place.
  It's worth spending time plyaing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The new Super Mario Bros Is a step in the right direction. This is the game that made me want to 
 get a DS. The game looks great. Its a 2d Sidescroller, but the graphics are 3D. The game is basically 
 Mario Bros updated. 
  
  The game has nice controls. You can make Mario do the usual stuff, and do hip drops, and jump off 
 walls like in Super Mario 64. The game starts out real easy but then gets harder as it should. 
 The final world is mad tough. You'll get frustrated, but you've come too far to fail. 
  
  THe game also has 2 worlds that you can go to besides the regular route. I have yet to unlock those 
 worlds. I think you need a warp pipe. The enemies range from easy to tough, to unkillable. The 
 bosses are nice and not too difficult. 
  
  This is one game that everyone should play. Buy it now if u aint got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurezan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  New super Mario bros. is a fun game to play.
  
  With it's 3-D, 2-D levels, the game is really fun to play on the go, though the story at the beginning... 
 Wasn't really spectacular.
  
  But, despite this, I enjoyed going through each level, and it made me remember the older Mario 
 games... I just had to smile at that. :)
  
  Though be warned; it gets harder as the game progresses... But what game doesn't?
  
  Another 
 thing that should be noted is that you might have a hard time saving the game, because you need 
 to go to certain parts of levels to save.
  
  Another aspect I enjoyed was the multiplayer, that made it extremely fun.
  
  All in all, I 
 would recommend this game not only to veterans of the series, but those who are just beginning 
 to learn about what Mario is, as well.
  
  It's definatly, worth the buy. 
  
  (Along with the fun mini games.)
  
  Rating: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  World 1 is good world 2 is good world 3 is good world 4 is good world 5 is good world 6 is the 
 best world 7 is good world 8 is good Never mind.
  Mario has cut the crossline when Mario Kart Ds came out. This time he's up for serious beeswax. 
 There's one thing that bothers me: Luigi didn't make the cut. Nope. Instead, dumb old Bowser Jr., 
 Bowser's mega assistant. He's a new guard of castles throughout until Bowser's final castle... 
 and I mean big! Megawhoppa I should say! The minigames in this are top noch thats-what-i'm-talking-about 
 minigames. And there are so many of them! Beat that! You know what else is great in extras besides 
 minigames? Multiplayer Mario Vs. Luigi is great because well, First of all, Luigi is in it and 
 second i like the ice course becasue they are Koopa Shells and Mega Mushrooms all around and I 
 mean literaly. So I definitly recommend this game to those who love Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loshgr
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  At first, this game seems to be fun and addictive, with levels which are not too hard to complete. 
 The games graphics are excelent and the mini games which are included are also good fun. Howver, 
 after the first world on the main game, the difficulty level soon increases beyond being enjoyable 
 and by level 6 in world 2 it seemed that getting any further would be impossible. This level was 
 poorly designed as the developers hadn't bothered to include a checkpoint in such a difficult level. 
 This meant starting from the begining of the level over and over again before giving up. Perhaps 
 this level was just a mistake, but no, after it, the difficulty continues to increase, especialy 
 in the ridiculous underwater levels which can seem impossible. What makes the gameplay so frustrating 
 is that the mere touch of an enemy is enough to finish mario off (he can't be that super then) . 
 
  Another design error is the fact that to save, 5 coins are needed. However, if you cannot get 5 
 coins then you can't save the game and get further the next time you play. 
  The story behind the game is also pathetic, and just highlights mario's utter uselessness, though 
 this wouldn't be a bad thing if the gameplay made up for it. But as it is, there is no incentive 
 to get further and struggle through levels just to see peach get carried off to another area, and 
 being rewarded with yet more frustrating levels to enjoy.
  It is worth getting if you enjoy a difficult game but if you just enjoy playing casualy then I 
 would rent it or borrow it of a mate first so that you don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  this game is awnsome the gameplay, its very funny and exciting, but i wished it was a bit longer, 
 if it was until world 11 it would be awnsome, exciting addicting and fun thats should it be every 
 ds game but its too little, it doesnt has many unlockables, and i hope it has one sequel, the best 
 points of this game is its gameplay, the levels and you never get bored. its bad points its story 
 is getting repetitive in mario games, it should have more use of the stylus, you get bored after 
 doing all the stuff. But its a game it has good and bad points and i would recomend for you players 
 who are looking for an action exciting and old school game. The old school style brings the awnsomeness 
 gameplay, and funny at the wireless mode, the boss fights even its not difficult its fun and exciting. 
 i would say is the 2nd on top ds game on 2006, just loosing for mario kart ds which only because 
 of the wireless mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeglove
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  Mario's newest platforming jaunt is a mixture of the timeless Super Mario Bros. that appeared on 
 the SNES and Super Mario from the N64. At first glance the idea might seem like a quick and easy 
 re-hash of the previous outings, yet the DS version offers just enough to keep the franchise fresh, 
 whilst retaining, and improving on, the fun and frolics of its predecessors.
  
  Big bad Bowser's chronic habit of nabbing Princess Peach away from the Mushroom Kingdom can only 
 mean one thing for the Italian plumber. He will have to traipse his way over eight differently 
 themed worlds and dispense his brand of high-jumping, butt-pounding justice on anyone who stands 
 in his way. Quite why no one explains why Bowser clearly has some troubling penchant for putting 
 himself in a position to get battered, or the fact that our hero Mario could be accused of goomba 
 genocide is probably a good thing. What matters is that it is still terrifically good fun to go 
 through the whole rigmarole of bouncing off koopa troopers in order to get to that end-of-stage 
 flag.
  
  Mario has gained a couple of new moves borrowed from the N64 instalment. In contrast to the SNES 
 and other versions, he can now butt stomp, wall kick and triple jump his way across the sixty-or-so 
 levels. Unfortunately, although fun, the triple jump is rarely put to use as you need plenty of 
 room to pull it off, but the remaining two moves get used plenty throughout the game. Gone unfortunately 
 is the flying cap and feather power up from previous games, but there are still some aerial antics 
 to perform. In its place, along side the mushroom and power flower, are the koopa shell and two 
 new mushrooms. The shell gives Mario the ability to protect himself from various attacks and to 
 slide about terribly fast like some sort of spinning sliding thing. The other two mushrooms either 
 make Mario extra tiny, or as large as the DS screen. Mini-Mario can sneak into places not normally 
 accessible, whereas the gigantic counterpart gets about thirty seconds to wantonly destroy anything 
 he barges his way through before shrinking back to normal.
  
  Visually and aurally, Mario and everything else around him has been overhauled. Although the game 
 is a totally side scrolling adventure, gone are the dull repetitive 2D sprites of old. Mario's 
 entire world and its denizens have been jazzed up into three gloriously animated dimensions. Musically, 
 all the familiar ice-world and desert themes and sound effects are there but jazzed up all polyphonically, 
 with Mario being given a few more of his trademark mama-mias to say for good measure. In terms 
 of presentation Mario is no slouch. Compared to the other games, it is far easier on the eyes and 
 the ears. 
  
  There aren't many gameplay issues to be honest. Mario's games have never been particularly difficult, 
 though some levels might have you throwing the DS out the window in frustration. Rather disappointingly, 
 the bosses of each world are not much of a challenge. If Mario is powered up with a power flower 
 he can just sit back and spam fireballs at them from a distance, rather than having to deal with 
 the jumping-at-the-right-moment malarkey. Nonetheless, the game makes up for this failing by providing 
 plenty of colourful enemies from the Mario universe  as well a couple of new additions  for Mario 
 to smack about the head as he makes his way to Bowser's castle, and plenty of collectible unlockable 
 things like extra levels and so forth to find.
  
  As it's a platformer, you won't have much use for the DS stylus or the microphone  everything 
 is done with the d-pad and a couple of buttons. All the action takes place on the top screen of 
 DS, whilst the lower screen will give you a miniscule amount of level info. When playing, an extra 
 power up item  mushroom, koopa shell, whatever  can be stored. If Mario gets whacked about, you 
 can tap the lower screen to dispense your reserve flower and continue sticking fireballs up Bowser's 
 backside. Outside of play, the touch screen will be used to switch between the different worlds. 
 A bunch of fun time-wasting mini-games can be found outside of the main game which use the stylus 
 and the mic, but they won't have you coming back for more. Also, there are some multiplayer things 
 you can do with other people through the DS' wireless function, but because Johnny-no-mates here 
 spends so much time playing the damn thing on his own I have no idea what they are like.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a solid game that builds on the successes of its past incarnations, and 
 a sound purchase for any DS owner. It could be said that the world doesn't need another Mario game, 
 but no one really seems to care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This Mario game is one of the better on the DS, and I have enjoyed it for a very long time. I got 
 it on the day it got out and have beaten it 5 or 6 times to date (12/22/08) always having fun on 
 the way through.
  
  Story: This game doesn't really have a storyline except for Bowser Jr. taking Princess Peach.
 
  
  Characters:
  Mario: The hero plumber, heroing once again.
  Luigi: (same as Mario except for the fact that you have to use a cheat to play as him)
  Peach: 
 Gets kidnapped, again.
  Bowser: The big boss, but you kill him in the beginning Bowser Jr.: The main antagonist in this 
 game
  
  Sound/music: Same as usual
  
  Boss fights: Easy, but fun, occasionally hard like one Bowser Jr. battle
  
  Overall I would 
 say this game is very fun and I would recommend it to Mario fans, and DS fans of all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about this game. First of all this is my first handheld Mario platforming 
 game. I expected it to be really fun. At first it was, but then I started feeling different.
  
  I meen if you are actually good at these games and have no problem not making stupid mistakes 
 like me than you should have no problem with this game and I would reccomend you go out and buy 
 it and not read the rest of this. Anyways, the story mode is just the same thing throughout for 
 the most part. Don't get me wrong, there are some cool things to do and missions along the way, 
 but for the most part it "jump, jump, jump, break, break, break, smash, smash, smash" with a few 
 twists in between.
  
  What's really cool though is playing this game with someone else through the Mario vs. Luigi option. 
 It's pretty cool to do that whenever with a friend or whatever. I havn't played that part much 
 so I have nothing else to say on that.
  
  What really got me back into this game was the mini-games. They are rather fun little games\puzzles 
 and various things to do. And you can always come back to try and improve your score and just for 
 the heck of it.
  
  In conclusion... this is a good game to have for the DS for any Mario fan out there. The graphics 
 are pretty much standard for a DS game, but good. The sound has pretty good quality as well. The 
 gameplay can eat up quite a lot of hours, but you can easily run out of things to do or get tired 
 of the game.
  
  *after the review*
  
  The story itself is also short and there aren't many breaks, you have to beat a few places in a 
 world in order to reach a checkpoint. If all lives are lost you may have to repeat up to 3 levels, 
 which is really lame. A lot of repeating may have to be done before this game is beat, and it happenes 
 to become more frustrating than fun. Luckily there are side games and multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYCPrincess
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I was given this game & the ds for christmas 07, so being a mario fan for years really made this 
 game awaken my fond memories of mario.
  
  
  Story- It's not a real change. Lol. The princess is kidnapped by bowser jr. & mario must now hunt 
 down bowser jr. to save her.
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is a step up from the other games in my eyes I enjoy the new features of 
 mario's abilities & level interactions.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are pretty sweet & crisp for a ds game. I like the details of certain levels 
 & hope the next games in line only get better.
  
  
  Overall- I really liked this game & still play to this day. At the end of the day you can never 
 get tired of mario. Hopefully mario will be around for years to come because I will never turn my 
 back on the little guy. This game is also not just for the old games like myself.. it's also for 
 the newcomers to the mario series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The first Super Mario Bros. was proboaly the best game ever, as it just is really the star of platforming. 
 New Super Mario Bros is a remake of this, but isn't isn't quite as good, but still is a charming 
 game.
  
  The story takes place as Mario (Or Luigi if you use the glitch to play as him) and Peach are taking 
 a nice stroll along the Mushroom Kingdom. When Mario sees the castle is on fire, he goes to the 
 rescue, but when he get's back, Baby Bowser has stolen Peach! You need to rescue her, but first, 
 my verdicts.
  
  The graphics are plain solid, but very colourful, and the characters have a lot of detail as well.
 
  
  Gameplay is still quite the same, but you do side-scrolling in 2D, and the Characters are 3D, offering 
 the same experience.
  
  Music has changed quite a bit, but it still fits nice with the game.
  
  Overall, you will never 
 (or sometimes really) want to go back to the old days to play the best ever game, because New Super 
 Mario Bros offers a new direction for gaming fans, and will still be adored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is a great game with an old school atmosphere. Many think it is the perfect 
 DS platformer. I disagree. It is probably in the top 10 best DS games, but the big NEW in the front 
 of this title brings it down from perfection.
  
  PROS:
  
  It's still awesome platforming
  Addicting Mario vs. Luigi
  Lots of content
  Cool graphics
 
  Great music
  Lots of secrets that would make your eyes water in frustration
  
  CONS:
  
  WAAAAAAAAAAYY too easy
  Many cheap 99 lives tricks
  Uninspiring last levels
  
  And 
 when I mean easy, this thing is a cakewalk if you are a veteran of the series. For one, you skip 
 2 entire worlds! You actually have to figure out how to get to them! Two, there are several 99 
 lives tricks in the game that are so tempting exploit and when you do... there goes the challenge, 
 Three, all of the bosses can be killed in one hit if you have a mega mushroom. The final thing 
 is that you can kill the last boss in one hit. Just run through him and hit the switch. No challenge.
 
  But this game packs a punch in variety with tons of levels, minigames and star coins to collect. 
 This game could take years to clear, with tons of multiple paths and whatnot. 
  All in all, this a great platformer, I only wish that Nintendo doesn't cater EVERYTHING to the 
 casual player.
  -Blockiereviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarCusWarrEn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is the best Mario 2-D Game I have ever played. There is so much to do, with 
 so many secret doors and special levels. It has so many more extras compared to the GBA games of 
 Super Mario Bros.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is fantastic, the level aren't hard but aren't easy. As you progress through 
 the game, it gets harder. The Boss levels are so challenging but are so fun. Overall the Gameplay 
 is awesome with challenging areas and lots touch screen fun.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. It just like every other Mario Bros game though. But it is enjoyable 
 to listen to while playing. It so energetic.
  
  Length: The length of the game is just right. Has loads of touch screen games and extras which 
 makes the game pretty addictive. 
  
  Graphics: Its so original the graphics. It is just like every other Mario Bros game, but yet it 
 feels so different. It looks so good and the developers have done a great job.
  
  Mini-Games: The mini-games are so much fun. They never get boring and uses the Touch Screen makes 
 it so exciting, fun keeps you active. 
  
  Overall the game is fantastic but is a bit the same. Multiplayer is great and everything is great. 
 Using two screens are great and I can just play and play and play. The only real problem is that 
 you can only save when you have finished a castle. I think it is stupid.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Length: 9/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Mini-Games: 10/10
  
  New 
 Super Mario Bros: 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LusterPurge94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  
  Super Mario Bros. 1- one of the best-selling video games of all time, as well as one of the most 
 commonly-referred to. It was the star game of the NES in its day. It was the game that kick-started 
 the Mario franchise into the greatness that it has turned into today.
  I've always admired that game, even though the graphics and sound are very primitive, it's one 
 of those games that gives me a nice feeling whenever I see it.
  So you can imagine that when I heard about the game New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS, 
 I was eager to get it. And when it arrived, I was not disappointed.
  I know I started with a similar introduction story for my Sonic & Knuckles Collection review, but 
 that's not important. Although, by comparison, I would say that New Super Mario Bros. does more 
 justice to the original game than Sonic & Knuckles Collection does for its original game. This 
 is mostly because New Super Mario Brothers is first of all a whole lot easier to just pick up and 
 play. Furthermore, there are a greater number of power-ups, more colorful levels, and most of all- 
 it's fun.
  First thing's first- the gameplay. Porting the controls from the two-button NES controller to the 
 four-button DS gamepad was no problem- X and Y dash, A and B jump- and it didn't lessen the responsive 
 controls from the original game, either. The controls are still very easy to handle, you can control 
 how high Mario jumps, and there are some added features, like the dash jump, or whatever it's called. 
 
  Unlike Super Mario Advance, which ported SMB2, in which you needed vegetables to throw at enemies, 
 this game stays true to the Mario platforming experience- stomp on enemies and they flatten into 
 the ground. The koopas are fun to jump on because you can grab their shells and throw them at other 
 enemies. 
  One complaint- some of the later levels turn the controls against you. One special move is that 
 if you jump straight into a wall, hold the D-Pad, and press jump again, Mario jumps off the side 
 of the wall. This is very frustrating when you are trying to perform a precise jump, and Mario 
 ends up leaping off the other side and falling into a bottomless pit.
  Some areas are pure traps, like in World 8, the final world. In some places, if you go the wrong 
 way, enemies come at you from all directions and you can't avoid them without dying. 
  The graphics look awesome. Even though it's a sidescroller, everything looks like it has so much 
 dimension, thanks to multiple polygons and shaded regions of objects. Also, the graphics are very 
 colorful and appealing to the eye. In the minigames, this becomes even more apparent, especially 
 in card games with Luigi, when everything is so animated and shapely.
  I just love the sounds in this game. You'll have to hear them for yourself to see what I'm talking 
 about, but all I can say is that the sounds just have a sort of classic tinge to them. What can 
 one say when hearing these sounds other than, "Nintendo!" The music is fairly cool, but it's not 
 the Mario theme. I just think that, even if for some of the earlier levels, the original Mario 
 Brothers theme would have been far more suitable than the version put in the game. But the music 
 for the later stages in World 8 is very cool.
  Now for the complaining part: I have a bit to say about how this game could have been much better. 
 For one, there are unreachable areas in some Worlds unless you do some particular task that I have 
 no idea what it is. Also, any run through of the game will force you to skip two of the Worlds- 
 why it was designed like that beats me, but no matter what you do, there will always be two of 
 the eight Worlds that you never see. Which kind of sucks.
  The save feature is also something that really bothers me. The game doesn't let you save on your 
 own, and only saves for you when you go into a power-up house, or have just defeated one of the 
 castle levels. I feel strongly that that's unfair. You should be able to save at will. 
  I mean, if you've completed the game, and are trying to get the star coins from some of the earlier 
 levels, and you have to shut the power off for something, what do you do? Being able to save anywhere 
 would be a very big help.
  Furthermore, the game can be completed too quickly because of the two levels you skip instatntly. 
 I beat that whole game in under 3 days, the same weekend that I got my Nintendo DS.
  
  All in all, I give this game a 9 out of 10, based on the following criteria:
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
 
  SOUND: 9
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  ENTERTAINMENT: 9
  OVERALL: 36 out of 40 (9 out of 10)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikminmaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  When I popped this game into my lovely DS phat for the first time, I cried. This is why I loved 
 to play video games in the first place. Now-a-days about 90% of gaming are FPSs which appeal to 
 the every-day-joe gamer more than the true core gamer. At least that's how I see it. Gaming used 
 to be about quality level design and precision controls. It was about the wonderment of descovering 
 every last secret a cartridge had to offer. Mario is back to give us true core gamers what we've 
 been missing for these many years.
  
  Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Galaxy are phenominal 3D platformers and should be respected as 
 masterpieces, but these games played drastically different than Mario's 2D outings. New Super Mario 
 Bros. has satisfied my desire for a new 2D Mario in every aspect. It may be a little easier than 
 the past sidescrolling plumber-starring games, but it is every bit as well designed and, most importanty, 
 fun! When I first heard about a new 2D mario I never expected it to actually match the quality 
 of the platforming masterpiece, Super Mario World. I assure you that all 80 levels are pure genius. 
 Not one falls flat. 
  
  So when you buy this game and stomp your first goomba in I cannot count how many years, you will 
 cry and say, "The king of Platformers..." no wait, scratch that, "The king of GAMING has returned!" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a must buy for the DS, much like how the original Super Mario Bros. was 
 a must buy for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) This game returns to it's 2-D roots, but 
 it doesn't feel the need to simply sit back and rehash the past. Sure, there are some elements 
 that will seem familar to hardcore Mario fans, but the game has quiet a few fun surprises that 
 keep it fresh and new. It feels like you are playing Mario for the first time again....
  
  First off, it was great to play as a ''Giant Mario'' as you crash and destroy everything and everybody 
 in your way. You can also play as a really tiny ''Mini Mario'', allowing you access into some areas 
 that you couldn't normally explore and giving you the ability to jump higher. There are a nice 
 variety of enemies throughout the 8 worlds in the game. Some old favorites return and some new 
 ones are thrown in to stop Mario from saving Peach. My favorite new enemies were the diving black 
 crows that swoop down on you in World 6. 
  
  Mario is able to do his standard run, jump and duck, but he can now also climb on walls, slide 
 down hills, swim, wear turtle shells and bum-drop on coin boxes. Mario has never looked better 
 or moved more realistic! The animation in this game blows away any animation of Mario on any past 
 or present Nintendo system. 
  
  The levels look great and they never seem to run out of surprises. Some levels are easier than 
 others to get through, but overall I would have to say it's not impossible to finish them. The 
 sound effects and music (as always) are fantastic. 
  
  In Multi player it is really easy to connect with another DS and play against each other in the 
 mini games (great fun if you are stuck in an airplane for a few hours) , but the real reason to 
 play New Super Mario Bros is for the main game. Other than selecting various worlds from the map, 
 you really don't use the DS touch screens a lot during the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Well here we are! Back to the old style Mario games... ONLY IT'S NEW NOW!!!!!!!! Haha! New Super 
 Mario Bros. is an awesome game that everyone should play!! I would be concerned on how you take 
 your challenges... maybe you do not care about challenges or maybe like challenges that hard or 
 just right or even you're just too much of a baby to even accept a challenge! But who knows? This 
 game delivers a strong sense of strategy and and a great "Just right" challenge! That's why I love 
 this game!! A great challenge but it just did not nail it!!! If you know what I mean... hopefully! 
 By not nailing a perfect 10 meaning it could've had just a little better story to it!! That's what 
 could've helped it a lot!!! From overall rating, I'd rate the NEW! Super Mario Bros. NDS Game... 
 ****/... 4.5 stars! Thanks for reading review!! Tune in next time for a review on the game... Soul 
 Calibur 4 for the 360!!! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbbccc41
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I didnt think this game was anything great until i first tried it out. First of all the graphics 
 are great for a sidescroller because its basiclly in 3-D. But what makes this game great is how 
 there is all new features to it. There are mega mushrooms, mini mushrooms, mini pipes, secret exits 
 to different worlds, all kinds of crazy twists. The mega mushrooms make you huge and able to crush 
 anything in ur path. (though you can still die) Mini mushrooms make you really really small so u 
 can jump extra high and go through mini pipes. And in this game there is 7 worlds but you can only 
 get to 2 of them by secret exits. 
  
  All i really have to say about this great game is amazing!
  I give this game two thumbs up!
 
  Great game for never-ending fun!
  Anyone without this game shuld try it out! 
  So have fun gaming!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  OK here it goes, not even close to being as great as the classic mario games, but nothing is. Just 
 be happy they came out with a mario game.
  
  Great game play, but i do not agree with all of there new mario abillities, GETS CONFUSING.......
 
  
  mUSIC IS A scream, just terible....
  
  All in all a must have for any ds gamer.
  And any mario fan
  8.5
  The reason its not a 10 would be that the music is of, good music boom 
 its a 9.0
  it skips 2 worlds, the only way to play them is to beat the boss is beimg miny, stupid., and what 
 up with the huge mario flying through, and breaking everything. its ok but i dont like it, keep 
 it simple...... great multiplayer a blast with 2 cards, me and my cousin could do it all day long, 
 but you need 2 cards, if 1 card it would be a 9.5
  This leavs 1 more, and 10 means perfect, nothings perfect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. was made back in 1985 on the NES. It became an instant classic. Now 21 years 
 later, this game "New Super Mario Bros." is made. I like this game. In my mind, this is definetely 
 a must own for the DS. This game has the feel from the old days, 2D plane with Mario running to 
 the goal to clear the level. In this game, the graphics are 3D with the 2D plane. Ah, the good 
 ol' days. That song by Phil Vasser really reminds of how these old-school games are really good. 
 The gameplay is excellent. It is the same old gameplay from the original, but alot better. The 
 music in this game is good. I like Bowser's Castle music the most. Overall, awesome re-make to 
 an unforgettable classic, excellent gameplay, solid music, your favorte red hated, red suited man 
 is back in an all-new adventure. This is a must own for the Nintndo DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevepower
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is either good or bad. And it is hard to tell. The game is a instant classic though a 
 little throw backs. The intro is just like a Screamer, all peaceful and then BAM! The castle gets 
 attacked. Bowser Jr. kidnaps Peach and Mario runs and then the old Buh buh buh. Mario shrinks as 
 he chases Bowser Jr.
  Good intro I give it a A+ 10/10
  
  Controls: Controls are not that bad. You jump, run like the old game. Jump on Goombas, you get points 
 and here is a weird fact. You can gain 99 lives just by picking up a Koopa at the giant steps near 
 the end, but you need good controling. Bu the controls are 2 good but not that good. B- 7/10
  
  Music: Just a bit annoying. When you have it full-blast your parents are gonna TURN THAT RACKET 
 DOWN. Can you blame them. Only the 1-1 music is original. But that is my opinion. C 5/10
  
  Final Tally: *drum rolls plays*
  10/10 my FIRST 10/10 TALLY!!1 Don't get 2 excited because it's 
 gonna be my last 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. was a big deal back when it came out in 2006. It was the first Mario 2-D 
 platformer to come for Mario for a really long time and so the expectations were high and the anticipation 
 grew. Fortunately for Nintendo, people were generally satisfied with the final product, me included. 
 The graphics are excellent and perfectly combine 3-D characers with 2-D level design. The gameplay 
 is great and incorporates many of the newer Mario moves we've come to love such as the wall jump. 
 And who could forget the new Ultra Mushrooms that make Mario HUGE, destroying everything in his 
 path? Talk about FUN! Overall the game is kind of short, there are a lot of levels but it won't 
 take you long to beat them, and they're not particularly challenging either. The music is great 
 and there are some true new classic tunes to-be in there. There are also three star coins to collect 
 from each level, offering some replay value. Overall New Super Mario Bros. is a great game that 
 shouldn't heavily disappoint anyone and is totally worth playing for fans of the series or people 
 who want to get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qualbert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Some people might think this is just a cheap remake of the original. And it is! (not cheap though) . 
 This game will have you running, jumping, bashing up a baby dino thing, smashing stuff in giant 
 mode, finding secret stuff in tiny mode, whacking enemies in koopa mode and completing tons of 
 levels.
  I love the sound in this game, most of the songs have been used in older games, but it's still 
 good.
  The gameplay depends if you love going over Mario levels again (and i know i do) . For people who 
 love to do that the game play could be 100 hours or more.
  The combination of 3D and 2D in this game makes it look extra nice.
  The controls are simple 
 and easy to master as soon as you pick it up.
  And the game also has a few surprises that are trivial but still pretty cool, such as when you 
 go down a pipe in a normal mission the playing screen switches to the bottom.
  HOWEVER
  I didn't like the fact that they were too lazy to make up some new mini-games, i've played most 
 of them in super mario 64 ds.
  Some levels are extremely good, but extremely short.
  Multi-player just isn't as good as the one player mode, play for about five minutes in multiplayer 
 and you're already pretty bored.
  
  But overall this game is a must have for ds. So if you don't have it, go out and buy it right now!
 
  
  Why are you still reading this! You should be buying the game now! Chop chop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Introduction: New Super Mario Bros is a remake of Super Mario Bros, An NES classic, and if it didn't 
 exist, gaming would've never been what it is today.
  
  Concept: A 2-D Side-Scroller, which is very similar to the original, which is very addictive and 
 incredibly fun, everyone probably know's the Super Mario Bros formula "Run, Jump and Stomp", Classic 
 2D Mario game, and it include's some mini-games that we first saw on Super Mario 64 DS, which are 
 also incredibly fun.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: Basically since this is a remake, It's the original game, with some new feature's and 
 with a lot of graphical improvment's since this is a remake of an NES game, and well the graphic's 
 have really improved, some level design's are really beautiful, but this is what we should normally 
 expect from a game that came out in 2006.
  
  8/10
  
  Story: typical Super Mario Bros story, Princess Peach get's kidnapped and Mario has to go through 
 8 World's just to rescue her, but by now you should probably know that Mario games arent really 
 story-based, but I'm one of the people who would be a little bit happy if Nintendo could actually 
 make an original story for a Mario game.
  
  6/10
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Good Aspect: Addictive Gameplay 
 that could last for hour's, a set of mini game's that are really fuu, there's been really good 
 graphical improvment's.
  
  Bad Aspect: The game is incredibly easy, The original Super Mario Bros is not as easy as this, 
 while this is incredibly easy, you could easily skip two world's in the game, and the challenge 
 just rise's a little bit once you get to World 8.
  
  Secondly, the game is quite short, you can beat it in about 5-7 hour's and probably 10 hour's to 
 beat the game completly and collect everything in it, but since the game is addictive, than it 
 has replay value, so I won't take so many point's off of this problem.
  
  And now, the last problem, You can have a wireless match with someone next to you, I won't explain 
 the specific's of the match, and you can play the mini-games with three people.
  
  Now this isn't that big of a problem, since the multi-player isn't that fun, but around the time 
 this game came out, we had Mario Kart DS, which had a lag-free WiFi, so I would've kind'a liked 
 it if they included WiFi for this game, but it isn't such a big deal.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Overall: If your a 2D Super Mario Bro's 
 fan than you shouldn't miss out on this, because it's a great game, with some flaw's, but none 
 of them really affect the gameplay, so I'm not taking off a lot of point's for the flaw's, and 
 actually, if you just own a DS, than get this game, because it's really worth it.
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madrox221
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  from reviews i read about this game, it sonded awesome.
  I mean, a 9.0 for a PLATFORMER? it must be good. i had played super mario bros 3 and super mario 
 world for the GBA and i loved it. so, like an idiot, i bought this game.
  however i found out that it was embarassingly easy, by giving you an item surplus, just 6 thats right 
 6 standard worlds, some items have no point (blue shell) , plying as luigi is forced to be a CHEAT, items 
 are also lacking it feels and the handling just feels wierd. However it does pass the time for a 
 while and is still a 1st party mario title (not to mention sick A$$ graphics) so all in all i give 
 this game a 7.
  
  
  is that enough for you yet gamespot? no! no! well okay  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jon-o-matic
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  ok ok i like this game and it struck me to buy it cuz i tried it and liked it.... so heres my review... the 
 game starts off as easy as a mario game gets if you know what i mean.. so in the begging you start 
 of at your normal tye of maroi level and princes peach has been stlolen by bowser jr. and your mission 
 is to go through all the levels and save her... well sounds easy... well its not on your jurny you 
 run to all tipes of beasts like goombas and turles
  +like i said bowser jr at the end of every level you battle his father... witch is super fun once 
 you get the hang of it like in mario 64 but not the same basics well as you progress in this game 
 you go to a desert themed iland and you battle these plants and when ever they skim you you lose 
 a life of die.... o yea i forgot to say there is a lot of advance level cheats you cant find on 
 the internet so you will have to figure them out and i did and i did not finish the game so this 
 is my short+non-100% good revew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoFalconHavok
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  After the amount of crap I have played on the DS, I figured I should sell that machine and get 
 another GBC... but I forgot I bought it as a x-mas present so I couldn't fall through with that 
 plan. But I ofcourse tried to remain optimistic considering nintendo is known for handhelds (which 
 is odd cause their console games are waaay better) . So I venture into the Mario universe once more 
 as mario games seem incredibly flawless these days (save for the blunder that is party) . this one 
 is a throwback to the so called "good ol days" of glitchy nes games where the difficulty made you 
 go "@#!% THIS @$&!". Apparently it is this game that started this whole "retro" craze that everyone 
 seems to bandwagon on and explains why BS like MegaMan 9, Street Fighter 4, and Sonic seem to try 
 and regress instead of trying to improve in areas where they could succeed. Oh right, no matter 
 what, fanboys will complain that it's not like the originals, so to shut them up, sequels have 
 to become stagnant just to get a damn profit (end rant) .
  
  PS: I will no longer do numerical scoring systems, as hey don't get the point across these days, 
 so I will use what works best. Words.
  
  Story: horse crap
  
  Considering this is a throw back game, the story is purposefully crappy. The whiny old heifer peach 
 gets kidnapped again.
  
  Characters: NA
  
  It's Mario for gods sake.
  
  Music/Sound: Decent
  
  I must say the sound effects sound really good on the DS, which is more 
 than I can say for the music, which is of course campy as always. Voice acting is decent (what 
 am I saying?)
  
  Gameplay: Above Average
  
  Well considering the old 2D games were already fun and nintendo has a gift for preserving fun in 
 their titles (right phantom cripple glass?) . They decided to add some of that Mario 64 flare into 
 the old school rump f Fire Balls by giving you a useless triple jump and a useful wall jump. No 
 sliding or punching (DAMMIT!) You also have 3 new power ups but it won't seem like it because they're 
 a pain to find. giant mushrooms are the equivalent of stars, only this takes up more space, small 
 mushrooms make you a termite who is incapable of kicking ass, and a blue shell of suicide. I say 
 this because it's the main thing that'll kill you more than anything else in the game. All three 
 powers are harder to get and adds more challenge to the game because of a 100% completion gig. 
 The game spans 8 worlds with two you can skip, making this waaay shorter than other mario games, 
 and to most people, length is important, so if you want long games, piss off basically. The game 
 contains every old trick in the book. New paths, secret stages, secret coins, creative and slick 
 hidden paths and the like. Would've been a nice deal if the save system wasn't a huge ass pull. 
 Get this, if you want to save your game, you have to play through at least 4 stages into a dungeon/castle, 
 complete it, then say yes I want to save you ignorant game. What do you think i've been busting 
 my ass for? This is one of the reasons the game feels shorter. It forces you to play through more 
 stages just to get a checker point on the map. It's a terrible save system, but get this, if you 
 want to save before a castle, you have to find a house and fork over 5 coins. Don't think it's 
 just common coins. The SECRET COINS you find in stages are the ones you need, and get this, they 
 are a pain in the ass to find. If you don't have enough, you are screwed. Horrible save system... I 
 swear.
  
  But if you're bored of the main game, you also have minigames at your disposal. Action, Puzzle, 
 variety and gambling genres! each game is fun in their own right, but you need the stylus for all 
 of them (god damn you nintendo) . Plus you need to scream like an ass in one of them too.
  
  Replay Value: Decent
  
  There's tons to do in this game. Mini games, Secret Coins, two other 
 worlds to explore, hidden stages. There's plenty to do after beating the main game, plus a racing 
 mode that sucks.
  
  Overall
  
  Give this one a shot. it' as good as the fanboys say it is, but the save system can't save this 
 from a lower score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Williamthethor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  this game was amazing you always think that the attempts at re makes suck and are never good but 
 this one was prefect maybe even better they took the old super nintendo version and spiced it up 
 a bit by giving it the same 2-d graphics and game play but also by adding there own liitle extra 
 new thing here and there so much fun good length to the game lots of different paths you can take 
 in each world lots of diiferent enemies you will come across the only bad thing like gamespot mentioned 
 is that some missions are a little short but dont worry they make up for it this game is every 
 thing you ever wanted from mario and much much more if you have a ds bye this game make it #1 on 
 your lists you will not be dissapointed GREAT GAME CANT WAIT TO PLAY MORE DS MARIO GAMES guarenteed 
 you will not put it down have funnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGroovelet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is just totaly awesome. The graphics are at top quality for the DS, and the 
 gameplay is increadable. Controls are simple enough for anyone who hasn't even so much as touched 
 a mario game can pick this one up and enjoy it. Mario has a massive arsonal of moves for such a 
 simple control scheme. For example Mario can jump from wall to wall like in super mario 64 just 
 from jumping at a wall then hitting the jump button. Its Great fun with 80 levels (secret and storyline) 
 to enjoy. This game also includes new power-ups not seen in past mario titles. The Mega mushroom 
 makes mario Massive and invincible with the power to crash through anything! The mini mushroom 
 makes Mario super small. at this size he can gain acess to secret areas and worlds. He also remains 
 undetected to enimes and can run on water. Mini Games mode is similer to that of super mario 64 
 DS but with some new games. Mario Vs Luigi isnt as bad as people say it is, it is actually quite 
 fun. Chances are if you own a DS you have this already, If not go correct that today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Like the old mario games... brought up to date!
  .As it's easy, it's fun for anyone!
  .Great minigames.
  .Great multiplayer.
  .Amazing graphics (for 
 a DS game.)
  .A "pick up and play game" (if you know what I mean.)
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .A bit too short.
  .The storyline is quite bad.
  .Too easy for hardcore gamers (Like me!)
 
  .Some levels are too short.
  
  This game is maybe the second to best DS game! I would reccommend it for any Mario fan as it only 
 has a few flaws. It's a great game for all the family and can provide hours of platforming fun. 
 It's also like the first Super Mario Bros. on the NES which is one of my favourite games of all 
 time which makes this game a lot better. The graphics are great, the sound and music are great, 
 oh, let's just say this WHOLE GAME is great! Apart from the "Bad Stuff" listed this game is perfect!
 
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Wow. Some of the best graphics on the DS! 10/10
  
  Sound&Music: Not the best you hear in a Mario game, but still great nonetheless! 8.5/10
  
 
  Story: One of the only bad things about this game. Just be prepared to save Peach for the 100,000th 
 time. 5/10
  
  Gameplay: It's easy, but Mario's keepin' it old-school in this game! (which is good.) The whole 
 gameplay is great. It's just like the 2D Mario games but somewhat even better! Just too easy. 9/10
 
  
  Overall: This game is highly reccommended for any Mario fan! 9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincesTwilight
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  It's the usual story, Princess Peach gets kidnapped by either Bowser or his son, Bowser Jr. In 
 this game, Bowser Jr. kidnaps Peach. Mario takes himself to save the Princess by having to complete 
 every world to reach the last, there are secret paths included and from that, you could easily 
 skip worlds therefore making it easier to reach the to the last castle.
  
  There are lots of puzzles as much as secret paths, the goombas and troopas as back usual and play 
 as Luigi too, to play as Luigi just press 'L' and 'R' both at the same time when starting a new 
 game.
  
  Also play two players by racing with Luigi towards the goal with other mini games, the options 
 for mini games is action, puzzles and more, with trying to get your high score with many of the 
 mini games.
  
  Time spent playing: This game is highly addictive so it takes around 5 to 10 hours playing it, 
 could be less though as it's quite easy to complete, knowing as it is another Mario game.
  
  Although the game could be quite short, it's still worth the while as it's enjoyable and you 
 wouldn't want to miss out on one of the best.
  
  Graphics: Another 2D platformer game by Mario giving it a sharp look of 3D, but so far, the graphic 
 are clean and great.
  
  Audio: Classic Mario music with sleek tunes.
  
  Gameplay: Complete the all types of different worlds to reach the last world and save the Princess 
 from Bowser Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamb1230
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, New Super Mario Bros. is like a supercharged mixture of Super Mario Bros. 3 and 
 Super Mario World. There is a world map structure reminiscent of the previous two games, but this 
 time there are a bevy of different paths you can take to get to Bowser's final castle. And unlike 
 past Super Mario games, skipping worlds entirely is commonplace. In fact, I, almost unknowingly, 
 passed up two worlds my first time through.
  The newest feature of the world map revolves around the use of Star Coins, of which there are three 
 strategically placed in each stage. Certain branching paths of the world map require you cough 
 up five Star Coins to pass, such as item houses or even paths to new worlds. For this reason, it's 
 best to try and snag as many Star Coins as you can, though some are especially tricky to find.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Of course like in almost every Mario Game Peach gets kidnapped, this time by Bowsers son, Bowser 
 Jr. Unlike the other 4 Mario Bros games this one is 2-D with some added detail to make Mario/Luigi 
 look more 3-d like. You can only play as Luigi by using a cheat code. Now you do fight Bowser, he's 
 the first boss besides Bowser Jr. Also the game introduces a new charecter, Dry Bowser, which is Bowser 
 only looking like he's dead. Now you can collect coins in levels to unlock Toad Houses to unlock 
 items to help you out through your journey. The only thing I hated is that you can't save till, 
 you defeat a boss or get a new Toad House. Now if you touch the flagpole at the end of a level at 
 a certain time, you will get fireworks and a random toadhouse if you're lucky.
  
  But other than that the game gets a 9 out of 10 SuperB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  If you weren't told otherwise (and assuming the graphics were 8- or 16-bit) you may assume that 
 New Super Mario Bros was a sequel to Super Mario Bros 3 or Super Mario World (personally I think 
 it's more like SMB 3) . That may be exactly what it is, but all in all, this new installment to 
 the classic is a breath of fresh air, but I'm not sure what modern players will think.
  
  Upon startup you will notice that the control scheme is simplistic (you only use two buttons and 
 can really get by with only one) and the touch screen is more of a gimmick to get your reserve 
 power-up (like Super Mario World) . This is probably to attract the new user base of the DS, but 
 at the same time it's delightfully old school enough for retro gamers. The game lends itself to 
 both worlds in probably the greatest compromise I have ever seen. New or casual gamers will appreciate 
 the easier difficulty when compared to SMB 3 (there's no true challenge until world 8, the final 
 world, and even then it's like Mario World rather than Mario 3) . Couple this with the fact that 
 unless you're hunting world's 4 and 7 aren't accessible, the game is shorter, easier, and more 
 linear to these gamers. At the same time, the hardcore and old school Mario fans can enjoy the 
 same world with a complicated ramp-up to SMB 3 status in order to find all (or most) of the gold 
 coins and complete every level. Moves from previous games are all incorporated, including the wall 
 jump and ground pound from Mario 64, but all contained in beautiful 2.5D graphics. 
  
  I have not really gotten hardcore into DS games (just dusted mine off and started on the popular 
 games in the last week or so) , but this game seemed mildly shorter than most. Yoshi's Island, Mario 
 64 DS, and any Final Fantasy will pull much more play time for your buck, but I don't think they 
 do as good a job at being so fun about it. Additionally, and I think more importantly, you've never 
 played this game before. In a system that is coated in remakes and re-releases of most NES, SNES, 
 and N64 games of the past, it's great to see the Nintendo first party focus and create a new game. 
 Before there was Super Mario Galaxy and we feared that Sunshine would be the new horrible direction, 
 this came back to remind us that Myamoto and Nintendo had not forgotten their roots. 
  
  As a hardcore player (including hardcore platformer and Mario player that was conquering SMB 3 
 at 8 years old around 1990) I loved the new hidden areas. My fiance, who pounded through the game 
 in a linear fashion but liked it enough to find and beat worlds 4 & 7, would constantly look over 
 my shoulder and ask why I was playing that castle level AGAIN for the 4th time. World s 4 & 7 are 
 the closest thing to achievements on this game, but with 3 save files, those that share the cart 
 can clearly show off (I always try to end my game in one of the two worlds so that people playing 
 my cart can ask how I got there) . I don't like Big Mario, although I know he was an idea stolen 
 from 128 Marios, but Small Mario rocks!
  
  In the end, this game has something for everyone and any DS player that appreciates Nintendo's 
 roots or experienced a platforming Mario should play this. Additionally I would encourage young 
 gamers who don't know the world of 2D platforming Mario to try this as it's a good introduction 
 that's not as simple as the original or hard (especially to modern gamers) as SMB 3. Solid release, 
 just would have hoped I could get more than about six to eight hours to complete everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ukool17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  no game is better than this game. the gameplay is so addicting. once u get your hands on your ds 
 with this game. its like your hands are glued to your ds. why is it bad. i have no idea. so this 
 game is almost perfect. actually it is the best game. or actually it is the perfect game. the game 
 is so perfect that it is perfect. it is unmentionable. i loved it. i should of rated it 10. i cant 
 be bothered to. this is the best game EVER. i am  
 every body should own this game. if someone is looking 4 a game. too easy. this game of course.
 
  
  best game ever. Gamespot should of rated it 10
  and i should of too. o well thanks for reading and remember it is the bst game ever. the most perfect 
 game and i loved it and it is the best game ever. thats all i can say because this game is perfect 
 . it is for the very last tie the best game ever. the best game ever!!! the best game ever the 
 best game ever the best game ever the best game ever the best game  
 or is it... of course it is. New Super Mario Bros. is the best game  
 it is perfct. 10 out of 10!!!!!! but i still rated it 9.5. but who cares. i cant be bothered to 
 do ten. but still is is the most perfect game ever. THE BEST GAME  
 thank u. and remembe this game is the best game ever!!!!!!!!!! on ds.  
 thank you. and remember the best game is New Super Mario Bros. i forgot that why i didnt do ten 
 out of ten is that there is no wifi connetion. because i love to vs oher people. its so fun. but 
 this game doesnt have it so it is a bit of a let down. so it isnt the best game ever. of course 
 it isnt. mario kart is much more better. because there is nothing more fun then having a party and 
 playing game-sharing with your friends and on wifi
  but still i reccomend this to everybody thank u!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingWallace9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros is a game that I reccomend for anyone that has a DS. It has everything, 
 fun gameplay, minigames, good graphics and (duh) Mario! The only beef that I have with this game 
 is that even though it is generally easy, the saving spots are terrible and this can make that 
 game very frustrating. 
  
  The gameplay is everything you would expect it to be. Princess Toadstool gets kidnapped, Mario 
 has to save her, blah blah blah. We all know the deal. Another mario side scrolling adventure? 
 I want something original! Not to worry, it's just as good as the first 3 Mario side scrollers. 
 I had no problem with the gameplay except for the saving issue I mentioned earlier. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but when Mario takes off his hat at the end of each level, you can 
 see that the details in his face are not exactly A+. It is a sidescroller so I really don't care, 
 but a little bit more effort on the small details of Mario would be a nice bonus. 
  
  The minigames are just an extra feature, but the are fun to do after you beat the game. They are 
 nothing special, but Wario is the only Nintendo character who I really expect great minigames from. 
 
  
  All in all, I had a great time playing this game. You will enjoy it weather you are 4 or 40. I 
 had great fun playing this game, and I'm sure you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolatepoo92
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me state that New Super Mario Bros. is a good game. If you are a Mario/Platformer 
 fan than you will like if not love this game. I am not a huge Mario fan. Don't get me wrong. Almost 
 all of his games are good. Infact, almost all of his Platformers are better than this. I just tend 
 to be more of a Sonic guy. I will split the review into six segments: Controls, Story, Graphics, 
 Sound, Gameplay, and the Conclusion. Now, onto the show.
  
  Story: Princess Peach is snatched away by Bowser Jr. Save her. Wow. It's certainly simple.
  
 
  Controls: Right away on the first level, I had to change the controls so the 'a' button made mario 
 jump. Initially, the 'b' button does so, which is different from the other games. Other than that, 
 the controls were very decent except that Mario floated in the air a bit too much after jumping. 
 Kind of like Luigi did in Super Mario Bros. 2 for the NES. 
  
  Graphics: Very simple, yet I liked the pseudo-Super Mario 64 feel of the characters. A great looking 
 Mario/Platformer.
  
  Sound: The music wasn't on par with the NES and SNES games. It had the lesser quality of the N64 
 and WII titles. A very Super Mario 64/Galaxy soundtrack. Not bad, but not quite to my liking.
 
  
  Gameplay: It's an everyday platformer. If you've played any other Mario 2D Platformer than you 
 know the drill. Jump on Goombas and Koopas and get to the end of the stage. The levels weren't 
 too short as other reviewers have noted. It was just the same ol' song 'n dance, my friend. Sorry 
 for the Aerosmith reference. 
  
  Conclusion: If you liked past outings with the Bros. than this shouldn't be too different. I just 
 didn't enjoy as much as the others. This is no 'New' Super Mario Bros..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros can only be described as a superb game. It has great visuals and sounds. The 
 gameplay meets the standards for all gamers and anyone who plays it would have nothing but a good 
 time. The graphics give the characters a 3D look but still implanting them in a 2D platformer, 
 its just perfect for the game. The sounds are smooth and the music just fits the game perfectly. 
 There are many worlds and levels to go through not to mention the secret ones. The new item like 
 the tiny and huge mushrooms gives Mario more items to remember through the years. While keeping 
 the old school mario fun it includes up to date graphics, sounds, and standards. It is definetely 
 one the best games the DS has to offer and any DS owner just can't say no to this game. Any Mario 
 fan who plays this game CANNOT dislike it.... its just impossible to not enjoy this awesome great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman803
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is an amazing mario platformer! It's the first 2D mario platformer in over 
 14 years! The graphics in this game are some of the best the DS has to offer. The background graphics 
 in the underground and castle levels look amazing! The sound in New Super Mario Bros. is great 
 too! There are a lot of cool levels to find and unlock in all the worlds. The game is actually 
 pretty lengthy and after you complete the game you can buy different backgrounds and have unlimeted 
 lives. The multiplayer is also really cool! I think Mario vs. Luigi is really fun and so is all 
 the touch screen related minigames. It's a challenge to unlock the hidden worlds because you have 
 to defeat the bosses as mini mario. I also really like the new items like the mini and mega mushrooms 
 and the blue shell. I don't really understand why people say it's a 3D game though. It's not. It's 
 2D mario platforming bliss! So if you are looking for an amazing platformer or just an amazing 
 overall game, you can't go wrong with New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. New Super Mario Bros. is the fourth installment of the series. Playing this 
 game is like playing a 2-D game with 3-D graphics, wich I think is really cool. In this game you 
 have all the classic power-ups, like the mushroom, fire flower, and the ivincible star, but then 
 you have new ones like the Koopa shell, wich you can hide in the shell to be protected from enemies, 
 or roll in your shell to get through opponents. Another one is the mega mushroom, this power up 
 only lasts for a few seconds, but it is still really fun to use, with it you can crush through 
 enemies, walls, just about anything, and above you is is a meter and if you fill up parts of it 
 you get free lives by destroying things. Another one, and probably my favorite one is the mini 
 mushroom. With this you turn very small and get through places you usualy can't, and also you can 
 jump higher, and run faster. This game offers more, like playing one player and two player like 
 all the other games, but you can play all sort of mini-games, starring Mario, Luigi, Yoshi, and 
 Wario. Just like the old ones there is eight worlds, and if you needed to you can go back worlds 
 by just simply selecting the world you want to go to. So if you have a DS, and are a big Mario fan, 
 then get this game, or at least try it, but I reccomend getting this game.
  
  
  Overall 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  In this game you first play as Mario and you travel through places and you go to castles to versus 
 against Koopa Kid, Bowser, or other bosses. The gameplay is amazing. The last battle is against 
 dry Bowser and Koopa Kid they are easy if you have a item they are hard if you don't. Then Nintendos 
 reveals that you have to press L and R to be Luigi then push Single player mode. There is also 
 Multiplayer mode that you can play Wifi or DS to DS. There is also minigame modes that you play 
 some minigames from Super Mario 64 DS and some new ones.
  
  The good the gameplay is amazing. There is more stuff to do after you beat the story mode with 
 both Mario and Luigi. 
  
  The bad is that there should be more enimies.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. If you are going to buy this game then you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular graphics by any standards; classic, catchy Mario music; multiplayer is in 
 place the right way; it's actually possible to beat the game; plenty of new additions to the Mario 
 gameplay; some worlds that aren't necessary to explore the first time add replayability.
  
  The Bad: The game is a tad on the short side despite its moderate difficulty; it's pretty easy 
 to die; newcomers might be put off by having to learn how to time their jumping.
  
  Mario has been around since about 1980. Back then he was the main character in games called Donkey 
 Kong, where the big monkey was the big bad guy. Donkey Kong has turned good since then, Bowser, 
 the king of the Koopas, has taken his place as Mario's enemy, and Mario is in games where his name 
 is in the title.
  
  With the inclusion of Baby Bowser, it's explained how Peach was captured for the first time in 
 Super Mario Bros., the 1985 debut of the plumber on NES. This was Mario's first attempt outside 
 of the arcades and was one of the biggest hits on the platform. Now the game has been brought back 
 in glorious 3-D in conjunction with the release of the DS Lite.
  
  And let me tell you, the game is even better than it was in the 80's, in literally every facet. 
 Multiplayer still has Luigi, Bowser is still a massive beast there to shoot flames at you, there 
 are plenty of Goombas to stomp and Mario's theme song won't get out of your head, but this DS version 
 isn't just abusing a game from the past, ever.
  
  The graphical overhaul is the first obvious change of the game. Mario has gone from a little 8-bit 
 sprite to a 64-bit... dude... And he looks a lot better as a result. He's in his classic red and 
 blue, and he now makes his funny faux Italian chuckles, as he's been doing for a while now. And 
 the graphics aren't just updated, they actually look really really good for a sidescrolling DS 
 game. In fact, Prime Hunters and Mario Kart don't really look any better than this one.
  
  The sound is basically upgraded MIDI of the original stuff, and therefore it's just as great, and 
 you'll be whistling the theme song for the next two weeks. Excellent work, even with the Mario 
 and Peach voiceover.
  
  The gameplay controls are plenty of fun. You can jump, obviously, but you can now speed up running 
 too, which is very helpful for avoiding enemies or making larger jumps.
  
  This might be a tiny nuisance for those who don't play a lot of platformers, like myself. Learning 
 to time the jumps has a small learning curve, but then, you'll still be having fun.
  
  There are eight worlds to this Mario, as is the case with all the old Mario titles. You won't be 
 going to all of them the first time through, unless you go back and explore (which you are indeed 
 allowed to do now) , but this allows for more people to be able to make it to Bowser.
  
  You can now become many new forms of Mario, including the giant Mario on the cover, Fire Mario, 
 Koopa Mario, Rainbow Mario, and Super Mario. Every time you get hurt you'll lose one of these abilities. 
 For example, if you're Fire Mario you'll revert to Super Mario, then normal Mario.
  
  This means that just a couple injuries and you'll die. Even though you're now given more lives 
 and it's easier to become Fire, Koopa, or the invincible giant and Rainbow Mario's, and there are 
 more save points, the game is pretty hard. That's to be expected from how hard games were back 
 in the day, but it should be duly noted for younger audiences that they might not be able to make 
 it to the final boss.
  
  On the other hand, it's rewarding to get to Bowser, though he's a very easy boss, and exploring 
 is in fact fun. The save points aren't all over the place, but it's an improvement on the original, 
 where there was no saving, period.
  
  Multiplayer isn't the main focus, and neither are the newly added minigames (which will remind 
 you of the Super Mario 64 remake) , but they're both pretty fun, and rather addictive.
  
  There's quite a bit of content there, in other words. However, if you're pretty good at platforming 
 and you don't die very much, the main quest will be pretty short. There's some replayability and 
 exploration to do, but it's still not a twenty hour epic or something.
  
  But is it worth it? Certainly. As of this writing, it's still worth every penny, and it's cheaper 
 by now. If you want to know where Mario's come from (in a semi-modernized kind of way) and the 
 real history of the famous Italian plumber mascot, here's your best chance.
  
  I don't know if it's better than Elite Beat Agents (which I've never played) , but New Super Mario 
 Bros. is going to be worth your time and money regardless. It remains one of the best games on 
 the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjdj96
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  It is very good that they made this game cause i used to love playling with the old mario games 
 and i know that everyone else did to. And now im happy it came out for the ds but the graphics 
 are even better and the gameplay is even more fun. There may be alittle bit of problems with the 
 game like some of the levels are alittle bit short or they could be alittle hard or you get mad 
 when you die (like me) but this game is still very good. One thing I love about nintendo is that 
 you cannot enjoy a game like mario on any other system like the ps3 or the xbox 360 butyou can 
 only do that with the wii and the nintendo ds. And i like that you could play with luigi at the 
 end of the game and you could play the fun minigames with ur friens even if they dont have the 
 game. It was a great thing that they brought back this game to the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: that70brawl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. It reminds me of the classic NES and SNES versions, wich where both fantastic! 
 Its so fun, yet so easy! Collecting coins, breaking blocks, jumping on enemies the sidescrolling 
 adventure also comes to the NDS wich is both fantastic and nice, it whas fun then, its fun now. 
 This game is a must buy for the common Mario fans, the gameplay is fun, yet easy, everybody will 
 know in a couple of seconds how to play this game, and what all the power-ups do. The new power-ups 
 in the game are cool to, when a common Mushroom gives a life or makes u bigger, the Super Mushroom 
 makes u gigantic, destroying anything in you're path, pipes, blocks enemies, nothing or no-one 
 is save. And the Mini-Mushroom makes you mini-mario, able to go into mini-pipes and jump very high, 
 and its also possible to run on water, yet this may be fun, one hit and you're dead. My favourite 
 new Power-Up is the koopa-shield, and is possible the rarest item after the Star, the Koopa-Shield 
 gives you a shield on you're back, and when running for a several time makes you spin, killing 
 enemies and destroying blocks. This game is definitely the older classic Mario bros. game with 
 even more stuff added, Fabulous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the best side-scroll Mario game since the original back in 1987.
  
  I think Nintendo have created a Peach of a game here and they deserve a round of applause for 
 it.
  I was the first to say that all side-scroll Mario games were rubbish, then I played on the 1987 
 version and i thought it was ace, and this one is just as good if not better. This is one of those 
 games that you only go on when your bored, I can't go on it randomly, but once your on it, you 
 don't want to come off it.
  There are a total of 8 worlds, although two of them have to be unlocked by fighting the right bosses 
 as mini Mario.
  The level design, as you expect for a Mario game is flawless. Each level is designed to perfection, 
 I even thought the under water levels were good and I usually hate them. There are also some unlockable 
 levels on the gme too, but not as much as there is on Super Mario Advanced 2.
  
  All-in all this is a top quality Mario game and i reccomend it to every DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofu-lion91
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I haven't yet completed this game but I'm at the end of world 5 so I have a good idea on how this 
 game is. The only other Mario game I have played is Super Mario Deluxe for the Gameboy Colour.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros is the first time Mario has reached DS. There are new levels but the general 
 'feel' of Mario is kept the same. I think this is a good thing because they've not changed the 
 essential part of the game which is 2D platforming. 
  
  The presentation and layout are great, as are the colours. The game feels like a polished up version 
 of a classic Mario game but doesn't feel too much like same old, same old.
  
  In story mode the DS touch screen is used to display info/power ups and the top screen used to 
 play the level on. I think it's presented well but doesn't use the full potential of the touch 
 screen.
  
  The new power ups are interesting but they rarely come up which is disappointing. The classic powers 
 up (bigger Mario, fireball Mario) appear far to often in the short levels. I'm not fantastic at 
 gaming and I found New Super Mario Bros to be quite challenging and frustrating at times!
  
  The introduction of minigames is a nice add on and uses a lot of the touch screen. I found 
 multi-player to be exciting and a great way to pass the time with my DS playing friends.
  
  The main problem I've had with this game is the saving. Countless time I've completed a level, 
 only to die on the next one and have to complete earlier levels again. This aspect of the game 
 is frustrating and needless.
  
  Overall the game is challenging and fun to play but is heavily let down by the saving. Worth picking 
 up though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerreviewer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  This 2d sidescroller platform has alot to do, Including power ups, star coins, Unlockable Items 
 for the bottom screen and luigi as an unlockable character. New Super Mario Brothers also includes 
 a set of mini games that consists Action Puzzle Table and Variety and the only controls is the 
 touch screen since you dont use the touch screen alot in the story mode they made a new section 
 with that ability to use the touch screen. There are 8 worlds and two that are unlockable by defeating 
 a boss with a special power up or finding the hidden path to the cannon in the worlds connecting 
 to it. Now once you have collected enough star coins you can spend it at a power up house on the 
 map or gain power ups the old fashon way. There are two new power ups that are the mega mushroom 
 and the blue koopa shell which are really usefull. Well thats all the pros now about the cons of 
 this game. 
  
  There isnt much to say about flaws in this game. It can be fast to beat but the game is still not 
 100% complete till you collected all the star coins, But after you beat it you can also try the 
 new minigames section if the game isnt enough for you already. Some of the enemies and traps can 
 be annoying especially when your trying to grab a hard to reach star coin. 
  
  The controls are great the graphics are crisp and its alot of fun to play and I recommend buying 
 it for your nintendo collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: copp62
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games on the market for the ds and i'm not saying this because of 
 it's good graphics or excellent controls. i'm saying because it brings back the mario we all know 
 and love and turns it into one of the greatest 3-D side scoller ever made! now the story is like 
 pretty much every mario game a that is that peach gets kidnapped but not by bowser but by bowser 
 jr. and you go through all kinds of levels to try and save her. which isn't the best story ever 
 but the story isn't the reason why we play mario games and if you play mario games for the story 
 then you're not going to like it that much! the level design is awesome some of the level are like 
 "how did they ever think that" although it would be nice if they put in something that would let 
 you create your own levels.... they're are not as much minigames as super mario 64 ds which they're 
 are new ones but it would be nice if i didn't have to switch between the two just to play minigames. 
 which is one of the reasons why the game isn't getting a 10. another reason why is because i think 
 it doesn't really deserves a 10. it's fun but it's just not as fun as the other games that get 
 a 10 and sometimes the game really makes you mad like when you're so close to the finish and you 
 die which really really sucks but i think the game is right with a nine. the game has 8 worlds 
 but 2 of them you get to by beating the boss as mini mario which is sorta of an easy task. so overall 
 you got a game with good length that just feels right on the ds cause sometimes you can really 
 want to play mario on the go! and you get some minigames that could last half an hour to an hour. 
 and one of the best games on the market for the ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conker4Life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, with this new game, the more things change, the more they stay the same: the basis 
 for New Super Mario Bros. is, surprise, to save the princess. In this design, Bowser Jr. has snagged 
 Peach right out from Mario's nose, and taken her to the closest fortress possible. This game won't 
 win any awards in storytelling because there is none - Mario will simply have to bounce from level 
 to level getting to each challenge's castle while collecting coins and stomping Koopas, Goombas, 
 and any other oddly-named inhabitants of the Mushroom Kingdom.
  
  The super-size mushroom is only one example of the new elements in this game. Some levels feature 
 deforming platforms that shrink and stretch to make jumps a lot more challenging. Other levels 
 have ground deformation effects in place, causing rolling hills to form simply by warping the ground 
 under Mario's feet. Water levels have 3D whirlpools that can suck Mario down if he gets too close. 
 Enemies can vary in size thanks to this hybrid 2D/3D engine, so you might encounter head-pounding 
 Thwomps of all sizes in a single castle.
  
  Mario also has a few moves for this adventure, most lifted from his 3D adventures. Wall jumping 
 is now possible, and in many levels, required. There's also a butt-stomp to smash bricks from the 
 top-side. And, along with the Super-Size-Me version of Mario, players can also collect a micro 
 mushroom to shrink Mario down to mouse-size which gives him the ability to run on the surface of 
 water as well as float more gracefully after a jump.
  
  Conclusion:
  Admittedly there aren't as many gameplay innovations in New Super Mario Bros. as compared to previous 
 Super Mario releases, but that's mostly due to the fact that much of platforming's innovations 
 are related to 3D designs. But that said, this Nintendo DS release still proves that Nintendo still 
 has some great ideas brewing for its plumber in his classic setting. There's an incredible amount 
 of fresh, fun challenge to uncover in this revival.
  
  If you buy this game,
  You'll be pleased to have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcader965
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite DS game to date I have played it over a thousand hours and still love 
 it. Take the original Super Mario bros you know the really old 8-bit game that came out like b4 
 I was born and add 3d graphics wall jumps triple jumps ground pounds vine swinging excellent boss 
 battles and a pocket full of power ups. Then remember Mario bros the 4p battle game where you used 
 flipped crabs koopa's and fighter flies then picked them up and throw them at you're enemies wile 
 trying to pick up coins and power ups well in the Multi card or DS download play you have duels 
 with Mario and Luigi fighting to collecting stars you don't throw the enemies throw instead you 
 throw fireballs. And when you collect 10 coins you get a free power up . And there are mini games 
 like in Super Mario 64 DS. However a few of them are in Super Mario 64 DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_GamerAAC
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers
  Platform: Nintendo DS
  Rated: E
  
  
  After over a decade Mario finally makes his return to the sidescrolling genre in New Super Mario 
 Brothers. The game is exactly what you would expect from all of Mario and Luigi's previous platforming 
 adventures with plenty of new features including a great multiplayer mode. Here is my review of 
 New Super Mario Brothers.
  
  The story is taken right from the basics of the Mario world. While Mario is investigating what 
 looks like a fire, Peach is kidnapped by a mysterious fiend and its up to our plumber hero to save 
 the day. You will travel from world to world completing each level to the best of your ability. 
 All the old enemies are back. Players must fight there way through the usual koopas and goombas 
 while trying to beat new enemies and foes added to the game. While I do miss the old Koopalings, 
 the new bosses bring plenty of variety to each fight as players must identify each bosses individual 
 weakness. Like most other elements in the game, the bosses seemed to be easy to beat. While there 
 are plenty of levels and worlds, I found that each level was simple and will take any veteran of 
 the Mario universe about 3 minutes top to beat. However, there are plenty of worlds, levels, and 
 secrets to unlock once you beat the game and fun factor will keep you playing for weeks to come. 
 
  
  Along with the old Mushroom, Fire Flower, and Star power-ups come the new Mega Mushroom, Mini Mushroom, 
 and Blue Shell power-ups. The Mega Shroom turns Mario into a giant and allows him to destroy everything 
 in his path from squashing enemies to breaking warp-pipes. With the Mini Shroom, Mario can run 
 on water and perform a floating jump. The Mini Shroom can also allow Mario to enter smaller warp 
 pipes and secret passages that take him to new worlds and secret areas. The Special Blue Shell 
 puts Mario inside a koopa shell and allows him to shoot through enemies and blocks. While the New 
 power-ups are great, I miss the old power-ups such as the ability to fly or use Yoshi. With New 
 Power-ups also comes new moves. Mario can now use the wall-jump to help reach higher areas or save 
 himself from a fatal fall. The ground pound has also been brought into the game which allowed players 
 to crush boxes underneath them and get to underground passages and secrets. 
  
  The new multiplayer and mini-games are also a welcome addition to the game. If you have a friend 
 with another DS, you can play in the new Mario vs. Luigi mode. Each player will compete for Big 
 Stars found throughout worlds specifically designed for the mulitplayer mode. Whoever finds the 
 most Big Stars first wins. The mini-games from Super Mario 64: DS are back along with a couple 
 of new mini-games. New Super Mario Brothers also allows you to play against your friends in the 
 mini-games. The mini-games, both multiplayer and single player, give you a break from the normal 
 1 player mode. The thing I really miss is the old Mario and Luigi take turns mode. It is simplistic, 
 but would still be a great idea for you and a friend who does not have a DS. 
  
  Even for sidescroller the graphics seem great and it still manages to keep the same feel had in 
 the old Super Mario Brothers games. The detail given to each world is great and map is great. From 
 the grass plains to the mountains each world is given its own distinct features that set it apart 
 from the others. 
  
  The sound quality found in the game I what you would expect from any Mario game. Much of the old 
 classic music is found within the game from the catchy Mushroom Kingdom Overworld in the first 
 Super Mario Bros. to the underground theme found in most Mario games. Some new music has been added 
 as well. The new music has a cartoon-like feeling that matches the fast paced and crazy stunts 
 that you must pull off during game play. The sound of the characters and enemies is done just as 
 well. The jingle heard when you grab a power-up never gets old! 
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the secrets found throughout the game will keep you playing for months 
 to come. The replay value is where New Super Mario Brothers truly shines. There are so many secrets 
 and new levels to play through that even after you beat the game you will want to go back find 
 everything you missed. The only problem is the fact that it's a bit too simple at some points. 
 If you're looking for a more difficult Mario game, Super Mario Brothers 3 will probably hold a 
 bit more challenge. Even with an easy difficulty, the fun factor and secrets found in the game 
 will keep you playing for weeks and probably even months.
  
  Overall, this game is great and is probably the best side-scroller and plat-former for the DS today. 
 Gamers will get many hours of game play out of New Super Mario Brothers and will enjoy it for months 
 to come. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdog30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER: This part is too short, you can beat the game in a few days, but it will still take 
 you a long time to get 100% complete to get every level and star coin. It also has loads of re 
 playability thankfully. The main game is fun and their are 3 save files so you can keep deleting 
 one of the save files to restart and beat the game again to get tones of replay value. There are 
 lots of alternate, secret exits, levels, and star coins to get. Their are 3 star coins to find 
 in every level, which will be a big challenge for anybody to get all of them.
  
  MULTI PLAYER: There are mini games you can play against friends who have DSs and don't have the 
 game. There is also a thing where you and your friend are Mario or Luigi fighting each other for 
 stars in a battle level (there are a few different battle levels) . The multi player is really fun.
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you are looking for a quality DS game, this is it. This is a Must Buy for any DS 
 owner, you have to have this game. This is my favorite DS game and it is by far, the best Super 
 Mario Bros. game ever!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros takes Mario back to his 2D roots (finally) and it is a great experience, but...... 
 it is nothing compared to the other great 2D Mario games like SMB3, SMW, and SMW2: YI . While it 
 adds multiplayer which is a great feature, it severely lacks in the single player department.
 
  
  First, let's start with New Super Mario Bros new big thing: the multiplayer. With this new installment, 
 there is a 2 player Vs mode and a 4-player minigame mode. The great part is that for both modes 
 it only requires one person to posses the game. Even though the minigames were already in Super 
 Mario 64 DS, they are still as fun as ever. The 2 player mode has you chasing stars and competing 
 for them and it is real fun and a great new addition to the game. 
  
  Now let's get to the letdowns, the single player mode. The single player mode is truly a disappointment 
 to all Mario fans out there, because it has nothing new and doesn't even have many of the things 
 that made the other installments so great, and it is truly sad .
  
  Let's start with the DS functions. The 2 screens are used for items and information and that's 
 it, but it's okay . The touch screen isn't used much. You use it to navigate the worlds and use 
 items, and that's it . I was hoping you would use it for minigames like in SMB3 , but the minigames 
 in NSMB are just a bunch of blocks and is all luck and is boring . I was really hoping the 2 screens 
 and touch screen would be used for say drawing with a tool or for fighting a boss. I wish the DS 
 functions were utilized more for this game, but I guess not....... 
  
  Next let's get to the new things NSMB has in its single player mode........ oh wait! New Super Mario 
 Bros adds NOTHING NEW! You can't even fly like in SMB3 and SMW which is a real big letdown. There 
 are new power ups, but you rarely get them , something I hate . Remember in SMB3 and SMW, how when 
 you hit a ? block you got either a flower or a leaf/feather? Well in NSMB, you ALWAYS get a flower! 
 There is only.... I think 2 blocks with a Mega and Mini Mushroom and there are no blocks with a 
 blue koopa shell. You can still get them by hitting red blocks or going to buy an item, but come 
 on! I don't want to go off and buy an item or chase a red block for a power up. I want to play! 
 And get the item easily so I can learn about it. When I beat the game the first time, I hardly 
 even knew there was a blue shell power up because I think I got it once. Seriously, the Fire Flower 
 got annoying because it was the only power up I ever got. 
  
  Also, this game is not like the other 2D Mario platformers in that it is easy and short. They never 
 should have added the ability to skip worlds because it just makes the game way too short and the 
 difficulty could've used a lot of work. This is in part with the fact that it is real easy to get 
 lives.
  
  Also, the thing that made every 2D Mario game great is lost here. Because there is nothing new, 
 it just feels like you're playing a sequel to the original Super Mario Bros. And I'm sure we'd 
 all much rather have a sequel to SMB3 or SMW. SMB3 had the ability to fly. SMW had Yoshi. What 
 about NSMB? Seriously, it has been around 15 years, 15 YEARS since the last 2D Mario game and they 
 can't think of anything new to put into this great franchise. They put multiplayer I suppose to 
 try to appease us, but 2D Mario games were never about multiplayer, and because I didn't know this, 
 I played the single player mode mainly to see what had changed and was shocked to find nothing! 
 NOTHING!
  
  Talking about graphics and sound, this game excels. The characters are very beautiful 3D models 
 and the music is very nice and I like it how the enemies do something every time the music has 
 people sing a quick, "Bah!" lol
  
  This game is very strange....... it has the same Mario gameplay that we all love, but it has nothing 
 new to the formula, so it gets old fast. The few new features aren't used well aside from the multiplayer. 
 The graphics and sound are great, but that is really all this game has going for it. With no innovations, 
 a short length, easy difficulty, New Super Mario Bros is a real letdown for all Mario fans, and 
 you'd think it would be better since it has been 15 years since the last one. Oh well, it's not 
 that bad. I recommend it if you like Mario or platformers, but that's it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsesrekmsa66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I smiled. When I played it, I grinned. When I hit that flagpole in World 
 1-1 for the first time, I went nostalgically nuts. New Super Mario Bros isn't just Mario's best 
 DS outing, its a spiritual sugar rush that brings me way back to the revered Super Mario Bros. 
 platforming franchise, and it feels oh so GOOD.
  
  This game is in a way, a lot like Super Mario Galaxy. I used to believe that stellar Wii game was 
 more akin to Super Mario Bros 3 in the way that it revolutionized the franchise. In fact, it is 
 much like many Nintendo games. Like Galaxy, SMB3, SMW, The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past, 
 LOZ: TP, and perhaps even Mario Kart Wii for one reason; it is an absolutely stellar sequel to 
 one incredibly awesome original and at least one great, yet different sequel (Super Mario Sunshine, 
 american Super Mario Bros 2, Zelda 2: The Adventure of Link, LOZ: Wind Waker, Mario Kart: Double 
 Dash) .
  
  But enough sentiment. Even without the originals, even if this game had to do the incredibly hard 
 task of reviving gaming like the original SMB, it would succeed with flying colors. The 3D rendered 
 character models on a 2D side-scrolling game allow for some excellent animation. The frame rate 
 never slows down a bit, and even for a DS title, the character models can stand up to console graphics 
 easily. The backgrounds also look great; all of the enemies and platforms Mario fights and travels 
 on are rendered in perfect 3D, while the actual backgrounds that do not affect Mario's gameplay 
 look great artistically and are very reminiscent of Super Mario World.
  
  The sound is great too. All of the stages feature tracks from an entirely new Mario soundtrack 
 which is just as addicting as the original, while the Mushroom Houses in the game feature a fantastic 
 remix of the original tune that brings back memories to listen too. Plus, if you manage to end 
 a level with a coin count equal to a multiple of eleven, you will hear the end of level jingle 
 the original SMB featured.
  
  The gameplay is spot on, which is what is to be expected from a 2D Mario outing. The old favorite 
 powerups like the fire flower from SMB are there, and they are as fun and easy to play now as ever 
 before. New goodies have been added as well, however, and they fit right with the Mario mantra 
 of wacky suits and powers. Plus, there are many goodies in the form of platforms that have been 
 added. Special platforms make Mario bounce, fly high to the sky and float down and slip when he 
 comes into contact with them. There is even a blue sea dragon in World 4 that you ride on ala Super 
 Mario 64. The only downside is that Yoshi doesn't make an appearance, but he has a turn in the 
 spotlight on the DS in Yoshi's Island DS, so no biggy.
  
  Value is the game's weak point, but it is so good that that is a compliment. The game's only major 
 value flaws are that most of the time it is a bit easy, and while there is much to be found in 
 the form of secrets, you can plow through the game without looking for any secrets in under ten 
 hours. Yet with 2 full worlds of secret levels that require a bit of skill to reach and many other 
 secret levels scattered around the maps, which happen to be most like Super Mario Bros 3's maps, 
 are just waiting to be discovered.
  
  At the beginning of this review I compared New Super Mario Bros to Super Mario Galaxy. While there 
 are some true similarities between those two games, I think the real reason they seem similar is 
 simply because they are both fantastic games. NSMB is full of jump, fireball, and plumber that 
 every Mario fan craves, while adding new stuff to the mix that seem inseperable from Mario's 2D 
 worlds now that they have made their debut. Bottomline, NSMB is a high quality DS game that only 
 makes you hope it isn't another decade before the next original Super Mario Bros. 2D platformer 
 is released.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is just Super Mario Bros., new (well, obviously) , but there's some new twists 
 to it that helps it fit on the DS. I'll tell you what they are!
  
  STORY
  Of cause, every Mario fans know the story, so I'll rush through it as fast as I can. In the opening 
 movie, Mario and Peach are heading over to the castle, but suddenly there is an explosion in the 
 castle so Mario goes to check it out. As Mario is busy, he doesn't see Bowser Jr. kidnapping Peach. 
 So once again Mario must rescue her.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Since it's a remake of the old game, all levels are in 2D. When choosing a level, you are flicking 
 from one end to the other in a 3D world. There are 8 worlds you can choose to go to with a flick 
 of a stylus. A good thing about this game is that you can choose the controls. Of cause you use 
 the arrows to move, but you can choose whether you want A to jump, B to jump, X to jump - anything. 
 Whatever suits you! The bad thing is that a lot of the time you will have to stop suddenly, but 
 Mario takes a small time to stop that isn't enough as you slam into the bad guy. Really, you can 
 beat the game without unlocking World 4 and 7, because you can skip from World 2 to 5 and World 
 5 to 8, so it makes it a bit short. Remember I said there were a few new twists? Well, when I say 
 that I mean new secrets; and there's a secret to unlock World 4 and 7. This keeps you playing and 
 wondering how do I do this? I know how to do it but - I'm not going to tell you! This is a review 
 not a walkthrough! Anyway, you can also control Luigi by holding down R and L at the same time 
 on the file selection screen (is that a cheat? I found it out for myself. It better not be a cheat!) . 
 Say, if you were playing it with some people watching you. Those people might sniff and turn it 
 down (since it's 2D) , but you know that 2D games can still be a lot of fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics have been completely changed to fit on the DS, and it looks sensational! Who knew 
 2D games could have fantastic graphics? There are some parts in the levels though where you have 
 to make your character face the screen which almost looks 3D. The background really looks like 
 a real background because it looks faded and adds a great feeling to you that you're not playing 
 in the middle of nowhere like in the old games.
  
  SOUND
  Put on your headphones and hear all the fantastic Mario music. It just never gets old! And in this 
 game you can hear what Nintendo had tried to make the music sound like back in 1990.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  The multiplayer is probably the best thing in this game! There are to options to 
 it. MARIO VS. LUIGI or MINIGAMES. Mario vs. Luigi isn't all that great. It's just you battling 
 up with a friend and try to get the most stars. The real fun you'll get out of this mode is just 
 mucking around and squashing each other. But where multiplayer really shines is in Minigames. You 
 can battle with up to 3 friends in loads of fun minigames. Some of these minigames are the same 
 as Super Mario 64 DS, just multiplayer. But they have added some more minigames like a snow ball 
 fight which none of my friends want to stop playing!
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is great if you've got a load of friends with a DS to vs. with, 
 but I wouldn't recommend for just a one player game.
  
  STORY ---------------------6/10
  GAMEPLAY ----------------8/10
  GRAPHICS ----------------8/10
  SOUND ---------------------8/10
 
  MULTIPLAYER ------------10/10
  OVERALL -------------------8.5
  
  Check out my blog for other great reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloboy10
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The classic side rolling platform is back it features the original drill the same world choosing 
 system from super Mario world more detailed graphics and once again Mario does not talk and everyone 
 else they make noises instead.
  The AI has been improved so battles are more harder then before and because its on the Nintendo 
 so double screen makes it better the power ups are back with the mushroom/fire flower and power 
 star you don't have to be Mario all the time theres a cheat where you can play as Luigi. Apparently 
 Bowser Jr thinks Princess Peach is his mother [Honest] but it would be strange that peach was bowser 
 juniors mother. Some enemies really tick you off sometimes. But this game is definitely worth looking 
 at so if you've bought new super Mario bros you've made a good choice. This game is fantastic the 
 best Mario game on the Nintendo its part of the main series of Mario games the super Mario bros 
 series the side screen rolling series the best series in the Mario franchise by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerboy4eva
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  cool graphics. good update of original mario game. good idea to make mario go big and small.
 
  
  Cons:
  even though he goes big and small....... it doesnt happen very much. they added almost nothing new. 
 id rather play the original. its actually pretty hard. i wouldnt buy it. sound- 8 out of 10
  the sound isnt the greatest
  
  gameplay-7.3 out of 10
  story mode is hard..... only thing 
 you can do on a level is jump. i mean really?! you cant even run? wats that?! its not a very exciting 
 game.....
  
  graphics- 9 out of 10
  alright.... i admit it. i might not like the game very much, but the grachics are good.
  
  originality-6.5 
 out of 10
  how is it original. its way worse than any other mario game ive played. its not fun. i cant believe 
 i almost bought it.
  
  overall, its not a very fun game that i would reccomend. theres tons of better games out there. 
 make the right decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Mario, the worlds most famous plumber comes to the Nintendo DS in this classic 2D side-scrolling 
 game. Did Nintendo pull it off? Yes it did.
  
  It starts like this: As Mario and Peach are taking a walk, Mario sees smoke coming from Peach's 
 Kingdom. As Mario runs to investigate Bowser Jnr (Bowsers son) sneaks up behind Peach and kidnapps 
 her. Mario chases Bowser Jnr but this proves futile and Bowser Jnr gets away with Peach. This is 
 where your adventure begins.
  
  Nintendo pulled off this classic 2D side-scrolling game quite nicely with wonderful visuals and 
 fun and immersive gameplay. Each level is very cleverly designed and very very enjoyable to play 
 through. There are some great new power-ups including some of the old ones. In each level there 
 are shortcuts which you can take by entering pipes. Also in each level there are 3 star coins to 
 collect which you can use to get to houses which offer multiple awards. 
  
  There is also a large array of mini games which you can enjoy. The problem is most of the mini 
 games arent very enjoyable but there are some addictive games you can find and enjoy. 
  
  Overall this game is SUPERB and is highly reccomended by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgms
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  most excellent game on ds
  most excellent game on ds
  
  most excellent game on ds
  
  
  most excellent game on ds
  
  
  
  most excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost excellent game on dsmost 
 excellent game on dsmost excellent game on ds
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ok 100 word :)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaggisGhillie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you think they can't improve on a classic, and then along comes a game that is just as 
 good as the original. This is definitely the case with New SMB for the DS. No, the game doesn't 
 take advantage of the DS's touch-screen too much, but that doesn't matter. The game is a solid 
 platformer that delivers a bunch of fun levels. The formula is the same as every other SMB -- rescue 
 the helpless Princess Peach. However, with the New SMB, the variety of worlds keeps the game interesting. 
 There isn't much new here, if you want that, get Super Mario Galaxy. The difficulty level is just 
 right, with some levels pretty easy, and some just frustrating enough. This game is definitely 
 worth the money, and will easily sit on your shelf a long time along with the other classics from 
 the SMB universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey50002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  In the beginning you find out that the castle is being attack. Mario runs to help. But baby bowser 
 takes princess Peach to his castle. You fight through 8 different worlds. You can find stuff that 
 is useful. Like the small mushroom. The big mushroom. The fire flower. The star. The blue shell. And 
 the mushroom. You can play as Mario. Fighting through 8 different worlds. You can get star coins. You 
 use star coins by finding a way that needs 5 star coins and you use the 5 star coins to go that 
 way. Or use them to get extra lives. Or get a idem. You go through many boss like baby bowser's dad. A 
 big fish. A worm with spikes. A big plant that flies. A hamster in a tank. You get a bonus if you 
 get as high as you can on the flag pole at the end of most sages. You get to face baby bowser at 
 different castles. In the end this game is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. has a new feel to it having four buttons instead of two. It has a little 3D 
 and 2D mixed together, which is a nice touch. The mega mushroom really can be helpful in some areas 
 in the game, trust me! Although they don't sound good at all, mini mushrooms altough there size, can 
 be a big help! The blue koopa shells are really cool to use so you can actually use the turtles' 
 shells and give them a taste of their own medicine! This game is fun, but a little challenging, especially 
 in the last world! The last level, a BIG, green castle is not very tough, though. You may think that 
 the blue castle will be there like they are in every world at the end. There is, but it's not the 
 last level because more levels in world 8 are unlocked after beating that castle. Then, after you 
 beat all the levels, you'll see this huge green and grey castle. If you have trouble fighting Bowser 
 again in the last level, then get a mega mushroom before entering the very last level and then when 
 you get to Bowser, use it and step on him and his kid!! If you need more things to smash with the 
 mega mushroom, then jump then press down to get goombas and coins to fall down from the sky! This 
 game is really fun, I hope you get it and enjoy it. Thx for reading!
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  15 years after making his last fully playable appearance in an original 2D side-scrolling platform 
 adventure game and about five years since any Mario character had appeared in an original 2D side-scrolling 
 platform adventure game, Mario finally got back to doing what got him superstar video game status 
 in the first place: appearing in an original, 2D side-scrolling platform adventure! It's a continuation 
 of the "Super Mario Bros." series after a 16 year hiatus (not counting "Super Mario World" or "Super 
 Mario All-Stars" or various re-releases.) Mario still grows big by using a mushroom, he still can 
 throw fireballs after touching a fire flower, he still collects coins and 1-Up Mushrooms, and he 
 still can become temporarily invincible by touching a Star Man. But there are brand-new twists 
 brought into this familliar formula! :idea: Now Mario can shrink to a microscopic size and jump 
 super high, run on water, fit into narrow passages and fit into tiny pipes he normally wouldn't 
 have been able to fit into! There's a blue shell which allows Mario to knock over approaching enemies, 
 surf over water, lava, and dangerous enemies! And my personal favorite, the Super Ultra Mushroom 
 which allows Mario to become a giant and knock off over any attacking enemies just by touching 
 them, break nearly any obstacle and rack up an insane amount of 1-Ups! Also, Mario will also use 
 the tricks he learned in his 3-D games, namely punching, kicking, triple-jumping, wall jumping, 
 wall shimmying, rope hanging, and long jumping in order to overcome various obstacles! Plus, there 
 are also warp cannons for people who want to zip through the game, or they could choose their own 
 route towards winning the game, or they could be like me and discover everything that can possibly 
 be found within the game, which makes it more challenging, but more richly rewarding in the end 
 as it allows players to play through an additional four stages and one more boss level before beating 
 the game! Both old and new Mario villains, obstacles, and challenges await to test Mario both in 
 old ways and in new ways! It's not just a trip back to what made Mario great in the first place, 
 it also introduces new concepts and new strategies that's both great for old and new players alike! 
 This game is extremely enjoyable for players of any skill level! That's why I highly reccomend 
 it and that's why I wrote this review! :idea: Enough said! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This is my first Ds game and its probly the best Ds game I have and the graaphics and controls 
 are amazing and with the name mario it dosent disappoint. I grw up playing mario and 5 years later 
 im still playing it plus you dont need to youse the touch scren un less you play the miny games 
 and you youse the touch screen to hold power ups for mario. I am in love with this game and it is 
 pretty chalinging some times but its mario so its not really hard like zelda which is also a fun 
 video game franchize. So if you have a Ds this shouid be in your portable game collection unless 
 you hate Mario for some strange reason? It has 8 worlds and I have a cheat to play as Luigi but 
 I never use it played muti player once with one of my friends and its not bad I can say so if you 
 dont like this game your **** stupid.. y a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a aa a a a 
 a aa a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa a a aa a a a aa aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa aa a a aa a a a aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tec96
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
  amazing! really good basically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Taking everything good about old school Super Mario Bros platformers and making it better, New 
 Super Mario Bros upgrades it with pretty graphics, new power-ups, addictive mini-games, and cheery 
 soundtrack. The gameplay is simple, sweet, and classic. Mario (and Luigi) can still run, jump, 
 and throw fireballs, but now he can also wall-jump and butt-stomp. The classic power-ups return 
 (Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, and the Star) , but there are some new ones. The Mega Mushroom temporarily 
 makes you almost as big as the screen and allows to mow down just about ANYTHING in your way. The 
 blue koopa shell suit allows to tuck yourself inside the shell, knock down minor enemies, and swim 
 more agilely. The controls are also very simple, though they take a couple minutes to get used 
 to. The soundtrack is SOOOOO catchy. I've even caught myself humming the main theme throughout 
 the day. Even after you beat Bowser, you'll still be kept busy trying to find all the Star Coins 
 scattered throughout the game. The story is the typical Mario story. Princess Peach is kidnapped 
 (again) by Bowser Jr. and you as Mario must save her (again) . Some of the levels seem to end to 
 quickly and add to the slightly reduced difficulty level. The whole game is 8 levels long, (two 
 of which have hidden entrances) which is kind of short. Some of the minigames in this game are 
 just borrowed from Super Mario 64 DS, though they're still pretty fun. In the end, New Super Mario 
 Bros. is a charming upgrade (not remake) of the original Super Mario platformers. A must have for 
 all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doughboy93
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario brothers is what its title implies. (All games should :) ) It's the same Super 
 Mario platforming with great new features and whole new levels which makes for a brand new adventure 
 for Mario and friends.
  
  Princess Peach is captured once again by bowser and you have to go from world to world beating 
 levels castles in all sorts of different terrain.
  
  This game doesn't take too much advantage of the touch screen controls, but it's ok because it's 
 a Mario platformer and the basic stomping on goombas is good enough.
  
  We see the entrance of some new powerups and the return of others. We still have the super mushroom 
 and fire mushroom. Now there's the entrance of mini mario that allows you to access secret areas, 
 there's shell mario which gives the powers of a koopa troopa, and the Mega mushroom which turns 
 the game into a classic game of Rampage.
  
  The graphics are pseudo-3d, which are totally appropriate for 2-D platformer for the DS. It looks 
 great though, the environments vary and are great eye candy.
  
  You can also wall jump now.
  
  Saving is an issue, whereas there are checkpoints you can't 
 save for several levels until you beat a mid-castle or world castle. This can be really frustrating 
 when there's 3 levels until the next castle and they're particularily hard. However, you'll get 
 over this and the game will still be fun.
  
  There's plenty of mini-games to play which offer additional fun gameplay. Multiplayer isn't anything 
 special, but it's fun nevertheless.
  
  This is a great addition to Mario series. You'll be glab you got this game. You WILL have fun =) 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iSpeak_InClicks
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros., despite the odd name, is a very fun game. It has all the fast-paced head-jumping 
 fun you'd want from a Mario game. Here's a basic breakdown.
  
  Good:
  -You can run backwards into a level if you missed something.
  -You can walljump.
  -A few new 
 power-ups.
  -Levels are very cool and fun.
  -Beautiful graphics.
  -Some old Mario music, along with the good old sounds.
  -The enemies dance with the music (it's 
 wierd, you'd have to see it) .
  -TONS of multiplayer games, most of which are fun.
  -Lots of variety. These levels are awesome.
  -You can play it in the car, as the touch screen 
 doesn't come into play much.
  
  Bad:
  -You can only play as Mario in 1-player.
  -You can't save until you beat a castle, a tower, or you open a gate, which usually means you have 
 to beat a few levels before saving.
  -A couple of levels are really hard.
  
  There's a lot of stuff to do in this game. It's not by any means a short game. On the other hand, 
 there's only one difficulty. On the third hand, there's extra bonus stuff to do as you beat levels.
 
  
  I would suggest this game if you're into platformers, or if you're into minigames. You can have 
 4 people playing minigames together with one game pack, or play a different game against one other 
 non-game-owning person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardos-the-3rd
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  the first super mario bros. was the first game of his style
  
  the second super mario bros. changed completely the style
  
  the third was the first game that 
 lets you chose the levels you want to play
  
  super mario world was the first one in introducing secret levels (not only secret ways to skip levels)
 
  
  etc.
  
  every super mario game has introduced new concepts. it's a little bit disappointing to see that 
 this game only takes references of the old mario games and never introduces important changes to 
 the gameplay.
  every old-school super mario was fun, challenging and innovative, this game only respects the fun. 
 this brings us to another point the game is too easy. if they do a second part y hope they introduce 
 real "new" concepts.
  
  every time I play this game I start to remember the old mario games and want to turn of the ds 
 and play super mario all stars or super mario world on the super nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Millington
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is like most other Mario's where you have to travel through the different zones and complete 
 levels to progress through the game.
  
  I haven't played that many Mario games, but from what I can remember this one is very similar. 
 The bosses/enemies, the layout, the story all these are very similar, but you will still enjoy 
 playing this game. There are hours of fun and frustration within this version of Mario. 
  
  The levels all vary in difficultly, some are easy and the next one can be solid. But, the last 
 level proved to be a difficult one for me, as I haven't played that many Mario games I don't know 
 the general plan of the games. Within the last level, there are platforms to run across, if you 
 don't run across the platforms in the correct order then you'll just keep on running around in 
 circles.
  
  I would say if you could pick this game up cheap, grab it, but I wouldn't bother spending a lot 
 of your hard earned cash on this version of Mario.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I think that the majority of gamers, whether old or new, are aware of the classic masterpiece, 
 Mario Bros. But whilst the original Mario bros series was one of the most addictive, memorable 
 selection of games in history, is it really necessary to meddle by releasing a new, updated one? 
 
  Turns out yes... yes it is.
  
  When playing new Mario bros, it's apparent that whilst tons of new little features have been added, 
 it's essentially a 3D homage to the original games. The new features are great fun however, with 
 plenty of new items (the massive mushroom rules!) , some new enemies, wireless multiplayer and a 
 decent amount of mini-games to play around with (both in single and multiplayer) .
  Story-wise, they've definitely kept it old school: Peach gets kidnapped, you go after her. That's 
 it. That's all it needs to be.
  
  So essentially, the gameplay is exactly the same as older games. It's a side scrolling platformer 
 where you've got to fight your way through worlds by completing a number of stages. The stages 
 range from 30 seconds to around two minutes, and whilst that may not sound like much, there are 
 over 50 stages, each one different in their own little way.
  
  The graphics are great, mixing the original 2D visuals with 3D characters. Also, Mario's movements 
 have changed a little. Various little animations, such as the triple jump from Mario 64, and jumping 
 up walls from Super Mario Sunshine have been integrated, which adds just that little extra depth 
 to levels, allowing for a variety of new platforming possibilities. 
  
  So is it worth getting? Yup. There's no reason not to really. It's a fun, addictive game. A retro 
 remake done correctly! Which is a rare and wonderful thing!
  The single player's lengthy, and there's definitely replay value... whether it's because you want 
 to unlock the different routes through the worlds by collecting Star Coins, or play the mini-games, 
 or cause you're bored, there are plenty of reasons why you'll be playing this game for quite awhile.
 
  
  The Good: Addictive and fun  Doesn't stray from the Mario formula, but adds lots of new features 
  Plenty to do!
  
  The Bad: If you don't like the original games, then you wouldn't like this.
  
  VERDICT: The 
 Mario Bro's return with an essential DS game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryBomber5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros is a great plat-former game. It has a bunch of levels to keep you busy for 
 weeks. 
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10 - The gameplay is overall pretty good. After you beat the game, theres really nothing 
 much to do, except mini games, and you can replay the levels. The game is easy though, don't expect 
 this to be a challenging game. It is easy, but some of the levels can get hard, esspessially the 
 last level. Some of the levels are fun, although some of them may seem to short. Overall the gameplay 
 is good enough.
  
  Sound 9.0/10 - The sound is pretty good, some of the songs may be a little boring, but on some 
 levels like the first one. It gives you a nice little remix of the new super mario bros theme. 
 Overall it's pretty good.
  
  Graphics 9.2/10 - The graphics were awesome. I love the 3d effects, and some of them are great. 
 Although mario does look a little blurry, it's pretty good. 
  
  Overall 8.5/10 - This game is fun, and it's definitely worth playing. But when you beat it, there 
 really isn't much to do. So you may get bored of it after you complete it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't love Mario Bros.? Sicko's... that's who. Sick freaks who look more like Michael Jackson 
 and less like humans. Sickies who hate decency, morality, freedom, and courage.... those are the 
 kinds of people who hate Mario Bros. 
  
  Luckily I LOVE Mario Bros. Well, let me back up. I used to love Mario Bros. But somehow the happy 
 little Italian plumber fell off my radar. I actually haven't played a Mario Bros. game in some 
 time. I guess as I went on to the playstation and xbox clubs, Nintendo just kind of disappeared 
 for me. I didn't know how lost I was, until I finally bought a Nintendo DS. Now I've been found! 
 Oh thank you Mario! Thank you Luigi! Thank you Bowser! Princess? Go to hell. 
  
  I don't know where to begin to review this game. It's a lot like the original Super Mario Bros. 
 on the old timey Nintendo Entertainment System. A great game. A phenomenal game. And you know what? 
 This game takes all that was cool about that old game.. and makes it even better!
  
  It's the same idea... you are a stereotyped Italian plumber in bright red and blue clothes who goes 
 around getting high on mushrooms, breaking things with his head, and hurting little turtles. Your 
 friend, Princess Peach, has been kidnapped again... mostly because she's a bimbo who doesn't lock 
 her door at night.
  
  So it's up to you to go through the crazy mushroom kingdom and destroy your enemies on your way 
 to rescue the princess... only so she can be kidnapped yet again I'm sure.
  
  This game is exactly what a video game should be..... fun. I found myself smiling the entire time 
 I played the game. Even when I was being attacked by hordes of fish and squid and turtles and whatever. 
 I just couldn't stop smiling. Not only for nostalgia's sake... but for the fact that the game was 
 just so well designed... game wise and art wise. 
  
  The game looks great on the DS. The animation is superb. And there is a TON to do. You can probably 
 run through the whole game in a matter of a few hours if you really try.... but then you would be 
 doing it wrong... Like a moron. What the hell's a matter wit you anyway? Give me that thing. Let 
 me show you how to do it. You see? you need to find all the little secrets. All the coins. All 
 the warps. All the mushroom houses. THAT'S how you play it. You have to explore. That's half the 
 fun. Seeing new worlds and dangers and creatures. There. Now try again.
  
  If you have a Nintendo DS, and you don't have this game, then you are probably not respected by 
 your peers. They may smile to your face and act like they enjoy your company... but as soon as your 
 back is turned, they snicker and laugh and make jokes about your sexuality. So why don't you get 
 off your lazy ass, get some self respect, and pick up New Super Mario Bros.
  
  I mean come on... get yourself together.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  New super Mario Bros. is an exellent game. There are eight worlds to travel. On the eighth world 
 you discover a mystery. New Super Mario Bros. is a cool game because at some points, you know what 
 to do but you can't do it. New Super Mario Bros. also requires a smart player, and a nintendo DS. 
 If your looking for a game with Mario, adventure, and action, well this is the game for you, 'cause 
 this game has all of those things!!! Do you think that Mario is lame? Well... It doesn't matter!!! 
 At the beggining of the game, you can switch to... LUIGI!!! And if you don't like Luigi you can 
 switch to... NOBODY!!! So if you don't like Mario or Luigi then this is NOT the game for you! New 
 Super Mario Bros. has multiplayer mode, and about ten mini-games. It has options too, but thats 
 not important. Hope you like my review! Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belladonna14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  So going thrue gamestop the other day and stumbled across this goodie. Was hesitant since so many 
 games for the ds are just quick release with no good substance to them games, but this one seems 
 to rise above the rest. For starters for a mario game the graphics are awsome, expeclay for the 
 ds. I was impressed with the new paper mario for the wii, but this one rises above usaly ds graphics 
 on games. The game play also is truely addictive. If you are a fan of ANY mario games then this 
 game will have you truely hooked. The new mario game does not incorpirate any touch screen expet 
 to drop an item,, witch i was hopeing for more of, but the game has a classic feel to it that is 
 truely addictive. Also a must try is the mini games they added to it. From blowning up a baloon 
 for yoshi, to rolling snowballs, wack a mole.. ex.... its fun as heck to play these little aditions..... adds 
 to the game a totaly diffrent elemet.. also the whole collection coins in the game to get additional 
 lives is a new aspect of the game and a good one at that. highly recomended for any ds owner looking 
 for a feel of mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  There is Spoilers in this review!
  
  Being fairly new to the DS Lite Console as I am... I made this my very first choice of a game to 
 purchase... and let me say this... I WAS NOT DISSAPOINTED AT ALL!
  
  First of all... it is Mario! You just cannot go wrong when it comes to Mario! If you ever played 
 any of the Mario games from times gone by... you will see something in this game that was in that 
 game. It is all here... from the Bombs to the Pipes (with a twist) , from the Bats to the Chomper 
 Plants. It is as if they took everything from every Mario game ever made and threw it all into 
 one nice little package that makes this a very hard title to put down for any period of time!
 
  
  The level design is the standard Mario layout. From the Green Plains to the Muddy Caves, from the 
 Watery Underworlds to the Stone Castles... it looks just awesome. The graphics were just simply 
 the bestest! Just standing in a level you can watch the clouds go by and enjoy the scenery because 
 it is some of the best eye candy I have ever seen on a handheld gaming system in quite sometime. 
 They really didn't hold back when designing both the graphics as well as the levels.
  
  I was equally impressed with the music and sounds in this game. Yes it is pretty much the standard 
 Mario Themes from all of the games before... but if you set your sound to Surround Sound on your 
 DS Lite... it just sounds wonderful... even thru the headphones. 
  
  Another thing I was curious about and found out that they did encorporate it into this verion was 
 some of the cheats from ealier games. The infamous Turtle Pop on the stairs at the end of Level 
 1 is still there. I racked 99 lives in about 1 minute or so just popin' away on that shell. That 
 was a real nice memory to see again. They also introduced the Super Mushroom in this version that 
 makes Mario Grow to Full Screen Size! Anything he touches in that mode just explodes to bits. This 
 is a great tool that last only about 20 seconds or so and is great if you are trying to get thru 
 a level that is on solid ground... if you are on a bridge or platform that can be broken by him 
 then you will fall thru and die! So it has it's pluses and or minuses!
  
  My only things about the game that I didn't care for were the saves for one. You only were offered 
 a Save Point at a Mini Castle or a Main Castle. You also would be offered one at one of the Toadstool 
 Houses too. Those are only obtainable if you collect the Large Golden Coins in the game. In order 
 to unlock a path to one it cost usually 5 Golden Coins... so use them wisely! At the Toadstool 
 Houses you are given mini games to play to win more lives or upgrades (firball/shell/mini/growth) 
 items. You are allowed ot carry one extra of any of these on your lower screen that shows that 
 and your progress thru each level. If you want to use it... you just tap it and it will fall from 
 the sky at Mario.... but again... use them wisely as well.
  
  Another small dislike was that the game was pretty short. I personally finished it in under a week 
 very easily. The levels do become harder as you progress but are still fairly easy. I personally 
 thought level 8-8 was the toughest of them all and that the End Boss Fight was really easy. You 
 also seldom use your stylus screen in this game and can actually just use your thumb to choose 
 to drop the extra item you have when you want to use it. You also can bounce around from world 
 to world on the lower screen as well so that makes beating this game really easy. I was in level 
 7 and had only 30 Extra Lifes... I tapped and went back to Level 1 and got all the way back up 
 to 99 in a minute! Being able to do that makes this game very easy!
  
  There are a lot of Mini Games that comes with this game. So if you ever get really tired of playing 
 the main game you have 18 of those to choose from! Everything from playing Poker with Luigi to 
 Rolling a giant snowball thru a course and alot more! There is also a mini game where you can play 
 Mario against Luigi if you have another person with a DS. This package just has so much to offer... 
 you will always have something to do when you start it up!
  
  In conclusion, this game is probably a great choice for you if you already love Mario and or have 
 played any of the previous versions from the past. While it is short in gameplay... I feel it has 
 some great replay value to it. Maybe not the game you will pick up everyday and play... but after 
 you beat it it would be a great rainy day game or for that long trip to keep you occupied! I personally 
 purchased it used and was glad I did because I would not have been happy paying full price for 
 it. If you loved Super Mario Bros. from the Old School Days... get this version... you will probably 
 be very happy you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome, it puts in all the features that made the original so great and a few 
 new features that will attract new generations. It brings a tear of joy to my eye to see a great 
 classic like this come such a long way! This game is a total MUST have for all Mario fans, DS owners, 
 platformer lovers, 2-D obsessers and dogs with a craving for grape soda! So, why continue depriving 
 yourself of this game? Get out there NOW!
  
  Features you will love: Length of the game, all the different power-ups, new multiplayer, fun story, 
 good gameplay, beating Baby Bowser, Getting that old favourite, the mega mushroom.
  
  Features you will hate: the nagging feeling that it isnt that different from its predessesor, Cheep-Cheeps 
 being Cheap-Cheap, The horrible death of Bowser on the first Bowser castle, Peach getting kidnapped... again... and 
 again... and again, Dry Bones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Ok if your wondering what exactly this game is. Take the original Mario Bros game on NES. Update 
 its side scrolling engine so its modern and 3dish. Then take all the past side scrolling Mario 
 games and take content from those and throw them into this. You now have NEW Super Mario Bros!
 
  
  I haven't had a feeling like this in a long time. It brought me back to the days of... well actually 
 various side scrolling mario games! Alot of times you'll play and be like "Hey thats fromor 
 "Hey its a Boo mansion!". 
  
  The game plays out like this. Well obviously story is princess kidnapped by bowser. Ok technically 
 kidnapped by Bowser Jr. You go and rescue her. Nothing new there. The map in game is that of Super 
 Mario World. Where you advance from stage to stage and can unlock multiple paths and go to mushroom 
 houses to get items, lives... etc. Good choice.
  
  In game the maps are all themed based as is the style of the older marios. And the characters are 
 updated with some new but most original but more modern graphics! As you advance in a level you 
 see a meter at the bottom of the screen that shows how far you are to your goal (the end/the boss) . 
 It even shows when you reached a checkpoint. 
  
  Theres also three slots to show how many coins you got on the level. These bigger coins allow you 
 to buy things in game and unlock blocked paths on the maps. Also on the bottom is a spot to hold 
 extra items (fire flowers.. etc) . You tap it when you want and it falls on you!
  
  In game they didn't bring back that many items besides the basics. Mushroom, Fireflower, Star. 
 Then they have the Big Mushroom which makes Mario fill up the screen. You then run as far as you 
 can and demolish everything in your path. The more you destroy the more one ups you get. Theres 
 also a minimushroom. Which of course makes you small. This is more of a strategic item since there 
 are alot of hidden things in game that require you to be small. Downside to being small is you 
 die in 1 hit and can't kill anything (unless you butt stomp) . 
  
  They also added a "shell" item. When you use it you can hit the button (like with a fireball) and 
 you hide inside your shell and are invincible in it... well besides falling off a cliff. And if 
 your running and equip it you'll slide across the ground like a turtle shell. Its useful but probably 
 under used.
  
  There are some negatives to the game. For one the bosses. Well after you face them you wonder where 
 the real bosses are. They aren't even a challenge. I am pretty sure a toddler could beat one. 
 
  
  Some levels if you are trying to get everything and be picky which I was sometimes you go through 
 lives faster then you can count them. Sometimes the design of a level doesn't really give you ANY 
 idea on what to do so you'll jump off a cliff thinking somethings there because thats the impression 
 it gives you yet you find out.... theres nothing there.
  
  Lastly if you decide to make you complete every level and get to every world the game is still 
 short. It took me three days (after recharges) to beat it and go back and finish some things. Kinda 
 of let down after all the fun I had.
  
  There is some additional mini games to play that you can play separate of the game itself and you 
 can play some sort of fighting game with a friend even if they don't have a cartridge. 
  
  Overall its a great game and despite the easy bosses and pain in the butt coins to get its really 
 fun and brings back great memories. Just a little to short for me. I'd rent it first is possible. 
 But if your a die hard fan the buy it because you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Who does not know the good and old Mario?
  New Super Mario Bros. Is a game for the Nintendo DS platform, which unites the game in 3D graphics 
 in a 2D environment. The game is Super Fun and continues to please everyone. Simplismente Mario 
 is the former with several innovations, mixed with elements of other marios. In this addition to 
 Ambientao in 3D/2D, puts items, objects, enemies and various other things of all ous other marios. 
 
  There are also several extras in the game as taking the special coins of the game you can open 
 alternative routes, new stages, new roles of wall to the menu, new houses of nida and items and 
 more. That game was also added the super mini mushroom and mushroom, which when you catch the big, 
 you grows and leaves destroying all of scenario, and then with its destruction, she points total 
 to win depis life. With the mini, you can pass on decreases in tiny places that only you can pass, 
 but in return you is very weak. The Bosses are very good and also to face the rest of the game. 
 Ultra-Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technocactus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Don't expect a revolution on this game. It's close to the formula of other Mario games, and that's 
 a good thing.
  The graphics are as simple and pleasant as you might expect. Very clean and very colourful. The 
 sound is a joy, full of fitting music and sound effects. One of the new additions is the mega mushroom, 
 but that's minor, and level 1 aside, is only needed to get coins.
  Gameplay-wise, NSMB is as fun as ever. If you want to blitz through the game, it'll be simple. 
 Easy puzzles allow you to do that. If you try to get all the coins, that's a bit tougher. You're 
 required to use Mario's various bonuses to beat obstacles, and even 2 of the worlds must be unlocked 
 using them. A few unique puzzles are a joy to play through. There's a lot of variety in the boss 
 fights, even if almost all of them follow a similar pattern. Occasionally the levels can feel a 
 bit similar on the worlds, particularly on the ice world and water world, but they're still entertaining.
 
  One of the few downsides is minigames (as though you'd use them anyway) . Very few of them are 
 any fun, and those that are quickly lose their fun.
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is well worth your time. Sticking to a winning formula with a sheen, 
 Nintendo delivers an impressive game with unique levels. Good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshmansonic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  this is exiting! writing a review again. super mario bros..... you think back to the old days again.
 
  but this game is much more.
  
  its a 2D world with 3D characters! the music is cheery, its reasonably challenging, the levels 
 are awesome, and its mario! everyone loves that plumber, going through pipes, jumping, stomping 
 goombas, etc.
  
  the new powerups are sweet, too. mini-mario, giant mario, koopa mario, and the usual mushroom and 
 fire-flower
  
  the enemies dance to the music!! "bah, bah"
  
  the gameplay is like the old school SMB3, with an overworld
  
  the mini games are fun, using 
 the touch screen.
  
  i give this game a good rating, but i feel a bit of mario is missing, damn!
  
  also, there 
 is not much storyline, but the gameplay is the meat of the game
  being so fun!
  
  i like this game, and after trying it out from my friend bananapieman.....
  
  I WANT TO GET 
 IT!!!!!!!
  
  happy gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros reminded me of the old Mario Bros. side scrollers while taking advantage of 
 today's new technology. I love going back to my Super Nintendo and playing Super Mario World, but 
 there's just something magical about playing an all new game, as opposed to one that's been released 
 before. New Super Mario Bros. delivers the old school feel that many of us have been chasing for 
 the longest time, while giving it to us in a brand new package, instead of just a package with 
 enhanced graphics or 2 more levels not seen in the original. New features, new level designs, and 
 even new characters make this a game I will play for years to come, until it is dubbed "Old Super 
 Mario Bros." While I will not stop playing the old games on my NES and SNES, my DS is now among 
 the systems giving me that old school entertainment that I so desperately need. It's simply quite 
 refreshing, and the game is completely solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Remember the glory days when video games became friends with your TV? Yeah, and now we take that 
 for grantit. Also remember the old Mario games? Yeah, and now Nintendo has made a remake of that, 
 and as it's title goes, it is the New Super Mario Bros game.
  
  Most or all of the level designs are the same, it's just now it has 10x more graphics power. It 
 is still the same as before, you go down the flag pole to finish the level. There is still a time 
 limit. Mario still has lives. Mario still dies. It is simply everything Super Mario Bros but with 
 some added flavor.
  
  There are a few new items. One of them you've probably seen on a commercial a couple years ago, 
 the Mega . What happens is when Mario gets one of these, he becomes collosal for a limited time. 
 The more damage he causes, the more one up s you'll get afterwords, max of 5.
  
  Another new item item is a blue shell. What this does is it makes Mario have a shell on him. Now 
 if he runs long enough, he will act like a koopa shell and start spinning around and hurt any enemies 
 in his way. Also new is a mini that turns Mario in Mini Mario. What this does is it makes him smaller. 
 Now he can run faster, but he is also more vulnerable to enemies. One hit and he's . Plus to act 
 like you jumped on an enemie and , you have to ground pound on them. Of course you can just get 
 a or fire flower to turn back to normal.
  
  You can also hold one item in this game. It can be a spare , fire flower, mini , shell, or a mega 
 .
  
  There are many other things to this game that I don't want to spoil, so I'll just move on. There 
 are some minigames available to play, I'd say around 15. But there are some more also, but you 
 have to be in multiplayer to do that. Speaking of multiplayer, there are some great features packed 
 in here. 
  There is Mario vs. Luigi, where you try to collect more stars and whoever reaches a certain amount 
 first wins, and they have to win a certain numer of times. There is also the same thing for minigames, 
 up to four. During this, you can play minigames that you couldn't play by yourself. The neat thing, 
 you only need one game for multiplayer!
  
  All this game is is a remake of Super Mario Bros plus some new stuff, but it is a fantastic remake 
 that adds graphics, sound, and more to a game thats been around for maybe a decade. If you are 
 a Mario fan, this is the game for you. Even if you aren't though, you should still give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. might be the youngest of the 2D Mario platformers, but by no means is it 
 a slacker.
  
  Presentation wise, it most reminds me of Super Mario Bros. 3, if it had 3D elements. However, in 
 this game, Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser Jr.. The story may be very thin, but it's the classic 
 platforming that's the star. There's plenty of classic-feeling Mario levels in here, but they're 
 meshed in with new takes on infamous designs. 
  
  The game sticks to 2D gameplay, but utilizes 3D visuals against vibrant backgrounds which lends 
 the game a very attractive "pop-out" appearance. 
  
  Sound is on the money, with very effect and tune that comes to mind when you think of Mario alive 
 and well.
  
  Gameplay is very much classic as well. There's only two button commands apart from walking, lending 
 a nostalgic feeling for NES control. The only DS-esque control ability is to touch the screen to 
 activate a held power-up.
  
  There is a wireless multiplayer mode available from the start, but save from that there's not much 
 to keep coming back once you've beaten the game.
  
  While I did enjoy playing New Super Mario Bros., there's ultimately not much "New" here for video 
 game vets. Even so, it's another superb Mario platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros. realy is what it's title sugests. It is a NEW super mario bros. It has the 
 good old fimiliar feel of the first three super mario games, but adds some new little things to 
 keep things from feeling like you have done this before. If for some reason you don't already own 
 this game, then what are you waiting for? GO BUY IT!!!! It is worth every penny. Although if all 
 your going to do it play though it once, then your probably going to be disappointed, because it 
 only takes 5 or so hours to beat. But if you plan on playing it multiple times (and once you play 
 though you will want to play though meny more times) I have played though it at least 10 times (at 
 least) and have put countless hours into this game, and I beleive you will to. There is also a mini-game 
 mode, which if you haven't played super mario 64 DS then will be great, but if you have played 
 all the mini-games before in super mario bros 64 DS you will be disappointed, because they copied 
 the mini-games straight from that game. Except a few are new. And last there is a small multi-player 
 game where you compete for stars. All in all this game is spectacular! So go buy it, I'm sure you 
 will enjoy.
  
  Good: Superb story mode.
  perfect controls.
  nice visuals that are very vibrant.
  You will surely play though multiple times.
  Lots a nastalgia.
 
  
  Bad: most of the mini-games are ripped from a past game.
  story mode could have been a bit longer.
  why arn't the backgrounds 3D???
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crittercat303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8.5
  Tilt: 10
  
  Well, its mario, what can you say? Its the awesome classic gameplay that doesn't feel old. The 
 controls are great and there's no difficulty in controlling your character. 
  THe visuals are cute and easy to look at, and they add a great feel to the game. And, of course 
 the game had the classic super mario music as well as some new music to make the game new. 
  
  This is a fantastic game that will make you want to come back and play your favorite stages 
 again to collect all the stars. It has really good replay value because after you've finished all 
 of the stages, you can go back and try and collect all the star coins, which takes a considerable 
 amount of time. And by collecting the stars you unlock different backgrounds for your bottom screen. 
 
  
  Aside from the main game, you can play and arrange of mini-games which are quite fun to play but 
 after a while they lose a bit of there fun. 
  But the great thing is is that you can download play with a friend and play mini-games against 
 each other, which is good fun. You can also download play the classic super mario game with a friends 
 in which you madly race arounfdthe 5 stages and try to collect the stars before the other person.
 
  
  Overall its a great game that any gamer should have. Its a fun, addictive, classic game with fun 
 gameplay and great fun levels that will have you coming back to play them again and again. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIndianChild
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  
  I played my first Mario game way back in the late 90's . Back then , this game was truly a classic 
 , no doubt , and in 2006 , Nintendo decided to remake the great Mario classic that really kick-started 
 one of the greatest video game franchises of all time .
  
  But did it work out ?
  
  Well , personally , I felt that this game is way overhyped . 
  
  It definately manages to grasp 
 the feel of the previous Mario platformers of the 90's . The visuals are great , and Nintendo has 
 done a great job in mixing the 2D and 3D visuals . The music is just as good as the graphics , 
 with great soundtracks that really go with the level you're in . 
  
  Gameplay ? Well , the same old running from the left of the screen to the right , and oh yeah , 
 Mario's prized attack , the JUMP-SQUASH { is that what you call it ? eheh :P } 
  
  There are a variety of enemies and bosses to go through , and a variety of PowerUps to collect 
 as well , like the Big Mushroom PowerUp-that transforms mario into this huge giant that crushes 
 everything in his path-Turtle PowerUp , Mini Mushroom powerup , and then the usuals .
  
  But all is not perfect about this game . 
  
  The enemies don't pose any challenge to our plumber 
 friend , even the bosses . In short , this game is a total cakewalk from the beginning to the end 
 , and the new powerUps make it even easier . 
  
  And the game is way too short for its own good . You can get through all the 8 worlds in a day 
 or two , and probably 2 days more , if you want to collect all the Star coins . 
  
  But hey , that's just at times , because otherwise , the game is really fun to play . I would've 
 given this game a higher score , but I'm sorry , the lack of challenge and short length are things 
 I just can't look past . Nevertheless , this is a really great platformer for the DS , and if you're 
 a DS owner , and a Mario fan , this is a worthy purchase .
  
  8/10 
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS is a game that anyone should own. It's un-debatable, 
 you must own this game if you own a DS. While the gameplay is old like the NES and SNES eras, it 
 still feels as new as ever, even with all of the old gameplay mechanics that you fell inlove with 
 so many years ago.
  
  The graphics are simply superb. They are top notch for a DS game. The sound is great too. There 
 are some classic tracks to be found as well as some great new ones. The characters even dance to 
 the beat in this game. How neat! The gameplay is perfect. The controls are so spot on that you 
 will have no excuses if you die.
  
  This is a great game and is worth every hard earned penny that you (or one of your parents) spent 
 on it. While I highly reccomend this title, I do not advise people who are only into straight up 
 action games or people who didn't like previous 2-D Nintendo titles. But other than that, this 
 game is a must have! Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXmarker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is basically the same old 2-D side-scroller but with new moves and power 
 ups and new 3-D graphics. If you're a fan of the classic Super Mario games for the NES, then you'll 
 love this. Some things were missing like the cape from Super Mario World on SNES and Yoshi isn't 
 in the main game, but you can find him in the wide variety of mini-games.
  The mini-games are, in my opinion, pretty fun. It makes use of the DS touch pad and mic, and they're 
 quite challenging. While the main game is more fun, I sometimes leave the Mario game just to take 
 a whack at the mini-games and try to beat my high scores.
  You can grow big, shrink to pint-size, and even roll around in your own koopa-shell. The classic 
 Mario power ups including the mushroom, flower, and invincibility star are still here, and usually 
 provide the most use since you don't usually find these new power-ups often. The boss battles are 
 fairly entertaining, though quite easy, especially if you have a flower power up. Some boss battles 
 will have you trying again, but you can usually beat them in less than a minute, bringing you back 
 to the side-scrolling action.
  New Super Mario Bros. is a fun game and one of the best games for the DS. There is no online play, 
 but you can battle it up with nearby friends who own a DS. There are multiplayer mini-games and 
 a star-collecting game that is quite fun, but a co-op game would of been pretty cool if done right. 
 So even with the lack of Yoshi, co-op or online play, and a cape allowing you to fly, New Super 
 Mario Bros. is a great game and anyone with a DS should pick it up and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Maniaco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is plus a game of the Mario for ds. Nothing of very amazing in this game controls 
 and simple graphics. The Game starts when to bowser kidnaps the princess and one more time Mario 
 goes safe it. The Controls consist of: X and Y = Dash, A and B = Jump, if do not use stylus no 
 game, the graphics are almost the same ones, now are a mixture of 2D with 3D, scene in 2D personages 
 in 3D, between the surprises do game we have a Mario that giant can become and to destroy the scene 
 for one all determined time or a Mario that can become very small and to pass for pipes and a box 
 that only fly of time in when us scenes bringing a surprise this the remaining portion all already 
 know. The Only one to put of the game is the system of save, you cannot save the hour that to want 
 what it becomes the frustrating game. One more time Mario comes back with its style that nobody 
 never forgets for the fans good it and old Mario with its musics classic of all Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  
  I'll never grow tired of this formula, just the simplistic nature and fun of the 2D Mario games 
 makes them addictive.
  
  Like in all 2D Mario games, you scroll from left to right (most of the time) jump from platform to 
 platform, avoid obsticles such as getting crushed by thwamps or pillars, falling into bottomless 
 holes and lava, saw blades, avoid enemies or jump on them to squash/eliminate them and try to make 
 it to the end of levels.
  
  There is segments you have to swim, and follow moving platforms, stay ahead of the scrolling screen 
 without getting crushed or pushed off platforms. There is now ice that is slippery, snow or desert 
 sand you can sink in.
  
  Once again you gain powerups though mushrooms that let you grow bigger and absorban extra hit, the 
 flower that lets you shoot fireballs, and new ones such as a giant mushroom that lets you grow huge 
 temporarily and crush everything in your path, and a blue rocket shell that lets you slide across 
 areas fast and invincble to enemies but it's hard to control and you go sliding across platforms.
 
  
  There is also a power down mushroom, that lets Mario become tiny (so tiny he cannot kill enemies 
 by jumping on them) but it allows you to access secret levels and worlds.
  
  You can explore the green pipes as always, some of them send you shooting very high and a great 
 distance, and some stages volcanic eruptions means you have to avoid many boulders falling from 
 the sky and watch out you don't fall through holes in platforms created by them. There is also segments 
 you climb too and can punch enemies off a metal gate.
  
  The wall jump from Super Mario 64 is added for some puzzle elements deliberately tacked on to make 
 you use it, but it can save your life a few times if you miss a jump.
  
  Like in the original Super Mario Bros sometimes you defeat Bowser by hitting a switch and making 
 him fall in lava, other times you just jump on the bad guys or knock them down first with a turtle 
 shell and avoid jumping on them when their spikey shell is placed up.
  
  You can search for star coins, they is 3 each level and a certain amount of them allows you to save 
 your game instantly without having to make it past a tower or castle.
  
  I can't really fault the gameplay, some people say it's too short or too easy but I thinkt he difficulty 
 and game length are just right for a portable console (Where a lot of the market comes from casual 
 gamers and kids)
  
  The environments you travel through include lush green countryside with the beautiful castle in 
 the  and icy caves, forest, under-water and tropical locations, under-water, areas 
 with lots of colorful springy mushrooms, mountains and cliffs, volcanic wasteland and dungeons and 
 castles. You see details like pyramids in the desert and quicksand, palm trees and beautiful sea 
 water in the tropical location, flowing lava coming out of volcanoes etc.
  
  The environmments are very colorful and also have 3D effects.
  
  Mario's body movements look 
 more fluent now. (it took a while to get used to but after a while you realize how great it looks 
 to see him with flowing body movements)
  
  At the time it was the best looking game on the DS.
  
  The music contains all the original 
 tunes from the Super Mario games, they are redone to sound cuter (although I prefer them the original 
 way)
  
  When you get the mushroom and flower power ups you still hear the great power up sound.
  
  
 Overall-If you love Mario or want a great 2D platformer for the DS, look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenkill
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best Super Mario Bros game yet. I've heard some reviewers reporting this game 
 to be somewhat easy compared to the other SMB games, but I'd like to differ. This game is just 
 as difficult, if not more, than the other SMB games. 
  
  I love the fact they are continuing the 2-d side scrolling and not solely creating 3-d games. This 
 helps bring back some much needed nostalgia but with a huge refresher!
  
  The new power-ups are just as much fun and perfect for the game play with the Koompa Shell, Mega 
 Mushroom, and Mini Mushroom. They did remove the other power-ups SMB3 added though, but I think 
 this was a conscious decision so that the abilities and power-up list do not get out of control.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  This game is a must have for any fan of the Super Mario Bros Series. You won't be disappointed 
 in the least bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nulvix
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, this game has the Editor's Choice award on Gamespot. It has a high rating with excellent 
 reviews and people saying you should play this game, it's so worth it, and it's worlds of fun, 
 no pun intendant. Well I have to say it... I hated this game. Here's why:
  
  The levels. They're short, they're long, they're hard, none are easy. Some may say that this adds 
 gameplay to the value because no game should be too easy. This is true, but all the levels are 
 hard. And to get to world five and seven, you need to meet the requirements to get there. And if 
 you do, you can't go to worlds four or eight. It's ridiculous. They have poor graphics too, not 
 that great being 2D, and not done well for 2D.
  
  The Characters. On the original game (super mario bros 3) you could play as Mario and Luigi by 
 yourself so it was easier to get through the worlds. Now you have to not only have someone else 
 around, but they aren't helping you win, they're trying to stop you from winning in a race to the 
 finish. Not only that, but their health meter remains the same. If you're even touched you lose 
 a life, and this can be extremely frustrating on longer levels, and when you have few lives left. 
 Several times has it happened to me where at the end of a long level I get to the boss, and I die. 
 I spent over an hour working on one level in world 2. Just because mario can't take a single hit 
 in this game. 
  
  The music. It was boring, didn't advance the story, was all midi, cheesy, repetitive, and annoying 
 at times if you have to replay a level a lot.
  
  The story. The story was a disaster. Peach and Mario go on a walk. They see the castle. Castle 
 is attacked. Mario runs off. Bowser Jr. sees Mario leave Peach. Bowser Jr. kidnaps Peach. Mario 
 runs after Bowser Jr. The whole thing is too short, very unrealistic, and the only reason we travel 
 through all the worlds is because Mario isn't quick enough to catch the stupid guy when he's lying 
 down defeated after a fight. It's uneventful, painfully simple, and it makes you do a lot for nothing 
 but a damsel in distress AGAIN.
  
  The graphics. As I mentioned earlier, they weren't that great. Sure it's a DS. But really... 2D? 
 And even for 2D it was bad. I mean COME ON. If you're gonna make it 2D, make it GOOD 2D. It was 
 poorly done, and the 3D mario was very sharp and rough in movement.
  
  Controls. While seeming simple, they were actually quite challenging. Mario doesn't always jump 
 when you want him to, and to make things worse, he's extremely hard to position between things. 
 This can lead to an easy death. If you quickly tap the button to move, he won't. If you press it 
 longer, but not much, he moves a lot. It's really quite pitiful. 
  
  Replay value. After beating the frustrating game once, and for no point at all, why would you want 
 to go back? Sure, to explore the worlds you missed like 4 and 7, or 5 and 8. Either way, there 
 isn't much else, so it really isn; t worth that much.
  
  Minigames. I'm sorry, but they were the same ones in Super Mario 64 DS. I've played those enough. 
 Not only that, but they were boring to begin with. I didn't enjoy this feature very much at all, 
 except when I wanted to fall asleep.
  
  Overall this game wasn't great, and I spent more time being angry and frustrated than enjoying 
 myself. I'm not that bad at games, but I really struggled with this one, and I know others that 
 did too. For a mario fan, this was a total letdown to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Super Marios Bros:
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is like the classic Mario games. You jump and step on enemies by landing on them. 
 The classic levels are back and so are a few new mushrooms. The Super Mushroom makes you really 
 huge and it is a really awesome addition to the game. There is also a tiny mushrom that makes you 
 really tiny. Minigames are pretty fun and boss fights are not too hard. Overall, awesome gameplay. 
 9/10
  
  Graphics:
  The gmae has really nice graphics for a DS. The 2D animations look really wonderful and stages 
 look really nice. The monsters look nice and so does Mario's classic fireballs. Colors are vivid 
 and sometimes, the animations look a little 3D. Overall, Great graphics on the map and in the game. 
 10/10
  
  Sound:
  There isn't really any voice acting and some classic themes are back. The classic themes sound 
 awesome like when Mario dies. New themes have been added and they are a nice addition. I only wished 
 Mario said "Mummamia!" when he was dead. Overall, sounds did a great job. 9/10
  
  Value:
  The game is pretty long and should take a while to beat. It's worth picking up and Mario fans and 
 platformer fans will love this classic remake. 10/10
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, The game was really awesome. The platforming was reallly fun and so were the minigames. 
 This game is easy to pick up and hard to put down. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Nearly twenty years have passed since Nintendo released the last of the three Super Mario Bros 
 games, and during this long span the gaming world has went through some big changes therefore it 
 is inevitable that once you start planning to bring an old series back to life you will need to 
 adapt this game to the current requirements of the market. That can be considered a risky move, 
 but when it comes to the most successful gaming series ever  that is loved by both old-school 
 and new gamers  the chances of failure are close to null.
  
  And that's what happened with New Super Mario Bros. Mario's newest DS adventure brings the timeless 
 side-scrolling formula to the 21st century with success. On the surface the game may look simply 
 like a graphically updated version of the NES titles, but deep down there have been some big changes 
 and additions while keeping the nostalgic feeling and simple formula intact.
  
  Once you turn on your Nintendo DS you will clearly notice that Nintendo has opted to keep everything 
 as simple as possible. While the DS hardware would allow them to create a long boring opening cutscene 
 they decided to give you the minimum of information possible, all you will see is Baby Bowser appearing 
 and running away with Princess Peach, that's all you need to know in order to go through eight 
 worlds and tons of stages avoiding endless pits, squashing Goombas and killing Koopas.
  
  The gameplay is as straightforward as possible. Take control of Mario and jump around stages to 
 reach the goal and advance to the next one. Get to the world's castle, defeat a boss, and chase 
 Bower Jr. into the next world. But it is noteworthy that some small surprises have been added.
 
  
  Now on each stage you will find three hidden Star Coins that can be used to open locked paths. 
 These paths can either take you to another stage, to a Toad House  where you can get some power-ups. 
 So if you don't want to miss a single secret of the title you had better be ready to look for those 
 coins, but if you don't care about secrets and just want to have some fun then you can just ignore 
 them. Some stages also present a feature that made many gamers lose many nights of sleep during 
 the SNES era. The secret exits are back and they are once again necessary if you are looking for 
 full completion. Clearly the replay value has increased a lot due to those additions.
  
  The graphics are really good. The character models are on 3-D and since this is basically a side-scrolling 
 title it gives the game a unique look. The scenarios gained more colors and life due to this upgrade, 
 but it may be disappointing to some players to know that most worlds and their themes are mere 
 copies of Super Mario Bros 3's worlds, for example: there is the Desert world and the feared Water 
 World. But don't worry there a few ones that have original themes. The soundtrack is composed of 
 remixed old songs and new pieces.
  
  Although it is a great Nintendo DS game, New Super Mario Bros also has some minor flaws that will 
 be noticed by more experienced gamers. Some stages are way too short when compared to the current 
 standard, they would probably be quite good if the game was released over ten years ago, but nowadays 
 they are not lengthy enough. 
  
  Speaking of length, New Super Mario Bros is indeed a short title. The problem here is that difficulty 
 used to be what made old games long, and while this game kept the same gameplay as its predecessors, 
 the challenge level has not been maintained, therefore you will cruise through the game in less 
 than six hours, especially because you won't need to cross all of the eight worlds in order to 
 beat the game  two of the worlds are secret. This has probably been done to please Nintendo's 
 growing casual audience. However, as I mentioned before, the replay value has been increased, so 
 once you finish you will feel compelled to go through this amazing adventure once again.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros is a great game for both old gamers that miss the side-scrolling 
 Mario adventures and new gamers that would like to know the origins of the world's most famous 
 mustachioed hero. But keep in mind that the former group may feel that difficulty is lacking in 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is top and I mean top of the line. When you play this game you will feel so dam good. 
 I just bought my copy and I just can't stop playing it. The story so far is good. The moves on 
 this game are so outrageous that you wouldn't even think they could be done on this type of game. 
 The graphics are also cool and better than the old Mario game. Get it as soon as possible. You 
 will be satisfied and I mean it. This game is worth the price. Nintendo is doing very well with 
 the DS. Mario is going to take this company further into the future.
  
  Mario is one of the best game 
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakdude799
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros has 8 worlds each world has 1 mini castle, and 1 castle that gets you to the next 
 world. Okay know for somthing that can be useful world 2 has a secret on the last castle you have 
 to be that tiny, tiny mushroom guy and you have to beat that last castle with it and then you get 
 world 4. World 5 has that same secret but world 5 with the tiny, tiny mushroom guy you hae to beat 
 that worldwith that mushroom and then you get world 7. I have world, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7so 
 I have both secret worlds and all I need is world 8 so I can beat the game. Oh ya I just rememberd 
 world 8 has 1 mini castle, 1 medium castle, and 1 huge final castle. Super Mari Bros is really, 
 really, really fun you will have a blast playing this game. Thre origanal character that you play 
 with in this game is Mario but there is a secret to play with Luigi see all you have to do is hold 
 down the L and R buttons when it says Mario game, Mario vs Luigi, Mini games, and Options you click 
 Mario game but you still have to hod down L and Runtil you click your file and then you have Luigi.!.!.!.! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tratendo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  The most fun anyone can have with a video game is playing Mario. Same mechanics make this game 
 instantly feel like an old friend. Mario's new adventure brings a few new power ups but the tried 
 and true Mario formula remains the same. Like all Mario games it is simple to play but really difficult 
 to master. Finding all the secret levels and worlds will keep the more seasoned gamer interested. 
 While simply completing this game should make anyone happy. The mini games and multilayer modes 
 are great bonuses by them selves. They are simple yet very addictive. I have found that even people 
 who don't normally enjoy video games find themselves hooked. I played a vs. battle with one of 
 my friends and I felt like a kid again. A vacation to the mushroom kingdom is always refreshing 
 and this one is no exception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has diserved a hype like this because it has improved by the way they have made a secound 
 adventure Mario game on the ds like this and i feel and see it is a great game. So lets check out 
 some more things about the game
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of this game is good but i think they should change the just jumping on bad guys in 
 order to kill them. I think there should be a new action button to kill or hurt the opponent by 
 doing something different like kick punch, find a sword in one of the ? mark boxes. I like the fire 
 Mario in this game it is so good and the thing i like about it is it is frequent so you just dont 
 jump on bad guys you get to use some fire power.9:0 GAMEPLAY
  
  Characters-
  The same characters in every mario game, mario, Princess peach, toad, and a new villian. Well he is 
 not new if you have seen him in Mario strikers charged football, the villian is Bowser JR Bowsers 
 son.
  
  Boss Fights-
  Some of the Boss fights should be harder expecially the first 1 of every World. Bower JR trying 
 to take on mario by just running at him very slow is not going to much. That was my only bad thing 
 about the Boss Fights.
  
  Levels & Worlds-
  There are many levels in this game and 8 worlds probbaly having about 8 levels in each. The levels 
 should be harder which is a let down and could be a further problem if carried on because soon 
 enough people are going to get bored by doing easy levels. The levels are goodly designed, there 
 is a Swimming levels, jungle, snow and many more.
  
  Overall-
  This game will be great for every mario fan out there and is a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EOC-93
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  When you want a game thats just fun to play and will last you until you want to put down your DS, 
 you've just found one. There's no doubt that if you want to build up a nice DS collection, this 
 should be in it. But I wouldn't give it a 10/10.
  
  I was dssapointed with the lack of use with the stylus. Although there's mini games that are touch 
 screen only, it would have been interesting to see a stylus feature apart of the mario adventure. 
 Despite what the review for this game says, I really enjoyed the mini games, even my da had a go 
 at the card ones.
  
  My favourite thing about DS games is multiplayer modes, but unfortunetly I never got the chance 
 to try it, because my game was stolen, so I have nothing to say about multiplayer.
  
  My favourite thing about this game was nearly every level has a new aspect to it. One level may 
 be primarily trampolines and another swinging from ropes, and that keeps your interest in the game.
 
  
  No DS should go without this game, it is an exceptional game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a return to the classic 2D gameplay of the NES days with updated graphics 
 and a few new moves. So, if it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, it must be a duck right? 
 Well yes, but this a video game. New Super Mario Bros. may look and play like a rehash of the old 
 school NES games but it is far from it.
  
  Then again, to say this game won't feel familiar would be a lie. The same sounds, mechanics and 
 plot (come on Nintendo, either put a leash on the princess or give the girl some mace) you've come 
 to know and love are at work here; Nintendo even simplified the controls to two buttons. Fortunately, 
 there's enough new content to keep this game from feeling like a cash-in on a popular franchise.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. borrows a lot from different games in its history, probably the most from 
 Super Mario Bros. 3. You'll move from level to level on a world map, visit Toad in bonus mushrooms 
 and have the option to hold on to a power-up to use at another time (sadly, this game only lets 
 you keep one on reserve) .
  
  The similarities to the old games are inevitable, and at times, you may feel you've played certain 
 levels before, but those times are far outweighed by the fresh experiences. Rope swings, falling 
 volcanic rocks, and launch pipes are just a few of the new obstacles you'll encounter, not to mention 
 three new power-ups, including the giant mushroom, mini mushroom and turtle shell. You won't be 
 using the new items as much as the fire flower, but they're welcome additions.
  
  Speaking of the fire flower, much like the previous Mario installments, if you can manage to hold 
 on to it, the boss fights will be a breeze. The genius level design is thrown off by the relative 
 ease of the boss fights, but hopping on Koopa three times has never really been the allure of the 
 Mario games. The star of NSMB is the fantastic level design. There are plenty of hidden coins, 
 secret warps and alternate routes to keep you playing long after you beat the final boss.
  
  Those that have played Super Mario 64 DS will recognize most of the mini games thrown in and 
 while it might have been nice to see a few more, those provided are a fun diversion. There's also 
 a multiplayer mode available that's fun for a little while but ends up in the same category as 
 the mini games: fun distraction.
  
  Overall
  New Super Mario Bros is an expertly crafted platformer. The graphics are gorgeous, the music, though 
 familiar is still great, and the gameplay is top notch. It should come as no surprise that the 
 red and green duo responsible for so many years of gaming goodness still have it.
  
  Purchase?
  Who doesn't love a good Mario game? It's entertaining, challenging, nostalgic fun. 
 A must have, and a great addition to any DS collection.
  
  *This review was previously posted under my old username APWC
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Great graphics; easy controls; varied levels; awesome music
  
  CONS: Too short; way too easy; not enough voiceovers; plot seriously lacking; where's Yoshi?
 
  
  An old-school Mario platformer for the DS? Count me in!
  
  OK, maybe not. This game isn't what it could've been.
  
  At first glance, this game looks amazing. 
 You can turn into a gigantic Mario and blaze a path of destruction like General William Tecumseh 
 Sherman did way back in the American Civil War. This is only fun the first few times because it's 
 only applicable to certain levels. Some of the levels have absolutely no use of the Mega Mushroom 
 because of low ledges, huge gaps, and not enough stuff to smash through. Also, using a Mega Mushroom 
 makes Mario immortal from any enemy attacks. And it's not easy to fall into a hole unless there's 
 one beneath the entire level. This makes any level it's applicable to 100 times easier than it 
 could be.
  
  Overall, this game is way too easy to be worth $35. I bought this game two days before a vacation 
 and I was already 75% of the way through before the vacation started. That's a huge problem here, 
 Nintendo. You made this game way too easy. The Mega Mushrooms make some levels way too easy. Also, 
 there are cannons on some worlds that will launch you three worlds ahead, making you able to skip 
 two entire worlds. There are also two alternate routes, which shouldn't be optional because the 
 required levels don't take long to get through. I didn't expect to beat this game in three days 
 because Super Mario World for the SNES, which is a better game, even today, took me about a month 
 when I was five years old. In addition, this game doesn't have the cool stuff that that game had. 
 Where the hell is Yoshi? Mario fans adore the green dinosaur, and he's completely missing here. 
 That completely blows. Also, instead of getting a cape to fly with, we get a Blue Koopa Shell. 
 The control of this shell is completely clunky, so it's unusable on several levels. When you run 
 for a short distance, you duck into the shell and have to let go at the precise time or you'll 
 fall into a gap. You'll die more often using the shell than you'll die when you're not using it. 
 In fact, this game is so easy that you'll rarely die when you're not using the shell. Since the 
 Koopa Shell isn't that easy to come by, it's a relief. It's only semi-useful in the first because 
 you'll miss your enemies because you have to jump correctly while in the shell. Overall, the shell 
 is a huge letdown because they could've taken it out to make room for a flying cape, or better, 
 YOSHI!!
  
  The on-foot controls are solid here, although Mario does slide a little bit after you stop running. 
 This can be used to your advantage in specific situations, and you'll be using it only a couple 
 times. The game doesn't use too many buttons, so nobody will have any trouble mastering the controls, 
 but it might take a little bit getting used to how Mario moves here. You'll eventually forget it's 
 there, like I did. Fortunately, I remembered it when I wrote this.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful by DS standards. A 2D sidescroller in 3D? Awesome. The 
 characters are wonderfully rendered and the environments feel cool, even though they are completely 
 recycled in any given world. Also, the music is amazing. It modernizes classic Mario tunes, but 
 there's still enough good stuff to keep the old-school fans entertained in the three days they 
 play this. Some of these tunes will be stuck in your head, others won't. Overall, the graphics 
 and the music are plusses here.
  
  The plot, however, is a letdown. Some explosion occurs at Princess Peach's castle and when Mario 
 goes to investigate, Baby Bowser snatches Peach from behind his back. Mario chases the little brat 
 all over the map. That's all. There are towers here, and Baby Bowser is the boss in every one of 
 them. He only has two fighting styles, one of which is used in the first six worlds. Nice going, 
 Nintendo, you forgot to change it up a bit. There's also a castle at the end of every world, in 
 which there's a bigger boss. Only one of these bosses caused head pains. Another one did when I 
 had to go back as Mini Mario, where you need to beat the boss when you're the size of a grain of 
 rice so you can get to the alternate world. There are two instances where that occurs, and both 
 are pretty difficult. Those are the only times where this game is challenging, and they don't fit 
 in with the rest of the game's easy levels. You'll use Mini Mario a couple other times, too, but 
 mainly just for a while. Mini Mario isn't that easy to see on the screen (it's not as well done 
 as on Zelda: The Minish Cap, where there's a bubble to see where you are) , and if you touch an 
 enemy, unless you ground pound directly above it, you die. It'll happen. A lot. Some levels require 
 you to use a stored Mini Mushroom in a specific spot to get to a star coin, which are used to access 
 huts which save the game when you do so. You only get one save per hut, and these huts provide 
 you with items. There are free life huts, Mega Mushroom huts, and Mushroom huts (where you can 
 get a Mushroom, Fire Flower, Mini Mushroom, or Koopa Shell) . These also help make the game incredibly 
 easy. And you can only save the game by spending five star coins on one of these, or beating a 
 tower or castle for the first time. This is aggravating at times. There are three star coins on 
 each level, and there are several that are so easy to get that you wonder why they're even in there. 
 You'll have no problem getting several star coins, so saving the game won't actually be a problem. 
 But you can actually beat the game without using any huts in only three days. Not even the free 
 life ones because it's so easy to get free lives. The game placed them everywhere, and 100 coins 
 = free life. There are so many coins available to you, and you can even get free lives by causing 
 major destruction with a Mega Mushroom. My point is: Nintendo made this game way too easy.
  
  The levels, however, are all pretty awesome. Some of them are too short, but there's variety 
 aplenty here. Each of the eight worlds has unique levels. Whether you're riding an elevator platform 
 higher into the sky, delving into an underground sewer, riding on the back of a giant Wiggler, 
 or dodging molten rocks, this game has quite the variety. Several of these levels are fun, however, 
 several of the other levels appear recycled, and some of them in later worlds feel like repeats 
 of older ones. And, plus, the difficulty doesn't change throughout the game. The same enemies- 
 Koopas, Goombas, Bullet Bills, and Boos- are used throughout the entire game. The difficulty never 
 increases, making some of the later levels feel nearly identical to some of the earlier ones. Other 
 levels are unique and fun the first time through, but there's only a handful which you'll want 
 to play over and over again.
  
  I am saying that this is a good game, but it just doesn't live up to the hype. It could've been 
 a whole lot better than this, too, if Nintendo wouldn't have made it easier than making cookies. 
 In fact, it takes longer to make three batches of cookies than it does to beat this game. Don't 
 buy New Super Mario Bros. Rent it. It's not worth paying $35 to buy a game that you'll beat in 
 two or three days when you can rent it for a week for only $8. And since this game is the same 
 every time through, it pretty much has little replay value. They did add four-player minigame action, 
 but it's the exact same minigames as Mario 64 DS. There's a head-to-head multiplayer mode, which 
 is very similar to the main game only with two players facing mano a mano. None of this could save 
 this game from the score this game is getting. New Super Mario Bros. is a letdown. I hope that 
 a "newer" Mario game comes out after the PSP's death that makes it clear that Nintendo rules the 
 handheld market, because this one proves that Nintendo doesn't want to challenge their gamers. 
 New Super Mario Bros. is entertaining while it lasts, and that's not a very long time. A 6 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erkidu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  -Overview-
  
  Taking Mario back to his roots, Nintendo released New Super Mario Bros. Instead of following the 
 trend and making Mario's latest adventure 3D, Nintendo instead chose to develop this title with 
 3D visuals in a 2D environment. Once again, the Princess is kidnapped, and it is up to Mario to 
 save her.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  Pretty straightforward here. Running from left to right and avoiding obtacles. This game definitely 
 remains loyal to the type of gameplay that makes Mario stand out from the rest. The addition of 
 a multiplayer mode is interesting, but ends up being a fantastic asset - provided you have a friend 
 around. I felt that the level design, while interesting and original, left a bit to be desired.
 
  
  -Graphics-
  
  While not a powerhouse, New Super Mario Bros. is a plethora of aesthetically pleasing colors and 
 animation.
  
  -Sound-
  
  While the sound effects are appropriate, I found myself becoming relatively annoyed at the music. 
 Upbeat and cheerful at first, it quickly becomes surprisingly repetitive, which, of course, is 
 very unusual for Nintendo developed games.
  
  -Presentation-
  
  The overworld is a mix between Super Mario World and Super Mario Bros. 3. Everything is pretty 
 straight forward here - from the menus to the space-moving hammer bros. For some reason, I still 
 felt that there was something missing.
  
  -Value-
  
  One of the biggest gripes I have with NSMB is its length. I was taken completely by surprise when 
 the game ended - and felt that it should have been at least twice as long. The multiplayer functionality 
 does serve to add a good bit of replayability, though.
  
  
  -Overall-
  
  A definite for Mario fans, though some may find the game's length dissapointing. The visuals are 
 charming and the gameplay is solid, I can't help feeling, though, that some aspects of the game 
 were a bit sloppy, such as the musical score and overworld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaunyP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a classic game that's been polished, and updated for the new generation, 
 without losing it's original appeal. While many games that have gone back to their roots have lost 
 gamers interest, NSMB shows that if you try hard enough, you can re-vitalise the magic for anything. 
 It's a good-looking 2D platformer with 3D graphics, making it 2.5D, it re-delivers the classic 
 Mario charm to the younger people who never knew that there was once 2D games. Whilst it looks 
 brilliant, sounds brilliant, and plays brilliant, it has a completion time of about 2 hours max 
 for the old-school Mario veterans. Like Super Mario World, however, this gem has a lot of replayability. 
 With multiple exits to some of it's levels, and the star coins you're encouraged to collect, you 
 will be spending a long time finding them all! Overall, however, this new addition to the Mario 
 Bros. family is a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  As the last original Mario sidescroller was Land 2: The Six Golden Coins, which was released fourteen 
 years ago, it seemed the Mario sidescrollers were doomed forever. What seemed to be the final nail 
 in the coffin was SM64DS, which proved that the DS could handle a 3D Mario game. But no, Nintendo 
 is at it again with their latest platforming masterpiece, which rivals even SMB3, NEW Super Mario 
 Bros. 
  
  NSMB is not, as my friends and I originally thought, a remake of Super Mario Bros. Instead, it 
 is a compatilation of all the things that worked in previous Mario games - the map complete with 
 moving Hammer Bros., the sick enviromental effects (both SMB3) , focus on platforming skill more 
 than powerups, tight play control (from the original) , and Mario's staple moves like butt stomps, 
 triple jumps and wall jumps (Super Mario 64) . It really combines all the things that made past 
 Mario games great, and does so with a new sense of style. 
  
  Play control is tight. Just like the original, you have complete control over what Mario does, 
 from running slides to midair direction changes. The level layout also rocks, with teeter-totters 
 and Spin-Jump pads around every corner. And the enviroments are cool, too, with snow falling from 
 trees and quicksand pulling you down. To sweeten the deal you now get cool new gameplay elements 
 like the small ledges in W6 and the Loch-Ness monster guy from SM64. 
  
  As I said, the game doesn't focus on powerups as much as, say, SMB3, but the powerups are still 
 there. Take the now-famous Giga Mushroom, for example. How 'bout the Blue Shell, which turns you 
 into an invincible spinning Koopa Shell. Or try turning into tiny Mini Mario, who can run on water 
 and float when he jumps. Powerups are there, yes, but you won't need them as much as in past games. 
 
  
  The graphics are reminisent (spelled wrong lol) of Super Mario World, except now in 3D. All the 
 characters have been animated quite well, and the finished package is cute and easy to look at. 
 Also, I can't get the sound out of my head. The tunes are cheery and I love the way all the enemies 
 and powerups dance along. Mario's voice acting isn't spectacular, but it sure is great to have 
 some sprinkled in. 
  
  I am simply in love with this game. New gameplay elements and sweet new powerups abound to make 
 one old-school package. If you're one of those morons who think 2D has no place in the next generation, 
 get this game and shut the hell up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bengino
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  After always being disappointed over titles that simply did not cut it, there was a sense of worry 
 about this not being as fun as it was on the NES console. Low and behold this game is a hit, there 
 is not one detail about this game that isn't good, the graphics and the music are still enjoyable. 
 the added features (grow mushroom and shrink mushrooms) are a nice touch, but it does frustrate 
 one that has to be in a certain mode to get to a world they would normally access.
  
  I do also like the feature of being able to jump from world to world at a simple click of a map, 
 that in itself is great. I also don't entirely mind not fighting Bowser all the time it makes for 
 some different scenarios, which again is refreshing because it does not stray too far from the 
 original. All and all if you worry about this game disappointing you, take a dive and have a look 
 at this, you will not be misdirected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrachulaX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ah, yes, Mario is back. And this time, it's not a sports game. Mario and company return to their 
 roots and damn is it fun. 
  
  Princess Peach is once again kidnapped, this time by Baby Bowser. So Mario must chase after his 
 beloved and battle through worlds and dungeons to save her from the clutches of evil. Wow... sound 
 familiar? That's because almost nothing has changed. But like they say: If it isn't broken, don't 
 fix it. 
  
  Like all the classic Mario games, story is not important. What is important is running through 
 each world, collecting power ups, and defeating bosses. That is what really keeps this game going: 
 remembering how much fun the old games were. Those games are still fun now, and this is the perfect 
 example. All of it is here, to the running and jumping, to the fireball caps and evil turtles. 
 
  
  What is different, however, is both good and bad (of course there's more good than bad) . Mario 
 is now 3D, and so are some of his surroundings. The 3D is great looking on the DS without pushing 
 the system's limits (a good thing) . The only negative additions are the new power ups. Turning 
 SUPER big is a cool idea, but doesn't change up the gameplay very much. Turning small is only useful 
 for getting into certain areas. So these power ups are not necessarily bad, just not that useful. 
 
  
  The rest of the game is put together very well. The music, other than a new jingle, is the same. 
 The look and feel of the game is just the same as the Nintendo entries. Nothing else is really 
 new: its just good old nostalgia coming back to us. 
  
  The game's replay value, however, is somewhat scarce after you beat the game. Once you find all 
 of the gold tokens in each world, there's not much else to do. It is a fun game to pick up and 
 play now and then, though. 
  
  Until we get a new Mario game, New Super Mario Bros. is the perfect nostalgia trip for all ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's Mascot has done a lot over the years. He's raced, played sports, go into RPG's and partyed 
 liked it was 1985. But if there's one thing we can say about him, We haven't played a new 2-D Mario 
 game. Now we can says we have. In a name that was obviuse, New Super Mario Brothers returns and 
 brings the series to it's roots, and does a fine job. The storyline to this game is that Bowser 
 JR kidnapps Princes peach and Mario has to, yet again, save her. It's simple, it's kid friendly, 
 and it's starting to get a little familular. The dezien goes to Super Mario World element. You 
 can see the world form a top down prespective, and go of the multiple pathway. You can go into 
 different Mushroom houses to get to different power-ups or lives. The game's world are lengthy, 
 but you have to get to 2 worlds with power-ups. The gameplay is everything that a 2-D Mario game 
 has, the controls are tight, since you just have to master 2 buttons. The gameplay is still the 
 basic gameplay of you jumping and shooting fire balls. Mario has most of the moves he's learnd 
 in his the 3-D games, Like the wall jump, Butt stomp, and Triple jump. The new power are abound. 
 You have the Mega mushroom, which makes Mario huge and takes up the whole screen and be invincible. 
 The Mini-Mushroom make Mario small where he can run on water, Jump higher, and get through small 
 places. Last is the turtle shell which lets you run and go and destroy everything, and richocet 
 of blocks and what not. Your not gonna find a better game with gameplay like this. There are also 
 mini games which are just simple and plain addicitive. There's also a multiplayer were you and 
 a buddy can get stars as you battle each other. There's really no problem with this game, well 
 it can get a little repeative after a while, but that's about it. Graphicly, New Super Mario Brohters 
 is one of the best looking D. S games. Mario moves smoothly, and the Music is fully redone with 
 old tunes redune and some new tunes. New Super Mario Brothers is a prime example why we play video 
 games, Pure un-adulterated fun. It's perfect for kids for all ages, and if you need a Mario fix, 
 it will do fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewit_Gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a great game and becomes an instant classic.
  With many worlds, levels, bosses, minigames, multiplayer games and more in this game it makes this 
 game terrific.
  
  The main game:
  The actual game makes you (mario or luigi) trying to save Princess peach. You get through many 
 levels and attack different bosses and each world gets harder and harder. You meet different oponents 
 and reveal many different secrets. You can unlock different things too and there are many other 
 different items you can collect.
  
  Minigames:
  There are many minigames in the game and most from Super Mario 64. Some are really fun and many 
 grow on you.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer games in New Super Mario games are disappointing, You play with other people and try 
 to get the stars. It gets fun for about 15 minutes then gets really boring.
  
  Overall:
  8.5/10
  Its a great and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgfytr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, Nintendo should be able to come up with a actual good saving system. But no... They 
 want to give a challenge... Well tell ya what, I think just the little save thing screwed the whole 
 game from fun.
  Now that's out of the way, the graphics are great. Once you play this game, you'd say: "No wonder 
 it's the NEW Super Mario Bros.!" The background shines in the game, no matter if you notice it 
 or not. You might say that the background is a waste, but if you take it away, it'll be he worst 
 game you ever played. The foreground gives you a taste that makes you say: "Magnificent."
  The music, oh, it gives SO much to the game. I can tell you this much: it's as fun and appealing 
 as the old one's. Nintendo has survived through all this revamping of the music through every single 
 SMB game, and is still able to make it more 'fancy', but yet still take obtain the same old 'taste'.
 
  Overall, the game is great, and advised for the patient and long-period players, as you need some 
 to survive through the whole saving phase. You need some skill, as the levels can go from easy 
 to fun to appealing to tough to plain hardcore. Also, if you're a Super Mario Bros. fan, what the 
 heck are you still waiting here for?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great! When i got it for Christmas I was super duper excited! I immediately plugged 
 it in and started haveing fun. It is a great edition to the series of 2D scrolling games. It has 
 some new things like star coins which allows you to buy some cool things. They also added the super-shroom 
 that makes you really big and you can run through alot of the coarse. It seems like when they made 
 this game they shoved a huge amount of content into one little game card. Its like trying to put 
 a full grown wooly mammoth into a small box. They also added the feature of mini-games to this. 
 They are very fun mini-games that are great for party's and just for having fun! I really recommend 
 this game. After a while it seems like it grows on you and you will spend alot of time playing. 
 The graphics are really good to be honest. They also added the 2 player feature of Mario V. S Luigi 
 and you and a friend will battle for stars. That is if you have any friends... Anyway it is a great 
 game that will leave you with a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojayosc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Mario returns yet again with another amazing game , New Super Mario Bros. Where to start with this 
 one well for one thing the graphics are amazing goodbye old 2d mario welcome in the 3d which seems 
 to have made the game what it is , fun. There are loads of fun maps to play on aswell and its a 
 good thing you can have fun while acomplishing your goal of rescuing princess peach from bowser. 
 The things that mario can do are good aswell especially when you get my favourite big mario where 
 mario grows to an enormous size for a limited period of time he can also turn into tiny mario who 
 is also fun to be and sometimes necessary to crawl into small spaces and lots more like fire mario 
 and shell mario. Sometimes this game can be a tiny bit annoying when you die just before you get 
 to end of a level , but that cant cancel out the awesome graphics and the amount of fun you have 
 when you play this game. So if you have a ds please buy this game because i can garuntee you wont 
 be dissapointed because you have so much fun !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up the New Super Mario Bros. I thought it would be just another sidescrolling 
 Mario game, (yet again?) But it wasn't quite. It wasn't even quite much of a 2D sidescroller, it 
 was more of a 3D sidescroller, as you could see the 3D effects in the levels/worlds. The new pick 
 of mushroom upgrades are bliss, and the thrill of completing every single level FULLY is godly 
 fun. I really enjoyed this game and I still play it today. It's one of the best Super Mario games 
 yet. And if you have a DS, enjoy Mario games, love Nintendo, or are a just a gamer who meets any 
 of those requirements ;) , then this is a must have for you.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisman101010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  okay this game is pretty awesome i mean mario, 3-d, clasic side scroller, hat more is there? but 
 the game loses major points from its shortness. i mean sure 4 a kid its great, itll take em pleanty 
 of time, but for a guy who thought it would take a month it took me 2 weeks to beet it 100%. so 
 in the end it is way to short but awesome everything eles. aside from that u have 8 awesome worlds, 
 plenty of power ups, and the just plain great mario, and luigi if u beat the game. yea theres multiplayer 
 but dont go thinkin its a halo game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyboy_shredder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I finished the main run of the game, and am still working on all of the hidden levels, 
 but at this point, I am a little dissapointed. I can't say that this is a bad game, because it 
 isn't. It's a great game, with a lot of great levels and interesting challenges. However, it falls 
 short of what I wanted from the game. Innovation and new ideas hindered the game where in the past 
 they enhanced the gameplay. For example, the tiny mario mushroom makes me dread going out in search 
 of more levels. Also, I am sick of the mario series sending me on a treasure hunt to look for special 
 coins or whatever. In Super Mario World, the dragon coins were just to get you an extra life in 
 each level. The three coins in this game help you unlock little bonus houses and such, and that 
 is a distraction to me as I am trying to finish the game. Things like this shouldn't be how you 
 unlock more levels and such, but your ability to seek out new things in the environment. I also 
 lament that the maps in this title aren't as well drawn out and designed as mario 3 and SMW. These 
 are the things that made Mario World and Mario 3 so incredible, and I can go back to those easily 
 where I don't see myself going with this title. Still, it did give me the sweet nostalgia of the 
 classics without actually playing those titles. I just wish that I could revisit this one like 
 I do the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonidas123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I've got this game with my new DS, and i have to say i was pleasantly surprised. Unlike newer super 
 mario games, this one is a classical 2d platformer, with really nice 3d graphics thrown into the 
 mix. 
  
  The gameplay is classic as well, with some tweaks that make mario even more powerful than before, 
 which may or may not be annoying to you. As far as level design goes, it's really good and a lot 
 of effort has been made to make levels different from each other, so there is always surprises 
 and new obstacles for the player to overcome. The only exception is those middle of the way towers 
 and mini bowser battles, which get annoying after a while.
  
  Sound is also great, the player character's now get voice overs similar to those in SMB64 and other 
 newer games, and music is good too.
  
  Now for the weak side, the game is a bit short if you simply breeze through and don't care about 
 secrets and stuff. Probably you won't be spending much more than 1 hour per world that way, which 
 equals about 6 hours to finish the game (6 worlds are needed to beat the game) . If you thoroughly 
 explore the game multiply this by 2 or 3, depending on how good you are and so on.
  
  For another positive thing, this game also comes with 18 touch screen minigames, which can be played 
 at any time you want, unlike SMB64 where you had to unlock them before hand. Although the total 
 number of games is less than in SMB64, the good ones are in (i like card games the most) .
  
  So in the end, the game is good fun, the graphics is great, the levels well designed but a 
 little short. Regardless, this is one of those games every DS owner should have in their collection. 
 It's still quite a bit away from perfection however. NSMB 2 perhaps?
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  This is a remake (I think) of the original Super Mario Bros for NES. It's a very good game and 
 will be the best starter of the series for you if all you have is a DS.
  
  9/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  It's classic Mario, there's 8 worlds and 2 of them are unlockable, the last castle in World 
 8 is where you fight Bowser and finally save Peach. Some of the levels were a bit tough to collect 
 all 3 stars, but most of them were really easy. 
  
  8/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The graphics are very cartoonish, and it's all 2D. Nothing wrong with that though, I like 2D. The 
 sound effects are good, but there is no voice acting. Some good Mario tunes in there too.
  
  7/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  Not much to do after you finish unless you didn't get all 
 3 stars for each level. There's also a batch of minigames to play that are like Clubhouse Games, 
 except they're Mario themed.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  I loved this game, but it was too easy. I completed the game without dying once, not on my first 
 try, but I did it. If you like games like that, then pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Now you can able too control Mario once again, new puzzle, New places to explore and more more 
 things for you to do in the New Super Mario Bros. If you love Mario games then this game is for 
 you. Still fun game to play and own this game has everything that it has before. If you like the 
 old one this one is still great too have still fun to play. Some of the puzzle are easy in the 
 beginning but once you progress through the game it's get even more harder. You can play some mini 
 Games with your friends as well. The music is still a classic, still good up to date graphics, 
 still the same story to help the princess peach. Same characters that appear once again, Still 
 the same control as the old one. Fun but newer Mario, more things such growing larger or smaller 
 to fit into the pipes. Well if you are Mario Fan buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genstar2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the best of the 2d Mario games. Yes, it's even better than the two masterpieces 
 known as "Super Mario Bros. 3" and "Super Mario World" which is very impressive. Those were my 
 two favorite games growing up. So what makes New Super Mario Bros. so good? Well first of all, 
 ground pounding, wall jumping, and the triple jump are all in it. This was an awesome idea and 
 a very welcome addition. It makes the game feel really good, and when whenever I play any other 
 2d Mario and I'm about to die, I attempt to do a wall jump to save myself since I'm so used to 
 doing it in this game. Another thing that I think makes this game the best of the 2d Mario's is 
 the multi player. I really like it because It's actually simultaneous instead of a co-op like in 
 the other 2d games. That, and the fact that it's really fun. The graphics are sleek, smooth and 
 fun to look at. The music is catchy and fitting, you can play as luigi in 1 player mode by holding 
 L + R when opening the file, it's portable, and the game has really good new power ups like the 
 giant mushroom, tiny mushroom, and koopa suit. I only have a few complaints about this game. For 
 one thing, it's a bit on the easy side. And two, there was not flying power up. Flaws aside, this 
 game is a classic which probably won't go recognized in the future because it's portable. Just 
 look at super Mario Land. You don't see too many people reference it of remember it, especially 
 compared to the home console Mario games. Anyway, pick up New Super Mario Bros. if you ever get 
 the chance. $30.00 is a steal for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros. review
  
  Intro:
  This game is one of my favourite games it is so fun you can do so much things what you could not 
 imagine like jump of walls! It just a great game so if you are intending on buying just buy it 
 and you wont regret you will have so much fun going through all the events what mario has to go 
 through the has 8 worlds full of unpredictible events!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really really good even though all you really do is just walk on a straight path 
 doesnt mean the graphics are going to be crap! the graphics are good because the charcter who you 
 be (Mario) is 3-D and also the enemies are 3-D shaped as well and all the platforms like mushrooms 
 or floating ground are all 2-D and that makes Mario stand out very good! As i said the graphics 
 of this game a kool!
  
  Basics:
  In this game you can make 3 files which is really good because then if you finish the game you 
 can make another file if wanted. There are other games in the game what you can play with your 
 friends in DS download play. The 2 games you may play are mario vs luigi or you can play mini games 
 the mini games are fun and so is mario vs luigi but i would rather mario vs luigi because then 
 you can run and find stars or jump on each others head and make the oppent die!
  
  Story line:
  The story line is just like all the rest of the mario games but isnt the big bowser 
 that steals peach it is bowser jr and you must follow him all the way to world 8 and recover princess 
 peach! On every world you have to vs 2 bosses there is usally one in the middle of the world and 
 one at the end some bosses are really easy and some arent because you dont only vs bowser jr for 
 example at the end of a world you may come across the reall bowser from the classic games!
  
  Thankyou: 
  Well that is all i know its not much but thats it thankyou for listening to my 
 review!
  
  Nintendo Paradise rules!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Brothers, what a classic, but this version is amazing. From all of the mini games to 
 choose from and the regular mode, you will be playing this for hours on end. Okay, so Bowser captures 
 princess Peach and you have to try to save her. This game play is so much better from the original. 
 Many more things you can do like get really big or really small or be a turtle. It's very cool. 
 I like also how there is a "baby" Bowser in this game. You also have to go through his little wussy 
 castle also, as well as his dad's. Anyways if you get a DS you should definetly get this game. 
 You will love it. If you like the classic Mario games into 2D and 3D in one game you will most 
 likely love this game. I would definetly reccamend it to any age of audience for some fun for the 
 family. And to finish it off, all I have to say is get this game! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero254
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the first review of my new account. I bring you a review of New Super Mario Bros for 
 the DS. When I booted up my DS for the first time, I had but one game to play. This is a good return 
 to it's 2D roots, while giving it some good style. It has a new plethora of Power ups, too. From 
 the old, like the Fire Flower, to the new, like the blue shell. The levels are also themed. So 
 far, the themes are real decent enough, but they are all the same. Mario, also faces off against 
 other than Bowser over & over. Multiplayer wise, you can also pit the Mario Bros. against each 
 other even with one DS card. They also recycled the minigames from Super Mario 64 DS. If you don't 
 have that, then you can play them on this game. The gameplay is nostalgic, & there are some 3D 
 moves in there. The controls you still need to get used to, but are still decent. Also, hearing 
 from others, the game is short. Get this game if you still like Super Mario. Personally, It's pretty 
 good. Get it if you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is a remix but its even better!!! you get to eat giant mushrooms and well you d probaly 
 know.... but any ways i just got it for x mas and opened early the price fits and its amazing!!!! 
 there are mini games that keep you busy and when your bored you can send it to a person who dosent 
 have the highly game and play together and play with people who do its soooooooooo fun i h recommend 
 it its fun for the whole family!!!! and always stuff to keep you busy on long trips and just when 
 your bored i recommend it for any one who has 35.00 $ in their pocket. a 
  MUST BUY FOR ANYONE AND EVERYONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimairawr
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend, hoping for something similar to Super Mario Advance: Super 
 Mario Bros 3 from the GBA. But what I found was a disappointing game.
  
  My main problem is it is the difficulty level. The game is ridiculously easy. I mean seriously. 
 I got through the whole thing in one continue visiting only a few of the green mushroom houses. 
 A bit of increased difficulty would go a long way.
  
  Then there's Mario's powers or whatever you choose to call them. Huge Mario, tiny Mario, shell 
 Mario etc. These themselves are very fun to use, but the game rarely gives you the opportunity 
 to and only on a few occasions do you ever actually need to. If it had incorporated these elements 
 better, then maybe the game as a whole would be better.
  
  But that's not to say it's a bad game. While it lasts, there's a fair amount of fun to be had. 
 The replay value is okay, with the coins to be found on every level, but if you miss them the first 
 few times chances are you won't find them.
  
  So overall not a terrible game, but one that could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smootheyes2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros seem like the same old Mario Bros game, and it is, but with heaps of new things 
 and levels to unlock. It follows the same story of Princess Peach getting kidnapped by Baby Bowser 
 (this time) and you have to beat bosses in each of the castles. All of the levels are new, and 
 there are 8 worlds to unlock and play through. The game scroll to the right as usual, and all the 
 old monsters are there, with a number of new ones as well. The idea of the game is basically the 
 same, but there are many extra things to do. For example, there are 3 Star Coins on each level 
 to collect in hard to reach places. There are also some new versions of Mario (and Luigi) . There 
 is the Koopa Mario and Mini Mario, with the same old Super Mario, Fire Mario and Invincible Mario 
 from a Star.
  
  The game Visuals are really good, there are no glitches and everything look great. The sound is 
 really good, with a variety of different songs. The gameplay is especially good, with the control 
 of Mario being the biggest part.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros is a really fun game with lots to do and unlock, that will last for 
 hours and hours of continuous play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666rain999
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  It's like they made a Mario that continues the 2d version. It's staggering to watch Mario Grow 
 as big as the screen and destroy the level itself. Graphics are smooth and solid, If there was 
 something id pick bad about this game is the "Minigames" Some of them are just down right pointless 
 and annoying. But hey, if Mario is what you're lookin for and you own a DS you must at least give 
 it a try. Mario also shrinks down very tiny so he can fit in the tiny tunnel as well as the normal 
 sized tunnels, which gives it another boost in exciting gameplay.
  
  The first few castle are easy but when you get into, boy! does it get hard. Good Job Nintendo, 
 I hope for a sequel.
  
  If you want to watch people play it, then go on youtube and check it out before you make you're 
 decsion about buying it, it seriously is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaRaRandy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is wonderful. It has so many things to remind you of the old days, and it doesn't bore 
 you like an old game would if you played it today. It plays like super mario bros, but it is so 
 different at the same time. You get these mushrooms that either make you huge, or super small. 
 These do effect play. There are little tiny walkways that you can only get into if you are tiny. 
 When you are big, you crush everything in sight. There is also a Koopa-Troopa Suit. You can get 
 a koopa shell, put it on your back and knockout a bunch of enemies nearby. This game is one of 
 my most played on the go AND at home when I'm bored with the television program my mom is watching 
 lol... I also recommend getting Zelda: Phantom Hourglass and Mario Kart DS. Those are my favorites 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a recreation of the ever-popular Super Mario Game. Once again, you'll be scrolling 
 across the screen while dodging goombas, koopas, and those plants that spit fire. It's worth a 
 try but not the best game ever. The game may get a little old after awhile, because you may feel 
 like it's all the same level.
  
  But still, it brings back the virtues of the original game and more. You'll have a blast seeing 
 the new fire Mario in action, collecting coins, and jumping for the flagpole. New graphics make 
 the game interesting, and the boss levels will have you straining your jumping abilities. In all, 
 the game is worth playing for a simple and fun single player Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playzone913
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is one of the best Nintendo DS games EVER. This is a must buy for all of 
 the Mario fans out there. I have it, and I must say, it is a real major keeper of a game. I do 
 not know how I got bored of it on my first copy of New Super Mario Bros., which I gave to my cousin 
 in exchange for Super Mario 64 DS. Then I bought it again, and I got permanently hooked - never 
 to deny it again. This game, New Super Mario Bros., is in my top 10 DS games, and will stay there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  9.0? really! a fair bit odd. A good game if fairly easy obviously it's used the old super mario 
 bros' stuff but it's gd. I haven't played much as it's not really my game it's my brothers but 
 what? a 9.0???? what is going on here it's getting more than the 1st super smash bros and mario 
 kart double dash it's nothing special. Being luigi is no different than being mario luigi jumps 
 no further nor does he run any faster there's no point in it except let it still be classified 
 as a mario bros game. I'm about 3/4 the way through and it's fun. No doubt about that it's got 
 minigames from mario 64 DS which means it's fun 1 player and multiplayer the battle isn't very 
 good though. Just 1 another flying around and attacking each other 1nce 1 of you has the flower 
 power. 7.5 from me. meowcow22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shodean
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Mario is back and has done it once again although considered too easy and simple by many players 
 i find that that is what makes mario games so good the graphics are some of the best i have seen 
 for the ds and the straight forward gameplay and set up means you dont need much of a story to 
 go with it besides the normal peach kidnapping scenario i believe this is one of the best games 
 on ds to date and will probly keep playing it even when newer better games have been released i 
 love this game just like all the mario games before it and hope that mario is a franchise that 
 will continue forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Too easy. 2E. That's All I have to say. But If you are into that classic sidescrolling mario action, 
 then why not get this. It is kind of like super mario world 1-3 and yoshi's island but with a little 
 more 3dish look to it (like ssbm) . The multiplayer is fun ... while it lasts. And after you beat 
 the game, You still want to collect all the coins and find all the hidden pathways in each world. 
 So overall, yea ... get it. but don't expect it to be a dangerously hard and long game. Besides, 
 it's a mario game ... you HAVE to have it in your collection. right? so go out and get it now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borvis2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  well i only played the demo but the demo is awesome once again im saying in my opinion the game 
 is awesome im gettin a ds for christmas and im gettin that i loved the classic game and i love 
 that so pick it up NOW i already know the last boss dosen't i'll tell ya bowser cause he's the 
 last boss in almost every game so that's why i know plus he is the last boss on the original game 
 so there you go well the game is flawless so buy it now please i am begging you buy it do something 
 good please please that's the end of my freakout darn it i was planning not to freakout this time 
 bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game had me addicted. I played it for almost seven hours straight. That was until I got to 
 the level with those crows. Ugh, miserably annoying. This is just like the classic, but with an 
 edge. You know, how you get power-ups like Koopa Shell, Mini Mushroom, Big Fat Mushroom, and the 
 classic Mushroom and Flower. I really hate the one hundred word limit for these reviews with a 
 passion, because this is all I have to say. No, seriously, guys. This is all I have to say! Believe 
 me! Please! Come on, people! What the crap is with this limit?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The5biggies
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This will be one of my shorter reviews, so here we go.
  New Super Mario Bros. is actually the only real Super Mario Bros. 2D platform in a while. As Nintendo 
 has almost been wasting their time with 3D platformers and party games (oh, how I hate those repetitive 
 minigames pasted into one game) And now, finally they have the good ol' Plumber's roots back. That..... is 
 a very good thing. And is pretty much what makes the game such a success.
  
  The game goes on with the well-worn plot of Princess Peach, of course being kidnapped by someone. 
 So the story, in my opinion, is not entertaining to even the slightest degree, which can be a major 
 flaw in, well pretty much all Mario's succesful games. And there are virtually NO twists or turns 
 or whatever, cause you go through level after level of jumping looking for Princess Peach, we need 
 a new plot!!!!
  
  The gameplay is probably the best aspect of most every Mario game, and there is no exception here. 
 That just may be why he holds 6 of the Top Ten best-selling videogames of all time. This time, 
 he's went back to some of his most famous roots, and simply jumping left and right, breaking mystery 
 question mark boxes, and mushrooms and flowers and whatnot. 20 years ago it was fun, and it still 
 is. There's not much to say... you............. jump thats pretty much it.... Though it does sometimes 
 feel kind of rehash-y, if that was a word.
  
  The graphics are well done, and the models are full 3D and the backgrounds are still nice and cartoon-ish, 
 and kind of look like drawings, which adds a nice peppy excited feel to the game.
  
  The sound is of average Mario standards. With dings and boings at appropriate times. The voice 
 acting is basic. Just things like Wooooooo-hoooooo! And Mama-Mia! during certain events, though 
 you may have to turn your sound off from the repetitive effects. If it wasn't for the music which 
 is mostly great.
  
  The value is, umm... averagely average, and much less so than other Mario games. And that's pretty 
 much all I can say about value. Sorry about that.
  
  All in all, New Super Mario Bros. is a suprisingly entertaining rehash of old Mario games with 
 a few new features added in (like the Mini Mushroom and the Giant Mushroom, it should be self-explanatory 
 what they do,) and is reccomended by me for a purchase if you have a DS and one of the better DS 
 games.
  
  P. S. Sorry this review was kinda short, (like my first two reviews :P) but I'll make my next review 
 longer!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy105
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: A great anniversary present for Mario's original adventure; great attention to detail; 
 very polished; great tunes
  
  THE BAD: Not much new with this game
  
  It's about darn time we got a new 2D Mario game. How long has it been? 12 years? I'm not sure. 
 But that is a long time. But it's the 20th anniversary of the original Super Mario Bros, and as 
 an anniversary present, Nintendo created New Super Mario Bros, a brand NEW Mario game. We should 
 be excited for this. And we sure are. It's not as good or revolutionary, in fact it doesn't add 
 anything new at all, but this game is a quality title.
  
  The premise of the game is simple, short and to the point. Mario was taking Peach for a walk, Baby 
 Bowser taps Mario on the neck, Mario looks back, Baby Bowser nabs Peach and runs away, and Mario 
 is left there wondering what just happened. It's comically simple how something like this would 
 end up into a huge chase over 8 worlds. And that's about it. You just got to love how Nintendo 
 sets up their Mario games.
  
  Mario and Luigi control about the same as they did in the NES original, but they also borrowed 
 some moves from their 3D adventures. Mario can now butt stomp, spin attack, and wall kick. They 
 add a bit to the level design, requiring obstacles that could not be passed in past 2D Mario games. 
 They are still controlled with both the A and B buttons, with B to run and A to jump. You can switch 
 them around if you like to choose which one works best for you.
  
  The graphics have been altered a bit as well. Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser and most enemies are 
 now in full polygonal 3D. Doesn't do much for gameplay, but it improves a lot for the visuals, 
 as 3D characters animate much smoother and are more flexible. There is also great attention to detail. 
 The enemies are usually there to get you, but when a certain notes for the music play, the characters 
 do a dance move! It's very impressive how the little things stand out.
  
  The music of course is also great. Just like the title says, there is also new music composed just 
 for this game, and it's very well. It successfully manages to capture the happy feel and joy of 
 jumping and running on the game, It's catchy as well. The sound effects are recycled however. It's 
 not a bad thing, but we should be encouraging new sounds after 10 years.
  
  Do I have all but praise for this game? Almost...... but not quite. No game is perfect. But the 
 Mario games have done close to that. Does this game live up? If you were expecting Super Mario 
 Bros. 4, then you will be disappointed. New Super Mario Bros is like a sequel to the original Super 
 Mario Bros., but not a sequel to the later Mario games like 3 and World. Then again, Nintendo did 
 this on purpurse, but it would be nice to have a new Mario game that builds upon Super Mario World, 
 instead of take a step back and take a different road. Some will say the game is easy as well, 
 but that's not that big of a complaint.
  
  In all, New Super Mario Bros is more an anniversary present than a true next installment. Purist 
 will absolutely love the classic gameplay and the new twist, but not because it's new. It's because 
 it's old and doesn't mess with true gameplay. Like it or not, this an Old Super Mario Bros, and 
 that shouldn't be a bad thing at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWD98
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros has some great level design that takes skill to beat and fun boss levels. 
 All my friends complain that you can't save the game when you want but that wasn't to much of a 
 problem for me. There are 8 worlds but you only have to play 6 of them to beat which I was disapointed 
 about but had a fun time playing them after i beat the game. The story line is very obvious (bowser 
 captures peach and mario saves peach lol) like all the other mario games which is ok. Multiplayer 
 was a good addition to the game but when your playing it, its very nerve wracking if you know what 
 I mean cause the second a star pops out your scrambling to get it. I think the graphics are exceptional 
 without a doubt and its cool how you get to play as Luigi by holding down L and R when selecting 
 a file. A deffinent buy for any mario fan or a ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  if you liked Super Mario Advance 4: Super Mario Bros. 3 you will love this. why because Mario has 
 gone back to his old roots as a great 2d game which makes it even more exciting to get because 
 the old games started it all and they have it here well done Nintendo.
  
  in new super Mario bros. the evil bowser junior has kid napped princess peach what will our savior 
 Mario do. he runs around 8 worlds trying to get to the end can you get past the obstacles half way 
 through a world you will enter a mini castle what happens when you get to the end of the level 
 you must verse a monster thanks to bowser. jr. then at the end of the world you go in a bigger 
 castle and verse an even harder monster.
  
  the mini games you can play in the games are good because you can play table, variety, action and 
 puzzle. table has poker and all sorts of things so that is why it is not just the game that it 
 is good the mini games make it better.
  
  thats all for new super mario bros. for today until next time bye
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weirdly-Dead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  For those that owned a SNES back in the 80's-90's through out the house you would hear mario and 
 the same go's for 2007 with the release of New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS.
  This game has the same story-line as it did back in the SNES's life time (Princess Peach is kidnapped 
 and mario has to save her ass from bowser) well we dont realy care about all that mumbo jumbo you 
 may want to know about the game-play it's self well I play it off and on myself the characters 
 are now made of full polygon's which mean's there more life-like but they can still jump pretty 
 damn high.
  With that there are 8 world's spaning from teh musroom kingdom to Bowsers crib.
  There are some 
 new power-up's such as the Mega musroom which allow's you to obtain great lengh' s (Save one for 
 later and beat bowser in a breaze) the power-up's are as great as ever but what make's this game 
 so great is the fact that there has not been a new 2D platformer featuring mario in 20 year's (Holy 
 Shit!!!) .
  This game is great for old and new mario fan's alike it may not be the best bang for your buck 
 but you wont be wishing you never bought it after you beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CC-ledges1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The reason why the Super Mario franchise is sucsessful is because the series of games improve both 
 in their graphics visualization and gameplay improve in every game. With New Super Mario Brothers 
 on the Nintendo DS, it's hard to classify the game with the "new" licence.
  
  You see, in Gamespot's review, they have pointed out the ONLY changes in series. Not much change 
 has been made to the Mario franchise. Sure, you get the numerous new levels, like swimming, and 
 walking in the snow, but still the lot of the levels are the same, like Mario's villiage, and evil 
 Yoshi's castle. 
  
  Most of this game is pretty much the same. You still have to save Princess Peach from Yoshi again, 
 you still have to collect mushrooms (despite you can get large mushrooms that make you turn into 
 Giant Mario) again!
  
  Much of the fans may enjoy this game's "new" updates. As I metioned before, Giant Mushrooms make 
 Mario large, there are more new levels like entering the seas and swimming in them, and Mario has 
 a cool multiplayer system where you have to collect stars by playing as Mario or Luigi.
  
  But, those are still not enough updates to extend the video game's mileage. Most of it is the same 
 thing, wheras, Super Mario Sunshine improved on Super Mario 64 with Mario's cool water gun that 
 everyone loved in Sunshine.
  
  If you love Mario; there is no doubt you will love this, if you want more iconic and fresh gameplay 
 from the Mario series, then this title isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lafuigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Mario's reentry to 2-D platforming is an amazing title that surely belongs in the ranks of his 
 classic adventures like Super Mario World and Super Mario Bros 3. New Super Mario Bros. has the 
 same old story with new levels and abilities. In the begining Baby Bowser kidnaps Peach (what a 
 shocker!) and burns down the castle with Mario hot on his trail but you all know Bowser is the 
 ringleader of this bonanza. You start out in the classic Mushroom-styled 1st stage. Each of the 
 8 stages (with 2 that are secret) vary in environment, powerups, Toad houses which give you special 
 powerups like Mushrooms, new Mega Mushrooms, etc. and number of levels. The game plays smoother 
 that the older games based on that fact that the game is partly 3-D. Mario has new abilities as 
 well. He can wall jump a la Mario 64 and groundpound too. But in order to blast through Bowser's 
 army of Koopas and Goombas you need the assistance of trademark powerups, and the aforementioned 
 Mega Mushroom which turns you into a gigantic Mario that can pummel anything in his way. The game 
 isn't too hard for any veteran Mario player excepts in the last few stages where the difficulty 
 jumps. A problem with the game that I encountered was saving my progress in which you need to either 
 buy a Toad house with special coins you recieve in levels or newly complete a castle level. Besides 
 that the game plays like a beauty. If your tired of the main game (and if you are you have problems) 
 you can play an assortment of tough screen mini-games. I loved htis game and if you've liked any 
 Mario game before you will most likely be hooked with this portable platforming masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIV07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a very fun and interactive game for children and adults. This game uses 
 the touch screen very well it it's power-ups and mini games. Although this game is short and easy 
 to beat it but it never gets old. I love the minigames. Uses mostly the touch screen and the mic 
 for a game. The mini games are easy too but thewy are very fun and addicting. New Super Mario Bros. 
 puts all of the classic mario games in the past into one game. This is one of the best DS games 
 out there and one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The new super Mario brothers game mixes the best of new school and old school. This is one of the 
 funner side scrolling games I have played in a long time (Most games still made as side scrollers 
 now aren't very good. This one has everything from old Mario games from characters, the flag at 
 the end of each stage, warps you can find, and what I like the best hidden worlds that motivate 
 you to find and unlock them. Graphics are great 3d-ish graphics in a 2d game. Only flaw to me was 
 sometimes the jumping seemed a little off but overall this is a GREAT game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Trigger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since Mario's last 2-D platforming game, and I was hyped for New SMB. I'm a big 
 fan of any game with Mario slapped on the title, but for the fist part of this review, I will be 
 viewing the game from a newbie's perspective. If you haven't ever played a Mario game at all, this 
 is a good place to start. New SMB shows the obvious struggle against Mario and Peach. Bowser Jr. 
 takes peach for his daddy. Mario must save her (well... I guess!) . Mario goes out to save the princess 
 by venturing through 8 worlds of old school platforming action. The game is fairly easy and new 
 players will definatly feel welcome. Super Mario vetrans (like me) will be pleased with it's well 
 crafted old school feel. Power ups are from the familiar (super Mushroom, Fire Flower) and never 
 before seen (Koopa Mario, Mega Mushroom, Tiny Mushroom) . The new Koopa ability is fun, but the 
 enhandements of the Big or small mario can get a bit on your nerves (Big Mario can't get through 
 any tight places, and tiny mario is very vunerable to just about anything.) . Wall jump is included 
 in New SMB and also triple jumping (which I used hardly ever used) . Once again the game is easy, 
 but you may be playing the game a while to find all of the star coins and routes. Thus the game 
 is plenty of fun and worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone321
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I remember it like it was yesterday... Second hand NES hooked up to a 13 inch TV, Super Mario Bros 
 the only game I had... I think I've spent more time playing that game then any other game, ever. 
 Maybe I had expected too much, maybe my reaction time has slowed a bit. I find this game to be 
 annoying. Why? Well let's break it down.
  
  Controls: They just don't feel right. I missed way more landings than I should have. Run/Jump is 
 almost impossible, it feels off. I think it may be the positioning of the buttons on the DS.
  
  Levels: Some of them are fun, but I found most annoying. It's a platformer, so one can expect 
 to jump a lot, but when the very thing you are jumping to changes in mid-air, it's frustrating. 
 Water seems to play a larger part in this game then in past ones. I never cared for water based 
 levels.
  
  Story: I swear, I think Peach should hire herself some bodyguards, with very large weapons. How 
 many times does one need to rescue her? Conclusion: I had high hopes for this game, but being cheap 
 like I am I waited until it is was cheap enough (used) before I bought it. This was a good thing, 
 because if I had paid full price for it, I would be snapping right now. Most people can look passed 
 it's flaws, heck most people love this game. I seem to be in the minority a lot these days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Now a days you don't see very many Mario platformers. This game for the DS owes up for the 10 years 
 since the last one. the plot is probably to over used by now but it still works after all these 
 years. Basically Peach is kidnapped by Bowser jr. (yes Jr.) and you have to go through 8 worlds to 
 rescue her. now here's where the surprise is. you can beat the game but only have to go through 6 
 of those 8 worlds. But those 2 optional worlds are very hard. Now for the power ups. You have your 
 Mushroom and Fire Flower, but now you can use a Mega mushroom to become invincible for a short period 
 of time, a mini mushroom to rn on water and jump higher, and a koopa shell to spin around quickly. There 
 is a versus mode where you fight for stars, plus most of the minigames from Super Mario 64 DS return 
 with some new ones and a multiplayer mode. This is a good return to the Mario platforming world, just 
 don' make us wait so long for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtypoison
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is perfect for the Nintendo DS; The controls, multi player features, the 
 extra mushroom slot etc. The graphics for this game is good for being DS and the colorful environment 
 makes it even better. The difficulty is just right, just like the platform Mario games should be. 
 What makes New Super Mario bros. so great is that it brings back so good memories and remakes them 
 wonderfully; being able to hold mushrooms in extra slots, hammer bros. appearing on certain levels 
 and getting help from Toads which offers you extra lives and powers makes this game perfect. The 
 game holds lots of extra features: Several mini games which can make you sitting for hours trying 
 to beat your old high score. If you are a Mario fan... heck if you have a DS you should not stop 
 from buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what else to say. Play the game and you'll figure it out. This masterpiece boasts 
 rock solid controls, awesome level design, nail- biting multiplayer and incredible graphics. I 
 would try to describe it in more length, but I would run out of adjectives (i'd have to look in 
 the dictionary and after a long school day I really don't want to do that) . This game is WAY worth 
 the money ( in fact, i'd play 50) . It keeps you occupied for a long time. Plus it's just the right 
 mix of difficulty and fun. Kudos big N, you guys just keep gettin better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It can't get any better or classic when it comes to this game and mario. Whether you're a fanatic 
 of this or not, you can't go wrong with this game. This game keeps the great, classic mario feel, 
 yet let's go of the bad graphics which is a superb improvement! Gameplay will keep you consumed 
 and busy for a long time. Long levels, hard puzzles, and secret worlds will keep you wanting to 
 see it all. It's a defineate thrill to know that many added additions and abilities take place 
 in this game. And it kicks the end in the butt with a kill-thrill of a boss battle! (I didn't say 
 it was hard!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_hid3ous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  I got this game when i got my ds. It was major fun, while it lasted. I beat it in just two days. the 
 story is the same, princess peach is kidnapped, mario comes and saves the day, yay! of course mario 
 isn't about the story, it's about the gameplay. So let's get to the review.
  
  Ok, the graphics... they are in 2d, thats great! Framerate is good, and the character animations are 
 quite nice. the graphics would get a 8, if gamespot didn't change the user review system.
  
  Sound/Music: This game has tons of music, the music is very much like the music from the original 
 mario bros. As for the sound effects, there are lots, including mario and luigi voice clips. as for 
 sound and music, they would get a 8.
  
  Gameplay, the art of playing a game. Basicly, these are the moves, jump, run ground pound, and wall 
 kick. There are lots of things that you can do, you can become small, and reach previously unreachable 
 areas, or have a blue koopa shell on your back and run into enemys to instint k. o. them, or become 
 huge, and destory anything and everything in your way. basicly, it's mario, exept for the part, where 
 it's easy, and thats almost all the time. A lot of other mario games where very challenging, but not 
 this, 7 score. Size, the game is not very big, like I said at the beginning, I beat it in just two 
 days, and i unlocked everything in 5 or so more days.. there are only 8 worlds, but lots of things 
 to unlock, including luigi. this gets a 7.
  
  Overall value: This game is great for the inexperienced gamer, but if you're a hardcore gamer, this 
 is not for you. nintendo really tried hard on this one, just not hard enough. value,7
  
  ok, scores...
  
  Graphics:8
  Sound/music:8 
 gamespot... change back the review system,
  Gameplay:7 please!
  Value:7
  
  score it would get:8.7.
  score it gets:8.5
  
 
  Game: New Super Mario Bros.
  Size: not very big
  Classification: Too short.
  
  Basicly what I'm saying: This game is more then a bit short and easy, but if you're a mario fan, that 
 is something you can easily overlook. Enjoy! (I hope...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is great because it's a classic. You play like you would play an original 
 Super Mario Bros. game; side-scrolling with Super Mario World (SNES) sound effects and the level 
 ends like the original Super Mario Bros. game and the menu is like Super Mario Bros. 3. This game 
 is all those Super Mario Bros. games in one game... without Yoshi. You don't fly like in SMB3 or 
 Super Mario World but you can use the fire flower and new things like a blue mushroom that makes 
 you tiny and a big mushroom that makes you giant and practically invincible. Definetely a great 
 game to have on the DS if you like the classic Mario platformers. The multiplayer is cool too and 
 you can also play the mini games also seen in Super Mario 64 DS but only Mario and Luigi's games 
 are there. New Super Mario Bros is cool and definetely a game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Nostalgia sells. Perhaps not as well as sex but this is Mario we're talking about. While he may 
 sport mean 70's porn star style moustache, it's the sentimental love of the little round plumber 
 that will help shift New Super Mario Bros. Nintendo have gone back to the roots of the series and 
 produced the spiritual successor to the original Super Mario Bros. Gone are Yoshi, weird hand gliding 
 capes, Racoon costumes and Kuribo's Shoe, back in are dashes through question-mark-block and coin 
 filled obstacle courses to end level flags. New Super Mario Bros manages to tip its hat quite firmly 
 to the 2D platform Mario we all know and love without being a shameless retread. While not particularly 
 challenging - a few hair tearing moments aside - New Super Mario Bros is a must for fans of the 
 Italian American plumber or platform games in general.
  
  The games plot of doesn't stray far from the usual formula. Someone named Bowser kidnaps someone 
 called Peach and the pursuit begins - a chase that will take Mario through 70 odd levels and eight 
 worlds. The storyline vanishes after the intro, returning only after the final confrontation, but 
 it serves its purpose perfectly: an excuse to jump, stomp and smash your way through the Mushroom 
 Kingdom one more time.
  
  Much like the storyline, the game play doesn't veer far from what you'd expect. Mario does what 
 he does best; running or swimming from left to right (or, on occasion, climbing upwards) , jumping 
 on platforms, and bouncing off the heads of enemies. Initially, veterans of the series may find 
 that the 'feel' of the game is slightly off, as Mario feels weightier and has a touch more momentum 
 when dashing around. Mario retains a few the gymnastic skills he picked up in the 3D games. The 
 triple jump remains in place (but is spectacularly redundant, as there is absolutely no need to 
 use it) , as does the butt stomp and the ability to slide down or leap from walls. Bouncing from 
 wall to wall is the key to fully exploring the levels and vital to grabbing Star Coins. A trio 
 of Star Coins are hidden throughout each stage and it requires a deft touch to successful gather 
 all three. The Coins themselves are used to open up blocked paths to alternate levels or Mushroom 
 Houses, similar to those found in Super Mario Bros 3. The power ups from these houses are integral 
 to finding the plethora of secrets hidden around the eight worlds of the Mushroom Kingdom.
  
  The worlds themselves offer up few surprises; all of the expected, nay, required stage themes 
 crop up. The staple sand, snow, underwater, underground, haunted house, and lava-filled castle 
 levels are all present but with an occasional twist to keep the familiar settings fresh. Each world 
 has its own Super Mario Bros 3 style over-map, all of which full of alternative pathways and secret 
 areas. Much like Super Mario World, certain stages have multiple exits, which lead to secret levels, 
 hidden areas, and warp points. While there are eight worlds to complete, the branching pathways 
 mean that you only really need to guide Mario through six of the octet to finish the game. However, 
 given the quality of the levels in New Super Mario Bros, it's a safe bet that most players will 
 back track and play through every world.
  
  The worlds, the individual stages, and their inhabitants all look fantastic, maintaining the bright 
 'Mario' look with vibrant, sharp colours. Mario himself looks as good as he ever as; jumping, spinning 
 and sliding in a remarkably fluid manner. What really sells the games look are the small graphical 
 flourishes: subtle touches such as embers flying up from the inevitable lava pits, the way the 
 lava itself lights Mario from below, sand being thrown up behind Mario's boots, the end level flags 
 fluttering in the breeze, and Bowser Junior craning his neck to keep Mario in sight during the 
 end world boss fights. The main action takes place on the top DS screen, with the lower display 
 showing the distance to the end flag, the number of star coins collected and whatever power-up 
 Mario has in reserve. While on the over-world map, the lower screen allows the player to warp to 
 previously explored worlds with a quick tap. The sound follows the same path set down by the graphics 
 and game play; retro enough to feel familiar but tweaked just enough to avoid being a rehash. All 
 the expected sound effects are there, from that distinctive chime as you collect a coin to the 
 squelch of a stomped Goomba.
  
  In addition to the classic fire-ball flinging fire flower, New Super Mario Bros introduces a trio 
 of new power ups. The most crowd pleasing and guffaw inducing is the giant mushroom, which causes 
 Mario to grow several storeys tall and smash his way through the level like a moustachioed Godzilla. 
 The sheer joy of seeing a giant Mario stomp on Goombas aside, the power-up is fairly useless, although 
 it can make a few of the more frustrating late game sections a piece of cake.
  
  The second of the new power-ups is the mini-mushroom. These tiny blue mushrooms round off Mario's 
 Alice impersonation by shrinking him to roughly a quarter of his normal size. Mini-Mario is the 
 key to accessing quite a few secrets, as Mario can jump far higher in his shrunken state and squeeze 
 through smaller gaps. The third and final new power-up is the blue shell. Once acquired, Mario 
 becomes a strange plumber-Koopa hybrid who, if he can get up enough speed, will pull himself into 
 the shell on his and tear along, taking out any enemies foolish enough to get in his way. Like 
 the mini-mushroom power up, the blue shell is needed to unlock a secret or two. Unfortunately, 
 it's the dependence on power ups to unlock secret areas that gives rise to some of the games more 
 frustrating moments. As is the long standing tradition, one hit causes Mario to resort to his vanilla 
 form, (or simply die, if you're mini-Mario) . As certain power-ups are only available on certain 
 levels, it can be a incredibly frustrating to track down the tiny mushroom or blue shell, complete 
 the level (quitting to the map screen from a level resets any coins, power ups or extra lives gathered) , 
 work your way back to the point that requires the extra ability, fluff a jump or get it hit and 
 have to hunt down the power-up all over again. For all its kid friendly, family entertainment, 
 few games can induce swearing, foul oaths and death threats quite like Mario.
  
  New Super Mario Bros isn't a particularly challenging game. The levels, while superbly designed, 
 don't offer any nightmarishly difficult jumps or pixel perfect leaps. Not that there would be much 
 of a problem if the game did; so many 1up mushrooms are thrown at the player that dropping below 
 fifty or so extra lives is a rare occurrence. It would be possible to blast through New Super Mario 
 Bros in a day or so, though collecting every star coin requires a fair amount of platform panache. 
 Despite the brevity of Mario's adventure, it's a fair bet that, as soon as the final credits roll, 
 you'll want to start up a fresh game and play through all over again. New Super Mario Bros offers 
 a great 2D platformer whether you're a fan of the hero or not. The game looks, plays, and sounds 
 great and, while it may not offer the stoutest of challenges to those familiar with genre, the 
 replay value makes the game a worthwhile purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flimsycat
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This game being for the Nintendo DS, is just great. The graphics are great and the levels are great. 
 There are a few down sides, but the good things with out shadow them. It's worth buying and playing 
 if you do own a Nintendo DS.
  
  The game follows Mario or Luigi as they venture out to save Princess Peach once again from Baby 
 Browser. There isn't much of a plot and there are no new characters.
  
  The music is just remixes from other Mario games. But unlike most other remixes, this game had 
 really good ones! Like every other Nintendo game, they'll have you humming to yourself for years 
 and years...
  
  The graphics, being for the Nintendo DS, are great. Sometimes it does feel like you're running 
 off the screen but normally it's alright. I found no texture glitches but a few texture bugs. It 
 was much improved from other handheld Mario's before it.
  
  The levels were just plain amazing! Each had it's own theme and so many levels that it'll keep 
 you busy for hours and hours. The mini games were amazing as well. I didn't expect this game to 
 have great mini games but the second I tried them, I fell in love! The music for the games is great 
 too!
  
  Overall this game is a must have. It really has everything a great handheld Mario should have. 
 I would recommend this game to Mario and Zelda fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I had got this game last christmas, and boy, I was glad I got this game.
  
  This is an obvious remake of the classic Super Mario Bros. And it's additional features and different 
 game-play make this a big key to the DS's success.
  
  The graphics are the best on the DS! It could've been 2D. NO! But it was 3D, and it was pure classic.
 
  
  The music is simply one of the best I've ever heard in my life! I espicially love the Bowser music.
 
  
  The sound is as good as LSU's loss to Kentucky!
  
  The camera and control are perfect. If you've seen my other mario reviews, you'd know I say this 
 every time. Trust me, this is different. The camera is great, for a DS camera. The control is very 
 handy, and is the best feature from the remakes.
  
  However, some critisisms I add is the fact you can't use the stylus to control mario (or luigi) , 
 but instead, you control the d-pad. Also, there was limited save features, unlike previous games 
 such as Super Mario World, Mario 64, and Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  This game is perfect, and you know it. The best game of 2006.
  
  My DS debut for reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKSK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is based off of the holy game, the reason we have Wiis or DSes, Super Mario 
 Bros. As you may know the plot, Bowser steals a princess and this plumber named Mario has to come 
 and save her. But it has a little twist onto the story.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look very outstanding. A 3-D effect on a 2-D display, it looks outstanding.
 
  
  Sounds: It has some of the classic tones and music, and some new ones. It's quite good.
  
  Overall: One of the most fun Mario games on the DS. It doesn't need to be very outstanding, 
 it's perfect for a DS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Yoshi_Man89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Bowser's at it again, Peach has been kidnapped and Mario must rescue her all over again. Sounds 
 the same right? Wrong! This time Bowser Jr. has snatched Peach and leads Mario through a plethora 
 of New worlds. But this time, Mario is equipped with fancy new moves such as the pound-ground, 
 the triple jump and the wall jump. Also, newer items come to play, such as the Mega Mushroom, which 
 allows you to grow to humongous proportions and destroy all things in your path, the Mini Mushroom, 
 which allows you to shrink to micro-size and allows you to enter smaller pipes or really low ceilings, 
 and the Blue Koopa Shell, which allows you to bash into your enemies while spining in your shell. 
 The game play is split up between the screens, the top one being the game play and the bottom being 
 how far you've went through the level and how many star coins you have. The New Super Mario Bros. 
 is simple and stays close to its roots as the platformer game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I admit that the graphics are are amusing and are a vast improvement but I just cant seem to like 
 this game as much as the others...
  
  When you slide the game in you see, Mario Game, which is where you go about killing goombas and 
 Saving the Princess. Mario vs Luigi, which is where you face off Luigi. Minigames, that are a bunch 
 of games that can be enjoyable at times. And of course options. When you play Mario game its the 
 usual, save the princess, what to expect eh?, not that is bad but mabey they shouldve moved on 
 with things. Although I guess thats why they called it NEW Mario bros, just some new things added 
 and they call it a game. For me I could just never get used to the controls, well I could but it 
 seems to me (in my opinon) that it needed to be polished off more, like Mario for the GBC. Play 
 it and you'll know what I mean, I liked it when you could just immediatly could stop and turn around. 
 But I guess thats me. For the touch it went well , although not all games have to have touch they 
 didnt really need it for this game. I enjoyed the new things to gobble down your Marios Stomach 
 but I think they shouldve just stuck with the original. The Super Size me or whatever you call 
 it seems to cheap and to easy to get coins extra lifes.
  
  Out of all, your better off playing the Super Mario for the NES. And if youve been a long time 
 fan of mario and have not yet purchased this game. Then I hope you rent it first to make out your 
 final desicion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser_jrFan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  :@ I love this Game. It is great. Me and my friend play it together for he has it . We play Mario 
 vs Luigi and miniGames. It is awesome. It is a must have Game. I like being Luigi but I also like 
 Mario. To be Mario you hold R and L and select your file. Get the game or else. This is the game 
 where I found out who Bowser jr is. I got this game when I did not know much about Mario but look 
 at me now. Bye the Game!!!! It is one heck of a game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Ghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The graphics have been heavily updated, the gameplay has been improved and the music and sound 
 effects are better. The story is about Mario rescuing Princess Peach like in a lot of Mario games. 
 The levels are side-scrollers. You must make it to the end of the level without falling off the 
 stage or losing all of your health. If you are small that means you only have 1 HP, but if Mario 
 is taller you have 2HP. There are a few bosses in this game. They aren't that difficult, but they 
 are fun to fight. Overall New Super Mario Brothers is a great improvement over the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zargi
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  After many 3-D Mario-games and spinoffs, including Mario Smash Football, Mario Kart, Golf, Tennis, 
 Party, and so on, it's great relief to notice that the original jumping plumber is not gone yet. 
 New Super Mario Bros. Takes series back to it's roots, being the first new 2-d Mario since Gameboy's 
 Super Mario Land 2, released in 1992.
  
  Story brings nothing new to the series. Princess Peach gets kidnapped by Bowser Jr. and Mario embarks 
 on a journey seen many, many times before. Storyline is getting a little old, but hey, this is 
 a Mario game. What did you expect? Story is not important in a game like Mario, gameplay is. And, 
 to put it more accurately, jumping. If you expected new beginning to the series and completely 
 revolutionary 2-D platformer, you'll be very disappointed. New Super Mario bros. Definitely leans 
 on the power of nostalgia, being one of the most traditional platformers I've played in few years. 
 This is not a bad thing at all, if the game is entertaining. And NSMB definitely is. Seriously, 
 I don't remember when I last had so much fun playing a videogame. Levels are well designed and 
 the gameplay, while very traditional, couldn't simply be more enganging.
  
  What about sound and appearance? Well, they're all 100% Mario. Sound effects are classic and the 
 music, while not definitely on par with the old Mario tunes, fits nicely into the levels. Graphics 
 are, without question, among the most impressive seen on the Nintendo DS. The mix of 2-D backgrounds 
 and 3-D characters is simply adorable; everything, from the three dimensional plumber to the cartoon-like 
 trees on the background, looks cute and, most importantly, finished. All classic enemies are here: 
 goombas, koopas, hammer brothers, piranha plants etc. Fantastic. It's a little shame they didn't 
 bring too much new to the series, but nostalgic and classic experience is not too bad selection 
 either. There are also boss fights, and they are one of the few things in the game that are little 
 disappointing. They're fun, but maybe even too simple and traditional to be anything more than 
 that, except for the final battle, which is surprisingly atmospheric and well designed, being also 
 very nostalgic.
  
  There are also a bunch of minigames which you can play using the microphone and touch screen of 
 your Nintendo DS. Many of these games are ripped from Super Mario 64 DS, but (as far as I know) 
 there are also new ones. They're not too original, but still very addicting and funny. One time 
 I found myself playing them without breaks almost three hours. You just can't tell how entertaining 
 they are if you don't play the game yourself.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. has some flaws. First of all, the game is pretty short. There are eight worlds, 
 but only six of them have to be completed to finish the game. Maybe this wouldn't be that big of 
 a deal, if the game wasn't so easy. Yes, you can finish the game in just a few sittings. While 
 that is a usual problem with the handheld sidescrollers, it's still a little shame that Nintendo 
 didn't try to fix this problem in any way. Of course there are Star Coins to collect, but in the 
 end, the game feels to be over way too quickly. Luckily minigames will keep you entertained for 
 some time after you've beaten the main adventure.
  
  There's nothing more to say about this game. It's fun, entertaining and classic sidescrolling platformer 
 but also something more. It's nostalgic trip to the roots of Mario franchise and a heck of a good 
 game at all standards. Players who didn't like Mario's adventures in three dimensions will absolutely 
 love it but they are not the only ones that can enjoy this game. New Super Mario bros. may not 
 be the biggest platformer you'll ever play, but it's still a great experience from start to finish 
 and also one of the best games released on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NunzioT
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game was awesome the sound was perfect, the graphics are really awesome and 
 even the new little things you could do with Mario like the Blue Mushroom which makes you smaller 
 so you can fit into smaller sewers and different spots, Red &amp; Orange is really great because 
 you grow to be as wide as the screen and you can knock off just about anything in your path. Koopa 
 Shell which allows you to act as a Koopa in the game.
  
  Also what I really enjoyed was how they brought a little more add-ons like places to grab extra 
 lives, or power-ups. Another big thing was the graphics which made me enjoy it much more than I 
 would normally have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  It's good and awesome but I want the old music remixed! I mean is that wrong? Overall good game 
 with good music. I still prefer the old music though... All of your favorite themed worlds are 
 back and have never looked better though! So welcome the newest 2D Mario platformer, with some 
 3D in it! All I need now is a tired and true Luigi game! Press L+R to play as Luigi in this game! 
 You will not be disappointed in this game as it also has... Minigames and the best part... Mario 
 vs. Luigi on wireless local or DS download play! Don't rent it buy it. Even my friends who don't 
 like Mario are recommending it! Don't waste any more time... PLAY IT! Join the Luigi Union! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beefysupersonic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Mamma mia! The charming yet chubby Brooklyn plumber formerly known as Jumpman has got some tough 
 times ahead of him. The likes of feminists Camille Paglia and Naomi Wolf still havent entered 
 Princess Peachs library because the oversized gown-loving platinum-blonde princess of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom still serves as the quintessential damsel-in-distress.
  Mario and his nearly identical sibling Luigi enter a reharshed version of the 1985 classic Super 
 Mario Brothers game that made Nintendo more popular than the House of Mouse and Mario more recognizable 
 to US toddlers than Mickey. The new game  with polygons, glitzy rotation and moves inspired from 
 Marios 3D adventures  retains the classic feel we all loved and the addictive challenge we all 
 lived for in those long-gone days when Michael Jackson was still more or less black and Nancy Reagan 
 tried to convince American teens that crack was definitely whack.
  The makers of this great title studied different Mario games and incorporated various elements 
 of those previous blockbuster games such as the map from SMB3 and SMW, the fences Mario can climb 
 from SMW and the Toad Houses from SMW3 where you can engage in a perfectly legal form of gambling.
 
  Marios sprites are made of polygons and our little pizza-lover looks cuter than ever when he 
 gets stuck in those ever-so-nasty sewers, battles flesh-eating fauna and flora and escapes from 
 hot lava in Bowsers gloomy real estate. The worlds look amazing and I especially adore the ghost 
 houses from SMW. I love to see Mario in classic 2D and I really hope we get to see more of this 
 on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to begin with New Super Mario Bros.? NSMB is a throwback to the good old days of 2D 
 platformers, but not content with just giving you pixelized sprites, Nintendo added fully 3D artwork 
 and graphics implemented in 2D platformer format. The result is something that is truly amazing 
 and nostalgic.
  
  The plot follows the plot of just about any Mario game, it's up to you to rescue the princess and 
 Koopas are the culprits, naturally. The game uses an overhead map of the world just like previous 
 2D mario platformers. But all the main action is sidescrolling goodness.
  
  In addition to the traditional moves and powerups you'll find some new ones as well that are fun 
 and original. The cast consists of classic Mario characters, as would be expected. Lakitu, Hammer 
 Bros., Bowser, they all make an appearance. It pays homage to the original Super Mario Bros. in 
 certain ways such as flag pole jumping at the end of a level, etc. It is a really charming title, 
 and if you are old enough to remember the original Super Mario Bros. you'll appreciate these awesome 
 little nostalgic touches to the game.
  
  Really, if you own a DS, there's not a reason in the world to not own this game. Highly enjoyable 
 and recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  after about 10 years, we finally get a new side-scrooling 2-D Mario game, and all I can say is, 
 finally! The older, classi mario games were what brought me into video games, and now I get that 
 experience all over again. Like any other Mario game, you get musgrooms, fireflowers and stars. 
 In this game, we also get some new items: a koopa shell, which can knock out enemies when you roll 
 with it, the giant mushroom, which grows you to a gargantuan size to crush almost everything in 
 your path, and the tiny mushroom, which shrinks you down to microscopis size, which you'll need 
 if you want to collect every medallion from every level, but other than that, is going to do the 
 opposite of help you. Like the older Mario games, you'll travel through 8 unique worlds with different 
 styles and settings, each with a boss at the end and a mini-boss in between (in this case, Baby 
 Bowser) . The levels are fun and full of many traps and puzzles and enemies, and you'll never know 
 what to expect from the next level (unless of course you play the game many times) . The story in 
 the game is what you'd expect from a classic mario game, nothing tio write home about, but hey, 
 I don't play mario games for a deep and moving story! most of the music is actually something you'd 
 expect more from Super Mario 64 instead of an even older Mario game, but there's nothing wrong 
 with that. Everything dealing with the graphics and the various looks in the game is very well 
 done. The main quest is quite short (especially if you don't bother with worlds 4 and 7) but there 
 is still things that can keep you occupied. There are many minigames that you can play with others 
 or yourself (most of the mini-games will be familiar for those of you who played Super Mario 64 
 DS) . There's also a battle mode that you and a friend can do, as well (I still haven't had a chance 
 to check it out, so I have no idea how fun it is) . For all those Mario fans that miss the good 
 ol' days of Mario or anybody that wants a new platformer for their DS, youshould definetely pick 
 up New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netopix
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for the DS. Think of it as Super Mario Brothers 1 meets Super Mario Brothers 
 3. The Graphics are much better than expected, probably the best I've seen on the DS thus far. 
 The controls are very simple, basic, and easy, the learning curve is virtually non-existent, because 
 let's face it, who hasn't played SMB at least once right?
  
  One of the things that amazes me the most about the New Super Mario Bros. is the sound. I highly 
 suggest playing this game with the headphones on, the sound is tremendous! I just use an old set 
 of headphones that came with my wife's iPod mini, they work just fine. The castles get significantly 
 harder as the game rolls on which is good news because some levels are rather short, while others 
 are difficult... I've wasted 10-12 lives on castles in the 5th world... YES there are multiple 
 castles in each world! To sum it up, This game easily is a 9/10 NDS game, I HIGHLY recommend it 
 for all DS owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhawk556
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is basically a a side-scrolling Mario game with 3D graphics. It's a good 
 game but somewhat short and lacking in the difficulty found in SMB3 (A. K. A Super Mario Advance 
 4) . The game can be completed without much frustration if any at all, which is good for people 
 who just want a casual SMB experience. The game has 8 worlds, two of which are can be unlocked, 
 otherwise you can just skip right over them, and each world has about 6-8 levels, a fortress and 
 a castle. The levels are beautifully crafted and look like what you'd expect in a Mario game, and 
 all of Mario's enemies appear in the game. The gameplay is fun and can be pretty challenging towards 
 the end of the game. The boss battles are decent and have some interesting bosses. So basically 
 New Super Mario Bros. is a good side-scrolling Mario game which I'd recommend to anyone looking 
 for a casual SMB experience, but if you're looking for a more difficult and lengthy game then i 
 suggest you go find a copy of Super Mario Advance 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalithril
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This game brings TONS of old memories along the way, not map-wise, but the fact its mario and its 
 a side-scroller. Mario has gotten a whole new 3D look, which looks pretty darn good i might add 
 :) . The game is the same old, with direction pad and using mostly 2 of the other buttons. It doesnt 
 invole much touch-screen, so to some of ya its a good thing (i guess) .
  It def. shows a good deal of fun and lasting enjoyment. you'd be playing so much w/o realising 
 its actually from a Super Mario Bros. A few new features made the game really interesting, makes 
 the bosses however, a little too easy.
  If you're looking for a somewhat ~brings back the memories~ game, with a new twist and is a Mario 
 fan, this is a MUST GET game for ya~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Super mario DS is pretty much the same as all other classic marios with some different things that 
 were very unique and refreshed the game. New feautures like the koopa shell which u can move aroudn 
 like all the other koopas, and super tiny mushroom so you can get into secret places, and super 
 big shrooms so you can conquere thru the level which is fun fun! Also theres now big stars through 
 out the level and u gotta collect all three and next time u unlock a store you can get things with 
 them! YOu will run through the game pretty fast the first time but that don't mean you beat the 
 game because you will still probably have 3 more worlds which means you'll have to figure out how 
 to get them. Also you get pretty entertaining mini games that could most likely piss you off at 
 a point but still fun. Overall if u have a ds get this games its awsome and fun for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctrdragon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  For all this time Nintendo planned to keep the action to 2D, until today. God come's down with 
 a gift, a 3D Mario game. It's has the same shadow as the classic and repetitive story but you face 
 new and old enemies, new bosses and collect star's in a whole new way! Are you ready?
  
  Story: 5/10
  
  It's the same old story, Peach get's kidnapped and Mario has to kick butt to 
 save her. It never differs (except in Super Princess Peach) and we want something else!
  
  Graphics and Sound: 10/10
  
  The great moment of this game. The graphics are so great, Mario 
 and the enemies are 3D while the background is 2D. Part new and part classic. And the sound, classic 
 sounds to suit the level.
  
  Touch Screen Usage: 2/10
  
  This is where it crash-lands and explodes. The game has two uses for the touch screen. One to select 
 a world and two is to release an item. That's it. The whole point of the DS is for the touch screen, 
 that's how Nintendo profit from the DS.
  
  Replay Value: 0/10
  
  As soon as you got 100%, what are you gonna do! All you got is multiplayer and minigames. Start 
 a new file? Why! What are you gonna get from this? Nothing!
  
  Rent or Buy: Rent
  
  This game is only meant for graphics and sound. That's not what makes a game good! A good storyline 
 and touch screen usage is what makes it good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is an execellent Mario game that promises action. 3D characters in a 2D enviroment 
 is good combination from a graphical stand point. Problem is, I found that this game can become 
 frustratingly difficult and become VERY repetive at times. As expected, the World 1 is pretty easy 
 then it becomes much harder as you advance through the game's interesting worlds. The characters 
 could have been a little better than I what I ultimatley saw during the game. Sometimes, the characters 
 looked a little bit on the polgonal side and could have been better. The other dark side to this 
 game is just how difficult this game can become. I found that some of the levels were just plain 
 hard. The time limit just adds to the pressure, ecspecially if you don't even know where you're 
 going in the first place. Other than that New Super Mario Bros. is a good game that any DS owner 
 should check out because this game is the real deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hat_Damage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Brothers was one of the funnest and most revolutionary games. It brought people to 
 the world of console gaming. The is so damn good that is has sold more than 40million copies, and 
 i think thats on the NES alone. Super Mario Brothers has been remade, ported, etc. many times. 
 Super Mario Brothers is easily one of the greatest games of all time. So what do you do with a 
 great game? You make a sequel or two. The Super Mario Series spawned 4 sequels, Super Mario World, 
 Super Mario Brothers: lost Levels, Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario Bros. 3, all amazing sequels, 
 each better than the next. While Mario continued to star in games, he never really returned to 
 his sidescrolling roots, well not untill 2006. New Super Mario bros. brings Mario back to his 2D 
 roots, and it is a hit, but it does come out short.
  
  NSMB has the same Gameplay that you have come to love from the original sidescrolling mario games. 
 You run from one end of the level, to the other end collecting coins, stomping on enemies, collecting 
 power ups, etc. The top screen is where the action will be, and the bottom screen shows how far 
 you are from the end of the level, and holds a power up, and by touching that power up, you get 
 it. Not a very original use of either the dual screens or the touch screen but what else could 
 they of done? The game also tries to incorporate features from more recent Mario titles into the 
 game, such as wall jumping. NSMB models the original Super Mario Brothers game more than any of 
 the other Super Mario Bros. No fancy power ups like the tanooki suit or the kuriboo (green) shoe. 
 The Mushroom and the fire flower (cheap as ever) make a return and new items such as the Koopa 
 shell, Mega Mushroom and Mini Mushroom. The Koopa shell gives u a koopa shell and if you press 
 down when you have enough momentum, you can spin and hit enemies. The Mini mushroom makes you miniture, 
 allowing you to sneak into small places, and the mega mushroom makes you big, allowing you to destroy 
 everything in your path. It is very disapointing that we do not see the return of other great Mario 
 power ups, like the tanooki suit, dont come back, and that the new power ups are mediocre at best, 
 it is cool to be giant but the koopa shell is literally useless and the mini mushroom is just lame. 
 If they were trying to incorporate things from recent mario games, why not incorporate other powerups 
 like the metal cap from Mario 64? There are around 8 worlds in the game and each world has a midboss 
 and a main boss. Another bad flaw of the game is its difficulty, the levels are easy and the enemies 
 are stupid. The graphics in this game are pretty good. Important characters like bosses, Mario 
 and Peach are in a nice looking 3D. Everything else is in 2D. However you dont really notice that. 
 Even if you do, the 3D doesnt look out of place. The levels in NSMB look amazing and nice at first, 
 but by around world 4, you will realize that they dont really change, they look excactly the same, 
 except items and things are placed differently. This doesnt really make you want to play the game 
 less but it does make the whole game more repetitive.
  
  The Sound in this game is decent. Everything is high quality and the sound effects are great. Everyone 
 talks, or makes some sort of noise. But the music in this game is what really bummed me (sound 
 wise) . I mean a lot of the tracks are good, but there arent many tracks and we dont see a lot of 
 classic Mario songs making a return.
  
  The biggest downside of NSMB is its length. There are 8 worlds but there are world warps to shorten 
 it even more, and if thats not enough, some levels arent even playable unless you beat the boss 
 of the previous world in a certain way. World number aside there are around 8 or 9 levels in each 
 world, each level is fairly short. You will probably be finished with this game in two days, i 
 would have to say that it is only around 6 hours long. But even if you beat it, there is some multiplayer 
 where you rush and collect stars, its sorta like Super Mario 64 DS's multiplayer, except with two 
 people and applied to NSMB. The Multiplayer could of been a lot better, like a co-op mode or levels 
 made just for co-op.. Even if you beat the single player and even when you have tired yourself 
 out with the multiplayer, there are still minigames for you to enjoy. They have pretty much ported 
 all the minigames from Super Mario 64 DS and added a couple. These are good minigames too that 
 range from wack a mole to poker. NSMB marks a return of the amazing sidescrolling Mario games, 
 and while it; s first installment isnt as good as it could of been, it still is a return and is 
 still a great game. When i got the game, it was around 30$ and if was a good buy at that price, 
 and now im sure it has lowered from then. So if you havent experienced NSMB, or havent even played 
 a SMB game, then run to your nearest Best Buy and purchase a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imax_127
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game features a wide range of levels, the graphics of the game are very pleasing and it is 
 truly a great game. It is very easy to learn the controls of the game and can be mastered in seconds. 
 There are a few side-quests to this game such as collecting all the star coins which give the game 
 more replay value, for example upon completing the game i still noticed that i still had many things 
 to do such as clear all paths and collect the star coins. The multi-player feature in this game 
 is just fantastic you have to options to play the mini-games and the other option of Mario vs. 
 Luigi where both players have to race for the amount of golden coins meant to be collected through 
 a variety of levels. Overall the game-play and the style of this game are just amazing. Finally 
 this game has never seemed slightly boring, I am still currently playing this game to this very 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellimist314
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: New Super Mario Bros. is a 2-D Mario platformer for the Nintendo DS. As should be expected, 
 you will play through several different levels that are divided up into worlds. Once you clear 
 all the levels in one world, you move on to the next world, and so on and so on. Most of the classic 
 mario items are here, like koopa shells, fire flowers, and invincible stars. There are also two 
 new kinds of mushrooms: the Mega Mushroom and the Mini Mushroom. The Mega Mushroom turns you into 
 a giant Mario, and you'll be able to smash through almost anything in your way, including warp 
 pipes. The Mini Mushroom makes you tiny, allowing you to fit through small spaces and pipes. There 
 are a lot of familiar enemies here, too, and for the most part the game plays like other Mario 
 platformers.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are very well done, everything is bright and colorful. There's 
 a 3-D look to everything that adds detail to enemies and levels. It can look a little pixelated 
 at times, but it isn't too noticeable.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack in this game is familiar, with the classic tunes that have been used in many 
 Mario games before. If you liked those, then you'll love the music in this game.
  
  Value: This is the main reason I didn't give the game a higher score. It is very easy, and very 
 short. You can beat this game in just a few days without even trying. There are Star Coins in each 
 level to search for and colect, and you can unlock extra worlds and levels, but even doing that 
 will add only a few hours to your playtime. On the plus side, there are three files, so you can 
 play through it multiple times if you really want to.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. Is a modern 2-D platformer that feels like the ones you may have 
 played on the SNES or the GBA. It is simple and fun, but very short. If you can find it cheap, 
 buy it, but if not, it really isn't worth the $35 you'd pay for it new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tg1413
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  This game is addictive. This is what makes Mario. Every level differs, and there are always new 
 challenges. Is that what makes it so good?
  
  New Super Mario Bros' main game is brilliant. It contains maybe over 60 levels in 8 differently 
 themed worlds, and they're all different. Each level contains something new that you have to figure 
 out, whether its how to escape Bowser Jr.'s horde's or collect all the star coins in each level. 
 Whatever it is, you're always provided with a challenge. New players will be challenged even by 
 the first levels, so its not just a skim through the game and you're done, even veterans will get 
 a challenge. The game uses its old 2D platforming style, but is reinvented with some great 3D graphics. 
 The two other game modes are great fun and something new. The multiplayer versus mode is enjoyable, 
 but after a few rounds, can feel tiring and boring. If you want a new multiplayer challenge, try 
 the minigames, a selection of fun, but sometimes weird, minigames. If you don't want to use multiplayer, 
 the minigames can be played in single player, but are undoubtedly more fun with two or more people.
 
  
  So, New Super Mario Bros. overall makes a great game, a great storyline , awesome gameplay, fun 
 extra game modes, and some cool unlockables. Don't think it's called Bros. for no reason, you CAN 
 play as Luigi, you'll just have to find out the secret code, I won't help you, sorry, you'll have 
 to find it out yourself! Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperMario97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ah, a new Mario Bros. game. Released in May 2006, New Super Mario Bros. is definetly one of the 
 best games for the Nintendo DS. Now the story is more or less your basic Mario plot: Peach gets 
 kidnapped, Mario must save her. But in this game, Bowser Jr. does the kidnapping (don't worry, 
 Bowser is still a boss in some castles, along with other enemies) . The levels are very nicely done 
 and the backrounds look beautiful. What about Luigi you ask? Well, he is in fact playable by holding 
 down on buttons L and R and then pressing A in the file select screen. Unfortunetly, Luigi can't 
 jump any higher or anything, so in the end, it's more of a matter of which voice clips you prefer 
 hearing. There are a few shortcomings, though. Like the fact that some levels go by way too shortly. 
 I just wished some levels could also have been more challanging. New power-ups such as the Mega 
 Mushroom can litterally get you thru the whole game, so long as you keep collecting them in the 
 power-up rooms. Much like Super Mario World's alternate routes, this game features levels with 
 different flags. The standart one is black, while the alternate one is red. But the game's spaces 
 don't tell you if they have an alternate route, leaving you to explore as much as possible. Worlds 
 can be accessed a lot easily this time around thanks to the touchscreen, while the level maps themselves 
 will probably remind you of Mario Party. The music is great in this game as well, featuring remixed 
 Mario tunes and foes occaisonally jumping at the beat.
  Also in this game, you can't save until you defeat an enemy in a castle, so it helps keep the player 
 determined and increases replay value. I bought the game not long after it was released, and it 
 remains my favorite title on my DS. Pick it up, it's eight world's full of adventurous fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razgriz1777
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  And that's exactly what it is: a port, with a few twists. In New Super Mario Bros you may flashback 
 a decade or two when you were first playing Super Mario Bros on your NES. You'll find the same 
 basic maps and of course, the same sounds and voices pulled straight out of the old platformers 
 for the SNES and 64. The only thing I can accredit this game with is being a good twist on an old 
 classic, with a major graphic tune up and a few more gameplay options. This time around you'll 
 be chasing down baby bowser only to find yourself walled in with some bosses that weren't in the 
 original, each of them requiring a different strategy (or a fireflower, that works too) . If you 
 enjoyed the original Super Mario Bros, then definitely give this game a try. Though, you may find 
 the game repetitive as you try 20 times trying to get past the same 3 obstacles, over and over 
 again, which really does take away from the replayability of this game. In the end, New Super Mario 
 Bros is worth a rent, but definitely not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This is a great platformer. There are these cool 3d sidescrolling graphics which makes the game 
 look prety realistic. For mario fans united this a mario platformer that realy stands out because 
 its a 3d sidescroller and (new) ... lol. You can be as mario or use a short cheat to play as luigi 
 and it tells you in the backround at the end of the game but you have to look around.
  But incase you dont want to know it its on the gamespot hints and cheats. I love how the bosses 
 in this game are mostly not just jumping on bowser like in previous mario gams but the mid casle 
 has you jumping on baby bowser and throwing shells at him later and its a little lame. The real 
 bosses use character like petey piranah and that mole cannon guy from super mario sunshine.
  
  Here is how i rated it:
  
  graphics:8 out of 10. A new addition to graphics is cool but 
 mario still looks realy pixely at times but graphics are pretty good.
  
  Gameplay:9 out of 10: The levels are great but this game doesnt have as much replay value as say 
 mario world or the classic super mario bros.
  
  Controls:10 out of 10: the controls work realy well and they gave mario a couple of new moves from 
 mario 64.
  
  Overall:9 out of 10. This is just like mario kart ds. It is a must have game for anyone who owns 
 a ds and belive me you will be happy you bought it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitro720
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  i was expecting classic Mario with a 3D twist. I got that but the controls didn't seem as dead- 
 on and pricise as are in the older mario games for the SNES and NES. Still fun but controls weird. 
 Definitely worth a purchase though. It takes a while to get used to the controls. As far as story; 
 just like many Mario games, the Princess gets taken again and it is up to you to get'er back. The 
 game also has alot of minigames which are pretty cool. it makes you want to get the highest score 
 you possibly can. Multiplayer is alright. The games difficulty varies between easy and just right, 
 but mostly just easy. Like I said earlier, it is surely worth a purchase, or if your not sure, 
 rent it. Whatever your choice is, you wont be won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game it looked just like a reguler mario game which ment it was fun but not 
 revoultionry and at the end it isn't the new mario Galaxy but it's fun you will want to play again 
 and again. there are eight worlds which only two of them can be open if you beat the bosses in 
 mini mario which isn't that hard, the game isn't that hard but the short easy game is some of the 
 greatest monments in gameing history because everything fits. the levels are well designed , the 
 game looks amazing and this probely the onlygame that the music is the best part about it and the 
 reason it's so great is because the music isn't just good it's catchy and it's the reason i played 
 many of bosses again. the only thing i miss from super mario bros 3 is the flying costume, in terms 
 of new stuff there's a maga mushroom that makes you big and a mini that makes you small they help 
 keep the game going but don't change it a lot even though the main game is the meat of the game 
 there are also minigames that are great and what i wish is that there where more of them because 
 they are very fun even though at their core very generic. the other part is multiplayer is fun 
 like every good multiplayer game but like the minigame very generic but very fun. in multiplayer 
 you can be mario or Luigi and you fight to catch stars, it's fun because if you jump on your enemy 
 and he has a star you can take his star and that's always fun to do that and then talk smack to 
 your freind in front of you and i really wished there where wi-fi connection to the multiplayer 
 and minigames. at the end this is the fullest packege you can ask on your ds: gameplay, graphics, 
 incrdible music, multiplayer, minigames, it has it all and if you have a ds buy it and keep it 
 forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonobubbles
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  gameplay:
  this game starts out just like any other mario game. the princess gets captured and you have to 
 go save her while ultimately defeating bowser.
  this game is also like every other mario 2D side scrollers in the sense of gameplay wise to. not 
 many moves to pull of besides the regular jump and pound. there are 3 new additions to the mario 
 items. the blue turtle shell, the super mushroom, and the mini mushroom. the super mushroom lets 
 you basically bash your way through every inch of the level, while the mini mushroom lets you become 
 extra small and get into secret areas via small entrances and pipes. i personally found no advantage 
 in the turtle mario besides the fact of reaching star coins. star coins, also not very new to this 
 franchise. you collect golden star coins in this game to access new areas on the overhead map area 
 and buy new backgrounds for the touch screen section. even thought there is not much change in 
 the gameplay of this game versus the old mario games, it is still the same side scrolling fun that 
 no one can say they don't enjoy.
  
  graphics:
  the graphics in this game are very well done. the game is a 2D side scroller but the graphics that 
 the DS pushes out on this game makes it teeter on the edge of almost being 3D. very nice.
  
  sound:
  there is essentially no sound in this game except for short little bursts of noise 
 from mario when he receives a power up of sorts or finishes a level. other than that theres is 
 only the music that plays during the levels which is nice but can get repetitive.
  
  value:
  now after you beat this game there is only a few unlockables. throughout the game you 
 collect these things called star coins which you can use to access new areas on the overhead map. 
 there are, however, more star coins to find than there are to be used to get new areas. some of 
 these coins are ridiculously hard to find and provide somewhat of a challenge if you aren't adventurous 
 . after the game is over you can go to the very first world and buy new background layouts for 
 the touch screen. after you collect enough star coins to buy all the layouts there is really nothing 
 else to unlock but the game in itself makes up for this lack of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewtypeS3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Back when the Nintendo DS launched in 2004, the masses were treated to a re-imagining of one of 
 Marios greatest games: Super Mario 64. Re-made as Super Mario 64x4, the game was one of the 
 few really good games on the Nintendo DS at the start of the consoles life.
  However, it wasnt an original Mario game  something most Nintendo products had launched with 
 before. Wed have to wait two more years before receiving a brand-new Mario game for the Nintendo 
 DS that didnt involve sporting events: the 2D platformer New Super Mario Brothers.
  
  While many often dismissed this game as a simple re-make of the original NES classic while the 
 game was in production, they would soon be proven very, very wrong. This game, while containing 
 many similarities to the Mario games of yore, is more along the lines of a massive tribute to the 
 Mario series. In fact, this game retains many of the same sound effects that are ingrained upon 
 the gaming populace thanks to the first Mario game.
  The plot of the game, as many of you can guess, is pretty standard for Mario fare. Princess Toadstool 
 Peach whatever shes going by now has been kidnapped  but this time, by Bowser Jr! So, of course, 
 Mario charges ahead into the 8 worlds set up by Bowser Jr. in order to save his lady love.
  
  An interesting thing to be noted is in the instruction manual for this game, on page 10. During 
 the story summary for the game, questions are asked. Many of them are a little redundant, but one 
 really caught my attention:
  
  Didnt Bowser Jr. once think Princess Peach might be his mother?
  
  Yeah. That brought up 
 too many questions at once.
  Either way, it doesnt matter much  this game doesnt bother to answer that question, and odds 
 are good that the player will be too busy bopping along to care much.
  
  As Mario progresses through the game, hell run through many typical areas of a platformer: snow 
 levels, tropical levels, mountain stages, lava levels and so on. While the settings arent entirely 
 original, the game itself keeps you too busy running about to really care. As Mario runs through 
 the game, the player will soon find out that being in 3D for so long has rubbed off on Marios 
 2D adventures. Not only can Mario hop and bop like hes been able to do since 1985, but several 
 of his moves from Mario 64 and Sunshine have followed him here!
  Thats right, Mario is now able to ground pound, something first introduced in Yoshis Island 
 back in the mid-1990s and carried on through Marios 3D adventures. But on top of that, Mario 
 can now unleash a triple-jump much like in the 3D adventures  and you can even have Mario leaping 
 off the walls like Megaman X on a good day.
  
  As Mario heads on his quest to rescue the Princess, hell also unleash a good number of powerups 
 on his way. While these arent nearly as outlandish as the assortment seen in Super Mario 3, they 
 can still be quite handy.
  The first powerups the player runs into are the old tried-and-true: the super mushroom, the fire 
 flower and the super star. Its almost common knowledge as to the results of picking them up, so 
 I dont think I really need to describe their use in a review over 20 years after their introduction 
 to the Mario Mythos. It should be noted, however, that the fire flower does insane amounts of damage 
  often killing bosses about 6 hits!
  
  On top of that, there are three more: the mega mushroom, mini mushroom and the blue Koopa shell. 
 The mega mushroom is probably the most-advertised part of this entire game, turning Mario into 
 a giant who takes up the entire screen! While only temporary, the mega mushroom gives the player 
 almost complete invincibility (though falling into a pit still kills you) , and the ability to rip 
 pipes out of the ground  to say nothing of the poor Koopas in the way! On top of all that, theres 
 a power bar on top of the screen when you grab one of these, filling up with each enemy bashed 
 and each item trashed. If you fill it up high enough, up to five 1-up mushrooms will fall for your 
 empowerment!
  
  The mini mushroom does the exact opposite of the mega mushroom  shrinking Mario down to almost 
 microscopic size. In this form, Mario jumps insanely high and can even run across water but is 
 insanely weak. Much like in regular form, a single hit will kill him; and ground-pounding is almost 
 the only way to do any damage to most enemies! However, many, many secrets can be found by using 
 this powerups, so its not completely useless.
  Finally, the Koopa shell winds up granting Mario one of the oddest abilities in his history, possibly 
 outside the Kuriboh shoe. If Mario ducks while running with this shell on, he ducks inside the 
 shell and goes crashing into things at a decent speed. He can then bounce off solid objects, and 
 pick up more speed. While this is hard to control, its definitely a unique item. Sadly, its probably 
 the least-useful item in the game.
  
  On top of all that, the player can store a backup powerup (much like in Mario World on the SNES) 
 in a location on the touch screen for use at almost any time. This can easily be a life-saver during 
 major boss battles, and can be abused if one brings in say a mega mushroom.
  
  While the selection of powerups is more than a little underwhelming, many of the enemies are sure 
 to bring up nostalgic memories for those of us whove played most of the games in the Mario universe. 
 Most of the grunts from the early games appear; from the poor goomba all the way through some of 
 the more unique enemies from Mario 64, and even the fabled Hammer Brothers show up again.
  However, unlike many of the Mario games past, each world has a different boss in charge of it 
 more or less. While Bowser shows up in force at the end of world 1, the strangest possible thing 
 happens when you destroy the platform beneath him: he dies in the lava! Thats right  Bowser, 
 the king of Koopas, actually dies!
  
  As such, Bowser Jr. is forced to bring in other guys to fight you, and they stretch along the years 
 of the Mario franchise. While each boss is unique, the only one that immediately comes to mind 
 is the piranha plant boss from Mario Sunshine making a return appearance for a while. And on top 
 of all that, youre in for at least one fight with Bowser Jr. as a mid-world boss as you go along 
  sometimes fighting him as many as three times before reaching the end-boss of a world!
  However the bosses for worlds 7 and 8 are distinctly unique  and more than a little memorable, 
 considering what they wind up being Lets just say that some things will get freaky before its 
 all over.
  
  The problem is, however freaky things get, its rare that youll wind up getting a game over. 1-up 
 mushrooms and extra lives are literally a dime a dozen, and powerups are just as plentiful as well. 
 This really tends to make the game extremely easy in the end  with the biggest challenge becoming 
 unlocking the two hidden worlds in the game.
  
  Finally, before we wrap things up, theres a smattering of mini-games here, as well. However, a 
 lot of these games are brought right over from Mario 64x4, and some of them (while new) just arent 
 all that fun.
  It should also be noted that Luigi is playable in this game, but only through a code (hold L and 
 R while selecting a file to play)  and said code is only announced after beating the game, though 
 it can be used nearly any time.
  
  It must be said: the controls of this game are almost perfect. From running and jumping through 
 the mushroom kingdom to climbing the mountains in front of the Koopa kingdom, to even bashing down 
 the doors of the castle Koopa itself, Mario controls almost like a dream. However, there are some 
 minor flaws with the controls as well.
  While the button scheme is easy to figure out (the same as the other, older, Mario games on the 
 GBA, actually) , the problems themselves reside within the game. You see, Mario often takes a few 
 seconds to stop from a run, or to turn in the opposite direction while running. Certainly, this 
 is nice on a realistic viewpoint, but it causes more than a few headaches in the long run as the 
 player is forced to watch Mario run off a cliff because they were a millisecond too late in hitting 
 a button.
  I also do have some complaints with the powerup selection for this game, which is lacking any sort 
 of flying item. While the levels arent built for flying, it would still be nice to have a modification 
 of the old raccoon tail, Tanooki Suit or cape from games past. And to make it worse, controlling 
 Mario when hes wearing the Koopa shell is almost insanely hard  the slightest touch down sending 
 Mario skidding across the ground at breakneck speed.
  The gameplay gets a 9 here. While the controls and other items are near-perfect, there are many 
 minor flaws that prevent them from being perfect.
  
  On the other hand, the visuals have no flaws whatsoever. While the gameplay itself is in the 2D 
 realm, the rest of the game is rendered in near-perfect 3D! This is a wonderful effect providing 
 a very nice depth to the visuals, and looks just plain wondrous on the Nintendo DS. While many 
 have bashed the Nintendo DS for not being able to put out games that look as good as those on the 
 PSP, this little cartridge easily proves those naysayers wrong, and I dont know how else to put 
 it. A 10, easily.
  
  The music and effects, though, arent quite as perfect. You see, much of the music is either generally 
 lackluster or comes from a previous Mario game. While this isnt bad and continues the nostalgia 
 wave many players will have, it does suffer from a lack of really good music. On top of that, many 
 of the sound effects do sound ancient, seeing how they were taken from older Mario games  the 
 coin effect being the same ring from all the way back in 1985! Meanwhile, the voices we get for 
 the cast are good, and are nowhere near as annoying as the vocal representations we get in the 
 GBA Mario re-makes (note to Nintendo: they dont need to speak every other second) .
  While not perfect, the music gets an 8.
  
  When it comes to wanting to come back and play through 
 again, much less unlocking secrets this is where the game falters somewhat. There are some seriously 
 great levels out there in this game, and both Mario and Luigi play wonderfully but the brothers 
 also play exactly the same. There isnt much of a point to having Luigi as an unlockable when 
 he plays the same as his brother, and the selection of mini games will often have players getting 
 deja-vu from Mario 64x4.
  Its a fun game, and I still go back to play it once in a while, but theres not a whole lot here 
 to keep me wanting to come back each day. A 7 overall here.
  
  Finally, I love this game. Quite frankly, its one of the best Ive played on the Nintendo DS  
 and it was well worth the cash I paid for it when it first came out. A 10 for my own personal love 
 of the game.
  
  As you can see, the games not perfect, but it does what it set out to do: be the first original 
 2D Mario platformer since the old Game Boy, be fun and remind the fans of times gone by  all in 
 a good way.
  If you love Mario, or if you like platforming, I dont see why this game cant be in your collection. 
 Admittedly, its not the best Mario game in existence, but its the best on the DS by far.
  
  Final Score:
  9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  The Mario Bros. are back and Bowser has peach yet again. The eight new worlds are all full of levels 
 bursting with enemies to squash under you feet and throw fire balls at. Its great for a casual 
 play, just racing through levels, or dedicated adventures, collecting all the coins and unlocking 
 all the secret paths.
  Multi-player comes in two forms; mini-games or a race to get stars. Multi-player mini-games are 
 pretty self-explanatory with a good amount of games from several different categories. The star 
 race is manic fun between Mario and Luigi.
  Overall the game is a good play with its only down points being that it can get repetitive and 
 not all mini-games a available as multi-player games however an upside is that others are added 
 especially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroJaden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  It's very good. I needed my dad's help!
  But on world 2 or 3, one of the levels are not playable. I give the game a 9.5/10 becuase it is funny 
 and a new installment too the Mario games. Im happy for the game. Ive completed the game, But I can't 
 make a faq. Sorry but I'll need to go through the game 100,00 of times to make the faq. I can tell 
 you the reason to buy this game. The battles are new, You battle 2 bosses at the end,7 worlds, New 
 installments.
  Thats my opinion thou, so if you don't like my opinion then don't worry, read others. Some people 
 think it's a disgrace, I don't care, there opinion and this game was my first one. I got a bundle 
 with Yoshi's Island Ds, A ds, And a free Mario Hoops 3 on 3 (I've completed the easy tourney.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icup01
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Great game that will leave u playing till your eyes are cherry red and they burn like the floor 
 on a tremondous hot day. whats good about it is that its a modern game that feels like a Hella 
 Old School game. sure it has some new features like the big mushroom and the shell but still its 
 feels like back in the day. the only thing topping this is mario luigi partners in time, come to 
 think of it, i think illgo play this game right now, so this is my opinion of a game that in 10 
 years you be telling your children that you were old school when playing New Super Mrio Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striljr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Just as i predicted this game was simply one of the best Mario games for the DS, sure it doesn't 
 come in 3D, sure it doesn't take Mario to the next level much like Mario 64 and Mario Sunshine 
 did, but it's still alot of fun playing. A great fun blast!!!
  Love the fact that there are new things in this game, such as wall jumps, koopa shells, spinning 
 trampolines, new bosses, and my most favorite the GIANT MUSHROOMS!!!
  It's got a great length to it. It's like Mario Bros. 1 and 3 put together except the fact that 
 there are no items that make you fly, like a cape or racoon tail, but that's okay. The gamer is 
 still fun with or without it. Love playing this game over and over again. Like I said before it's 
 a Mario game finally worth playing over abd over again!!! AND YOU LL LOVE IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly isn't horrible but when it comes down to it, the game is a bit on the boring 
 side. The level design is meant to recall the NES and SNES days of the classic Mario platformers, 
 and in that sense it does a very good job. The game worlds (I believe there are eight of them) 
 are all varied and fresh, making this game a really good way to waste time when you don't have 
 much else to do (like sitting on an airplane, or long car rides) . There really isn't much to say 
 about it. Players familiar with the classic Mario games, or even their remakes on the Game Boy 
 Advance, will recognize most of the enemies and items offered here, although there are a few new 
 powerups here and there.
  
  This game is also incredible easy, and I can't decide whether this is a good thing or a bad thing. 
 It is never frustrating, which is certainly good, but the challenge of games like Super Mario 3 
 is just not there. I really would have liked it if this game had come at a discounted price, but 
 that just wasn't going to happen because of the way Nintendo hyped it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blofa
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  if you like the old super Mario 2-d platformer series. you go to like new super Mario bros. very 
 muh than the older
  
  gameplay : the game play is very better than the older. more techniques, more easier, more levels, 
 more items and more enemies. the gameplay is great.
  
  graphic : the best in the graphic, is certainly the enemies. this game have very famous old enemies 
 and some new enemies.
  
  value : the value is high. 80 levels, some of them, they have a alternate exit, 240 stars!!!!!!! 
 3 in each level. you can have fun to beat your enemies.
  
  the game have new thing like : each world have a tower or 2... when you need to climb up to fight 
 vs bowser jr. the boss, are not only bowser. the most of the boss are certainly new for you. you 
 can not only find pipes... you can find some cannons. you can find a lot of toad house's and more.
 
  
  if you like the old super Mario 2-d platformer series. you go to like new super Mario bros. very 
 much than the older 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkshadow50
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the best game that I have ever played on the Nintendo DS. The game starts 
 out when Mario is walking with Princess Peach when they see a mysterous cloud over her castle. 
 When Mario rushes to the castle the devious Bowser Juinor captures the Princess and rushes off 
 and the adventure to save Princess Peach begins. It is an action packed game with secrete levels 
 and the classic eight worlds. The 3D graphics are great and with that it is such a clear picture. 
 Along with the right music that fits the the level you're playing on. I loved this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows who Mario is. He&iquest; s the little chubby plumber with the blue overalls and red 
 hat. However, many younger gamers may not even realize that Mario is king of the old-fashion 2-D 
 side-scroller. He has spent most of the last 15 years as a baby, a great tennis/soccer/baseball 
 player, and one mean kart racer. Excepting his two 3-D platmormers, Mario has returned to his roots 
 with this 2-D platformer somewhat lazily titled &iquest; New Super Mario Bros.&iquest;. Except for 
 one ignorable quibble later, the title is my only issue with the game. Yes, that is how good this 
 game is, I have to complain about its title so this review doesn&iquest; t read entirely like a 
 love-in. Also, the mini-games will come under much harsher review since they don&iquest; t hold 
 up as well as the main game; but first, the main game.
  
  The story is typical Mario fare. Mario is out with Princess Peach when smoke is noticed at her 
 palace. Mario goes forward to investigate whence the Princess is kidnapped by Bowser Jr. Mario 
 then sets off across 8 worlds to rescue her. Don&iquest; t worry, I didn&iquest; t ruin the story 
 for anyone since the mere fact that they are on a computer reading this review means they are out 
 from under their rock and would know this story by now.
  
  The game is similar to Super Mario World for the Super Nintendo. You start on an overworld where 
 you navigate to the various levels, item houses, cannons, and pipes. There are 8 worlds that have 
 different overall themes like grassland, desert, tropics, forest, etc. About half of the levels 
 conform to the general theme of the world they are in. The rest are standard levels that are the 
 same regardless of the world (e. g. ghost houses, towers, castles, underworld levels, etc.) . Several 
 levels, the warp cannons, and some item houses can only be reached by finding the second secret 
 exits in some levels. Each level has 3 star coins that are more difficult to get than the usual 
 items. They unlock some paths and can also be used to buy new wallpapers for the bottom screen 
 after you beat the game. In classic Mario style, the game can be completed either by a short path 
 or a gamers&iquest; path. The short path requires only 50 of the approximately 80 levels be completed 
 with no focus on collecting all of the ~240 star coins. The much longer gamers&iquest; path of 
 course involves collecting every coin and completing every level. Though it is a DS game, it doesn&iquest; t 
 much use the touch screen. All that is displayed on the bottom screen is a meter showing how far 
 you have progressed in the level, which of the three star coins you have for that level, and what 
 extra item you are holding in reserve.
  
  The levels are played through in classic Mario style with none of the frills like riding dinosaurs, 
 wearing raccoon suits, hovering with a water pack, or flying of any kind except on Lakitu&iquest; s 
 cloud; nothing here but mushrooms (big, small, and mega sizes) , fire flowers, stars, and blue koopa 
 shells. This simplicity works well for the game as it emphasizes its excellent platforming elements 
 (anyone who remembers simply flying over the levels in Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World 
 knows what I&iquest; m talking about) . The levels contain a wide variety of platforming that, except 
 for the water levels, are fresh right up to the end. The array of platforms includes moving platforms, 
 moving ropes, see-sawing platforms, platforms that rise when you step on them, platforms that fall 
 when you step on them, platforms that are like trampolines, platforms that disappear after a time, 
 and so on. Mario&iquest; s age old enemies, Goombas, Koopa Troopas, Bullet Bills, Piranha Plants, 
 are back along with some new ones like boxing ghosts, giant spiked cheep-cheeps.
  
  Mario controls so exceptionally well that it is actually a joy jumping just back and forth between 
 the platforms, a rare treat in a game. He also slides and hops off walls, does his triple jump, 
 ground pounds, dashes, swims, and climbs on fencing. Apart from allowable exceptions like swi mming 
 and moving as tiny Mario, all of it is very easy to control and in no way detracts from the experience. 
 In short order you&iquest; ll be racing through the Mushroom Kingdom executing jumps and stomping 
 on enemies with ease. Except for the one minor quibble, Koopa Mario goes in his shell when you 
 dash. This may not sound like a problem, but if you have a habit of running through a level holding 
 down B it will get annoying when using Koopa Mario since he controls very differently in his shell. 
 You rarely use that power-up and all you have to do is not dash when you do so it&iquest; s not 
 a major problem.
  
  The graphics are amazing for a 2-D game. They utilize 3-D characters in the 2-D setting so they 
 have an enormous number of animations. It is fun sometimes to do nothing more than run through 
 a level doing different maneuvers just to see what Mario does. Mario&iquest; s enemies are also 
 3-D and look just as good as Mario. The levels themselves are bright and well drawn. The backgrounds 
 are colorful and will remind you of Mario games past. The sound effects are traditional Mario sounds 
 for jumping, stomping, fireballs, and so forth are as good as they have ever been. The music owes 
 some to prior Mario games in some places (like the underworld levels) but is mostly new. It isn&iquest; t 
 orchestra quality music like in a Star Wars game, but it is great nevertheless.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is a remarkably fun game. It is the kind of old school gaming experience 
 that we haven&iquest; t seen in the last decade unless you played the retro games on the GBA. It 
 combines excellent graphics, phenomenal gameplay, great sound, and long lasting appeal with over 
 80 levels and 240 star coins (gotta collect them all!, sorry wrong mega-selling Nintendo series) . 
 This game is a perfect blend of something old, new, borrowed, and blue (don&iquest; t call the asylum, 
 I know it&iquest; s just a game) .
  
  In addition to single player, there is a multi player mode also. It&iquest; s a competition between 
 Mario and Luigi to collect the most coins on a variety of levels. It is a worthy addition to the 
 single player mode that is both fast and fun. It plays a lot like Mario Kart DS&iquest; Shine capture 
 games, only on two legs instead of four wheels.
  
  Now for the mini-games, these are something of an odd inclusion that doesn&iquest; t fit with the 
 rest of the gaming experience. There are18 games from which to choose. Some are enjoyable like 
 using the stylus to move a ba-bomb around the screen trying to avoid fireballs for as long as you 
 can. Others are just insane, like several dozen coins fall into several dozen blocks and you&iquest; re 
 supposed to remember which blocks the coins fell into. They are an interesting addition but, unlike 
 the main game, not something on which you will spend much time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbiee430
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  gameplay:
  this game starts out just like any other mario game. the princess gets captured and you have to 
 go save her while ultimately defeating bowser.
  this game is also like every other mario 2D side scrollers in the sense of gameplay wise to. not 
 many moves to pull of besides the regular jump and pound. there are 3 new additions to the mario 
 items. the blue turtle shell, the super mushroom, and the mini mushroom. the super mushroom lets 
 you basically bash your way through every inch of the level, while the mini mushroom lets you become 
 extra small and get into secret areas via small entrances and pipes. i personally found no advantage 
 in the turtle mario besides the fact of reaching star coins. star coins, also not very new to this 
 franchise. you collect golden star coins in this game to access new areas on the overhead map area 
 and buy new backgrounds for the touch screen section. even thought there is not much change in 
 the gameplay of this game versus the old mario games, it is still the same side scrolling fun that 
 no one can say they don't enjoy.
  
  graphics:
  the graphics in this game are very well done. the game is a 2D side scroller but the graphics that 
 the DS pushes out on this game makes it teeter on the edge of almost being 3D. very nice.
  
  sound:
  there is essentially no sound in this game except for short little bursts of noise 
 from mario when he receives a power up of sorts or finishes a level. other than that theres is 
 only the music that plays during the levels which is nice but can get repetitive.
  
  value:
  now after you beat this game there is only a few unlockables. throughout the game you 
 collect these things called star coins which you can use to access new areas on the overhead map. 
 there are, however, more star coins to find than there are to be used to get new areas. some of 
 these coins are ridiculously hard to find and provide somewhat of a challenge if you aren't adventurous 
 . after the game is over you can go to the very first world and buy new background layouts for 
 the touch screen. after you collect enough star coins to buy all the layouts there is really nothing 
 else to unlock but the game in itself makes up for this lack of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok I have now had this game for a year and it's still not even appealing to me when i look to find 
 a game to play!! The game has very good graphics though. The sound lacks with the same tunes over 
 and over. And this game makes it very hard to save!! The gameplay is not orginal and dull. The 
 games seems like its just the old super mario bros. in 3D!! The game just is not fun its dead boring 
 !! Though the minigames can be fun at times it just does not help the game out that much!! If your 
 a huge mario freak you will like but if your not your better off buying Mario and Luigi Partners 
 in Time or super star saga for the GBA!! And the game is way over priced!!
  So Plez dont waste your money on this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadBullet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is just a game you need in your collection, no mater what. With amazing gameplay, 
 cool graphics, and an enormous world to explore, it just ROCKS.
  
  Im gonna talk about the levels, every level its a challenge, and completely different that you 
 must complete by the classic jumping into enemies heads, dodging traps, jumping ledges and finally 
 jumping to the flag.
  There are castles to, and every one of them has a boss, in the small castles there will be allways 
 Bowser Jr. and in the Bigger ones a completely different boss. Every world holds on big castle. 
 There are also ghost houses, toad houses, and other new things.
  
  You'll find yourself in a world of sweet classic style, that will remind you of your old NES with 
 Super Mario Bros. but if youre new to this game just BUY IT!!! EVERY NINTENDO FAN SHOULD BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLAudio7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  When Super Mario 64 came out for the Nintendo 64, I thought it marked the death of Mario in 2D 
 platforming. I must honestly say I am glad that I was wrong.
  
  Gameplay: New Super Mario Bros. is a mix of old and new. Brand new worlds, powerups (like the mega/mini 
 mushroom) , etc, but it still feels like a classic 2d Mario Game. When you're done with the main 
 single player story, theres a great selection of minigames and you can even battle your friends 
 over wi-fi.
  
  Graphics: New Super Mario Bros. Graphics are different from the other 2D Mario platformers in that 
 this is the first one to feature 3D (or 2.5D, whatever you want to call it) graphics. Mario and 
 the world around him look suprisingly good.
  
  Sound: Like the gameplay, the sound features a mix of new music and old sound effects. Depending 
 on what time you beat a stage in the game, it will play the classical Mario Bros. 1 Stage Clear 
 music.
  
  Value: After beating the main game, you might get bored of the minigames after awhile, but there's 
 always multiplayer battle mode.
  
  Overall: New Super Mario Bros. is a must-have title if you are a true Mario fan. I hope Nintendo 
 continues this New Mario series in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romperstomper74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok when you get old titles coming out with new games you think oh no not again, this is going to 
 be another boring sequal to a classic game. For me I loved this game it kept me entertained until 
 the very end and even tho I have comepleted it, there is still a few things that I could probably 
 do to get a 100% perfect game.
  
  For a 2d side scrolling game this one is brilliant and as the game spot review said you dont see 
 many that are up to scratch these days and this one is deffinately upto scratch.
  
  Once you get into the story its pretty easy to figure out what you have to do, as always you have 
 to save the princess and restore peace to the mario brothers land!!!
  
  The graphics are awesome, i enjoyed looking at this one for hours and hours whilst trying to figure 
 out where to go next and where the next coin would be and so on. The character is easy to control 
 so you wont have any problems learning how to move him.
  
  The levels I found really good of course you get some that are irritating, some that are way too 
 easy and some that are hard and require a bit of practice and work if you have enough lives to 
 do so.
  
  This game does give you everything you ever need and want during game play. You have cool worlds 
 and levels to explore, fantastic graphics and colours to boot and also the magnificent character 
 Mario. You have lots of adventure and action during game play and not to mention lots of power 
 ups to obtain and learn how to use and also there are different levels on each world also there 
 is some unlockable stuff to obtain as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyalva222000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun. You can play it for hours without getting board. There are alot of levels 
 to keep you busy. If u like mario adventer games this is the game for you. The game is easy to 
 figer out. When your on a plane, in a car, or lying in bed it's a game that is very enterting. 
 The best part about the game is the detailed worlds that you play in to get back princess daisy 
 from browers. You can play the game on Wi-Fi with other players. If you get sick of the main game 
 you can always play the many mini games in the game, such as poker. The game is super exiciting. 
 The game has a little bit of the old mario games in it so you really get a feel of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Easily one of the best ds games out there. With new graphics and brand new levels its a great game. 
 Based off one of the best video games of all time, just updated..... whether your playing story 
 mode, playing mini games by yourself or with others, or battle mode (head to head or wifi) you 
 will have a great time playing this. In story mode you play as Mario or Luigi who are on a mission 
 to save princess peach. Sometimes your in snow or maybe even underwater attempting to defeat Bowser 
 to save princes peach. It is worth every penny u spend on this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy681
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Don't you ever remember 1985 when the Nintendo Entertainment System launched with a game called 
 Super Mario Bros. Its excellent gameplay and graphics at the time made it one of the best games 
 ever. Through the years Mario stayed famous by going 3D in Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64 in 1996 
 and has been on a high path ever since then. 21 years later Nintendo still had the guts to bring 
 Mario back to 2D with New Super Mario Bros.
  This game has its classic storyline, Mario and Princess Peach are walking together when Baby Bowser 
 kidnaps Peach. You go from world to world trying to rescue peach. What makes this game New is that 
 you can triangle jump from wall to wall, and butt stomp. There are also various amounts of mushrooms 
 you can get. The Giant Mushroom makes you invincible for an amount of time. And the tiny mushroom 
 gets you into places you wouldnt be able to as a regular sized mario.
  The audio is ok. It brings back some of the great tunes and adds some new ones but fails to bring 
 a new tune special enough to replace the old ones.
  This game single player game is from 6-10 hours and will take longer if you unlock the 2 other 
 worlds. There is also a minigames in ths game. The minigames are fun but not that good. The linking 
 up isn't also very special or too much fun. But the one thing this game could've really changed 
 is the difficulty. Most levels are very short and easy even if they are a little more complicated 
 than the levels featured in mario games back in the late 80s. There are too many mushrooms around 
 in the last levels of the games and there are too many unlockable shops where you can get free 
 lives and mushrooms. These minor flaws dont do too much bad to the game because New Super Mario 
 Bros plays very well and if you still want a round of a excellent 2D side scroller this game is 
 worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmeageeth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game has all the thrills you have come to expect from Mario. While in today's videogame world, 
 side-scrolling has almost become a thing of the past, but Mario once again proves to be a timeless 
 character. This game does nothing spectacular, nothing you haven't seen before, but that is what 
 makes it so great. This is the new, hip Mario. One that shows he is changing with the times, but 
 sticking to what he does best, platforming. The new animations, the Gigantic and Mini Mario all 
 help give this game some depth. I have never enjoyed playing a game that is this easy to beat. 
 It has enough depth to bring you back for more, looking for all of the gold coins you missed, as 
 well as playing through each and every level, never has a handheld sucked me in to playing it at 
 home when I have other console systems hooked up. I usually save my DS for travel, but New Super 
 Mario Bros has me hooked on playing it at home. This is classic Mario for a new age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. Is an all-new 2D-Sidescroller for the DS. The game almost perfectly captures 
 the feel of past 2D Mario Games.
  
  The gameplay stays the same but adds a few things. You kill enimies by jumping on their heads. 
 If you get a super (red with white spots) mushroom, you get bigger. This also acts as a defense 
 in case you get hit. If you do get hit you shrink back to regular size. If you get a mega (big 
 and yellow with red spots) mushroom, you get huge for a short period of time and are invincable. 
 After that period of time you shrink to the size you would be if you got a super mushroom. If you 
 get a a mini (small and blue with white spots) mushroom, you shrink. If you get a fire flower (a 
 red flower) you get the ability to shoot fireballs. If you get hit when you have that, you lose 
 that power and go to how you would be if you got a super Mushroom. The same happens when you get 
 hit when you have a Turtle Shell ( a blue turtle shell.) The special abilities for this are that 
 you can hit down on the d-pad for a shield., and when you dash you start sliding around in the 
 shell and killing any enimies you hit and richochet off any blocks or pipes or walls you hit. The 
 game has eight stages, two of which you needs to unlock by beating a boss a certain way. There 
 are also minigames that range from puzzle games to table games. These can be played with another 
 player. The game also has two player mode where your goal is to collect a certain number of stars.
 
  
  In conclusion, New Super Mario Bros. is a good game that definatly holds up to the Mario Bros. 
 legacy. I reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raym0nd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've been playing NEW Super Mario Bros. for some time now and
  I got to be honest I think that this Mario game finally gets back to
  it's roots and finally 
 introduces the NEW gamers to old school gaming.
  
  First things first... the story is basicly the same as every other Mario game you know!!!
  The 
 Princess gets kidnapped by Bowser (eventhough in this game it's Baby Bowser/Bowser Jr.) and you 
 got to rescue her (AGAIN) .
  The game takes you through 8 worlds where you have to defeat
  a mini-boss and a BIG boss.
  Every world got a different theme and the BIG bosses fit that theme.
 
  Sounds are what we are used to get from a Mario Bros game and
  the same goes for the gameplay.
  But here comes the twist... normally you can only pick up a 
 mushroom or
  flower and if you hit an enemy you will shrink in size, but thanks to
  the touchscreen we can have another mushroom or flower and use
  that giving us a second chance 
 (or third and so on and so on) .
  The difficulty is a bit of a hard one for me, because I never thought it was
  extremely difficult 
 and the reason for that is that I am used to playing these
  types of games from a NES.
  I think that first time Mario Bros gamers (and those type of gamers are very very very rare) will 
 have a bit of a challenge in store for them.
  But after about 30 minutes everybody can enjoy this classic platformer
  on a new handheld.
 
  The graphics are semi 3D, but they feel right and are very nice to look at keeping in mind that 
 we are playing on a Nintendo DS.
  
  I hope that Nintendo will keep making these games, because I think
  every gamer in the world 
 will always love playing classic Mario Bros games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  while you're chasing around bowser jr. mario has to jump, smash, and fireball his way one stage 
 at time to save princess peach. With new moves and new stages comes a whole new loads of fun! Also 
 new to the series, is that you can play miniames which may not be as fun as the game or games casual 
 multiplayer, but is still fun when playin with friends. I personally went back and beat this game 
 3 times over! While the game doesnt take advantage of the touchscreen, it is much to fun to let 
 it go! Mario has been here with us since we were nurtured, and has raised us to become proud mario 
 players... we shall expect great things from mario in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is basically the original Mario game with improved visuals, and some additions 
 to the gameplay. There are lots of mini-gmes which are quite fun, and challenging for the most 
 part. Gameplay
  
  In NSMB, you get to play all of the original Super Mario Bros. levels. The game because of the 
 visuals doesn't feel like a complete re-hash of the original NES version. There are loads of mini 
 games, which is really great, they are a lot of fun. The mini-games are quite challenging as well, 
 some of my favourites include the little Bomb-omb sorting game, you have to yuse the touch screen 
 to drag the black bombs to the black carpet, and the pink ones to the pink carpet. The touch screen 
 cababilities of the DS are really shown well in this game. It is really amazing what you can do 
 in the minigames with the touch screen.
  
  So back to the main gameplay, with the original Mario levels. Therehave been a few new additions 
 to the original gameplay, which doesn't really ruin the game at all, it makes it more fun, actually. 
 So some of the new features are things like blue mushrooms. When you get these, Mario will grow, 
 take up the whole screen, and be able to clobber over anything in his path. While it looks neat, 
 it may make the game a bit too easy. However, the mushroom is uncommon, so you won't be playing 
 around with it too much to make it unenjoyable.
  
  The gameplay is a lot of fun, and with a few new additions to the game, and quite a number of minigames, 
 it's a really fun game.
  
  Graphics
  
  For a DS game, the graphics in NSMB are great. Pretty amazing really in some of the mini-games. 
 Instead of the old sprites used in the original Super Mario Bros. this game uses 3D polygonal models, 
 which really, makes the game a lot better. The environments are the same yet different with the 
 3D models.
  
  The graphics are really great in this game. No real complaints or graphical bugs.
  
  Sound
 
  
  The sound is great. In the levels it sounds like the original Mario music, but they've modernized 
 it a bit, which is good. All of the sound effects are great, and the music doesn't really get repetitive.
 
  
  Overall
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game, definately one to pick up if you've been a die-hard Mario 
 fan since the NES years, or just starting out. There is quite a bit of replay value with the added 
 mini games. I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Well NSMB is ok... It's good for the time it lasts
  
  Just another Mario game that tryed to do some impressing for the DS.
  
  I don't know why Gamespot 
 rated it so high...
  
  You must defeat Bowser and Baby Bowser along your way to saving Peach.
  
  Playing as Luigi 
 Is Cool too!
  
  But the game lacks value and depth.
  
  Some levels feel undone.
  
  Just save your money for something else. Even a Mario and Luigi fan like me, can agree this game 
 isn't worth buying.
  
  But at least the multiplayer is awesome if you have someone to play with... that's what saves this 
 game from being fair... the multiplayer!
  
  Good game... just not good enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony931
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  While the plumber brothers started their platform-jumping adventures back when the NES was starting, 
 they've already gotten some anticipation. All starting from Donkey Kong where Mario Mario was orginally 
 Jumpman, and had been stored in arcade palaces for quarters to be chomped on.
  
  Now that Super Mario Bros. was highly known to be the greatest video game to ever grace mankind's 
 consoles, time would tell that a remake would hit the books. And it showed. New Super Mario Bros. 
 on the Nintendo DS features the same goompa-bashing, koopa-shelling fun just like mom used to programmed. 
 Or so if the president of Nintendo was a female...
  
  Everybody knows the story, so let's get a move on folks. Oh wait! In this game, there are actual 
 changes made during the process. After defeating Bowser from the first world that introduced this 
 little journey, Bowser Jr. will take on the role to grab our blonde-haired princess throughout 
 the seven other worlds just lurking to be attentioned. Bowser dies into a bare corpse, and becomes 
 re-animated when Bowser Jr. sends in his magical ingredients with the bones of his daddy in a thicken 
 pot from the grand finale. Sorry if I made spoilers, but I should've warned you.
  
  Anyways, the gameplay featured in the game also gets a face-lift. While your usually doing the 
 exact basic junk you've come to expect if you played the original [I know I did. With my Super 
 Mario Bros. Dexlue for the GBC.] , both the brothers will now be jumping on springs, explore new 
 sizes from microscopic secrets to mammothly-large runs, and collect golden Star Coins to gain access 
 on mushroom homes featuring the kooky professor who made his appearance from Super Mario Sunshine. 
 After beating the game, your going to expect replay values with a little cheat code on a side. 
 That required code is Challenge Mode. While I think it's not as good as it's originally was, it 
 could perhaps be a better experience for you. Or not. Depending on your opinion. While not facing 
 this judgment, there are also mini games that require most of the touch screen abilities and even 
 the use of your microphone. Most of the games packed in are really fun to play, and some of them 
 can go difficult. All together though, you should really check the score. After all, this game 
 is good. So play it if you got a DS. Buy it or rent it, you should be doing a favor.
  
  Gamespot Rating: 9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  When I got NSMB earlyier this year I didn't play it as much as MKDS but then I quickly got addicted 
 because MKDS was a little too easy as well as too hard so I started playing NSMB and all I cared 
 about was beating it which in retro-spect isn't east or hard by beating it I mean collecting all 
 the star coins getting everything beat every level unlock every world. I still haven't beat it 
 one hundred percent! anyway it took me a little while to reach w8 and took for ever to beat the 
 final castle but anyway enough on that NSMB is a really good game it's graphics are good, it's 
 sounds are good, it's power ups are great, the new levels and worlds are great, and Luigi as a 
 playable character is pretty good. This game really has little playback value enless you ran right 
 through the levels and didn't unlock or beat them all. The graphics are very good for DS quility 
 but still are somewhat N64 like, like most DS games which is cool. It's game play is just a 3D 
 platformer A 2D sidescroller in hiding! We could have gotten a much better game but this game ain't 
 bad it's just everything Super Mario was when it first came out so anyway also the mini-games are 
 very impressive which gives the game a little more value so I'm gonna give this game a 9.5, a Superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wckman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I love Mario games as much as the next guy. Because of this, the beginning of New Super Mario Bros. 
 felt great. Its all the classic Mario action that fans like myself love. The graphics have been 
 given a nice touch up and the new powers add some cool twists. But after all of the excellent intial 
 gameplay, what is there? The bosses are stupid in everyway possible, and I found myself trying 
 to make them more challenging. The game is way to forgiving with 1 - ups, and also skips two complete 
 worlds for you as you progress. With such great gameplay, why would the developlers allow you to 
 skip loads of excellently designed levels. Its odd. Even with the extra worlds, the game feels 
 a little too easy to beat.
  
  Overall though, the game is a great acheivment. The single cart multiplayer kicks ass, and playing 
 some of the mini-games in multiplayer is a nice touch. While the single player is pretty easy, 
 there is some replay value in collecting these gold stars in each stage. I am sure you will be 
 amused by this game, at least for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robs430
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  gameplay:
  this game starts out just like any other mario game. the princess gets captured and you have to 
 go save her while ultimately defeating bowser.
  this game is also like every other mario 2D side scrollers in the sense of gameplay wise to. not 
 many moves to pull of besides the regular jump and pound. there are 3 new additions to the mario 
 items. the blue turtle shell, the super mushroom, and the mini mushroom. the super mushroom lets 
 you basically bash your way through every inch of the level, while the mini mushroom lets you become 
 extra small and get into secret areas via small entrances and pipes. i personally found no advantage 
 in the turtle mario besides the fact of reaching star coins. star coins, also not very new to this 
 franchise. you collect golden star coins in this game to access new areas on the overhead map area 
 and buy new backgrounds for the touch screen section. even thought there is not much change in 
 the gameplay of this game versus the old mario games, it is still the same side scrolling fun that 
 no one can say they don't enjoy.
  
  graphics:
  the graphics in this game are very well done. the game is a 2D side scroller but the graphics that 
 the DS pushes out on this game makes it teeter on the edge of almost being 3D. very nice.
  
  sound:
  there is essentially no sound in this game except for short little bursts of noise 
 from mario when he receives a power up of sorts or finishes a level. other than that theres is 
 only the music that plays during the levels which is nice but can get repetitive.
  
  value:
  now after you beat this game there is only a few unlockables. throughout the game you 
 collect these things called star coins which you can use to access new areas on the overhead map. 
 there are, however, more star coins to find than there are to be used to get new areas. some of 
 these coins are ridiculously hard to find and provide somewhat of a challenge if you aren't adventurous 
 . after the game is over you can go to the very first world and buy new background layouts for 
 the touch screen. after you collect enough star coins to buy all the layouts there is really nothing 
 else to unlock but the game in itself makes up for this lack of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Super Mario games always have really high expectations when they are released.. Also, with the 
 progression to 3-D games for Mario when I found out that this one was a side scroller I was a little 
 nervous and admittedly a little disappointed. So, I purchased the game with a few preconceived 
 reservations. My fears quickly disappeared after playing just a few levels of this game. The side 
 scrolling definitely gives an old school feel but, the graphics and new abilities give this game 
 a very fresh and original feel. Nintendo definitely got this one right. Keeping with the original 
 formula while adding some very fun updates makes this a great game worthy of being the first original 
 Mario for the DS. To just make it through the game will not take very much time at all, if you 
 have any experience with the original Mario. But, opening the new worlds, collecting all of the 
 star coins and completing the entire game may take you some time and present a welcome challenge. 
 The multiplayer is fun and quirky for a while but it is nothing to really write home about. It 
 is a good time waster if you are stuck at your mother in law's house and your brother in law has 
 a DS too. Overall this a great game and a definite must own for anyone who has a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runefox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The first Mario game is a classic. Everybody knows what the first level looks like, what the plot 
 is, and so on.
  Same old, same old I thought. I didn't know how wrong I was.
  This Mario game takes everything you love about the series and enhances it. The traditionally crappy 
 graphics are so much better.
  There are alternate exits to several of the levels, adding an extra dimension to the usually boring 
 level replays.
  The thing that stops me from rating it a ten are the irritating sound effects. The music in the 
 levels is enjoyable, but everything you do has a matching sound effect, which becomes annoying.
 
  This game is a definite must for anyone who thought the DS is losing some of its sparkle. I loved 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong - Super Mario Sunshine was an important and integral step for Nintendo's plumber 
 hero to take, what with the company essentially being the trailblazer in the world of 3D platforming. 
 But in moving forward, rising expectations pretty much dictated that Nintendo shouldn't look back, 
 so the classic sidescrolling formula was simply relegated to classic status, only returning in 
 retro repeats of existing games on current systems and, occasionally, as spin-off franchises for 
 other Nintendo characters. An official Super Mario game would have to be something special for 
 it to exist on a current Nintendo system, which is why the release of New Super Mario Bros. for 
 the Nintendo DS is so significant: it absolutely is something special. This game marks a brilliant 
 return to Mario's side-scrolling environments, with a look, feel, and play that feels unbelievably 
 classic, with new elements that do a fantastic job advancing the design.
  
  The timeline's a little scattered, but while Super Mario Sunshine was the latest game in the Super 
 Mario series on paper, New Super Mario Bros. marks the first time in 15 years that Nintendo's created 
 a classically-designed Super Mario game - Super Mario World ended the plumber's starring role in 
 the 2D platformer series. Yoshi may have picked up the gauntlet in a labeled sequel a couple years 
 later, but outside of a few nods here and there in spinoffs like Paper Mario and Mario &amp; Luigi, 
 Mario hasn't starred in this Plumber Saves the Princess role in a side-scrolling platformer since 
 the Super NES launch title.
  With this new game, the more things change, the more they stay the same: the basis for New Super 
 Mario Bros. is, surprise, to save the princess. In this design, Bowser Jr. has snagged Peach right 
 out from Mario's nose, and taken her to the closest fortress possible. This game won't win any 
 awards in storytelling because there is none - Mario will simply have to bounce from level to level 
 getting to each challenge's castle while collecting coins and stomping Koopas, Goombas, and any 
 other oddly-named inhabitants of the Mushroom Kingdom. Anyone who's played the original Super Mario 
 Bros. - and at this point, if you haven't, stop reading and find the nearest NES for a refresher 
 course - will recognize the early nods to the original game design, from hopping on the flagpole 
 to finish a round to Bowser protecting the end of the first castle.
  So New Super Mario Bros. is a game that's been a long time coming. It's clear that a Super Mario 
 game is a really big deal for Nintendo, and a game bearing the Super Mario namesake needs to be 
 significant. It took the company more than a decade to advance the Mario mechanics in the side-scrolling 
 design, but how much further can the company go without straying from the existing run/jump/bounce 
 formula and becoming something not-so-Mario? Obviously, a lot. The only reason why this game's on 
 the Nintendo DS is because A) the handheld market's a lot more open to the idea of more limited 
 game designs like side-scrolling action games, and B) the Nintendo DS has far more horsepower under 
 its hood than the Game Boy Advance system does. A lot of the gameplay advancements are due to the 
 capabilities of the Nintendo DS processor and not the system's more unique elements. In the main 
 game, the dual screen and touch screen aspects are so basic and sparsely used that they're almost 
 unnecessary to the game design. Honestly, they're not needed, either - it's the system's 3D capabilities 
 that bring a lot of the new gameplay elements to light in this Mario sequel.
  For example, Mario is no longer the pixel-drawn character he's always been in past Super Mario 
 platformers. Instead, he's a fully 3D model similar to the one that's used in Super Mario 64. This 
 enables the designers to give him a wide assortment of moves and manipulate him in countless ways 
 without the need to redraw him in all sorts of poses. More importantly, with this model Mario can 
 now grow super huge - literally the size of the Nintendo DS screen - and lay waste to the familiar 
 brick layouts for some easy 1-up earnings.
  The super-size mushroom is only one example of the new elements in this game. Some levels feature 
 deforming platforms that shrink and stretch to make jumps a lot more challenging. Other levels 
 have ground deformation effects in place, causing rolling hills to form simply by warping the ground 
 under Mario's feet. Water levels have 3D whirlpools that can suck Mario down if he gets too close. 
 Enemies can vary in size thanks to this hybrid 2D/3D engine, so you might encounter head-pounding 
 Thwomps of all sizes in a single castle. Some elements are a little more subtle - rolling logs, 
 swinging vines, spinning question blocks scattered throughout the worlds, all using the power of 
 the DS for new Mario gameplay elements.
  Even with the 3D capabilities, the designers keep everything at a modest level. There are occasional 
 special effects that may make some go, Hey that's pretty neat - the water rippling effect on the 
 surface of a pool, for example - but for the most part the game sticks to a rigid 2D visual design 
 to make New Super Mario Bros. feel as close to Super Mario World and Super Mario Bros. 3 as possible 
 in the contemporary design.
  Mario also has a few moves for this adventure, most lifted from his 3D adventures. Wall jumping 
 is now possible, and in many levels, required. There's also a butt-stomp to smash bricks from the 
 top-side. And, along with the Super-Size-Me version of Mario, players can also collect a micro 
 mushroom to shrink Mario down to mouse-size which gives him the ability to run on the surface of 
 water as well as float more gracefully after a jump. The game's almost peppered with cool little 
 subtleties, some not as easy to notice. For starters, the end of level fireworks from Super Mario 
 Bros. are back, but they're triggered by something completely different; and enemies now change 
 their attack pattern based upon the beat of the background music playing during the action.
  Most importantly, New Super Mario Bros. undeniably feels like a Super Mario game. This Nintendo 
 DS title's spent a long time in development, and it's clear that the design team used much of that 
 development cycle to get the classic Mario handling to feel right. Control-wise, this game gets 
 it down pateven with the new moves under Mario's arsenal. The game's layout is very similar in 
 structure to Super Mario 3 or Super Mario World - each of the eight worlds in New Super Mario Bros. 
 has an overhead map that lays out all of the levels. By completing the different levels, the path 
 will open up to the next available level. If you're looking to plow through the game from beginning 
 to end credits, it won't take long - four or five hours is all that's needed to finish the game 
 at its bare minimum. It's also not a difficult thing to do thanks to the abundance of extra life 
 opportunities throughout the game - Nintendo's designers are very generous with the green mushrooms 
 this time around. But who plays Mario at its bare minimum? Plowing through will literally skip 
 more than half of the levels in New Super Mario Bros. In fact, two of the eight worlds can't be 
 accessed by traditional means, so if you beat the game on a quick run-through you'll literally 
 be skipping two worlds to do it. The game levels are, on average, a bit on the easy side for those 
 just wanting to hit the flagpole in each one. The challenge is to snag three large coins in each 
 level. Spending these coins at specific places will open up paths that are inaccessible through 
 the normal means. And, like in previous Mario games, some levels have different exits. If you stumble 
 upon these you might open up a shortcut to skip locked levels - and true gamers don't let these 
 areas sit unopened. Many of the coins aren't easily snagged, and it's here where much of New Super 
 Mario Bros.' challenge and most of the game's length emerges.
  
  Even when the main game is completely over, the whole package still has a lot of meat to it. On 
 top of the single-player adventure is a fantastic wireless one-on-one versus mode, pitting Mario 
 against Luigi in one of five looping arenas where the objective is to grab five stars before the 
 other person does. This mode is absolutely maniacal, and reminiscent of the multiplayer mode in 
 the Game Boy Advance versions of the Super Mario seriesjust on a bigger, two-player scale. Less 
 impressive is the addition of the same collectible mini-games that were included in Super Mario 
 64 DS. It may seem like one of those Nintendo handheld recycling jobs, but that idea's thrown out 
 the window when you realize that these games have been retooled for single cartridge wireless multiplayer. 
 That's pretty cool.
  Just as New Super Mario Bros. retains the look and feel of a classic Super Mario game, the same 
 can be said about the audio. Familiar tunes have been remixed and recomposed for the Nintendo DS 
 game, and while a lot has been changed, the soundtrack is still very Mario. Players will, however, 
 have to deal with the fact that Mario has a voice in this platformer. The Hoo! and Waha! exclamations 
 are kept to a minimum during the action, and most of the Italian stereotyped vocals are at the 
 start and end of a level. It's a small price to pay, and most gamers aren't going to care about 
 the Here we go! and that's-a so nice quips throughout the adventure anyway.
  This game can easily be completed in a day if you simply romp through the bare minimum of New Super 
 Mario Bros. level structure. Some levels are easier than others, and boss battles are a bit on 
 the predictable side. To some, this will seem like a disappointment. But like games in Mario's 
 past, there's more to this Nintendo DS game than the minimum requirements - far more levels and 
 challenges await those who try and complete a level by snagging everything before the end.
  Admittedly there aren't as many gameplay innovations in New Super Mario Bros. as compared to previous 
 Super Mario releases, but that's mostly due to the fact that much of platforming's innovations 
 are related to 3D designs. But that said, this Nintendo DS release still proves that Nintendo still 
 has some great ideas brewing for its plumber in his classic setting. There's an incredible amount 
 of fresh, fun challenge to uncover in this revival.
  Here's to the start of something new for Nintendo's old plumber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  We've all played a Mario game once in our life (and if you haven't then you are not a real gamer) . 
 This game takes us back to Mario's roots as a side scroller. It has eighty levels with three star 
 coins hidden in each level. New Super Mario bros. is a must buy game for the DS and if you don't 
 have a DS than this is the game that will make you buy one.
  
  THE GOOD: Dozens of unlockables and secrets with great replay value, creative level designs, mini 
 games to play if you beat the story mode, has the same old Mario feeling that makes you feel all 
 fuzzy and warm inside.
  
  THE BAD: The story-mode is short.
  
  OVERALL: If you liked the original super mario bros. you will absolutely love this one. Its a must 
 buy for all Nintendo DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a remake of the original Mario for the NES. I happen to own it, and I 
 can honestly say I like this better. While it would have benefited from the ability to save anywhere, 
 and 2D graphics (let's get real, the DS can't produce decent looking 3D graphics) , New Super Mario 
 Bros. delivers a rewarding experience that may be simple, but warrants at least one play through. 
 After you beat the main game, there are a few recycled minigames you can play from Super Mario 
 64 DS, and a few new ones, but mainly, most of the games are not even worth playing. Still, there 
 are occasionally fun ones, such as a game where you draw trampolines that several Marios can jump 
 on to get to their goal. However, the minigames end up making you worry more than the main game 
 does, since you're constantly keeping something regulated in quite a few of them, so it's a bad 
 relaxation alternative.
  
  If you want, you can also go back and replay any previously completed level, or you can discover 
 new areas and go back to worlds you skipped before. The music is almost always the same whimsical 
 tune, though, so by the time you're redoing the levels, you may want to turn the sound off. You 
 can unlock areas by finding strategically placed Star Coins in each level, and it costs 5 Star 
 Coins to unlock said areas. Usually, it just leads to an Item Room, where you can get Mushrooms 
 and the like, so it's pretty pointless to go back and unlock them. Pretty much, after you're done, 
 there's just nothing to do, and it doesn't take too long to beat the game. You'll probably go two 
 worlds, then save and quit, since you're so bored of just jumping on enemies for an hour. New Super 
 Mario Bros. attempts to refresh the old gameplay of the NES on the DS, and in that, it succeeds. 
 Just don't ask me where the rest of the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Next on my docket of my new DS games is New Super Mario Bros. If you're a fan of the series, you 
 might find that some of the more-recent Mario games have lost some of their charm, just because 
 there seems to be a new one all the time. But this one's a real gem, because it goes back to the 
 old-fashioned platformer days, and it gives it a good kick in the ass... Or Maybe a fireball in 
 the pants. This game's a mishmash of all the old Mario games we've loved over the years. It takes 
 elements from the SMB on the original NES, blends a bit of Super Mario World from the SNES, adds 
 some of the visuals from Super Mario 64, and even feels a bit like SMB3 from the NES. But it's 
 also a whole new game with new levels and some new items. You have your mushrooms, fire-flowers, 
 star-men, and so-on. But you also have super mushrooms which make you HUGE, capable of stomping 
 and tearing the levels apart, smashing everything in sight. But you can also get mini-mushrooms, 
 which make you the size of an ant, capable of squeezing into tiny spots that bigger people cannot 
 access. The game boasts quite a few levels, including 2 unlockable worlds. Not only that but many 
 levels contain secret exits, which unlock even more new areas. When you start the game, it seems 
 fairly easy and straightforward, but just wait until you get a bit further. Some of the levels 
 get nice and challenging, and you'll go to a LOT of trouble to find all the secrets. Honestly it 
 took me about 4 or 5 days to get through the game, but I'm still going through, finding all the 
 secret coins, etc.
  The music and graphics are very nice, and the 3D characters are a really nice touch. Much of the 
 music is a lot of older music, but tweaked and remixed, which suits this just fine. While New Super 
 Mario Bros. isn't the most revolutionary games you can take with you, it's one of the most fun 
 I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to lie, I was a bit skeptical about New Super Mario Bros. on the Nintendo DS. It 
 seemed almost too good to be true, the game excelled my expectations in almost every way possible 
 and it truly is the greatest game on the Nintendo DS, and the most fun I have had with the series 
 since I first played Super Mario 64.
  
  The gameplay is good old fashion Mario with a DS twist. Sadly the game does not use the touch screen 
 all that well, and you just use it to use your reserve item. This however does not take away from 
 the fun factor of the game, and it plays and feels like SNES and NES Mario from back in the day, 
 and despite the new graphics it is still completely solid. The new items are not that usefull, 
 especially the mega mushroom. The first time that I used it in the first level I thought, wow this 
 is really cool , but that was really the only time that I used the mega mushroom, because it seemed 
 like whenever I would use it in other levels, I would get stuck and not be able to advance until 
 the mushroom wore off. The other added item, the mini-mushroom, is not used all that often either, 
 and they come more in handy when you are trying to find all of the secrets, and they are not that 
 important in the regular gameplay. That little problem aside New Super Mario Bros. plays better 
 than I could have ever imagined.
  
  The graphics in New Super Mario Bros. are absolutely amazing. The game feels like its a 3D game 
 when really in reality it is a 2D game, which is kind of a cool concept. If you really want a good 
 example of what it is like think about Spider Man 2 on the Nintendo DS. The character models were 
 3D but the backdrops were in 2D. Only New Super Mario Bros. looks ten times better than Spider 
 Man 2 did, but if you want to have an idea about the way things look in-game Spider Man 2 is the 
 best thing to compare it to.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. sounds like a Mario game. There are lots of different varients to the classic 
 Super Mario Bros. theme song and all the little sounds like hitting the block are here too and 
 they sound phenomenal of course. It seems silly that a Mario game could fail in the sound department, 
 and this game is further proof that you cannot.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. has replay value coming out of its... rear end!! I beat the game and ten 
 hours later I am still plugging away trying to find every last secret and star coin. If you dont 
 want to find the secrets you can probably run through this game throughout a week of moderate to 
 light gaming, but that is just no fun especially with all the extra stuff you can do in this game. 
 For the most part I am not the kind of person who likes to complete games 100%, but New Super Mario 
 Bros. is a game that I am definately looking forward to doing that in. There are mini-games as 
 well but those are the exact same ones that were in Super Mario 64 DS. There is multiplayer here 
 as well, so if you have a friend, then you can share the adventure with them, and I sure that you 
 will have a great time.
  
  In the end, New Super Mario Bros. is easily the best Mario game since Super Mario Bros 64 and i 
 just might be the best Mario game since Super Mario Bros. 3 back on the NES. The gameplay is nearly 
 flawless even though the game barely uses the touch screen and there are a few items that are comletely 
 useless. The graphics (all though I cannot stress enough that good graphics don't make good games) 
 are awesome with an amazing mix of 2D backdrops and 3D characters. The Mario theme is in here in 
 many different versions and it sounds just like a Mario game should sound. The replay value is 
 huge in this game, because you will want to go through and play until you find everything. Like 
 I said before I beat the game and then ten hours later I am still plugging away at the game trying 
 to find every little secret that the game has to offer. Adding to the sheer awesomeness of the 
 game is the addition of multiplayer gameplay, that makes me feel like I am playing one of the old 
 Super Nintendo or NES games from back in the day. The mini-games are a nice addition, even though 
 just a few of them caught my attention, since they actually the same ones from Super Mario Bros. 
 64 DS. Whether it for a quick fix of nostalgia or its your first time with the Mario series one 
 thing is for sure and that is that New Super Mario Bros. is every Mario fans dream, and maybe even 
 more. If you own a DS you have absolutely no excueses for not owning this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Mario finally comes to the DS in a brand new Mario adventure, with the same gameplay mechanics 
 as the Mario Bros beofore it. It seems this game took a step abck in time from Super Mario Bros. 
 3 (needless to say is one of the greatest games out there)
  
  The graphics, aside form the 3D Mario, seems to be worse than the pixil Super Nintendo. The back 
 ground looks hand drawned and colred with markers at some points. The game has some nice 2D rippiling 
 water efects though.
  
  This game also has one of the worst sound tracks out there. Every 3 levels or so you'll be greeted 
 with the same annoying tune.
  
  If the this game gets a sequel (and it will) it better called New Super Mario World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainz94
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  While you are reading this review, i just want 2 let you know i'm NOT a big Mario fan. This was 
 my first DS game, and i have 2 say it is brilliant !
  I already have 7 DS games, but this is my favorite by far (i've beat the game 3 times, and i'm playing 
 it again lol !) . It is a very modern version of Mario, but the gameplay is very similar 2 the preview 
 games. There is so much inovation, so much enemies to stomp, so many secrets 2 find and places 2 explore. 
 It's just AMAZING !
  The music, sounds, are beautiful and very addicting. There's just one downside. Everybody talks about 
 the impresive graphics in the game, but i personally disagree with that statement. The characters 
 in the game look a little blocky, and some other thing like the world map and stuff. But those are 
 just minor flaws that you probably wont even notice.
  
  I don't have much 2 say besides that New Super Mario Borthers is one of the best DS games, and you 
 should own a copy, PERIOD ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. brings Mario away from 3D worlds and into the classic formula of side-scrolling. 
 If you've played previous Mario side-scrollers, you'll probably be thinking this is all of the 
 same - you're wrong. New Super Mario Bros. refreshes the Mario series and brings it up to date 
 with a bang.
  
  There are a total of eight worlds in the game but you can finish the game by taking secret short 
 cuts and only completing six worlds. You'll obviously want to go back and play the final two worlds 
 if only for the fact to see the stunning level designs. The main worlds are split up into different 
 levels and you direct Mario to which level you want to play and then select it. Along the way there 
 are also optional 'toll gates' in which you can pay five stars to access more levels or to enter 
 a mushroom house which will give you a new power-up or lives. The level select world is simple 
 yet effective and as it is one of the first things you'll see, you get the feeling this is going 
 to be a great game.
  
  The levels are designed fantastically. You can get undersea levels, ice levels, desert levels, 
 grass levels... there are plenty of different styles so you won't get bored of the landscapes at 
 all. Mario of course comes with his basic moves and power-ups, but there are new ones chucked in 
 to make things a little different. Mario is controlled by the D-Pad and he can jump, butt slam 
 on enemy's heads, wall jump and so on. Mario's power-ups feature things such as the fireball, mega 
 mushroom which sees you turning massive and stomping your way through the level for a limited time, 
 mini mushroom which makes you tiny and allows you to access areas you couldn't previously, along 
 with all the usual power-ups.
  
  A downside to New Super Mario Bros. is the fact that it is incredibly short and you get the feeling 
 it is over too quickly. Saying this though, there are a few levels that will have you frustrated 
 as you keep dying at the same point over and over. There are mini-games such as those included 
 in Super Mario 64 DS but these don't add much to the games total game time, nor does the multiplayer 
 feature which sees you collecting stars against your opponent. Luckily, there are three stars to 
 collect in each level and some people may want to go back and collect all of the stars which adds 
 a lot of play time to the game.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a definite hit and no DS owner can go without this game. People who may 
 have been around when the first Mario Bros. came out will still enjoy this game as much as people 
 who have never played a side-scrolling Mario. A real thrill all round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjata123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario is back to his roots in the amazing 2D-Platformer for the Nintendo DS. Once again Marios 
 adventure starts out with Princess Peach being kidnapped by the badguys. The levels work out just 
 like the old Mario games on the NES. World 1 all the way the World 8. Theres Ghost Houses, Mushroom 
 Houses, Gold Coins (3 in every level) Red Flying Blocks, The old Power-Ups plus a brand new one. 
 Pretty much the same old same old with some new additions. Theres also the Mini-Games section, 
 has a few fun mini-games that you can play, try to beat scores. I recommend this game for those 
 who would like to take Mario back to his roots. It will get boring and repetitive after awhile 
 so beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shillster89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is definitly one of the best DS games and offers a lot of fun. With a 
 style that is similar to the old 2-D Mario games, it makes the series even better with nicer graphics 
 and sound, as well as more levels and different items. Most of the levels are very fun and can 
 be replayed many times without getting bored which is always a great feature for a story mode. 
 The game also comes with various minigames that will keep you occupied for long time as well. There 
 are some multiplayer features that aren't as fun as the story mode or minigames but are still worth 
 a try. All in all I think this game is a must-buy for anyone who is a Mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is so addicting... I bought this for a long 9 hour car trip and before I knew it the drive 
 was over and I was literally 50% into the game. There are plenty of things to do after beating 
 the all levels (Minigames, star coins, multiplayer etc.)
  and the game itself is not too long but not too short. The level of difficulty is perfect, and 
 the graphis are incredible for DS. I dont usually give games a 10.0 but I could not find anything 
 wrong with this game no matter how hard I tried. I recommend anyone with a DS should get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerbbadd1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  There was a lot of hype around this game heading up to its release, and this game goes well and 
 beyond that hype. First off, the game starts with Princess Peach being kidnapped by Bowser. Innovative 
 and totally new, right? You then start in the first world, which pretty much looks like a typical 
 starting world in any Mario game, which is pretty grass and those deviant goombas. There are both 
 bosses and castles in each world, which makes for a lot of fun throughout the entire game. Also, 
 the extra items and suits in the game, such as the turtle suit, are fun to learn how to use! The 
 MEGA-Mario is great as well!!
  The levels look beautiful. Everything is 3D, the characters move swiftly and the scenery looks 
 great in every part of the game, adding to its visual beauty. There is not one scene in the game 
 that looks out of place. The two major flaws in the game are the multiplayer and the difficulty. 
 First of all, the multiplayer is fun, but it always feels like there could have been more to it. 
 You can run around searching for stars and beating the crap out of each other, but that; s about 
 as deep as it runs. Definitely worth looking at, but disappointing for the most part. The other 
 flaw is that there really isn't anything too difficult in the game. It may take a while to get 
 all the coins and get to every single part of the game (there are quite a few paths hidden within 
 the game that you will need to find) , but the bosses and levels aren't very hard at all, and it 
 doesn't really take too long to get through the game. The benefits outweigh the downfalls. Simply 
 put, this game is not only one of the best reasons to own a DS, it's also one of the best games 
 of 2006, and should be a model for any side-scrolling game in the future. If you don't already 
 have this game, then stop reading and go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. doesn't have the most original title but what it does have is classic 2D 
 Mario gameplay that any fan of the series will enjoy. The game's story, like most Mario titles, 
 is extremely simple. Princess Peach has once again been kidnapped by Bowser's evil little son, 
 whose name is, you guessed it, Bowser Jr. Mario once again, must leave his plumbing duties for 
 now and rescue the princess.
  
  The game has a map much like Super Mario World where you must complete one stage to move to another 
 stage. The platforming itself is very pure. It's a traditional 2D platformer but Mario brings some 
 of his 3D moves to the table. Such as double jump, triple jump, wall kick, and back flip. Mario 
 &amp; Luigi both control very smoothly and makes for accurate jumps. The same enemies from the 
 old 2D Mario platformers are back. Goombas and Koopas will be your main foes with a few new ones 
 here and there. There doesn't seem to be enough enemies in the stages though. A lot of areas in 
 some of the game's stages feel very empty. New Super Mario Bros. does a nice job of combining gameplay 
 from multiple 2D Mario platformers. This is a good thing except it sort of causes New Super Mario 
 Bros. to have an identity crisis and leaves it without a very unique feel. The game is also very 
 short and very easy to beat. The game has a few newly added powerups. Not all of them feel necessary 
 though. The BIG mushroom makes Mario as tall as the DS screen where you can just run through most 
 of the level and take the fun out of everything. Well, the BIG shroom is fun at first but later 
 you'll find yourself trying to avoid it. The turtle shell is also a power up that doesn't feel 
 very rewarding. It's basically an extra coat of armor that makes Mario spin uncontrollably when 
 he runs. The small shroom may be the games coolest powerup. It turns Mario into an itty bitty Italian, 
 and it allows you to jump extremely high and run across water. The game's boss battles are very 
 very disapointing. There are some interesting boss battles that give that feeling of nostalgia, 
 but most of them are too mindless and easy to enjoy. New Super Mario Bros. is as bright and beautiful 
 as any other Mario game before it. The mushroom kingdom has never looked better on a handheld. 
 Character models are very well done. The music is a bit disapointing. It just isn't up to par with 
 Mario's previous music. The sound effects are crisp. New Mario Bros. has some hidden stages and 
 it'll bring you back to play it some more, but after you've completed the game once it'll start 
 to collect some dust before you decide to pick it up again. New Super Mario Bros. is a good playing, 
 looking, and sounding game, but it suffers a bit of an identity crisis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  The great parts of this game is the 8 brand new worlds with new levels, and colorful environments 
 always makes a new mario game keep its hype. The new power-ups are really cool because those can 
 help you get through a level faster, and maybe find secret things in a hidden level. All the old 
 stuff you find in the original mario bros. series is in this game, blocks, mushrooms, warp pipes, 
 and so forth. The new multiplayer is good and you don't half to have a friend that has to have 
 his/her own copy, you can just ds download, which is really cool. some of the mini-games from Super 
 mario 64 ds make a comeback on this game and are the really good ones that comeback, and there 
 are also new mini-games to play in your spare time, last, there are more levels in each world than 
 in the original mario bros. there where 4 in each world. The bad parts of this game is that i find 
 some of these levels as little too short and simple to beat if you get the hang of this game. There 
 is still a timer to which you half to beat to finish a level, and that gets on my nerves. The power-ups 
 can gt annoying because you could have the big mushroom, and you can be running and you'd run into 
 a wall and you can't go any further unless you turn back to normal size which is annoying. But 
 overall, this game is really great especially for people who love the original mario bros. series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  I've bought this game recently and its really fun and addictive. I love the old super mario games 
 for the old nes system, lol. anyway the graphics in the game are simply colorful and enjoyable.
 
  
  The gameplay it like the old games, but it has added some new features such as making mario huge 
 enough to fit the screen or tiny as a dot. Adding more fun in the playing the games and does require 
 these mushrooms to find and collect the golden coins.
  
  The minigames are really fun to play especially with friends. i have not tried connecting to another 
 DS but i did play some minigames with friends on the same DS.
  
  Overall, for those who has a DS should have this game in their collection because it is so much 
 fun to play on your own time or even on a long road trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabioFresh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  We haven't seen a 2D Mario platform in about 10 years except for remakes. People say it is to short 
 and yes I have to agree with them. But I just like to appreciate the fact Nintendo wanted to go 
 back to its roots. It just like an old Mario Bros. game (just like the name says) but with different 
 levels, better graphics, and handheld. I love the new power-ups. My favorite is mini mushroom. 
 In each level there are 3 main coins you can collect and you can stock up to get Toad Houses. The 
 only bad thing is that it's short and Mario games seem to have that unfortunate feature now a days, 
 just look at Super Paper Mario. This isn't just for Mario lovers around the world, but for fun 
 lovers as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juventus_10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a great new Mario game with the classic gameplay of Super Mario World. New Super Mario 
 Bros features entirely brand new levels of a wide array ranging from forests, underwater, snowy 
 peaks, haunted houses, and castles. The 8 worlds and 50+ levels incorporate many of the level design 
 and gameplay elements from older Mario games but with a new feel which keeps them exciting. The 
 old school gameplay has been revamped with new techniques such as ground pound, wall jumping, and 
 triple jump as well as with new items such as very small Mario which can float and very large Mario 
 which can smash through just about everything. The game has polished and colorful graphics which 
 are appealing, as well as all the traditional Mario sound effects. The problems with this game 
 are that it is too easy for anybody over the age of 4, some levels are too short, and the game 
 makes very limited use of the stylus. The bottom line is that this game is an extremely fun and 
 appealing experience which offers enough newness to excite veteran Mario gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekoolish
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  New super mario bros is utterly hopless. I can not even believe that it actually is number 5 on 
 gamespots ds games. Yes the graphics are quite good for a nintendo ds but this game has absolutely 
 no depth what so ever. The story mode is unbelievably short and it literally took me 2 hours to 
 finish it. The extra mini games are interesting for about 1 hour and then they become so repetitive 
 it isn't funny.
  
  Nintendo has changed too much for my likeing. Mario has been turned into some kind of big giant 
 who is feared by all the living critters in mario world. The original games portrayed mario as 
 the victim were as in this game he is almost like the villain.
  
  If you are reading this review i urge you that you do not waste your money on this game. That is 
 simply my opinion because that is what has happend to me. Every gaming site makes it look as if 
 it is one of the best games on ds, but i asure you that this is a lie.
  
  My review is simply outlining the facts of the game and not trying to persuade you into purchasing 
 it. Here is all the facts about it summed up: Pros: Enticing graphics (short lived) some new critters
 
  
  Con's: Game has moved too far away from when it was a hit classic Too short, mini games are limited
 
  
  New super mario bros is simply overrated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viggggo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Well I think the game is close to perfection. I have always loved The Mario Brothers, and this 
 game has all the elements I love. The game is colorful, have great tunes, all the classic bad guys 
 and new ones, and of cause great game play. I have only one complainant; Why can't I save when 
 I want to, that's frustrating.
  The story is the same as always, and quit thin, but why change a thing that already works.
  As 
 I already pointed out the gameplay is amazing. I really love to jump around with Mario, and try 
 to get all the moves just right. I love to go exploring, try to find all the stars, and all the 
 secrets. Most of the bosses of the game are easy, but still pretty fun to beat. And the 2D/3D stile 
 of the game works perfectly. The music is funny, and really integrates and becomes a living part 
 of the game.
  Though the game itself is not very long, it surely has replay quality, and there is always you 
 have mist, that you can go back and redo.
  The new additions are also great; especially the opportunity to become Mega Mario, and break everything 
 around you, it's quit fun.
  
  I can only recommend this piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Mario is timeless. You'd think after 25 years, we'd be tired of him, and yet, just as he starts 
 to feel stale, something like New Super Mario Bros. comes out and reminds us what made him great 
 in the first place.
  
  After enduring numerous ports of old Mario games on the GBA as well as that awkward Mario 64 DS 
 Mario goes back to his 2D roots with a brand new adventure.
  
  There's not much story to speak of. Mario and Princess Peach are taking a walk, when the castle 
 is attacked. Mario goes to investigate and while he's distracted, Bowser Jr. grabs Peach and runs 
 off. This game doesn't want to bog you down with a complicated story line. That's Final Fantasy's 
 job. Mario is all about gameplay.
  
  We've been spoiled by 3D and being able to look around us and see what's coming up. This reminds 
 us how tough running from left to right really is. One minute you're bouncing along without a care, 
 stomping baddies, grabbing coins, next minute, you're dead. Some levels are cakewalks and others 
 are frustratingly difficult especially if you're trying to get all 3 large gold coins. While you 
 could go quickly through the game and beat it, there's plenty of incentive to go back and unlock 
 levels you missed. Good luck figuring out how to get into levels 4 and 7.
  
  The levels themselves are diverse and familiar to all Mario games. Water, desert, sky, castle, 
 they're all here. Plenty of classic Mario bad guys populate the DS as well. You'll reach mini-fortresses 
 where you'll have to duel with Bowser Jr. and the final Fortress of each level featured some unique 
 bosses including a giant goomba, Petey Piranah, a Lakitu Commander driving a thunderstorm cloud 
 and Monty Mole driving a three tiered tank. The graphics are as good as they get on the DS. Even 
 if the game plays in 2D, the characters and environments are fully rendered in 3D. The music fits 
 the levels and the classic Mario spirit. Also for you Luigi fans who are upset because Mario's 
 brother only has bit parts in adventure games, there's a cheat code to let you play through as 
 Luigi. And there is a multiplayer Wi-fi element that let's Mario and Luigi compete against each 
 other in a level.
  
  Only a few minor complaints kept this from a perfect score. First of all, I know this game was 
 meant to be closer to the original SMB on the NES, but it would've been nice to have one decent 
 flying item or Yoshi. The Mega and mini mushrooms are fine, but at times don't really help you 
 along. Secondly as DS games go, this doesn't feature much touch screen action. You can look at 
 the bottom screen and see your stats and store an extra power up for later use. To compensate, 
 they threw in a bunch of mini-games and while they're a nice distraction, they're not overly interesting.
 
  
  Still, this game is great. If you were too young to play Super Mario Bros. back in the 80s, this 
 is your chance to see what Mario is all about. Unless you absolutely hate Mario, it would be hard 
 not to like this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I can't lie - I was disappointed with the length of this game.
  
  When I had finally beaten the game, gone through all the worlds, made it through every path - it 
 felt like it took only a few minutes. Really, it was only a bit over fifteen hours, but it only 
 took about a week.
  
  Hell though - it was entertaining while it lasted.
  
  The game served as a constant reminder to the Mario of old - the Mario we all grew to love. As 
 you hit question mark blocks and saw the mushroom pop out, or see the fireworks go off at the end 
 of the level, it just reminded you of the Good Ol' Days , when Mario wasn't even 3-D.
  
  Speaking of 3-D, Mario looks snappy. The graphics are beautiful, gorgeous, and it's one of the 
 finest looking games for the DS. I was stunned with how well it looked - I was expecting a lot 
 less.
  
  It was great while it lasted - but it didn't last long. Be warned! If you're good at most video 
 games, you should be good at this one - it doesn't take long to get the hang of it. And once you've 
 beaten it, the re-play value seems (slightly) nullified (hence, my low value score) .
  
  If the levels had been a bit longer, maybe it would've been a better quality game - but still, 
 it was enjoyable while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeorshadow19
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first DS games I bought and I'm glad I did. In my opinion, it's exactly what 
 the DS needed. Everything about it is perfect and it should not be overlooked. NSMB has everything 
 you are looking for in a Mario game and fan of Mario old and new will get their moneys worth when 
 they pick this game up. I even found the mini games to be very fun aside form the actual game itself. 
 The new powerups were a perfect addition to an already perfect game. It's difficulty is good enough 
 to give you a challenge but not so easy that you could blow through it with no effort; the controls 
 are what you would expect from a Mario game- simple. The graphics are bright and colorful so you'll 
 alys have something to look at while your playing. The sound is dead on and you pretty much never 
 get tired of hearing it. This is a must buy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper_Hedgehog
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I don't need to introduce Mario to any of you. He's a goddamn legend in dungarees. Even as a huge 
 Sonic fan, I respect him and his games for being just plain fun.
  
  NSMB is a return to side-scrolling for Mario, and with 3D visuals and great gameplay, he's better 
 than ever.
  
  You play as Mario (obviously) , who has to save Princess Peach after she's kidnapped by Bowser once 
 again. You move on a 2D plane, jumping on enemies and basically kicking ass, while getting waves 
 of nostalgia by seeing old stages redesigned in 3D.
  
  The game, though easy, is still great while it lasts, and you should definately buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora592
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  this game is addictive and fun to play its probably the best game i got for my DS. the gameplay 
 is fun and the new items are awesome like the giant mushroom thats fun to use. and the worlds are 
 the same like the mario bros three. the mini games in this game are fun to play but there quite 
 a few that are the same from Super mario 64 DS. the 2 player is alot of fun but i think the stages 
 are to short. and i think the whole game is kinda short but its still fun to play. this game is 
 the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played one of the old Mario games knows what there getting into; you get power-ups 
 and jump your way through many, many levels. Except, this game is so much more. Once you finish 
 the game once you seem a little upset it was short but really you shouldn't! This game has secret 
 levels secret worlds and star tokens to collect in every level. This makes it the most addicting 
 game ever made!
  
  Plus if your friends have a DS tell them to play too. The multiplayer is that so good that me and 
 my friend played it for 3 hours on the car ride home from Cedar point! No question about it! BUY 
 THIS GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  There hasn't been a side-scrolling Super Mario game for more than ten years. We finally get another 
 one, for the Nintendo DS. It is basically the Super Mario games you played back in the 80s/90s 
 but in full 3D. There are some flaws, but the rest of the game is very good. This is a spoiler-free 
 review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  Graphics
  A big graphical improvement between the last side-scrolling Super Mario, and this.
  10/10
  
 
  Sound
  Like the other Super Mario games, the music is very repetitive, however it's good. But nowhere 
 near as good as Super Mario Bros. 3!
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  Once again, has some brilliant gameplay and the game is very addictive. Some of the awesome powerups 
 used in the previous Mario games may not exist in this one (such as Raccoon and Yoshi) but there 
 are some new, interesting powerups such as the Giant Mario, Koopa Mario and Small Mario. You can 
 use these to do certain tasks that you normally wouldn't do in the levels. Like SMB3, the worlds 
 are run by different elements. Such as Grass Land, Desert Land etc. Once again, there are eight 
 worlds to run around in. The difficulty has lowered quite a bit and it's a lot easier than SMB3, 
 however there are the odd levels in the game which are quite hard. As for the bosses, there may 
 not be any of Bowser's kids (except for Baby Bowser) but you end up versing Baby Bowser, some other 
 guys, and even Bowser himself. There are shortcuts in the game as well, but they aren't as big 
 as the ones in SMB3.... or are they? Well, I haven't come across any massive ones yet but remember 
 that in SMB3, there was that special flute that could take you to further worlds. But I don't think 
 they exist in this one. There's good things about that and bad things. Like Super Mario 64 DS, 
 there are mini-games in this one. There are some of the old ones from SM64DS, but there are also 
 new ones, including the one where you have to blow through the microphone to get Yoshi up to the 
 ship up at the top of the castle. New Super Mario Bros. has some great gameplay which is really 
 addictive and fun.
  10/10
  
  Character Design
  There's the gang again, but I think it would've been better if it had Yoshi and Wario in it. Still 
 pretty good though.
  9/10
  
  Storyline
  Boring.... Next?
  3/10
  
  Overall
  New Super Mario Bros. is a fantastic game that must be owned by any DS owner. This is so far, the 
 best Nintendo DS game i've come across and probably will be for some time.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stunt12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  the new super mario bros for nintendo ds is the best game ever played i like how when you go down 
 the pipe and the screen changes i like it how the screen reacts to the game. if you ever play the 
 games you would like when you play it for the first time. i like the graphics on the game and how 
 you cand be luigi or mario if you like super mario games you would like this one definitly. i would 
 also recemened all the super mario games for nintendo ds and probably would all every who playes 
 super mario on their nintendo ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebaumisnoob
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised when I played the first level, in fact, The entire game suprised me. You have some 
 abilities from every mario game included. The wall jump, the butt stomp (bad term) the triple jump (which 
 really isnt that useful) and sliding. you need to harness all of these abilities to complete the 
 game 100% (hidden star coins and such) , and some could save you from certain death. Toad shacks 
 like the ones in Super Mario3 are included
  and help out alot during your play time The graphics were good for a handheld, and followed much 
 in the same vein as paper mario (exept it was people, not objects that were 3d) I didn't expect 
 to have avenged sevenfold playing mario music, but the mario theme was only included in the toad 
 shacks, and other music was dissapointing and boring. The challenge mode adds more replay value 
 to the game, the minigames are fun, but nowhere near as good as the game, and mario vs luigi is 
 very addictive
  
  The game is a must have for fans or indeed even newcomers to the mario world, but the story is 
 same old, same old. My verdict is it is one of the best in the series, besides only the original 
 and Super Mario 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome (whoever made copy and paste is a genius!) Okay 
 seriously though this is a massive leap for the mario brothers. It is, at least in my opinion, 
 the best game they have done so far. You get tinyand mega mushrooms, oh and you can turn into a 
 turtle thing (is it as koopa? I can't remember = [ ) and lots more. There really isn't much to say, 
 everything about it is better then good. Overall: a must have, especially for past fans of the 
 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat_tonyca
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Anyone who is inside the 18-25 age bracket and is currently on this website can affiliate themselves 
 with the king of all plumbers. One has to wonder if Mario has enough time to actually help people 
 pipes but that's a story for another day.
  
  About a year ago, the DS got a huge boost with the release of the New Super Mario Bros. The game 
 plays like all platform Mario's and this one is sort of an hommage to the good old days of the 
 plumber on the NES &amp; SNES, therefore it is not 3D.
  
  The game is absolutely for everyone and that's what makes Nintendo king of the handhelds it's great 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Eh... Mario... what 'r ya doin' on teh DS? No reason? To make a good game great? To make an original 
 game where creativity id the only reason why the game's fun to play? TO make people buy your merchandise? 
 To make me want to play an addictive game??!!?!? Huh, huh, IS THAT IT??!?!?!
  
  Well, if you said yes, you would have been quite honest. WHat you have in SUper Mario Bros. is 
 not a remake of an old game (the New in the title is misleading) , but an innovative platformer 
 that challanges your concentration, jump-timing, puzzle solving and strategy. I guess you could 
 still call it new...
  
  Well, the great graphics and sound make this game a joy to play. Mario's realistic movements (his 
 inertia for example i. e. he doesn't stop, but slows down from the time you stop moving) , funny 
 enemies (boxer boo) , and ridiculous power-ups, makes one player look forward to gettin' into the 
 next stage.
  
  That's all the time I have now. For all ya' starters, don; t underestimate the power of Mario... he 
 has the ability to make hours pass like minutes... he could steal your time, but only if you let 
 him to. Underneath his overalls, he's a great guy who makes a living endlessly savin' his princess 
 (wink, wink) , so take it easy on him, ok? Ciao! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  wow, its like 2D, but 3D.... amazing! but anyways i love mario games like usual but this one has 
 an exception... its alright but im not sure if i could stay and play this game for hours. it has 
 some fun mini games and great gameplay. the story is pretty cool and the levels are sort of classic... 
 really just like all mario platformers have been. this game is a great game and if you have an 
 extra $35.00 laying around i suggest you buy it.
  
  sound is pretty good... gotta love the sound
  
  gameplay- its like a blast from the past
 
  
  graphics- amazing 3D-2D adventure i'd say the best looking game for the DS yet
  
  value- worth the money
  
  tilt- well i still love to play this game but i don't know if i could 
 play for hours without getting sick. or marionesia
  
  just buy the game and take this review into consideration!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananawaxer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  After twenty years of good and loyal services on Nintendo consoles, excelling in 2D as well as 
 3D, and even in the wildest of sports, Mario again throws on his overalls to make an impressive 
 return to his beginnings. Inspired by his very first adventures on NES, New Super Mario Bros is 
 more than just a remake. Its an exceptional episode drawing on qualities of the original Mario 
 and promises to be the best remake of this cult series! The technology used to produce the graphics 
 (2D for the settings and 3D for the characters) perfectly enhances the animation quality of the 
 characters without ruining the series spirit. Plus, the wide variety of colors is a feast for 
 the eyes. As for the music, most of Mario's classic themes are included, but remixed, and the impression 
 is that an orchestra performed the score. Among the best platform games in history, the ones evolving 
 from left to right have the winning formula. As such, New Super Mario Bros gameplay is a model 
 of precision and will remind you of all those hours spent playing old NES cassettes or Super Nintendo. 
 The story itself is a classic: Bowser captures Princess Peach and Mario has to save her 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  NEW Super Mario Brothers successfully returns to the series' 2D roots but keeps a lot of advances 
 in place that have been around since the transition to 3D. The game borrows from all the old titles 
 and while its more like the original SMB it also has elements of the later platformers such as 
 secret exits to levels which lead to different paths, extra coins to collect, and such. Finding 
 these secrets actually end up leading to two separate hidden worlds so its worth doing and not 
 simply just an added bonus. The game plays differently then the old platformers with Mario having 
 considerably more momentum and there being a lot more to exploration than previously. In addition 
 there are now mini and mega mushrooms that change marios size by a lot. Mega mushrooms are kind 
 of a gimmick and their placement is clearly intentional, while cool it doesnt add much to the game 
 and can make entire levels too easy. The mini mushrooms though allow for further exploration. All 
 in all the game has flaws. Control could be tighter, the levels could be better designed (they 
 dont hold up next to World and SMB3) and the minigames are the same ones on Super MArio 64 DS. 
 But the game is good enough overall with nice graphics and good sound effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkIsMyGod
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  When the DS came out people were mainly hoping for two games to come out, Mario Kart, and a Mario 
 2D platformer. Well we were lucky enough to get both and they were both made extremely well. But 
 the one I would like to talk about right now is the 2D platformer, New Super Mario Bros. This game 
 has the extremely addictive gameplay that we have all grown to love and also some added twists. 
 The ability to turn into Mega Mario is a very nice feature that has been added to the game. This 
 ability allows you to plow through enemies, pipes, and even walls. There could have been more of 
 an effort made to include the stylus a little more, but that would end up being too much to handle 
 with the already addictive gameplay. If you have a DS definitely buy this game. If you don't have 
 a DS, this game is reason alone to drop $125 for one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doktor_Nein
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 29, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought New Super Mario Bros. shortly after it came out. I had read great reviews, saw what seemed 
 like awesome previews and was completely into they hype just like any Mario fan. Though normally 
 skeptical about any new game, I slapped my money on the counter and took home my new New Super 
 Mario Bros. game, shortly to regret paying nearly forty dollars for a game that did more than disappoint. 
 I do have to admit, the game looks great. Amazing looking levels for the little console, the enemies 
 looking new and shiny for their debut on the DS, and good ol' Mario ready to go beat some koopa 
 butt. I wish I could say the same for the game play, but quite honestly, this is where it starts 
 to go downhill.
  
  This game is extremely easy. Compared to other Mario games where one would have to play a level 
 several times and go through many game overs just to beat a single part, there is close to none 
 of that kind of challenge here. Not only are the challenges simple, the levels are lacking in length. 
 It felt like as soon as I got to a fun or near challenging area, the level would end. If a level 
 ever got difficult, it was more of a chore and less of an enjoyment. Perhaps if there was common 
 ground in between the simplicity and tediousness, it would have been more enjoyable. The controls 
 also had a strange feeling. Jumping, running, and landing felt extremely mechanical and in a way 
 heavy. The controls felt like they were talking over for you so you didn't have to be as accurate 
 on where you landed, or when you jumped. Better controls would also have added to the bettering 
 of this game. In previews, there was a huge hype on new mushrooms with different powers. And they 
 were extremely fun to use, when you had the opportunity. None played too big of a part, and neither 
 did they seem to last very long. I would always replay the levels I was guaranteed a chance to 
 use one just for the fun of it, because I knew I wouldn't be seeing one again anytime soon.
  
  So the game had its ups and downs, mainly the obvious, and I hope next time there will be more 
 to the game. Nintendo seems to do this a lot, so I have to take my ninten-fan glasses off next 
 time and really examine the game thoroughly before I buy it. Like I said, this game did more than 
 disappoint, it also cut me back 35 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion_blaze
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Whoever has played the original mario games, whether it be the super mario bros or mario 64 and 
 other games like that, will agree that they take pretty intense skill. In this game, it is much 
 to easy, as if some people complained to Nintendo that the mario games are too hard please make 
 them easier. Thats the point to game people!!! They are supposed to challenge you and make you 
 rip out your hair in frustration. Especially mario games. They are the most basic of games but 
 very difficult, excuse this one. Here hows it taken:
  
  Gameplay: Awesome. Just plain awesome. It is so basic. Mario was probably buy some guy sitting 
 in his room, when BAM! all of a sudden he thought that a plumber and his brother who have large 
 respectable mustaches would save a princess from a dragon. Instead of putting a knight in a little 
 cloth thing to save her named Link, they put a twist in it. Now i have nothing against zelda games. 
 they are one of the best but it wouldnt suit this type of genre if you had a 9 year old slaying 
 the enemies like they were little tomatoes.
  
  graphics: amazing
  
  sound: its mario!! you cant get better music then this
  
  value: not much value too this game 
 but because i wanted to give at least a 9 i had to give good value. the only thing you can do after 
 you beat the game is beat it with luigi and try to get the last 2 worlds.
  
  Tilt: its only 2d but its good 2d....
  
  overall: amazing game, definitely worth your time 
 and you should but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Young_link77
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  People think its a letdown now, well u know wut, i think its its amazing, in fact i wrote a boss 
 guide on it (tho idk where 2 submit it, im a noob, i know &gt;__&lt; look, if the game seems bad 
 2 u, try finding the secrets or writing a guide of ur own, mayb try bein luigi! (L+R wen u select 
 file) any of those can help! just remember, try everything before you give the rating, ok? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Not only did Nintendo set the standard for the 2D side scrolling platformer with Super Mario Bros., 
 but it eventually mastered it with Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World. Since then, countless 
 platformers have been released, and most have been designed with the same classic model in mind.
 
  
  Nintendo has decided to attach the word new onto the classic name, but the truth is that there 
 is nothing new about this game. In fact, during my play through, I was constantly reminded of past 
 Super Mario games, in particular, Super Mario 3. New Super Mario Bros is actually designed just 
 like Super Mario Bros 3. There are eight worlds, with several stages within each world. Each stage 
 is linked to another, and once you complete a stage, the next one becomes playable. There is a 
 mini castle in the middle of the world, and a big castle with a final boss at the end of the world. 
 Several Toad houses are scattered across the worlds, which give you new items, just like in Super 
 Mario Bros. 3. There is nothing new about the gameplay either. You start from the left side and 
 work your way to the right. The bottom screen of the DS has a progress bar that indicates how far 
 along you are. You will find some of the classic Mario power ups, as well as a couple of new ones, 
 like a mushroom that makes you so incredibly large that you will destroy any and all objects in 
 your way and a mini mushroom that will shrink Mario down to a microscopic size, which will allow 
 him to walk on water and go into small pipes. Mario brings over a couple of moves that were first 
 introduced in Super Mario 64, like wall jumping and the butt stomp, as well as some others that 
 are rarely used. Other than that, this is Super Mario all over again, which is not necessarily 
 a bad thing. Within each world, there are alternate paths that can be taken if you complete certain 
 stages by taking a different route. There are star coins scattered throughout each stage, and they 
 are also used to open alternate paths in each world. These star coins are placed in difficult to 
 reach areas, but add to the replay value if you plan to come back and try to obtain them all. The 
 branching paths lead to added replay value, but can also lead to finishing the game real fast, 
 as I will explain later on.
  
  For me, the visuals really stood out. All the levels are very well drawn and have a nice polish 
 to them. Mario and the enemies are 3D models, and are actually nicely detailed without looking 
 like a dated Nintendo 64 character model. The music consists of a mix from classic Mario songs, 
 as well as songs that are either modified classic themes or originals that are inspired by the 
 classics. Overall, the presentation is well done, and for a game that has proven gameplay, the 
 right presentation keeps it interesting for those who have played through them all.
  
  The main problem I have with the gameplay is that the running jump feels somewhat off for me. I 
 have played all of the 2D Mario games, and the running jump in this one just feels a little flimsy. 
 Its nothing too major, but if you have played all the Mario games like me, you will probably agree. 
 The game is also pretty short. If you are a Mario expert, you should be done in under six hours. 
 Of course, you can always go back and unlock all the stages, and even a couple of worlds that you 
 may have passed over. Yes, its true. You will actually skip two worlds if you play straight to 
 the end because even the worlds branch into different paths. Unlike Super Mario Bros 3, this is 
 a real short game, and I would have preferred it if it was as long as Super Mario World for the 
 SNES.
  
  New Super Mario Bros also has multiplayer for up to four players. You get to compete in a small 
 compilation of touch screen mini games, and there is also a mode for two players in which you have 
 to have more stars when the clock expires. The stars fall from the sky and you can make your opponent 
 lose them by bopping him on the head or throwing items at him. Overall, the multiplayer is nothing 
 special, and it is not something that I would say gives the game added value.
  
  I really dont know why Nintendo put the word new in front of Super Mario Bros., as if the game 
 was something totally different from what we have come to know and love. There is absolutely nothing 
 wrong with this game. It is a great 2D platformer, and if you want to introduce anyone into gaming, 
 this is the proper alternative to dusting off your NES or SNES. However, the long time Mario player 
 that I am was expecting something new, just like the title of the game has blatantly claimed it 
 is. False advertising or not, New Super Mario Bros. is a great platformer, but fans of the series 
 will not find anything special about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enix165
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Okay, the first time I heard of this, I was thinking OH MY GOLLY GOLLY GOSHES! A NEW SMB! . The 
 Super Mario Bros/World were, and are still amazingly good games, so this news greatly pleased me 
 and made me go so far as to put it 2nd on my Christmas list (a Wii was #1) . The results I got were 
 not what I expected. The gameplay was a fair bit too easy (and a mite frustrating at times, due 
 to those stupid jelly-shroom levels which I previously loved) , and the new power-ups were junk. 
 Super Mario Bros. 3 had a nice, wide array of power-ups to help you, and that was about 15 years 
 before, so I assumed the new power-ups would be even more numerous and fun-to-use. Instead, I get 
 less power-ups, all of whom stink (the Shell Mario was plain annoying and hurt more than it helped 
 and the Mini-Shroom was the same way) or are rather cheap (the Mega Shroom just made an easy game 
 too easy) . And the music was junk. The voices in the background sounded like chickens and the music 
 was terrible in the first place. Also, a 3D Mario/Luigi and bosses should not be with 2D enemies. 
 And WHAT'S WITH BABY BOWSER BEING THE MAIN ENEMY AND A GIANT GOOMBA BEING TOUGHER THAN BOWSER? 
 This game was junk in my opinion, and I don't know why everyone likes it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a throwback to the days when Mario games were actually good. In recent 
 years Mario has all but hung up his overalls and wasted away playing soccer and party games. Finally, 
 Nintendo throws us a bone and gives us the first true Mario Bros. game in QUITE some time, and 
 I must say... its a lot of fun.
  
  Like Mario games that came before it, the premise is simple. Bowser (in this case Bowser Jr) has 
 kidnapped the princess, and it's up to Mario to save her. This sets him off on a chase through 
 the koopa-infested Mushroom Kingdom, where he must jump and stomp his way through a battery of 
 stages to attempt a rescue. Along the way he will bash blocks, collect powerups, visit mushroom 
 houses and toss shells around. Sound familiar? :)
  
  The timeless gameplay of Mario shines through, with a tight control scheme and fun level designs. 
 The game feels like a bizarre cross of the original Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario World, but 
 at the same time adds in enough new tricks and puzzles to stand on it's own. The game has plenty 
 of new enemies and themes, and brings back the classics at just the right moment to pump the nostalgia 
 factor. The new powerups are especially amusing, and are implemented well. The clever level design 
 will require you to use every powerup in your arsenal to find all the secrets, and trying levels 
 again to unlock the hidden stages adds much needed challenge and length to the game.
  
  My complaints with the game are few... the most glaring of which would be the touch screen controls. 
 They seem largely unnecessary for a game like this. Inside the levels the game forces you to touch 
 the screen to activate your stored powerup... it would have been nice to assign this to one of 
 the unused buttons instead. Since your hands will be busy running and jumping, this usually results 
 in a fingerprint on the bottom of your screen.
  
  Also, this game is a little on the easy side. Though some of the more clever traps and enemy arrangements 
 might throw you for a loop sometimes, the game is NEVER stingy on the coins and extra lives. It 
 is very unlikely you will ever see a Game Over screen... just keep trying and soon you will have 
 completed all the secrets and saved the day. Boss fights are also especially easy, to the point 
 of being anticlimactic, especially when you use your fire power. You would have no problem blazing 
 through the game in a few hours if you ran straight to the exits and ignored the secrets, but what 
 fun would that be?
  
  In addition, the game comes with a selection of minigames for you to play with your friends. Though 
 some are amusing, this part of the game is largely forgettable, but then again most minigames in 
 platformers are. A nice addition, I suppose, but I didn't get much mileage out of it.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  NSMB is the best Mario game in a long time, primarily because it is the ONLY 
 true Mario title to come along this generation. That's fine... it really is a top-notch title and 
 a must-own for all DS fans. It's really fun and the definition of a classic reborn. I really wish 
 this game was longer... most Mario games are short and last me only a couple days. This one is 
 no exception. I suppose that is just a testament to how much fun it is. I am really glad this game 
 was such a success, and I hope everyone plays it, so maybe Nintendo will take the hint and and 
 realize that maybe Mario SHOULDN'T quit his day job.
  
  +Excellent graphics and sound
  +Classic Mario Bros gameplay (finally!)
  +New powers and items are inventive and fun
  -A little 
 on the short side
  -Rather easy, especially with dozens of extra lives
  -Boss battles are pushovers
  -Minigame selection really doesn't do it for me
  -Touch screen 
 controls are largely unnecessary, if not annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirrelik
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  I loooooove this game it was the first game i got for DS and it rocked the house when i started 
 playing it! Firstly this game is just plain fun because of the items minigames bosses and cool 
 levels you get to play. To break it down ill start with the story. You get 8 worlds of shere fun 
 and enjoyment with good graphics for a handheld console. You get a baby bowser tower in each level 
 or maybe 2 at the end of which you hve to beat him in a battle and at the end of the world you 
 face a big bad boss which a actually quite, funny and fun to beat up. It doesnt get annoying because 
 you die because they've installed checkpoints in each world. The levels and worlds get alot harder 
 on your way through the game and the final world is one tough cookie, but you get a great feeling 
 when you complete the game.... believe me! On to the minigames and boy are they addictive. You get 
 four different catagories of minigames: action, puzzle, table and variety for which they all use 
 the touch screen, my favourite is the puzzle catagory. They are all addictive in their own way, 
 some are fun, some are puzzling and make your brain work and others are quick or you can go down 
 to table and gamble on poker. The multiplayer is cool in luigi v mario where you half to hit the 
 other player to get a star person with the most stars wins and you can also do the miningames in 
 muliplayer mode.... AWSOME! I recommend you buy this game and its even better in a pack with a ds 
 and case i recommend that more..... more for your money thats what i always say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzvalve
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is one of a collection of good games for the Nintendo DS. Bowser has kidnapped 
 Princess Peach again and Mario has to save her. On the way you go through 8 different worlds and 
 stomping on all the goombas, koopas, and boos than you can stomp on. The bosses are very good and 
 are easy but challenging. The playback is to collect all the big coins in each level. Also I like 
 the new mini mushroom and omega mushroom. Using these mushrooms make the game more interesting. 
 The multiplayer is alsofun battling against your friend. And the minigames are fun, too. This game 
 is a must have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Combine classic 2D sidescrolling and detailed 3D character models (for most of them) and you this 
 great platformer for the DS. Though the main game itself doesn't use much touch screen interactivity 
 (only for 'storage' or a 'reserve' of a power-up like a mega mushroom in case you want to use it 
 later) , it still has some minigames which, I think, was intended for adding a little bit of value 
 and distraction. Some of them are fun but they don't really succeed in adding much value in the 
 game.
  
  Anyway, you get that predictable opening scene where Peach is once again kidnapped (shocker! T_T) 
 by Bowser Jr. (need I say more?) and Mario has to fight all the bosses in all the worlds while 
 stocking up on lives and star coins (so you can get to visit the toadhouses which helps you stock 
 up on lives or gives you power-ups but most importantly, save since you can't save freely in the 
 world map view until you complete World 8) . There are two primary actions. Typically, X and Y are 
 dash while A and B are jump (they can be changed) but there are new actions which Mario (or Luigi) 
 can implement like the butt stomp or 'wall climbing' (similar to the PoP series) but the thing 
 is, they aren't introduced (this is a bane for old-school fans) . Not even a single tutorial in 
 the game. (Instructions are in the manual... though I think only few actually read it... especially 
 if it's a game like this)
  
  Graphics are gentle to the eyes and look great with typical colors you'd expect from a Mario game. 
 Some effects are also recycled (but they are timeless anyway) but they put new ones in the mix 
 (of course) . Music is typically jolly and electronic and fits the level well. There are also some 
 timeless recycled and remixed music (except for the classic, distinctive and catchy Mario theme 
 that comes up in toadhouse levels but a bit faster.)
  
  Even after you finish World 8 with or without unlocking World 7 and 4, you still have unlockable 
 levels which you can find by looking for alternate routes in levels directly or indirectly located 
 near it as well as unworthy unlockables (the wallpaper thingys) that cost a lot. And even if you 
 do find every level in the game, you'll still be wanting to play it anyway thus further increasing 
 its replay value. This is good for gamers on a budget or gamers who are finding the next great 
 game to play with since it won't be tiring to play this title over and over again... But it's replay 
 value falls short when compared to the zaniness of Elite Beat Agents, but still, they're different 
 genres so I won't elaborate more on this.
  
  Even without the minigames, you still get a bang-for-your-buck with this great title so maybe you 
 should start lifting your butt to buy it so you can butt-stomp all the way back home after your 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1357900
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros.! The sound of the title is very promising. And it does deliver what it promises. 
 At the heart of it, it's basically Super Mario Bros. with 3d graphics. But it has a more than that! 
 It takes the reach the goal , and platforming ideas of Super Mario Bros., and it combines them 
 with the map screen ideas of Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World. Of course, the game takes 
 advantage of the stylus, but it does that more so for the mini-games, and not the main game. In-game, 
 the stylus is used for tapping an item that you can hold in reserve, ala Super Mario World, except 
 you have a stylus here. The mini-games are fun, &amp; slightly addictive, but they wear on you, 
 relatively quick. The gameplay is old school platforming:10. The graphics are almost the best that 
 you can get for on the DS, considering both what the DS can do hardware wise, &amp; what graphics 
 the game is supposed have:9. The sound was great, but it lacked a little bit of that Mario-esq 
 feeling, and It kind of reminded me of the Mario Party series:9. Value, as a fan of classic old 
 school gaming, and platforming, this is a definite:10. Reviewer's Tilt, would be an: 8, because 
 it's a great game, &amp; has only a few minor flaws. My Final recommendation? Get this game, if 
 you own a DS! You'll love it! And if you've never played classic platforming style games, then 
 get ready for a real treat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysteriousKori
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Even if you played previous Mario games you will enjoy New Super Mario Bros. Its alot of fun, and 
 if you played the previous games it will be very easy for you to beat it. For newbies it might 
 take a while to get used to it, but after a while it will get easier. The gameplay is the same 
 as the old games, the only difference is that now there is a mega mushroom, a mini mushroom and 
 a turtle shell. The levels are fairly easy, the graphics are very good for the DS. The downside 
 to it is that the boss battles are easy, its way too short, you can't save wherever you want to, and 
 they shouldn't of included the same games that were on Super Mario 64 DS. But overall, it is a 
 game worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohan88888888
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: basically the same as the first mario bros. get powerups to get to the flag at the end 
 of the level. the levels are changed from the first game though, so its not really a remake of 
 the first one, its just a new mario game
  
  graphics: okay, i guess. i like the old-school graphics better though
  
  sound: awesome. they 
 really did good with the sound
  
  value: $30
  
  overall: nice game. not as great as the first was, but its still good. when i play, i usually go 
 to the mini games. if you are a big mario fan, and have a nintendo ds, you should get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xEMPORER13x
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  When I first started the game up, I was happy to see that I did not need to use a stylus at all. 
 I made my way through the menus and was happy to see the ease in which that can be done. I was 
 also relieved to see the similarities the game shares with the original Super Mario Bros.
  
  The game is, literally, a new version of the original. Being a fan of the original, I almost 
 cried out of joy when I played the first level. Many things are the same (Red mushrooms make your 
 big, flowers give you fireball capabilities, etc.) However, they have added a few new power ups. 
 Blue mushrooms make you small. VERY small, in fact. So small that you can fit down the tiny pipes 
 that are on some levels. Big red/brown mushroom make you.... well... big. They basically give you 
 the star power, making you able to run through... well... anything. Nothing can stop you when you 
 get the large mushrooms. You'll have a blast running through blocks, pipes, goombas, etc. Add to 
 that the 50 feet it adds to your size, and you are an unstoppable plumbing machine. The other new 
 addition to power ups is the blue shell. Pick it up and you put it on. What's that? A foe is coming 
 near? Well... just get down and ram him like a tank.
  
  Level design is quite simple, but very good at the same time. There are new additions to the type 
 of terrain you will be experiencing. I will leave those for you to find out yourself, though. But 
 be ready to go against some new challenges.
  
  The multiplayer was decent. It could have been better, though. However, if you are a fan of the 
 Mario series and have some buddies who have a DS, you should have fun with it.
  
  The new 3D graphics and level elements are great! They do not interfere with the original gameplay 
 mechanics which, I assure you, are still there. They do, however, make the game much easier on 
 the eyes.
  
  The game is not difficult. However, just like in any other Mario game, you should be ready to waste 
 a few lives on the occasional tough level once and a while.
  
  Once you beat the game, you can go back and unlock the two extra worlds (4 and 7) , unless you have 
 already done so. You can also get some extra things throughout the game. The big coins ( Star Coins 
 ) that you find on each level can be used to gain access to other areas. So you may want to go 
 back through the game another time and get the rest of them.
  
  Besides multiplayer and completing 100% of the single player, you can also play as Luigi in the 
 campaign. You do not need to beat the game to unlock him. Simply press and hold L+R while starting 
 a new game and you will be Luigi. While this does not change the gameplay, it will still give more 
 replay value to some people.
  
  Overall the game is great. It will give you hours of entertainment whether you spend that with 
 your friends in multiplayer or by yourself in campaign. If you are a fan of the Mario series, this 
 is a must have. If you are not, you may want to stay clear as New Super Mario Bros. is very similar 
 to the other Super Mario Bros. If you have never played an original Mario game, then I suggest 
 renting this first. You could, however, just go out and buy it. Most people who play Super Mario 
 Bros. (From what I have seen, at least) usually enjoy the time they spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hariobros
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 15, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  New super mario bros. is meant to be an upate to the timeless classic super mario bros. (Thus the 
 name) . Honestly, I thought it was more of an update to super mario world. But apart from that, 
 it's a very good game. First of all, the actual game of it is again simple, yet fun. It also gives 
 young'ns the same experience we got in the good old days of the NES and SNES. I thought it was 
 more of super Mario world update because it has the same swimming control style, item in reserve 
 feature, a map screen, more than one exit to most levels and of course, ghost houses. Actually, 
 have been a natural at mario since the age of two. This is probably why it only took me two days 
 to complete. But for you people, all of the secret exits &amp; coins to collect, this adds replay 
 value to the game.
  
  Secondly, when I saw the graphical quality of it, I thought to myself WHOA! Even though it is hard 
 to notice but when you stand on a platform just above lava, the bottom half of Mario lights up 
 in the right colour and brightness. It's just like in real life when you stand near a bonfire. 
 However, I'm not too sure about how good the sound is, though. In Super Mario Sunshine, Bowser 
 and Bowser Jr. could speak perfect English but is now only limited to growls and roars here. A 
 good thing about the sound is that the classic sound from the old games are intact. For example, 
 powerups sprouting from boxes, death jingle, growing and shrinking etcetera.
  
  To be honest, to me, obviously because it did not last very long for me, it's value is not really 
 worth &pound;30 for what it is. On the other hand, if this will be a first for you, yes it'll last 
 longer for you than it did for me.
  
  Bottom line, it's a great update to a great game and is definatly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  now this is a good game just like the original on the snes but they brought it up to the 21 century 
 which is cool but all of the old-school gamers like me like the original better cause it dont know 
 why but we do right? but you get to meet all the characters to the 3-D aspect which is cool like 
 at the end but this is the longest running thing ive ever known mario will keep going till the 
 end of time cause hes always going to keep rescuing peach and smashing those mushroom head guy 
 but mario is timeless but overall this is a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I been palying this game sence last summer and really i dont see what the big deal is. It's not 
 just a standerd platformer theres secrits to find, coins to collect, and finaly diffrent bosses. 
 Like past mario games each world has it's own theam, like grassey area, ice world, desert.. sounds 
 fumilear. This time your big badey is baby bowser. You'll fight him in little castels but a diffrent 
 boss in the big ones. Each one has a diffrnece so it doswe not fell like the same fight over and 
 over. The graphics and sound here are amoung the best for the 2d outings. The multi palyer and 
 2 palyer race miney games are a nice adition, but nothing you'll be palying with your friends for 
 houers. It's a great platformer and the best on the ds at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed New Super Mario Bros single player campaign. I have to agree with some that 
 said it was not very tough and beating the game didn't take that long if you go through for a straight 
 shot. But I did like going back and unlocking the extras such as World 4 and 7 even though it wasn't 
 necessary.
  
  The term New gets used a lot, but I feel that in this case it really sticks. The reason for me 
 is New Super Mario Bros. plays the same as the original in the simple design. The graphics are 
 better, the ability to go back on levels that aren't scrolling you to the right, the new mushroom 
 power-ups, the world layout, and a few other designs from previous mario games are all different 
 from the original, but I still felt the throw back influence to the original game.
  
  The multi-player Mario vs. Luigi was I felt simple (but my twin 4 year olds enjoy it) . What I really 
 liked were the minigame challenges that you played either as a single or multiplayer. Your given 
 the ability to customize the points you win for each stage you play and the selection rotates between 
 the people playing. So if someone is hosting the game it doesn't mean they select everytime. Or 
 you could just shuffle it and let the game choose for you.
  
  Paying 35 bucks for this game was worth to my family. We definitely have gotten more than our share 
 of usage from it.
  
  NOTE: My scoring is based on my whole families enjoyment of the game as opposed to just myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: posiedonblade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Finally, a new Mario game! After almost a decade of more re-releases then new games, the Mario 
 franchise finally got an original 2-D side-scroller. The game plays through in classic Mario style, 
 just what everyone's been waiting for. It's unfortunate that this game was simply just too easy. 
 When you think of playing the original Super Mario Bros., you think of having to play through tough 
 levels, where one bad jump could kill you for the rest of the game. No one gets that feeling in 
 NSMB. Instead of falling in a pit to your death, you can just wall kick the edge of the hole and 
 leap back to safety. Another thing- in the original SMB games, you had to challenge yourself with 
 only a couple of lives (and it was hard to earn more) . In this game, all you have to do is replay 
 the first level for an easy FIVE extra lives each time. Even the old challenge of hitting the unlimited 
 coin box is gone, as you can simply ground-pound the box and hold down until a free extra life 
 pops out. Even with all of these problems, NSMB is still a good game in other respects. The graphics 
 are fluid and pretty (especially during boss battles) and the sound is memorable and fantastic, 
 just like you'd expect from a Mario game. Unfortunately, even with the amazing amount of extra 
 levels and side-quests (I've played through almost all of them) , the game is far too easy when 
 compared to the classic Mario adventures. If you are new to the Mario world, however, I would highly 
 reccomend this game. All in all, New Super Mario Bros. is a good game, but not the supposed heir 
 to the original SMB throne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  It's been so long since we had a proper 2D Mario adventure. The Advance versions only made me yearn 
 for actual new installments, not ports. Finally, the folks at Nintendo got the message and delivered 
 with a brand new 2D Mario adventure that feels like your back in the heyday of 2D gaming.
  
  Aptly titled New Super Mario Bros., this new Mario adventure puts the world's most famous plumber 
 with blue trousers back into his 2D adventure form. This may sound real corny but after years of 
 dealing with Mario dancing, playing sports, or even participating in Japanese number cruncher games, 
 it feels real good to see the master of jump back in his best form.
  
  Once again, our dainty princess Peach was kidnapped and Mario is on with the chase. Our hero is 
 on the trail of Peach and her kidnapper (Young Koopa) as he goes from stage to stage, fortress 
 to fortress, world to world trying to save Peach. It's nice that Peach didn't use her powers from 
 Super Princess Peach here, so we can have this adventure.
  
  New. Super Mario Bros., surprisingly, is really nothing more than many components of past Mario 
 adventures combines into one package. Very few things are actually new. You got all his skills 
 and power ups from the original Super Mario Bros., the world map style reminiscent of Mario 3, 
 the ability to hold a power ups and check points from Super Mario World, and his wall jump and 
 butt stomp from his 3D adventures. Unfortunately, you can't fly here (no raccoon, cape, or tanooki 
 suit) which I think would have added greatly to the gameplay. There are about 80 stages total in 
 New Super Mario Bros., most of them are fairly easy and simply involve passing a course within 
 an allotted time limit. Jump, dash, and blow timeless classic Mario enemies such as koopa troopas, 
 goombas, and Hammer brothers. You have your classic power ups such as the mushroom and flower. 
 New power ups are big mushrooms (which makes Mario about 10 times his Super Mario size and can 
 destroy pipes, blocks, and enemies like nothing) , mini mushrooms which turns our hero into a small 
 little spec on the screen, this enables Mario to get into small pipes, run through surfaces of 
 water, and jump much greater distances, and shell Mario which by dashing, Mario ducks and becomes 
 one of those runaway koopa shells. Ducking makes him invulnerable to most enemies and he swims 
 faster with the shell suit.
  The game's 8 varied worlds also has secrets. Some stages have multiple exits which can take you 
 to hidden spots on the map.
  
  The graphics look real nice and vivid. Mario himself is in full 3D as well as his enemies. The 
 polygonal characters add so much more personality. It's even cute when you see enemies and mushrooms 
 move to the game's cute soundtrack. When you hear bah, bah on the music, any enemies or mushrooms 
 on screen react to that in by either hopping or pausing in tune. Multi player exist here but I 
 have never tried it nor do I want to. The touch screen minigames from Super Mario 64 DS are here 
 and are fun distractions while they last.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. isn't a very long or hard game. It's nowhere as hard as the original Super 
 Mario Bros. 2 (known as The Lost Levels in the US) or as long as Super Mario World. But its still 
 a great game by giving us something that we've waited so long for. It may be a brand new adventure, 
 but it feels like a classic in the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonnie2Hottie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  this game is exactly what i wanted in a mario platformer for ds. some people have said its too 
 short or too easy. i disagree. i think the amount of levels are just right. there is plenty of 
 replay value with unlockable worlds, coins to find, and mini games galore. the game may be a bit 
 easy for some, but i love the difficulty level. i dont need evey game to be difficult. this is 
 a light-hearted platformer, not a 100 hour rpg. i love this game and think its near perfect. if 
 you dont have it, get it. yo will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  New super Mario bros is a great game and i loved but it seems too easy. When fighting bosses you 
 beat faster when Mario can shoot fire balls and that makes the it self too easy i mean sure its 
 a great game and i would say buy it but its not that much hard. Mario bros is kind of a let down. 
 when you can have the unlimited houses that have items you really start to think why would they 
 have that i mean that makes the game like 10 times more easier. Mario bros is a little disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  good'ol classic game days, this game will keep you playing till u clear the last level. everything 
 is this game's from the original game. This game incorprates technology and evolution with classic 
 hits. The music, enemies (aka the koopa family) levels, scenario, everything... all old school. 
 It takes like 10 minutes to learn the controls, and after that, its all about racing against the 
 clock and dodging enemies. the ending of this game isn't really that great, cause its, well, if 
 you're a longtime gamer, theres really not much stuff happening in the ending. this game will keep 
 you playing until all ten of ur fingers fall off cause after you finish the main storyline, theres 
 room for minigames, and of course, the multiplayer madness!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The first thing to be said about New Super Mario Bros. is that, wow, it looks _fantastic_! It's 
 one of the greatest-looking games on the DS, bright and colorful and in 3D. It's an old-school, 
 great-playing 2D platformer brilliantly realized in 3D.
  
  The second thing to be said about New Super Mario Bros. is that, wow, that soundtrack is _great_, 
 too! It's vibrant and happy, with a few new and a few old, and it perfectly suits the game's new 
 appearance, and Mario in general. (World 8's music is the best, by the way.)
  
  The third thing to be said about new Super Mario Bros. is that, wow, it's totally fun to play! 
 The control is great, the level design is good. It captures the fun of playing Mario for the first 
 time without being a ripoff of the past incarnations of the age-old story: save the princess!
 
  
  So, yeah, overall, this is a really polished game. There's not a bad thing about it. However, I 
 wish they could have put just a tad more into the level design. Regardless of what replay value 
 may be had from the three coins in each level, it's still too easy to complete the game to last 
 for a substantial amount of time.
  
  I can think of a few features I'd like there to be in the game, but I'm glad that Nintendo really 
 concentrated on getting this right at the core of what a game is about. Yoshi's Island DS beats 
 it at gameplay elements (though not in level design) , but New Super Mario Bros. is definitely the 
 better overall package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthie
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game has recieved a lot of reviews going on about how great it is so it was the reason why 
 I bought it. You don't feel the enjoyment you did if you owned the SNES or gameboy version of this 
 game. The graphics aren't that great and don't fully use the DS's capability.
  
  As I played through the levels I realised they had just recycled gameplay from the previous super 
 mario bros game. You could also say that for Mario 64 BUT it was never on handheld so it was a 
 good sucess. Once you've completed this game you may play some random levels but as time goes on 
 you start to play it less and less until you might just pick it up and play it maybe once a week.
 
  
  But it's not all that bad, it lasts you for a little while and as you jump on the turtles and hit 
 them into the other enemies it brings back a lot of memories. One other thing I didn't like about 
 the game was the [?] blocks as the question marks span around and just made them look not nice.
 
  
  But don't get me wrong this is a very good game but this 'review' was just pointing out the bad 
 points of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Nostalgia can be a good thing if you bring it back correctly. Thankfully, Nintendo resurrected 
 the format of long bygone Mario games and made it look great, but while the game's core is as engaging 
 as the earlier Mario games, much of it has been revamped to feel entirely new, hence the name "New" 
 Super Mario Bros. And that's not necessarily a bad thing  in fact, it's had a much more charming 
 effect on the way we look at older video games.
  
  But, alas, our poor hero, Mario, can never seem to find any leisure time with his beloved Peach. 
 Instead of Bowser, however, his crafty little son kidnaps the princess and takes off. Galvanized, 
 Mario gives chase and finds himself in the odd world of a long, long time ago (or in other words, 
 the eight different worlds, which had all been but cast aside since Super Mario World) .
  
  New Super Mario Bros is a relatively easy game. Okay, that may be an understatement (so humor me) , 
 because the game is definitely beatable within the first day of playing. However, to complete the 
 game one hundred percent will take an extra swig of your favorite energy drink. The worlds are 
 short, but extremely prosperous and exotic. In fact, although the game's main idea has been refurbished 
 through old blueprints, a lot of the stuff you'll see is quite ingenious and displayed with new 
 ideas. Some situations will have you pitted against bouncy or unstable mushrooms, while on the 
 interaction side you'll come across a wide variety of creatures and foes that tend to make the 
 level more interesting. Every stage, and the elements within that stage, is affiliated with the 
 world it derives from. So if you're running through a tropical forest and run into a poisonous 
 pool of water, chances are you're in world four, while if you're scampering down a rocky tunnel 
 and run into a chain chomp, you're most likely in world six. And even though bringing the elements 
 of nature together isn't a subsequent scheme, it's done to make it feel totally refreshed.
  
  Mario comes complete with an innovative set of controls from the DS's abundant display of buttons. 
 He can do all of the abilities you'd expect in an average Mario adventure: run, jump, wall jump, 
 ground pound, and pick up/throw turtle shells. Uncharacteristically, the only time you'll ever 
 utilize the stylus is to use any saved items in your inventory. Something that can really get under 
 your skin is Mario's uncoordinated jumping. If you're running along a series of platforms, you 
 might be in for an unexpected death via Mario's uncontrollable appetite for missing the next platform.
 
  
  But if one thing stood above all else to make New Super Mario Bros actually look "new", it's being 
 in the reach of a mega mushroom. These monstrous fungi mature you to screen-sized proportions, 
 allowing you to blow past everything in sight without feeling even slightly threatened. Growing 
 smaller is also a possibility with the mini mushroom, which also enhances your jumping, running, 
 and swimming. You're also dealt with super mushrooms, fire flowers, and other oldie favorites from 
 the past few generations.
  
  The only real drawback of New Super Mario Bros is the lack of a central plot. The only thing we 
 really get out of the beginning is Peach is kidnapped and you're put in a position to rescue her 
 (which has been seen only a bazillion cotillion million and two times) . That, in turn, messes up 
 the sequences that take place later on, such as easy (and I mean easy) boss battles, and no. Dialogue. 
 At. All. Period. In addition, you're going to grow bored of the repetitive monotonies after concluding 
 the game, almost as if going back to complete it one hundred percent feels like a chore. Even if 
 you eventually meet that opportunity, you'll have memorized every nook and cranny of every level 
 of every world. Were video games always like that back then?
  
  From an artistic perspective, New Super Mario Bros looks fantastic. While the background and central 
 area is pitted in 2-D, you can see the depth of objects and characters. You're going to see a lot 
 of visually inclined settings and backgrounds that just plain look spectacular on that tiny screen. 
 The deserts actually look like deserts and the jungles actually look like jungles. Go figure. The 
 audio isn't off on any beats either. The music is perfectly compatible to the level or world it's 
 associated with, and the sound effects are incredible in an eclectic sort of way. Referring back 
 to the visuals, the desert sand grains can be clearly heard as Mario stomps his way through a level, 
 and the swimming and jumping are stupendously exhibited.
  
  In the end, New Super Mario Bros is a wise purchase if you're in close reach of a DS. The replay 
 value is there, if you value the game's morals enough, but otherwise renting the game is more suitable 
 if you're just looking to beat world eight. Nintendo caught an incandescent star with this nifty 
 little side-scroller.
  
  -Tish- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criminalowen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  The best of the Super Mario Bros games yet! A great blend of 2D and 3D makes the gameplay ever 
 more exciting. It has its traditional sidescrolling gameplay that fans of the classic will love 
 . The game has not used all of the DS's features, only mildly using the touch screen, but once 
 you get into the game it really dosen't matter. It follows the classic storyline of Bowser kidnapping 
 the Princess and Mario having to chase after and save her. There are 8 worlds but at first you 
 can only get to 1,2,3,5,6 then 8. You have to complete certain levels in certain ways ( I'm not 
 giving away anything ) to unlock the other worlds and new levels. In each level there are 3 star 
 coins, sometimes hidden and sometimes put in dangerous place where you have to risk lives. Once 
 you have collected 5 star coins you can open up a pathway to a bonus that may be a powerup, extra 
 life or mega mushroom. The game can be completed in a very short time but this takes away the fun 
 i find as you spend more time concentrating on completing than enjoying the scenary. The game also 
 has multiplayer ( No Wi - Fi ) where you can have a battle as you race to get the stars or you 
 can play the mini games together. The mini games are fun and most can be found in Super Mario 64 
 DS.
  
  Overall the game is quallity and is one of the best games you could buy for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AstraNoString
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is exactly what the name implies. It is a new take on the original Super Mario 
 Bros released for the NES so many years ago. It takes the core game play from the original and 
 combines them with elements from many other Super Mario Games. An example of this can be seen through 
 the Mario butt stomp, a feature introduced in Mario64 and seamlessly integrated into the traditional 
 2D game play. As with the original Mario can transform from Mario to Super Mario, and then into 
 Fire Mario. New Super Mario Bros also adds mini Mario, shrinking Mario down to fit into tight spaces 
 and jump higher, mega Mario, increasing Mario's size the the height of the screen dealing mega 
 damage, and turtle Mario, allowing you to sprint and tuck into your shell knocking enemies out 
 of the way. All of these Mario types fit right into the game and allow the player to find multiple 
 flag poles in a level helping them to skip levels throughout game.
  In addition New Super Mario adds multiple mini games that utilize the tough screen. These game 
 are simplistic yet addictive and could really have been made into a game of there own.
  If you already own a DS but do not own this game leave your computer now and run to the store. 
 If you don't currently own a DS you need to pick one up to play this game. It really is that amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  16 years ago Nintendo released Super Mario Brothers and it was a fun simple game, 16 years later 
 they release New Super Marios Brothers which doesn't change much. It took over a major graphically 
 change and a few minor gameplay changes.
  
  The story stay mainly the same, Bowser has kidnapped the Princess and it's up to you to get her 
 back again. The levels in New Super Mario Brothers have many references to the previous game. There 
 are 8 worlds with different geographical settings - e. g. Snow land, Cloud land - each with around 
 10 levels and 2 bosses. You could finish this game in under 5 hours. Nintendo have failed to put 
 any good reply value in this game as you can play the game hundreds of times and you will still 
 play it the very same each time. The closest thing they did was to collect 3 coins from each level, 
 these coins can be spent on new path ways and background images. There are no unlockable mini-games 
 or characters leaving the player very unrewarded. Don't get me wrong however I thoroughly enjoyed 
 my experience with New Super Mario Brothers.
  
  The colourful detailed graphics brought Super Mario Brothers to modern day gaming beautifully and 
 could easily be on of the best looking DS game around at the moment. Though close up you can see 
 that Mario uses only a few pixels and leave it very weird squarey look too it. It has very Mario 
 styled music and sound effects and has the original 'end of level' sound effect if you complete 
 a level with a certain amount of time left. The sound effects do not get too repetitive and i ended 
 up not noticing them.
  
  Once you have completed this game you will expect there to be more mini-games to be played etc. 
 but almost all of the mini-games came straight from Super Mario 64 DS and was kinda lame when i 
 found i'd played these already and my high scores were on the other game. You will most likely 
 decide to trade in or sell this game once your finished with it because of the lack of end of game 
 features. There is a very fun fast paced multi player, this is off line and for 2 players only. 
 One of the mini-game features there are is that they can be played up to 4 player.
  
  New Super Mario Brother has it's problems but when you get down to it, it's a fun adaptation of 
 the original Super Mario Brothers and well worth a look but don't get your expectations up too 
 high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Crow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Ever since weve found that 96th exit, ever since weve stomped on that switch and sent Bowser 
 to his fiery death and ever since we sent Wart to vegetable hell, weve been praying for another 
 dose of 2D Mario goodness. Not Mario squirting water, Mario kicking a ball or Mario driving a little 
 car, a proper classic Mario adventure. Now, it seems that our prayers have been answered and after 
 a 15 years wait Mario is back in his 2D world and hes better than ever. This is proper Mario. 
 There are no cheating hovering devices here, you need proper, bad-ass skill to stay on these tiny 
 platforms. If an enemy touches you, you shrink, then you die. Theirs no health bars. And if theirs 
 an enemy in your way you stamp on its head and it cops it, you dont whack it with an umbrella 
 or squirt it in the face. No messing about here. But above all its great fun, this defines what 
 gaming is all about. Old school Mario fans will be happy to see all the classic enemies and scenery 
 return. But dont think that this is another copy of the original games, this is fresh as much 
 as it is nostalgic. Every level in the game contains tons of new elements which take full advantage 
 of the DSs capabilities. Youll be meeting dozens of new enemies, using new power-ups and running 
 around in a load of brand new levels.
  
  Mario has been given plenty of acrobatic skills which you will be happy to see make the leap from 
 2D to 3D. The triple-jump, the wall jump and the ground pound have been given a new lease of life 
 in their new world. As well as the 1-UP, the Fire Flower and the Super Mushroom, three new power-ups 
 have been added. Grab the Blue Shell and itll strap on to your back, enabling you to slide around 
 like a Koopa. This is a bit dangerous to use on small platforms mind. The Mini Mushroom shrinks 
 you down to micro size so you can fit in to tiny gaps and pipes. This also lets you run on water. 
 And my favourite, the Mega Mushroom. This bad boy gives you a massive boost in size, enabling you 
 to smash anything in your path. A bar appears at the top, showing how much destruction youve caused. 
 And at the end, you get 1-UP Mushrooms depending on how much you destroyed. All of these power-ups 
 are found in the levels but they are rare.
  
  Each level contains three secret star coins to collect. These can be spent on opening Mushroom 
 houses where you can obtain power-ups from the Toad inside. A lot of the levels include super secret 
 exits in them which lead to secret levels, warp pipes and Mushroom houses. There are eight worlds 
 in total although two of them are hidden. So you can easily get through the game having completed 
 only half of it.
  
  These secrets and clever aspects add bags of replay value to the game which keep you coming back 
 for more. But even if you complete the main game, the mini-game section is back, with most of the 
 games from Super Mario 64 DS as well as a few new ones. These games dont keep you entertained 
 for that long but its a welcome change from the main game. All of the mini-games can be played 
 on multiplayer which is fun. Also, a multiplayer Mario vs. Luigi game is included where two players 
 race through levels to grab stars. Single card multiplayer mode is also included which runs just 
 as smooth.
  
  All of this on one DS cartridge provides you with one of the best DS games money can buy. This 
 is ultra addictive and falling of a platform or getting killed buy a koopa just makes you come 
 back for another try. This is how Mario games should be. It defines the word fun and anyone who 
 owns a DS should go out and buy this game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the greatest mixture of Mario games out there. It's got a little bit of 
 many past Mario games. It's not just SMB 1, but also SMB 3, SMW 1 &amp; 2, and SM64, and throw 
 Sunshine into the mix. People who have never played this will see what I mean when they do.
  
  My only beef with the game would be that they didn't keep all of the minigames from the SM64 
 DS. Other than that, fantastic. New power-ups and original bosses make this game much more enjoyable. 
 Fortunately or unfortunately (for those of us who like a challenge) this game will make sure that 
 you never run out of lives. When I finished I had over 50. Even if you get into a difficult spot, 
 you will not run out of lives.
  
  Graphics were some of the best that I have seen in any DS game out there. A few minor problems 
 take the one point away from a perfect 10.
  
  I don't know why, but I love the soundtrack. It's so catchy!
  
  Yeah, value varies for this 
 one. The minigames aren't nearly addicting enough to keep me going for too long, and the main game 
 is way too short. It makes up for having a wireless multiplayer game, but that doesn't get it much 
 because you need to have someone else who owns a DS.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, but it is really short and nothing much that is extra. You can get 
 the tokens and open all the paths, you got a few good minigames, and some good multiplayer wireless 
 games, but they're all not very addicting, they're very short, and that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  new super mario brothers grows on you like mold on a moist wall with a wonderful collection of 
 mini games and story gameplay that is the best so far on the ds. New mario bros has so many awsome 
 things in it like the big mushroom which makes a supersize mario which equals =adiction if only 
 it lasted a little longeri bought this game without even thinking twice since i am a big fan of 
 the mario bro's franchise and will always be one .The ds touch screen makes the collection of mini 
 games unmatched i have no clue how the psp survives in this ds world new super mario bros is one 
 of the many reasons that people should buy a ds if they don't already have one amazing game great 
 graphics awsome fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  this is a fantastic game to add to the mario series. its very fun and entertaining .if you dont 
 have this then you should go to your nearest shop and order it. there is 8 worlds and different 
 types of stages in each world. there is a new feature a mushroom shaped house go in there to get 
 many more levels it has its classic enemies like goomas, koopa troopas and bullet bills. this game 
 should keep you entertained for hours on end . i give this game a 9.5 as it is a fantastic game 
 that should be welcomed into the mario series with out question 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsludge56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  New super mario bros is a truly impressive game for the DS. It has to be the best 2D platformer 
 on the DS to date.
  Its 8 worlds provide plenty to get your teeth stuck into as each has many levels including some 
 on ground, underwater and a mix of both.
  The mario game is definately the best part of the game but NSMB also has minigames also, which 
 can be played on your own or with friends via DS download play.
  A dissapointing part of the game is that it gets quite repetitive whilst playing through the 8 
 worlds and is fairly easy to complete in a short space of time. Despite this it offers a fair replay 
 value after the main completion of the game.
  
  It certainly topped my DS charts but the 2D platform is not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatLostKid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Supper mario bros is a good game. You have to save princess peach from bouzer and his son. You can 
 be luigi or mario you can switch to each by pressing (R) (L) at the same time. There are 8 worlds 
 in this game the 1st is the easyest and the 8th is the hardest. There is more then story mode on 
 this game there is mini games on it too. The two player in it great because it's alot of fun and 
 there's always a race to get the next star. The game is good because it's long and challenging. 
 There is so much things to do and it is hard to complete. That's why I love the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. The graphics are some of the best on the DS, the gameplay is excellent, 
 theres heaps of replayibility, and multiplayer is cool. In this new version of Mario Bros there 
 are many additions to the package!
  
  As in most mario games, Bowser, or in this case Bowser jr, captures the princess. It's up to Mario 
 or luigi to rescue the princess! There are 8 worlds, each have a few mini castles to get you hyped 
 up for the main castle at the end of each level.
  
  This game will last you ages, finishing it doesn't take long, but going back and trying for all 
 the stars, that may take awhile.
  
  The mutliplayer is brilliant! there are many mini games to keep you ocupied, they have series of 
 card games action games puzzle and some from Super Mario 64 Ds! The Sounds i can't get over, enerything 
 about them! They suit the game and are so cool! It is value for money!
  
  I prase the master who made this game, Miyamoto your the man! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimkabrhel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Most of my favorite gaming memories revolve around the Mario universe. The first game I played 
 on a Nintendo system was the original Super Mario Bros. and I've played almost every iteration 
 that has come out. Without reservation, I can say that New. Super Mario Bros. ranks with the best 
 platformers in the Mario series, including SMW and SMB3. Both SMB3 and SMW are such greats games 
 not only because of the quality of the gameplay but also the replay value, and NSMB is just as 
 good as previous games. I've already played through the game several times in order to get all 
 the unlockables. The frenetic pace of each of the levels is balanced out by a moderate level of 
 difficulty; challenging enough to the veteran gamer, but easy enough for new and younger player 
 to pick up and play instantly. The plot is a throw away, but aren't all plots for platform games?
 
  I always enjoy a great soundtrack and NSMB has a great one. I found myself replaying levels, not 
 because of the enjoyable gameplay, but because of the great background tune (the calypso-like tune 
 for several of the waterside levels) .
  This game is a must for anyone who owns a DS and is a great reason to purchase the system (although 
 there are enough other games that give reason enough to buy a DS) . I hope that a sequel to this 
 game is in the pipeline; there will never be enough Mario platformers to satisfy me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Well this is pretty much the first game ive played all the way through for the DS and I am glad 
 I got it. I thought before I played it that it was just the original Super Mario Bros levels with 
 new items and graphics but most of the levels are completely original I believe. It combines alot 
 of the elements from the nintendo mario games and super nintendo games like having a map of the 
 world like in super mario 3.. and having different power ups like the turtle shell and mini mario. 
 A new one they added is giant mario who is as tall as the screen and just destroys everything ran 
 into.. I think the more you destroy the more 1ups u get when ur done.. There are quite a few levels 
 in the game and quite a few i didnt even get to play on first playthrough. Levels 4 and 7 can only 
 be accessed by defeating the bosses in the previous castle while in mini mario which ill have to 
 play through again to get to. Another great thing about this game is the minigames that you can 
 play whenever you want.. Some of them are really fun and addicting.. So far I played quite a bit 
 of the poker minigame where you have different mario themed cards like mushrooms and stars and 
 have to beat the dealer luigis hand. THe thing thats great about it is it saves the amount of coins 
 you win and how far youve made it when you quit which i think is great. there are alot of games 
 that use the functions of the ds like the game where you need to blow in the microphone to make 
 yoshi rise to the top without the enemies breaking the baloons, and another where u pull the stylus 
 down on a slingshot to launch things into two floating shells as they move along the top screen. 
 The graphics on this game are very good for a handheld game and I dont think could of been done 
 much better for the style of the game.. the sound effects and music are all pretty good to. The 
 actual game isnt very difficult and shouldnt pose much of a problem to anyone thats played any 
 game like this one before but it is fun and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: younG_Millz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is an all around great game. Has excellent gameplay and the new features 
 are great. So here is my rundown on the game.
  
  Gameplay: Just like recent Mario games, this one has excellent gameplay. They added the giant mushroom 
 which is really a joy to have. Also the wall jumping feature is off the hook lol. The mini games 
 is another feature that I love on this game as I play with my friends during class (hope I dont 
 get caught) . This is really one of the great Mario games I have ever played (not many hahaha)
 
  
  Graphics: Excellent for a DS game the brightness of the screen really brings out the colours of 
 the game.
  
  Sounds: Great sound effects as usual in most Mario games
  
  Value: This game has alright value but once u beat it you might not want to play it again (But 
 I would)
  
  So all-in-all The New Super Mario Bros. is an awesome game that you should get for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Everybody should've played Super Mario Bros (for the NES) . Everybody should've loved Super Mario 
 Bros. SMB is one of the great games of all time, and will never die. It is also the most played 
 game in history. Though Nintendo decided to update the game and make it portable. New Super Mario 
 Bros isn't your orthodox game title, though it perfectly describes the game. This game feels like 
 a breath of fresh air, while remaining to feel just like that great classic that really got the 
 videogame market going.
  
  There are three different modes in the game: Single Player, Mario vs Luigi, and Mini Games. Lets 
 start with the Single Player mode. It's obviously the main story adventure mode of the game. The 
 story is simple (as usual) . Mario and Peach are taking a walk together. Though some explosions 
 occur nearby, and Mario dashes towards them to see what's going on. Meanwhile, Bowser Jr appears 
 and steals Princess Peach (same old story) . Mario turns around and witnesses the kidnapping. He 
 then begins to chase Bowser Jr. The story may be extremely simple, especially for this day and 
 age, but this is an update of the original Super Mario Bros. That means it's easily forgivable. 
 There are eight different worlds with several courses in each. There are also some extra courses. 
 This is the Single Player mode, and it will feel very reminiscent of the original game. That's 
 a very very good thing.
  
  The next two modes are multiplayer (though you can play the minigames on your own) . There is the 
 Mario vs Luigi mode, where you and a friend can fight each other as you try to get past a course. 
 There are stars within the courses, and whoever ends up with the most wins. It's pretty basic stuff. 
 Next up are the minigames. There are 18 different minigames, which can actually be pretty addicting. 
 The minigames make use of the stylus (the Single Player Mode barely uses it) . Here, you may want 
 to from time to time play a few to try to boost your high scores. The minigames are nothing special, 
 but they are fun little extra things to try out. Overall, the multiplayer is a good thing in this 
 game.
  
  Back to the Single Player mode. The courses are completely redesigned, but they still end up reminding 
 you of the original SMB. They are designed well, and are interesting. All the courses in one world 
 (except the castle ones) all have a similar theme, yet are all quite different. Every level feels 
 new and fresh, while still keeping that old-school feel. The consistency is good. In each course, 
 there are three star coins. By collecting star coins, you'll be able to access new areas and take 
 alternate routes. Well, the route you take won't really matter, since this game is enjoyable enough 
 that you would want to complete every course. The star coins are often put in rather interesting 
 positions, so you constantly have to be alert of your surroundings and your actions. This game 
 isn't as hard as the original SMB. Finding 1-UP mushrooms are very easy, you can save after beating 
 the castle courses or opening a new route via using star coins, and there are checkpoints half 
 way through the courses. There are a variety of bosses, but they are easy and just require some 
 good jumping to defeat. The design of the courses is also not difficult. However, there are some 
 tricky places that do require some quick skill. It's always good to be running around as Fire Mario, 
 because those fireballs do come in handy. The courses aren't that long, and the whole game just 
 doesn't feel that long. However, we must remember, if this game were to be put on the NES (where 
 there is no save system) , then it certainly would feel like a long game. Also, you may return to 
 whatever course you want to at any time, and the courses are enjoyable so that they are replayable.
 
  
  The control scheme is simple, and is also interchangeable. The default is A/B are to jump, while 
 X/Y are to dash (or use fireballs if you're Fire Mario) . It takes almost no time to learn and get 
 used to. It just requires a bit of practice to master them. There are also a few different items. 
 There is the regular mushroom, which everybody knows what it does. There is also the Mega Mushroom, 
 which is like the king of all items. With this, you're basically invincible, since you destroy 
 everything in you're path. The effects of this mushroom last for a few seconds, but you receive 
 a number of 1-UP mushrooms depending on how much you destroyed. Next is the blue shell, which allows 
 you to slide Koopa style when dashing. There is the mini mushroom. With this, you become infinitesimal. 
 You also are able to walk on water. It's pretty useful in some areas. Lastly, there is the Fire 
 Flower, which is the most common after the regular mushroom. With it, you turn into Fire Mario, 
 and you gain the ability of shooting fireballs. This can be very helpful in some situations. You 
 are also able to keep one of these items in your little inventory, so while running through a course, 
 you may pop one of them up. These items can be found in ? blocks (again, the most common would 
 be the regular mushroom and the fire flower) , or in some houses. Also, in some courses, there are 
 new interesting things. There are ropes which you can swing on, certain things that help with jumping, 
 trampoline-like mushrooms, different switches, and some other things. These help the game feel 
 like an upgrade to an old classic.
  
  The mechanics are appropriate updates. There are new moves Mario can perform. The graphics are 
 an obvious upgrade, and are done well for this age. The music may not have that classic feel as 
 the original Super Mario Bros tunes did, but there is variety, and they are still pretty good. 
 The sound effects are nice, and the character voices are spot on. The addition of save points and 
 checkpoints may be a downgrade to those who like their games to be hard and grueling, but to others, 
 it is a true upgrade anyday. The multiplayer modes are nicely done for a once-in-a-while friendly 
 competition. While the minigames make great use of the stylus (since the main game doesn't use 
 it all, and that's the way it should be) . The mechanics are real updates/upgrades, yet remain very 
 simple to keep that awesome old-school feel of the original Super Mario Bros.
  
  For consoles, there are certain games that if you own the console, you need to own that game. NES: 
 Super Mario Bros. SNES: Super Mario World. N64: Super Mario 64. GC: Super Smash Bros Melee. Notice 
 a trend? (SSBM can be considered a part of the Mario universe in a short way, since it does contain 
 Mario characters) Well, for the DS, the must-own game would be either Mario Kart DS, or this game. 
 If you enjoyed the original Super Mario Bros (if you didn't, then I'd be seriously surprised) , 
 you need to give this game a try. So basically, I'm recommending it to everybody with a DS. It 
 is short, but it's a game that anybody could come back to every once in a while. That's the case 
 with every old-school platformer. This game does not have the same impact as the original Super 
 Mario Bros, and it's probably not as good as SMB in their respective time periods. Though it's 
 another awesome classic Mario platformer that is worth playing for anybody and everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chao9999
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  We've played them, we've always played them. Super Mario 64. Super Mario World. Super Mario Bros. 
 Heck, even Mario Bros. So, why buy another Mario game? It's fun, it's a good formula, the music's 
 good, the graphics are crisp and clear, and there's some humor here in there. Now, a remake of 
 Super Mario Bros sounds odd at first. Who'd want that, I've got the old one right here! . My friend, 
 I laugh at you, I laugh at you so much.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  An old formula made only better with more powerups. You press A to jump, which you use not only 
 to jump on enemies but to jump on platforms and such. Hold B to run. Break bricks, stomp baddies, 
 have fun, it's old, but that still leaves room for IT'S GOOD . When not in a level, you're on the 
 overworld, choosing the level you want to go to, or the castle. You can also go into mushroom houses, 
 which end with you getting either an almost-random powerup from the first kind of house, an almost-random 
 amount of 1-ups from the second kind, or you can get a special kind of mushroom (read on to see 
 just how awesome this musroom is) . To access these, you pay some star coins that you can find three 
 of in each level, once inside you can get into the house as soon as you want, although it disappears 
 after usage. Keep in mind that this is the ONLY way to save.
  A couple new powerups have been added. While the old Mushroom and Fire Flower are still in there, 
 along with that little starman, but now you can also get the blue shell (no, not the shell from 
 Mario Kart, O_o) , which makes it so Mario curls up into his shell when ducking to block attacks, 
 and also spins in the shell when running, killing baddies and whacking bricks in the process. And, 
 of course, the star of the show, you heard of it when nintendo was first talking about it, and 
 it's on the cover. THE MEGA MUSHROOM! This fat monster turns you into a gargantuan ready to annhialate 
 all, you're invincible, and enemies die from touching you, as well as you destroy boxes and pipes 
 when you walk into them, and the more you destroy, the more lives you get when it ends. The only 
 downside to this awe-inspiring shroom is that there are a significant amount of levels that don't 
 let you use it, because you're too small. Eh, who cares, fight Bowser NOW!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Whoa, this is on a HANDHELD? From Mario's awesome character model, to Koopa 
 sprites, everything looks nice, fresh, and with little touches thrown in, such as when the music 
 plays it's little jingle (they all have something, like the first level music goes Bah bah-bah! 
 ) the enemies quickly freeze and do a pose and then unfreeze. This, along with the colorfull backgrounds 
 and nice boss character models, makes this game very aesthetically pleasing, especially for a handheld 
 game, these graphics push the DS to it's limit, but without any framerate loss.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Remixes of old music are abound here, along with little bits of Mario speech. 
 From the classic opening music, to the cave music, to the castle music, everything is here. Now, 
 this would get higher if there was MORE music, and the music itself seems a bit bland, I'm sure 
 they could've made it sound much better. Still, they did add some stuff, such as Boss music, which 
 is nice. A bit more style, a few more songs, and better usage of stereo, could've been a 10.
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  I'm surprised they didn't just leave the story as it is, either way, the 
 small changes they made are very much acceptable. Instead of Bowser kidnapping Peach, Bowser Jr. 
 kidnaps her, and in the first boss fight, you kill Bowser. Also, at the end of every boss fight, 
 instead of the evil that is I'm sorry, *** ******** ** ** ******* ****** (censored for those with 
 therapy for it) , Jr. simply grabs Peach and runs off. As this is a remake, you can't really take 
 points below 5, but the fact that these small changes just seem to work so well notches it all 
 the way up to 8. I won't spoil what little is there, but little IS there is nice.
  
  Bells and Whistles: 8/10
  
  You can play as Luigi through a simple little code, although he's 
 exactly the same minus different speech. The star coins-for mushroom houses thing adds a nice little 
 ping in there as well. Plus, 100% completion rewards you with some (somewhat weak, but whatever) 
 extra bonuses. Plus, beating a level with certain times yields some nice little prizes.
  
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Full of nostalgia, this is a must have for ANY DS owner. And at a nice 
 price (30 bucks or less) , it certainly is worth more than you payed. Get it now, I mean it! Keep 
 in mind that if you don't like this game, you're lying to make it easier to take the pressure off 
 the fact that you had just died, or forgotten to save. See ya, I'm off to play it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game *WAS* good, until I beat it, then it was shot to crap.
  
  Gameplay (8) ~ Easy to play, and enjoyable made the gameplay fun, it was just a reminder of what 
 games originally were, and how they are still fun today
  
  Graphics (9) ~ For a DS game, these graphics are pretty damn sweet, best I have seen in a while 
 I would say!
  
  Audio (7) ~ Average, nothing special here
  
  Thats about it, you can sum this game up that easily, and it is still amazingly enjoyable! The 
 only problem is...
  
  THERE IS NO REPLAYABILITY!! So if you want to play this one once, then you are good to go, if you 
 want to play this game twice, you have nothing better to do and you must have no friends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Perfect controls, Mario has the right weight (and inertia) ; beautiful 3D characters (well 
 placed in a side-scrolling) and good zoom-out system when needed; bright sound, amazing SFX and 
 voice acting; worthy of Mario legacy, and can bring new passionate fans.
  
  The Bad: Could give other ways to explore the levels (old players will miss flying) .
  
  In 
 a nutshell: superb. If you like 2D-platformers, this game is one that you shouldn't miss; if you 
 don't like 2D-platformers this game is one that can make you change your mind (and if it doesn't, 
 don't try another platformer again) .
  The game is a collection of good features. Mario's speed increases as he runs (and his body demonstrates 
 that) , and so you'll have more trouble stopping him; the animations made for Mario jumping, taking 
 the hat off or throwing fireballs are both funny and precise (besides Bowser Jr. dragging the Princess 
 around, hilarious) ; good music, remarkable though soft; hard to beat, specially world 8, as it 
 should ever be; Minigames for free, but I must confess: I just can't leave the main map behind... 
 And even more precious for people who played the first Super Mario Bros. game, back in 1985.
  Besides many other qualities that are hard to explain, but are easy to see when youre holding 
 your DS. It's a rarity, good to play and to watch, and we can't go wrong calling it a near-perfect 
 game.
  Give it a try. I don't think you would regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny you pay you 
 know what i mean great gameplay you know what i mean great graphics you know what i mean superb 
 sound you know what i mean its not too much too pay for this game any more that a good thing you 
 know what i mean i really love this game and i hopeing you love this game too you know what i mean 
 its not all that hard you know what i mean its still worth playing you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crzy_gurl
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, Mario has done it agian but this time hes back in 2-D and and the same system, 
 but with way more capabilities. This is a great game for Nitendo DS, the graphic are absolutely 
 amazing. I mean if you've been a true fan of the game then it truely shocks the heck out of you 
 to see how far this game and Mario came. The storyline is good also, Browser Jr. takes princess 
 peach again, which he's done in all the games, but it just made it better because of the graphics 
 and the fun new stuff they added. For example, they have a mushroom that make you huge, and you 
 can just run over everything and then they have this other mushroom that can shrink you to get 
 to smaller places... the newly added features to this game is definately a plus, and to top it all 
 off you can enjoy it with your friends in the multi-player mode with up to 1-4 players..... just 
 get the game... its an absolute amazing game and if your a true fan of the Mario series then get 
 it, thats all I need to say..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent, addicting platforming gameplay; bright and detailed 2D/3D graphics; good level 
 of challenge; very nice old-school feel; multiplayer modes are decently fun.
  
  The Bad: Simple, easy bosses; new powerups are largely useless; some levels are just too short; 
 game doesn't feel particularly long; coin collecting takes focus off the core gameplay.
  
  Super Mario Bros., unlike other video game series, is one that hasn't been done to death over and 
 over through the years. Every entry has been fantastic, and has built upon the past games in every 
 conceivable way. New Super Mario Bros. is no exception, and is a fantastic platformer and a welcome 
 entry to a series that hasn't seen a new entry since Super Mario World about 15 years ago.
  
  No gameplay will ever live up to the infectious platforming of a Mario game. It's the style 
 that revitalized video games, and it's still great after all these years. Running, jumping, powering 
 up, and stomping enemies on the head just never gets old. And with level design this good, it all 
 works so much better. Some of the levels are a little on the short side, but they're all fun.
 
  
  Instead of taking it to the skies like Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, the Brothers 
 Mario are taking it to the streets and staying ground-bound. There's no ravenous dinosaurs (Yoshi) 
 this time - just pure unadulterated platforming goodness.
  
  In fact, this game seems more like a homage to the original Super Mario Bros. than anything. This 
 is not a bad thing at all. NSMB uses elements from more recent games in the series, such as the 
 map from SMB3 and the multiple goals from SMW, to keep things fresh.
  
  The new powerups are largely useless, however. In application, the giant mushroom makes levels 
 too easy, the mini mushroom is only useful for a handful of puzzles, and the shell is pointless. 
 The focus seems to be on the Fire Flower. Also, the coin gathering side quest seems like too much 
 of a focus here, drawing away from the central point of the game.
  
  Overall, NSMB doesn't disappoint. It's got fresh visuals, a great soundtrack, and kickin' gameplay 
 that draws perfectly from past entries, while offering plenty new content to appeal. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  I love every inch of this game. The new 3D images make it very catchy and also the new Mario powers 
 are amazing and very creative. The game is really cool and I strongly encourage people to buy it. 
 You won't regret to have this game in your collection!!! There is something I really loved about 
 this game. It is the fact it has lots of new minigames you can play with your friends (wi-fi) or 
 alone. The minigames are very cool. There are many categories of minigames and all are completely 
 different!!! The game is a little bit expensive though, but you can find it cheaper on Ebay.
  This is the best Mario game so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, I played Mario since the first nintendo came out and apart from the massive change 
 of graphics and sound, the gameplay is enhanced with the DS's touch screen features.
  
  Worth to keep and play it all over again, Secret maps to open once you complete the whole game 
 once. Lots of interesting mini games to keep you occupied as well. (Or at least my mum was.) Some 
 of the coins cannot be collected in some stages and you need to figure out some secret passages.
 
  
  Somewhat frustrating sometimes when you fingers don't go in lieu with what u want Mario to do, 
 but it's all good being able to play as Mario or Luigi. Thumbs up. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  A quality 2D side-scroller that belongs to every DS owners library.
  
  Story is very classical and simple in New Super Mario Bros. One beautiful day Bowser Jr. appears 
 and kidnaps princess Peach, so its once again up to Mario to save her. But as always Mario games 
 are not about the story: they are about jumping.
  
  Graphics are probably the best in the DS and the use of colors makes this game incredibly beautiful 
 to look at. Worthy of a special mention are the underwater stages and that great graphical effect 
 when Mario hits on the surface of water splashing it. Different characters and enemies look great 
 and in my opinion Bowser Jr. is the cutest baddy in any game for a long time.
  
  Sound on the other hand is mostly classical, which is nothing new, but luckily there are some added 
 effects in different enemies. It seems that Nintendo wanted the sound to bring back good old memories 
 from previous Mario games and in this respect New Super Mario Bros. succeeds.
  
  Gameplay is very quick to get into since you only have two buttons to master and the controls are 
 responsive. In this respect New Super Mario Bros. is just what you would expect, because it combines 
 many elements from previous Mario games and does it all really well. There are also some new additions, 
 like the mini and mega mushrooms, but I still prefer more of those classical fire flowers and stars.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. also includes nearly 20 different minigames and the use of stylus in the 
 game is mostly done in these minigames. This feature brings the game more playing time since in 
 long flights or between bus stops you can constantly switch between minigames and the main quest, 
 if you get bored on the other.
  
  There is also wireless or online play to fight against youre friend and its a cool feature, but 
 its not the thing that brings you down to play New Super Mario Bros.
  
  You can rush youre way through this game in less than 10 hours, but if you sit back and enjoy 
 the different minigames while digging a little deeper in the main story mode youll find that it 
 takes somewhere between 10-25 hours to finish this Marios latest. Game is also pretty easy, but 
 still its better this way than to have a frustrating time trying to jump over a cliff or something 
 like that.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a quality game and no DS owner shouldnt be without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game that brings new greatness for Nintendo games, specifically handhelds. This 
 game brings out the potential of the DS. This game is basically a mix of Super Mario Bros. 1, 2, 
 &amp; 3 and new ideas from Nintendo. Somethings, however, never change. Princess Peach has been 
 kidnapped by Bowser and his henchmen. Mario has to save the world and get Peach back. This game 
 has many, cool interactive worlds. Worlds ranging from out in the plains to up in the clouds, from 
 in the forest to a lava world, from... well you know what I mean. A couple of the new things you 
 get is a giant mushroom and tiny mushroom. The names of the mushrooms explain themselves. The new 
 thing they did with the game to keep people playing it is that you can only save by beating a castle 
 or buying one of the houses/ pathways on the way. The houses are basically a place where toad give 
 you an item that helps you out. Once the mushroom like house is gone, there is a stump. The mushroom 
 house eventually growns back giving you access to it again. Overall this game is a mix of the classics 
 and new content. Whether you're an old school gamer, graphics freak, or a hardcore/casual gamer, 
 etc. you'll love New Super Mario Brothers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is really really fun many people should get this game and if you have it than don't ever 
 sell it. Let's begin. The Gameplay is old school, original, fun, and simplistic and that's what makes 
 it greatThe graphics are standard Mario Ds games graphics which look like a smaller version of 
 the Nintendo 64s graphics (just in case you didn't know) . The sound is great, the tunes are fun to 
 hear and the minigames also have great sound effects which makes it even better. You would probaly 
 find lots of replay value because you need to get all the gold coins to help you completely beat 
 the game. Also the minigames and the multi-player will have you coming back to it. So overall it's 
 a really great game that shouldn't be missed because if you do than I guess there wouldn't be a 
 point in owning a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  
  WAY TOO MANY PEOPLE HATE OPINIONS!!! Whenever I say a game is bad, even though I supported my ppoints 
 and things like that, they say it's bad becuase I said the game was bad. You people really need 
 to get a life and realize we all have our own opinoins. Even if you don't like a reveiw, if it 
 supports the ideas and covers the main things, mark it as good. The people who come here to see 
 if they should buy a game deserve to know about why sme people dislike the game. Please think about 
 this- it's an important matter.
  
  
  While it gives some fun puzzles, 
 most of them can be *VERY* frustrating. The new power-ups suck. THEY'RE SUICIDAL!!!!! The Giant 
 Mushroom will only make you fall down a pit; the shell will chuck you off a cliff; the mini 'shroom 
 just kills you. The powerups suck, almost every level sucks, and lots of cheap, unfair things, such 
 as enemies being in the exact place you'll land (and things like that) However, the other 1/4 of 
 these levels are fun.
  
  Graphics: Well, there's never much to say about graphics, but these are OK.
  
  Sound: Bad. 
 It varies a lot, but it's entirely happy stuff. As only Nintendo can make.
  
  Replay Value: ^^^^^
  
  Other: The minigames are imported from SM64DS, and they were changed 
 a bit. They ALL suck.
  YOu can have 3 files.
  You can play as Luigi, but both are the same.
  Getting lots of Star Coins for crappy prizes can 
 be infuriating.
  Bosses are too easy.
  Lack of power-ups.
  New power-ups are unuseful in any occasion.
  
  Although, doing multiplayer via download or 
 cards, can be very fun. If your brother/sister has a DS, and you two would make a killer team working 
 together if you didn't hate each other, get this game no matter what everyone says. The multiplayer 
 modes live on. Hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekky_9892
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The Super Mario Bros. return! This game is a definite must-have for anyone who is a fan of the 
 Mario games, or just about anyone who owns a Nintendo DS. The graphics are perfect for the game, 
 epecially the sprites. The gameplay is Old-School Mario and is actually surprisingly tricky. The 
 minigames are good, but there are not enough to keep you entertained for a long time, unlike the 
 library of minigames from Super Mario 64 DS. The soundtrack is good, and the soundrack is top-notch. 
 The game is decent value, but can lose some of its fun part way through the game. All in all, New 
 Super Mario Bros. is a great game that deserves its place in the legendary Mario series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  One of the best 2D games I've played. There is 80 short levels with 3 star coins in each level. 
 The 240 coins are hidden throughout the levels in clever places. Some require power ups, making 
 it more challenging.
  
  The power ups are: Mega Mario, Mini Mario, Shell Mario, Fire Mario, and another that makes you 
 a bit bigger.
  
  The graphics are awesome and there is no denying that.
  
  The sound is wicked and there is no denying that.
  
  I thought the bosses were too easy and 
 repetitive and the levels too short.
  
  You will still enjoy it all the way through, though!
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Squall_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. The graphics are some of the best on the DS, the gameplay is fun, theres 
 heaps of replayibility, and multiplayer is cool.
  As in most mario games, Bowser, or in this case Bowser jr, captures the princess. It's up to Mario 
 (or luigi) to rescue the princess! There are 8 worlds, each with atleast 1 mini castle, in which 
 you fight bowser jr, and 1 main castle, in which you fight either bowser or another boss.
  This game will last you ages, finishing it doesn't take long, but going back and trying for all 
 the stars, that may take awhile.
  I only wish that people could play 2 player co-op in story mode....
  All in all, this is a great 
 DS game that everybody should love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBowser
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I grew up with all the old mario games and they are classic.
  This is deffinately a great throw back to these classics. The Graphics are of course better than 
 ever but they arent the best on the DS. This isnt a problem at all though. what really draws a 
 player to this game is the old-school gameplay. It uses all of the old platformer styles from the 
 old mario games and combines it into one. Also, it adds some new moves that have never been used 
 before in a mario platformer. The sound is just basic and suits the game just fine. The value deserves 
 its 10; you can play this game so many times and it'll never get old. And the tilt is perfect for 
 the style of gameplay. dont make the mistake of passing this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newagedevil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game. If you own a Nintendo DS you have to get this game. Plays just like classic Mario with 
 a good look and feel. Plenty of levels with hidden routes to finish most stages. Great for solo 
 play and multi player. Mario Vs. Luigi challenge is fun and addictive, just as the mini-games. 
 Great buy. It can easily be beat within a short amount of time if you skip over the hidden levels 
 and stars for each level. I suggest that you do complete the game as quickly as possible to unlock 
 the save whenever option. If gives you the chance to save after you unlock little paths and beat 
 castles but can sometimes become a little annoying. But not enough to damage the game in anyway. 
 And Mega Mario is just insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while Mario did some side scrolling jumping and smacking block and New Super Mario 
 Bros brings it to the DS with most good and some lameness. First off the graphics look pretty mint. 
 They did a good job using the DS' graphic capabilities. The animation is some of the best I've 
 seen on the system. The colors are lush and the lighting and shadowing is pretty cool.
  
  The sounds and music are typical Mario and work well with the system's abilities. The controls 
 are spot on and typical Mario. There is some use of the touch screen, but like most games on the 
 DS the touch screen just becomes a second screen for your inventory. It's a bit disapointing that 
 Nintendo couldn't have done more with the unique touch ability of the DS. The levels are rather 
 short and the game plays through really quickly. It's almost too easy. Even the secrets are easy 
 to figure out, but unless if you are a true gamer most people will just play through it once and 
 put it down. You don't actually go through all the world and two of them are secrets. Another complaint 
 is there aren't enough Mario options, sure there's Super Mario, Fire Mario but the only other two 
 are Turtle Mario and Itty bitty Mario. Whatever happend to Racoon Mario, Hammer Bros. Mario, and 
 all the greats from SMB3. The level selection is pretty standard of all the past Mario games. This 
 is a solid title from Nintendo and definatly a pick up for Mario fans and platformer fans alike. 
 It's good for kids and adults alike but it probably won't hold your interest forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolkaStripe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. has fantastic Lasting Game play and dosen't get boring! There are 8 worlds 
 and each has it's significant levels! the Graphics and sound deserve a perfect 10 in this one by 
 really showing The Mario series its true colours! However i must warn you this game is highly addictive 
 and fun! The Multiplayer on this is brilliant and if you play it right is super fast ! The game 
 play is still filled with the same fun stuff like collecting stars coins getting points and getting 
 to the end of the level! This suprisingly dosent get boring and just makes you more Addicted to 
 the game. Nintendo Fans enjoy. P. S Sony and Microsoft SUCK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikita121
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Remember just how much fun you had playing the old mario bros. even until this day i can't stop 
 playing it. After i heard that they were making a remake of it i was not expecting anything like 
 the original, though it would be too overdone and complicated though that the 3-D might make the 
 game a bit less greater so i hesitated on buying it. Yet after a couple days when i played it a 
 t my friend's it rocked me. From now on New Super Mario Bros is definetely on my top 10. Although 
 like most dds games it seemed just too short. But still, believe me, don't hesitate on buying this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiyoshi777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Should we be praising Nintendo for releasing a solid Mario title when we know they're capable of 
 going above and beyond?
  
  It is a bit suspicious that New Super Mario Bros. seems to have garnered such voracious acclaim. 
 Though on its most basic level, it feels like a good old Mario title like Mom used to make, it 
 certainly falls short when compared to more recent titles in the series. It lacks the creativity 
 that fueled Super Mario World and Yoshi's Island and the extensive gameplay that was Super Mario 
 64's trademark. What we have instead is a plain vanilla hybrid of the two that has far more in 
 common with the very first title in the series than it does with any recent entries.
  
  Perhaps it's not fair to bash New Super Mario Bros. because it's something of a nostalgic throwback. 
 In an age where we have 20,000 Mario Party titles released every year, taking the series back to 
 formula was actually something of an innovation. It works on several levels; there's a charm in 
 the comparatively basic gameplay, and gamers aren't subjected to any Mario Sunshine-esque awkward 
 plotlines. Nope, all we have here is sweet 'n sexy Princess Peach getting abducted by Bowser, and 
 that's all we need.
  
  It's the details where New Super Mario Bros. really trips up. The game wastes the DS' touch screen 
 (except in the mini-games, almost wholly ripped off from Mario 64 DS) , making gamers wonder why 
 it wasn't just a GBA title with pretty sprite graphics instead of ugly 3D ones. Worse yet, the 
 new power-ups, being the giant and mini mushrooms, seem shoehorned in and have woefully limited 
 use. This leads to some dumb design choices; two of the game's eight worlds are completely closed 
 off until you go back and beat certain bosses in mini mode. It's a pretty lame and cheap way to 
 inject replay value. Even still, perhaps the largest offenders are the level-design and music. 
 Unlike the unique and distinctive locales found in other Mario games, NSMB recycles dull environments 
 like forest and snow land. And it seems like Nintendo bothered only to compose two songs for the 
 entirety of the game. What a letdown.
  
  Of course, despite quibbles and nitpicks, this is still a solid Mario game that at least tries 
 some new things while still feeling old school. The mini-games, stolen as they may be, are fun 
 and will keep players coming back for more, even after they clear all of the levels in the easy 
 single player adventure. Gamers, especially those who haven't been Mario fans all of their lives, 
 will dig the game while it lasts, and some may be able to ignore the flaws.
  
  Those looking for something beefier, though, would probably do better to grab Yoshi's Island DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for about 1 year and a half. Sadly havn't beaten it lol. Havn't really been 
 playing it but when I was playing it I loved it and its totaly worth it and just plain fun.
  
  A mario game that you have to have in your DS collection. You just have too.
  
  The 
 
  
  Great graphics inproving from a classic. Portable and can take it with you everywhere! Finaly some 
 savepoints in this game. Very fun game by itself. And thats because its probobly the greatest game 
 ever for the NES and the most rememberable... and that makes people want this game.
  
  The 
 
  
  It's just an upgraded copy of a game. but I'm not saying thats bad. Just not original.. less value..
 
  
  
 
  
  9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reidwii1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  new super mario bros. is what it was expected to be. the old new style of gaming that takes you 
 to the past but dosnt linger on it either.
  
  GAMEPLAY: so much fun, i could play this for hours at a time. the new mushrooms and what not are 
 a good add on. but sometimes the levels get pretty annoying. sometimes more than the original. but 
 its more fast paced and more thought out than the 80's version. and basicly shows off the 21'st 
 centry.
  
  GRAPHICS: you may think im a sucker for graphics but you have to agree with me that theres nothing 
 at all wrong with these graphics. there solid. could probually be considered good on the gamecube!. maro 
 and his bro. lood great along with the colorful levels. and whether you play it on the original 
 ds or the light, the lighting is great.
  
  SOUND: the classic music with a new twist is great. mario sounds even better. yo wont be dissapointed
 
  
  VALUE: every one i dont care who [or wat] you are. this is a must have for any ds owner. worth 30$ 
 or less,
  
  alright thats it. im reidwii1 and ill see ya next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: NSMB is your standard platforming Mario game. It is a 2D side scroller that uses updated 
 3D graphics. The levels themselves are pretty simple, though not TOO easy. The challenge is to collect 
 the 3 stars hidden in each level. There are also secret exits in many levels that will unlock new 
 levels for you. The best thing about the gameplay is the abilities Mario has, which is sort of combined 
 from previous mario games. Besides the main power ups (mushroom, flower, star, etc) , there are 
 3 new ones. One in which Mario can wear a turtle suit and dash around in his turtle shell, making 
 him invincible. Another is a HUGE mushroom that makes you almost as big as the screen, able to 
 bulldoze your way through invincible for a limited time. The other is a tiny mushroom that makes 
 Mario super tiny and allows him to access tiny secret areas in some levels that couldnt be accessed 
 otherwise. Mario can also jump higher and further and walk on water when in his tiny mushroom phase. 
 Besides that, Mario has the butt stomp, and can also jump back and forth off walls, like in Mario 
 Sunshine (and it's actually MUCH easier to pull off in this 2D game) . The levels are very fun and 
 diverse. As the GS review mentioned though, some of them are a bit short. Which is pretty much 
 fine with me, since I like easy games. Also, you only get to save after beating castles, fortresses, 
 or spending 5 stars to unlock a mushroom bonus house. I'd prefer to save at will. Though you can 
 re-enter any level at will, it's not like Super Mario World, where you can re-enter, get a powerup 
 and exit out. You can do that here, but it doesnt let you keep the powerup. Same with stars; if 
 you go back to a level to get the stars in it, you have to finish and complete the level in order 
 for it to record it (and then you have to find somewhere to save after that) . Neither does the 
 game offer a save for you if you go back and beat a castle again. So a very unforgiving save feature 
 prevents the gameplay from getting a 10 in my book. Since the levels are somewhat easy though, 
 it makes up for the most part. The controls are a lil different here too. There is much more drift 
 in the controls than other Mario platformers. Well, I guess it shows up in the 3D platformers, 
 like Sunshine and SM64. Because here, Mario doesnt stop on a dime after running or jumping. It's 
 different, but just takes a lil getting used to. Graphics: Amazing, and about as good as they come 
 for the DS. Sound: Great soundtrack that you'd expect, superb sound effects, you can even hear 
 mario's boots clanking against the ground when he's running, like in Mario Sunshine. Value: This 
 game also features a great slew of mini-games available to play instantly from the start menu. 
 Most of them are actually pretty good, but most of them are also on other games, like Super Mario64 
 DS. They make very good use of the touch screen and most are fun to play. The drawback here is 
 that the single player adventure mode is a tad short to finish, but has lots of replay value in 
 getting the secret worlds, and also because they're plain fun to play again. Tilt: A MUST OWN for 
 any DS owner and/or Mario fan. While it's not as groundbreaking or lengthy as when Mario 64 or 
 Super Mario World came out, this is still the best Mario platformer on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Masta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking to buy it, I say you should do it!
  It is highly addictive. Untill you have beaten it.
  
  The two-player game is really fun too! 
 You connect with a friend, you get to choose if you want to be Mario or Luigi, then you choose 
 the settings of the gameplay. After you've done that, you choose a stage. There are 5 stages in 
 total. And then you play. See who is able to collect 5, 10, 15, or 20 stars first! ( Amount you 
 have to collect can be changed during the settings ) .
  Or you could just play around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  For the nostalgic of gamers with hungry inner children brewing inside, Nintendo stretches its palm 
 out and feeds us with a trip down memory lane. Its a-him, Marioagain, in all his classic splendour 
 with new tricks up his sleeves. Take for instance, the ability to turn ULTRA-large and smash your 
 way, effortlessly, through a level, (Yeh, its as fun as it sounds) or the ability to grow a turtle 
 shell and slide down hills and kill things on the way (again, totally as fun as it sounds) , or 
 the ability to turn ULTRA-small and sorta float around in a feather-in-the-wind sort of fashion 
 (actually not that fun) Appeal? Its Mario, and hes back in 2D SIDESCROLLING FORM. Some people 
 find that mere fact worth celebrating.
  
  Not me though It is a short blast from the past and refreshing in its own way, sure. But ultimately 
 what goes through my mind as Im jumping goombas and hitting question blocks with my head are the 
 words: been there, done that. It also doesnt help that the face of this jolly platformer is 
 marred by a shamefully short lifespan and ridiculously low difficulty. One good surge through... take 
 a good Fire Flower for the big boss and hey presto- youve completed the game. But then again, 
 I spent damned near my entire childhood playing Mario so perhaps my somewhat high and dry experience 
 doesnt apply to everyone. Production values, for instance, are quite fantastic. Graphics are very 
 Mario-ish and are technically and artistically sound and the same goes for the games audio component. 
 In terms of control, Mario responds as tightly and immediately as he should.
  
  Good game? Yeh sure while it lasts. To be fair I had fun doing the whole routine again even if 
 I had done it countless times before. For what its worth the game does what it does well. Worth 
 getting? Nah. Way too short for $60. Borrow it off someone who was eager enough to purchase their 
 own copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gecko6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is THE BEST GAME 
 
  It was my 1st DS game and my best DS game (or any game i have, in fact) .
  IT IS A GIFT FROM THE GODS lol. The story line is same as always, Big Bad Bowser captures poor Princess 
 Toadstool and you (Mario) have to go save her. As you go through the eight worlds, you kill koopas, 
 go through warp pipes and beat Bowser (or Koopa Kid, in the earlier levels) at the tower or castle 
 levels. Well dont leave just yet, because that is not all New Super Mario Bros. has to offer to you. 
 There are many minigames which are fun, cool or even very challenging at some times. You can play 
 these minigames by yourself or against others through wire-less multiplayer.
  Mario vs. Luigi mode puts you in a level you cleared from the game and you try to beat it before 
 your friend on wire-less beats you to it. New Super Mario Bros. is much better than (any) Rachet&amp; Clanck 
 game, which are truely astonishing thereselfs. New Super Mario Bros. is a great game.
  THANK YOU  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was blown away. At first I thought that a 2D Super Mario would 
 just feel like a thing of the past, so I was quite sceptical. How wrong I was. This game is absolutely 
 awesome to play from the first minute to the last. It makes me feel like I'm a child again, as 
 I didn't think anything when I played, I just enjoyed the pure and unsophisticated fun.
  
  I've always had the idea that games were a form of entertainment that lived now, not being like 
 movies or music which are entertainment forms that can be good whether it's old or new, I can enjoy 
 an old movie like Casablanca or listen to old music like the Beatles, but I always thought that 
 old games were outdated. I have just been ignorant and this was the game that proved me wrong and 
 I'm genuinly glad for that, because that makes me look forward to the VC on Wii, which I really 
 didn't care about before. Now, as soon as I get my hands on a Wii (impossible to find here) then 
 I will start down-loading old classics right away.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a game that good in almost every department. The gameplay is awesome, 
 the graphics are really nice (at least for a DS game, that is) and it last a fair amount of time 
 if you want to collect everything in the game. I also find the replay value as high, even though 
 you do the same things all over again and thats because it's just so much fun. All of you out there 
 that at some point in your childhood enjoyed any of the old Super Mario games are really going 
 to love this so much and thats a promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  When I found out about New Super Mario Bros. coming out for the DS, it pushed me into finally purchasing 
 one. I was on the fence for a while, knowing I'd enjoy many games, but seeing a new Mario Bros. 
 2D platformer coming out, I knew I had to get it. So I did just that, and I haven't had a single 
 regret.
  
  Most people have played at least one of the classic Mario games, and have enjoyed them. This game 
 is most similar to the original Super Mario Bros. game than the other ones, but does include elements 
 that were found in later releases of the series (Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario World, etc.) . 
 The gameplay has the classic Mario feel to it, the simple button configuration of the NES games, 
 sticking with the two buttons for run and jump, and your digi-pad of course.
  
  There are some nice new features in the game, such as the ability to jump off of walls. I was so 
 used to it that when I went back to play the original game, I tried to do it several times while 
 playing it, that's how much you'll use it. There is ropes or vines in the game, which swing back 
 and forth, similar to those in Donkey Kong Country, which I personally find very fun. Mario can 
 also perform a double jump which allows him to jump at higher heights, this feature is similar 
 to the new one brought in on Mario 64.
  
  Other new features include a Koopa shell that transforms you into Shell Mario , which allows you 
 to spin across the ground, killing all enemies in your path. There is also a tiny mushroom, which 
 resembles the poison 'shroom found in the Japanese Super Mario Bros. 2 (aka The Lost Levels) , but 
 not surprisingly, tiny. This as you would suspect, makes Mario very small, which was probably my 
 favourite power-up in the game. Mario gets huge hang-time due to his light weight, and almost floats 
 around. The only problem with getting this power-up, or power-down in this case, is that Mario 
 only has one hit point, so if you get hit by an enemy, you die. Probably the favourite of the new 
 power-ups is the mega mushroom, which turns you into Mega Mario, where you can crush through virtually 
 everything in sight, and really is a blast, it's a shame it only lasts for a limited amount of 
 time. On top of these new power-ups, there is of course the classic fire flower, a staple in the 
 series.
  
  The level selection screen is very much like Super Mario Bros. 3, with two of the eight worlds 
 having multiple ways to finish. To be expected, the game is not the hardest game on the market, 
 most people being able to finish it in one day. In order for 100% completion you must collect all 
 the star coins (there are three in each level) and find the secret stages, so the game doesn't 
 technically end with the defeat of Bowser. There is also the multiplayer functions, while not WiFi, 
 can be run of a single card. The mini-games are very fun played multiplayer and the Mario vs. Luigi 
 game is a blast, but nothing of great depth.
  
  The visuals are also quite pleasing. The sprites are all in a pseudo 3D design, while it plays 
 just like the other pure 2D titles. The color is of course vibrant, and it makes this game really 
 nice to look at. Although the game doesn't utilize the touch-screen features too much, or the second 
 screen at all, it doesn't take anything away from the game. The touch screen displays a map of 
 the stage you are on, and has your back-up power-up to be touched when needed. The main game is 
 displayed on it if you are on an underground level.
  
  If you have enjoyed any of the 2D Mario games of the past, this is a must buy. Even though the 
 game may not last you a lifetime, it gives massive amounts of enjoyment, and the game is as easily 
 replay-able as the other Mario games have been. New Super Mario Bros. is one of the best new Mario 
 games released in years, and is of the best of the DS, you will not regret buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers is an all out fun game. Basically Princess Peach has been kid napped, 
 and you have to venture through serval worlds to find her. The game isn't complex, it has a few 
 new features and overall great.
  
  Now the game is a simple old school side scroller. You jump on your enemies to kill them, and reach 
 a flag pole to end most of your levels. Towers have bosses, and castles have bosses. The levels 
 are varied well and is overall a lot of fun to complete.
  
  Mario has changed. Even though he's side scrolling he has some pretty cool new powers. He has this 
 turtle shell which turns him into a goomba, and can shoot fire and become a giant with magic mushrooms. 
 The coolest new feature about Mario's new powers is the fact that he can become smaller. This allows 
 to jump higher and move faster. With new additions to Mario, the game is a lot more fun than your 
 basic 2-d side scroller. The graphics have a 3-d appeal, and the sound design is truly impressive. 
 The game is overall a lot of fun, and worth playing. It's old school by any standard.
  
  What really hurt the game though is it's mediocre save system. You were only allowed to save at 
 a tower, a castle, or a 5 coin spend, which only happens if you desperatley needed to save, or 
 was willing to break out the five coins. The save system is overall broken, and makes the game 
 much longer than it actually is.
  
  The game comes packed with mini games, most of which were in Mario 64 which launched with the DS. 
 They're great to change up the gameplay, but aren't extremley enjoyable. It's still nice to have 
 them though, since can be slightly addicting and help time move along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBz0r
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I'll start with some things Mario-haters could say playing this game:
  The game itself is rather short.
  Boss battles are way too easy.
  There's no story.
  Music 
 isn't strong enough for my tastes.
  
  Now what's good about this game, then? Everything else.
  Mario keeps his jumping arsenal from 
 Super Mario 64, level designs are way above the level of any (mario-) game I've ever seen, and those 
 two combined make for some highly concentrated fun. Highly concentrated, yes. You can complete 
 this game in under two hours, but then there's still all the secret passages to uncover, and believe 
 me: there are a LOT of secret passages. But that's what you've come to expect of Mario. When you're 
 done, there's still a large array of minigames to play. I spent over 10 hours only whacking Monty-Moles 
 myself, so let me tell you: these minigames don't get old in one day. Or one week. Or one month. 
 And apart from bragging about highscores in front of you friends, ypu can even play most of these 
 minigames with up to 4 players. There are even some multiplayer-exclusive games.
  There's no story. It's not like anyone cares though. Next one.
  Music. The music in a Mario game 
 will never score a 10, but 8 points is fair because the music is catchy as always, like it should 
 be in a good Mario game. Nice extra is the oldskool level completion tune you hear when finishing 
 a level with the last two numbers of the amount of time there's left being the same.
  Boss battles are way too easy. True, and this is a in fact a major flaw of the game. There's no 
 frustration in this game, Mario does everything you want him to do, and you can easily count the 
 number of lives lost in your first playthrough. In a way, the game's too easy, which certainly 
 adds to the fun, but bosses can be taken out from a distance if you have the fire flower. On a 
 number of occasions, you'll feel relieved when you see the door to a boss battle, because you know 
 it's gonna be easy and you're saved from those tricky goombas and koopas. Completing Super Mario 
 Bros. 3 for instance, felt much better because it was in fact pretty hard to do. It's the only 
 major flaw of this game.
  
  One last thing to discuss are the new power-ups: a mini mushroom, a big mushroom, and a koopa shell. 
 The mini mushrooms turns you mini, allowing you to enter tiny pipes, walk over water and jump higher. 
 This power-up's pretty cool. Then there's the big mushroom, which turns Mario (or later on Luigi) 
 into a giant, destroying all that's on his path. In level one this power-up is awesome (you can 
 even destroy the flag at the end of the level) , however later one, levels aren't designed for use 
 of this mushroom, and you're better off not using them anymore. Which is sad. Finally there's the 
 koopa shell that basically turns you into sonic, with the main difference being your ability to 
 bump a wall and sliding in the opposite direction. It also allows you to swim faster, which comes 
 in handy pretty often, and you can shield Mario from all harm simply by crouching. Probably my 
 favourite power-up in this game.
  
  In the end, this game is pretty much solid. But that's not enough for a superb score: it offers 
 nothing really new, it's basically Super Mario Bros. 3 fused with Super Mario 64, plus the Super 
 Mario 64 DS minigames. Still, I strongly recommend buying this game to anyone who loved the 2D 
 Mario platformers. And I'm pretty sure that's every gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpico007
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I am a new DS owner today and was so lucky to find one. There is no stock at most stores as well 
 as for this game. I had to go to another store to pick it up and wasn't going home until I got 
 it. This game brings back memories for me and my father. It's the only console game he has ever 
 enjoyed playing. The improved graphics and surround sound is a great addition to an old story. 
 Even my wife watched me play tonight and enjoyed it. Nintendo just understands its customers I 
 think. I haven't owned a Nintendo console since the Super Nintendo days and I am so happy with 
 this purchase.
  
  The nice mushroom feature that turns Mario into a big foot monster crushing pipes and all in his 
 way was hilarious the first time!
  
  You won't be disappointed if you're a fan of the old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 092093
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Best ramake of  
 yeah its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome its awesome 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  NSMB looked awsome and I weren't disappointed thogh my expections were high. It basicly has it 
 all. I don't see anything you want to have in a Mario game which this game don't give you. It manages 
 to both be old-school and to be a totally new experience. You got the super mushroomk and the tiny 
 mushroom which is kind of cool. I haven't seen those in a Mario game, but they have this in super 
 smash bros melee. At the top of that you get all the minigames which adds a lot to the playback 
 value. I discovered a new tallent while playing some of the minigames. I had tried the wanted-minigame 
 a few times and got twenty as my best result. After having played the main game for a while I decided 
 just to try it once again before I quited playing. I played without breaks untill I died on the 
 342nd level. Now my record is 553, but I didn't die, I just quited. It seemed I could have kept 
 playing like forever, because the levels didn't get much harder. The graphic it a solid piece of 
 work. It looks much more 3D than the traditional SMB-games. The overworld looks really great. Retro, 
 but with a solid makeover. The music disappoints me, though it is much better than the sound for 
 some of the gameboy games I've played. It is too much SM64 and to little traditional SMB. It takes 
 a bit from the nostalgic expirience. The sound really ain't that great. The gameplay wasn't as 
 great as I expected. Though I like that you can save the game, I think it is too easy, and as an 
 addition I'd like it to go faster like the original SMB. My tilt is 10, but the gameplay only gets 
 8. What I liked the best was the final boss battle and the battle against whatever that mumie worm 
 is called. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  In this Super Mario for the DS, Nintendo has gone back to the old style of 2D Super Mario Bros 
 we were used to play in ours NES, SNES, GB, etc. The gameplay is pretty much the same, with mushrooms 
 and flowers, but there are some new items such as the giant mushroom which makes you a lot bigger 
 and then ables you run over everything you find on your way, or the mini mushroom which you use 
 to get smaller and pass through tinny places.
  The graphics are obviously much better than the old ones and the game is longer. The worlds have 
 phases, towers, castles, haunted mansions, secret phases and etc. In each phase you also have to 
 collect three star coins, so completing the game unlocking all secrets and collecting all star 
 coins may give you extra time of fun!
  The worlds abide to a theme and each phase is different from the last and with increasing difficulty, 
 making it not repetitive to play.
  The sound is great! Classical Mario songs.
  Mario fans, this is the game weve been waiting for! It is so good to replay a classical game by 
 Mario with great graphics and all. Everybody should have it! It also has a collection of mini-games 
 that for those who does not have Super Mario 64 DS will be new, they are great! And now you can 
 play them on multiplayer mode!
  Did you use to love this kind of Mario games? Get this one! Have you never played any? Start with 
 this one and youll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a remake of the original side-scrolling game on the NES, and bringing 
 one of the franchise's original games to the DS is going to succeed to fans and Nintendo alike.
 
  
  The Gameplay, Graphics and Sound
  
  The gameplay is very simple, you pretty much only have to use four controls (excluding the touch 
 screen) . The goal is to get to the end of a course while going through obstacles in a limited time 
 period.
  
  The graphics are alot better than the original back in the 80's because it contains 2D and 3D besides 
 only 2D. The sound is very good, and contains most of the original sound fxs and music.
  
  The Good Things
  
  The good things, well there are alot of good things. First of all, the game 
 has very good graphics and an original gameplay. The sounds are classic and the controls are straightforward. 
 The memories of the original game comes back.
  
  The Bad Things
  
  There are some flaws I think. The power-ups are sometimes stupid when you wreck an important thing 
 while you are on a giant rampage. Most of the minigames are copied from another Mario game called 
 Super Mario 64 DS and that's very dissapointing that Nintendo wouldn't take a little bit more time 
 to create all new ones.
  
  Ending Comments
  
  This is a good game overall despite the minigames and power-ups, and that's why I give this near-perfect 
 game a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Well what do you expect it's a Mario game that has no sports or parties. A side-scroling platform 
 that everyone was waiting for. This is seriously addicting to me, my two (older) sister, and even 
 my mother. There are numerous levels and secret areas and pipe warp to find. And including mini 
 games made this game better than what it is. There isn't much to describe (IT'S MARIO FOR GOD SAKE) 
 as story goes, mechanics there are a few upgrades. The spin move he use to do in Super Mario World 
 has become a Ground Pound from Mario 64. He can also perform Double, Triple, and Wall Jumps also 
 from the Mario 64 game. New to the DS or not you should not just get the game but need it because 
 it is that dam good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micoor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  It's the classic Super Mario Bros with new levels and some new power-ups with some WiFi stuff as 
 well. Graphics: Nice 2D graphics with some 3D objects. Colorful and very Mario-ish . Fits the game 
 style perfectly. Sound: Nice sound effects and music. All that needs to be here is here. Nothing 
 you really miss or want to replace. Value: This is a game you'd want to come back to and play again 
 and again. Main Story aside, each level has hidden areas and more which makes you replay the different 
 maps again. Overall this is absolutely a game you'd want to check up if you are looking for a good 
 game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahj911211
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  In the current gaming generation, where 3D gaming is normal, 2D gaming may seem obsolete. For New 
 Super Mario Bros., that's not the case.
  
  Graphics: As in previous super Mario bros. games, it is a 2D sidescroller, but in New Super Mario 
 bros., Mario and the enemies have a 3D appearance, and the graphics are more modern. The overall 
 appearance of the graphics looks very nice and I didn't find any problems with them at all.
  
  Sound: The background music to the levels is sometimes close to the older super Mario bros. 
 games, but they have changed it quite a bit. I would say that overall the music and sound effects 
 of the game were also very good and went along with the game.
  
  Value: It really depends on how much you play it, but if you end up completing the game (clear 
 all 80 levels, spend all 240 star coins, finding all secret exits, warp cannons etc.) like I did, 
 it has a very good value.
  
  Tilt: The controls were very smooth and easy to handle, allowing me to play the game to my full 
 potential.
  
  Gameplay: Ground pounding enemies, getting insane powerups, searching for star coins, pulling off 
 awesome moves, working towards the end of the level.... put that all together and you've got yourself 
 some very entertaining gameplay.
  
  All in all, this game was very entertaining throughout and I highly recommend that you try it for 
 yourself if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaN3y
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Super mario bros is always a hit. and its a hit again.
  The graphics are great the game play is fantastic its just playing old school mario and brings 
 back memories.
  The only thing i can say is bad about it is the fact some of the levels are too short, the game 
 could of been made longer, but the game still is great.
  I was hooked on it since i got it, although i dont play it much anymore i know if i whacked it 
 out for an hour i would be enjoying every minute of it.
  to any DS fan just get it if you havent already.
  Great game back to its roots :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharingon67
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is a whole lot of fun. It is a must for someone with a DS. I liked the boss fight best. 
 They are pretty chalenging and give many obsticlesd and hard stuff. I like how it is just slightly 
 difficult and makes you realy think if you want to get past the level. I also realy liked the grafics. 
 it more new but the gameplay gives you the classic mario fee. Wich is great. This game is alitle 
 chalenge ing and make you think but the ultimate difficulty still could have been a bit more chalenging 
 . over all its a great game so if you get it your going to play it over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdhdjgx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  by the way, i said old school because that seemed to be the best way to decribe it. i asume its 
 the same as all the other mario games, just a lot better, ESPECIALY GRAPHICS
  
  graphics
  wel...2-D platform side scrolling fatty with a mustache =) who jumps around... yea. its like any 
 other mario game. but there is one element that makes it so damn frustrating; how mario slides 
 when he stops. youd think that in a video game, mario would stop instantly. the fact that he slides 
 causes u to unexpectedly SLIDE off edges of land. A LOT
  
  graphics
  this may sound weird, but i think the graphics are up there with the final fantasy PS2 games. no 
 lies, the graphics are extremely well done and makes u think ur playing a hand held x box or something. 
 it doesnt contain the notorious element a lot of games have; blocky 3D graphics.
  
  sound
  well nothing much to say here other than the fact that its same as any other mario game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atombomb_S93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a wondreful and classic gmae, with a touch of modern 3-d graffics. it is very loveable 
 and addictive. i myself spent an hour and a half on it when i firdst got it, withc is pretty good 
 for me. i have an atentoin spabn of only a few minutes. i would redcomend this game for all beggining 
 players of mario, even though he has benn around for manty, many years. The reason to me that it 
 is so addictive, is that you kepep getting killed at the same spots and you are determined tpo 
 get passed that miniscule part. the new 3-d graffics are awsome too. when you see maroi as 3-d, 
 it gets twice as fun, and twice as easy to see. I hope your playing goes well, for now, thuis is 
 atombomb_s93, signing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenuma
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  At first glance, it looks like New Super Mario Bros. was out to cash in on the old days. Admittingly, 
 that's not the case this time around. Mario and his clumsy sidekick Luigi are back... AGAIN for 
 another 2d side-scroller. Now don't get me wrong- this game isn't another rehash. There are new 
 worlds, and this seems like the first real sequel to Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo Entertainment 
 system.
  
  In this Mario game, as it has been lately, Baby Bowser is the villain, who captures Princess Toadstool. 
 Okay, not exactly exciting, but it's their franchise. You must go through the 8 worlds (wink) fighting 
 Baby Bowser half-way through, then a Koopa Troop minion at the end of ever world. Most of them 
 have been brought back, like Petty Piranha from Mario Sunshine (which is a very good game) and Bowser 
 himself. At first you'll fight his jumbled up mess of bones, then the real thing.
  
  There's a little bit more to do while swaying from the story, but it honestly won't take more than 
 two games to completely milk this game for all it's replay value's worth. You collect star coins 
 , a variation of the dragon coins from Super Mario World (SNES) . You find three of these shiny treasures 
 in every stage, and use them to buy touch screen skins and other bonuses like the mega or mini 
 mushrooms. Which leads me to another point.
  
  There really isn't any touch screen action at all. You tap on your saved item, and it drops from 
 the screen. Other than that, you tap on the world you want to travel to. And that's the extent 
 of it. It does, however, track your progress through a certain map, and contains your star coin 
 status. When you go down a pipe, the action moves to the touch screen to make it seem more realistic.
 
  
  The minigames are mostly rehashes or re-dos. There aren't as many as there were in Mario 64 DS, 
 which most were derived from. There's no means to unlock anymore either. If you have three bloodthirsty 
 and/or bored friends over, go for it.
  
  Who will enjoy this game? The people that get the most out of it will be four-year-olds that like 
 the mega mushroom. The rest of us won't necessarily hate it, but you won't play it for long. Just 
 remember one thing; if you have Mario 64 DS, don't buy New Super Mario Bros. for the minigames. 
 They're basically the same games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby456
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  They're back and better than ever before. The Super Mario Bros. return in their first platformer 
 in 13 years! And what do I have to say about this? It's on par with Super Mario 64. The plot is 
 simple: Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser's son and Mario has to go out and save her. You go 
 through eight worlds and fight against various foes, old and new. Of course, there are new moves 
 for Mario and Luigi to use at their disposal. Of course, there are new power-ups. There's the mega 
 mushroom which makes you King Kong size, and you can go on a rampage and crush anyone in your way. 
 The mini-mushroom, making you Honey, I Shrunk the Kids tiny, making you squeeze through small openings. 
 And the koopa shell, enabling you to dash and go inside the shell, making you the living koopa 
 attack. Of course it isn't going to be that easy like other Mario games... okay it still is, but 
 at least they challenge you in some parts! Of course you still get your classic power-ups from 
 previous Mario titles. New Super Mario is a fun platformer. And stays true to its 2D roots, like 
 its original games. You'll have a blast guaranteed!!!
  
  Good: Classic platforming action.
  
  Bad: I'm thinking.... still thinking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marbles01
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This flawless gem of a side-scroller is one of the DS's best. The graphics are fine. The gameplay 
 is great and I have no complaints with the sound. It's definately worth the money and what more 
 is that it's got all the best mini games from Super Mario 64 DS including some new ones!! What 
 to do is pretty simple. Chase after Bowser Jr. by completing levels and defeating bosses. You can 
 buy extra levels or special Toad houses. This game is a must buy for the DS. Alongside Yoshi's 
 Island DS this is probably the best game out for the handheld at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Mario platformers are the best. They will never get old, ever. Even if the game's just more 
 of the same. And I'm happy to report, that it's not just more of the same. There is some great 
 new ideas in New Super Mario Bros. You may notice the graphics, they are a mix of 2d backgrounds 
 and 3d character models. The opposite of Paper Mario. I thought the graphics were really good, 
 the level design is better than ever and the character models look great and I just wanna hug them. 
 No really. I would like to hug a goomba. It's also got those same great tunes from classic mario 
 that you'll remember forever. There's not a whole lotta sound though. And there might not be Yoshi, 
 or any real new gameplay elements in this game, but it's the first to combine the 3d moves from 
 the 3d games into a 2d sidescroller. You know you wish you could of groundpounded your enemies 
 20 years ago. And walljumping is required for getting star coins and is really fun. Then there's 
 the items, overall they could of been better, there's the fireflower, the minishroom, the megashroom, 
 and the blue shell. Besides the always mandatory fireflower, none of them are that useful, but 
 they are still loads of fun to play. I wish the game could of been longer, but it does have some 
 minigames and a cool multiplayer mode. All in all this is another classic Mario game not to be 
 forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girl-Gamer777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Ummm.. Is it just me.. or is this game Cheap-Like? I really do NOT get how Millions and just Trillions 
 of people absolute Love this game.
  
  Its just like the regular Super Mario World concept , only with different bosses , different stages 
 , is for the ds and uses the touch pen ( just for picking out items and rarely used for stages. 
 ) And theres also traps in stages that will get me ( or you ) stuck. And also , the game is too 
 short! Im allot more Happier playing Super Mario World than this game. Heh , well somebody agrees 
 with me out there. This game was used when i bought it and the person was at World 5 When I bought 
 the game on May 18 06.
  
  The only good , sorry , Great and Different than Super Mario World thing about this game is the 
 Minigames. Even though , another bad thing ABOUT THIS is that Super Mario 64 DS has allot more 
 games than this does.. Thats the only difference and better thing about this game from Super Mario 
 World.
  
  So , If you want the Almost same exact thing as Super Mario World , but a more less fun-er , unfair 
 type of the game Super Mario World , then go on ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateGame
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. Those words are both legendary and respected amongst all gamers (at least among 
 the smart ones) and there's tons of reasons why. However, since SM64, the series has left comfortable 
 ground and moved onto the 3D world. Sure, those titles were great games, but lets face it, they 
 were missing something. Now, we have finally been given a game that returns the series to its roots. 
 Yeah, you could say it isn't quite as classic or standard setting as the rest, but it blends things 
 you loved back then with new ideas that we love now into a game that tells us that 2D sure as hell 
 isn't dead.
  
  Gameplay: Hmm, I forget, how does this work? Oh, right, there's two buttons, one jumps one dashes 
 and throws fireballs. There, that sounds easy right? Well it is. Anyone can play this game. However, 
 the nongamers won't finish it. Why? Only because it gets more difficult after world 5. Then, the 
 difficulty starts to come in giving us gamers the stuff we love. So, what's the game about? Well, 
 you and Peach were going to the castles and Peach gets stolen by Baby Bowser. Now, it's up to you 
 to travel through 6 - 8 worlds to save her. The game has the worlds you love, Plains, Desert, Tropical/underwater, 
 forest, ice, mountains, and bowser's hometown. Sure, that's the usual but the game doesn't seem 
 to become overly nostalgic. Due to clever levels and new ideas from the 3D games, the game separates 
 itself from becoming a rehashed titles of the oldies. Of course, that wouldn't be bad, but I'd 
 rather play through a new game. Anyway, you will find that the level design is very unique and 
 well done, making this definitely one of the best DS games out. Plus, the game is filled to the 
 brim with secret routes, extra areas, classic occruences (remember the unlimited 1ups?) and does 
 it all very well. If I have any problems it's that sometimes a level can be a little boring or 
 slow since you've been playing it for too long. Also, the majority of the awesome levels end too 
 quickly. Oh, and the Baby Bowser fights are easier than anything you play throughout the game. 
 Sure, those are some things I wish weren't there, but no game is perfect and I really didn't mind 
 these shortcomings much. So, if you love your old school titles, Mario, or your DS, this game will 
 deliver. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Screen shots of this game don't do justice to what the graphics offer this game. They 
 game really does look great. I don't think they could've done much better in this category. The 
 characters were rendered in a 3D style while the backgrounds and levels were created in beautiful 
 2D artowork. The levels are really a sight to behold, conveying why you'd want to see in a Mario 
 sidescroller. However, there are some characters that look a little pixel-like and sometimes it 
 seems as though a character doesn't blend in well with its 2D environment. But, these occur rarely, 
 and it barely takes away from the experience and style. 9/10
  
  Sound: I love Mario music. It's always something that is enjoyable. This title is no exception. 
 Although it did take some time to get used to the theme of the game, I soon found myself enjoying 
 it. Also, the game does remix some old songs from Mario titles and adds them into some of the levels. 
 Yeah, I did like this, but sometimes I found that this was the main contributing factor that kind 
 of made me feel as though there was too much nostalgia at times. Also, the sound effects are classic 
 Mario, so they do sound good. However, some times I found that some sounds reminded me of what 
 I heard exactly back in the days of Super Mario World and SMB 3. The sound's good, it's just not 
 very new and too nostalgic. 8/10
  
  Value: The game contains around 80 levels. However, it will take some time to reach all of them 
 thanks to the clever paths that have been created. Though the majority of the levels can be sped 
 through easily, the addition of the 3 star coins that are scattered through out each level sneakily, 
 and all of the paths that you can beat a level by keep the main game deep. Also, the game has touch 
 minigames alongside the main quest. Sure, the majority are from SM64 DS, but the multiplayer addition 
 and some new games keeps you and any other DS owner having fun for much longer than you'd expect. 
 Oh, and they even added in a versus mode where you collect stars on a level. Sure, it isn't the 
 best idea ever, but it can be really frantic with someone who's just as good as you at the game. 
 Either way, this game will be in your DS for quite some time. It's just a shame that two of the 
 eight worlds are secrets and the majority of the levels are rather short. 9/10
  
  New Super mario Bros. is truly a rise to power in the handheld field for Mario. Never before have 
 we been treated to such a fun handheld Mario adventure. It may not be as standard-setting, classic, 
 or even revolutionary as his earlier titles, but that doesn't mean it isn't one awesome game that's 
 both old-school yet fairly new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is simply that, new. It would have been easy for Nintendo to slap a new coat 
 of paint on this vehicle and deliver it to the masses, but they decided to go with a different 
 approach. This game combines all of the original's side-scrolling joys with boosted gameplay from 
 the later releases.
  
  The game still plays like the 20 year old side-scroller, but the additions actually make it an 
 easier game in the long run. Mario is no longer confined to the mere running, jumping, and ducking 
 of the original. The game incorporates a lot of the newer abilities such as being able to pick 
 upand throw shells from two. They also bring a few of the Super Mario 64 abilities into the side-scrolling 
 realm with the wall kick, wall slide, and butt stomp. The game uses the map feature found in 3/World 
 with several branching paths. There are more powers in this game and the new powers are new to 
 the series entirely. The mini-mushroom, causing you to shrink to tiny size which prevents you from 
 beating monsters but allows you sneak into tiny pipes and areas and gives a floaty type jump. Then 
 there's the blue koopa shell that gives you the ability to jump into the shell and fling yourself 
 like you do with koopa shells throwing them. The trade-off is limited to little or no control over 
 yourself. The final new power is the giant mushroom. This causes Mario to grow to giant size filling 
 the screen. It gives you invincibility and allows you to literally run through the level destroying 
 everything along the way.
  
  When you're done playing through the main quest, there are a series of mini-games to be played. 
 The games themselves aren't very challenging, but I found them to be pretty decent time killers. 
 There is also the Mario vs. Luigi mode, but I haven't been able to play that yet due to the lack 
 of a second DS. Although, I have a feeling that it would be like the original Mario Bros. game. 
 The only drawback to the gameplay is it might be too easy for players, new or old. It's highly 
 possible to beat it in under 5 hours.
  
  The graphics have been very much updated for this release. Mario looks more like his Nintendo 64 
 version than any of the previous games. In fact, the entire look of the game reminds me of the 
 remake of Mega Man X for PSP. It used 3D graphics, but retained the familiar 2D side-scrolling 
 gameplay. Everything about the graphics looks lush and colorful with excellent animations, but 
 the drawback is that Mario loses a lot of detail in small and mini modes.
  
  The sound is a sort of hodge podge of everything from the original up till the 64 version. You're 
 more than likely to hear Nintendo 64 tracks, but they do a pretty decent job of remixing the original 
 tracks. You'll hear the same little voice clips for Mario and Luigi that you heard in the Game 
 Boy Advance remakes so the sound, while good, isn't anything new really.
  
  You'll probably have more value out of the game playing multiple times just for the fun of it. 
 The mini-games are nice, but they're not going to give you much more enjoyment than the regular 
 game will. Mario is, and has always been, a game defined by its nostalgia. The value of the game 
 is likely to come long after you've put it down when you think back to playing it and pick up your 
 DS.
  
  While the game does mix up things a lot, it still reeks of reused elements. I appreciate the cool 
 things that have been put into the game, but can't shake the feeling like it's missing something. 
 Most players aren't going to feel the same, but for the better part, the game is well worth the 
 purchase.
  
  The Good: A re-envisioned classic with new gameplay, graphics, and value, always easy for new players 
 to get into.
  
  The Bad: May be too easy this time around, levels are a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v3n0m111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Well i must say this game really reminds me of old times when i was four or five picking up my 
 SNES and playing mario then picking up my Gameboy Color and playing mario then my N64 and Playing 
 mario then my wii playing mario and now the DS. You cant name a better legacy. I was intrigued 
 with this game since i first picked it up and i played it all day long. Although i may have been 
 to intrigued because only 2 days later, i had beat it. The last castle took me sometime and i thought 
 i was done world 8 when i beat the one castle but BAM out comes 5 more levels. This, i have to 
 say, is my favourite DS game and because ive loved the mario games ever since i can remember this 
 was a great addition. Well worth the money and its very fun finding out that just where you jumped 
 there was an invisible box that gave you a free live. Definaately worth the money, Mario- lovers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gary_Jinfield
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Long ago, a portly plumber crusaded across a world known simply as The Mushroom Kingdom to combat 
 the rise of a vile fire breathing turtle dubbed Bowser. Many adventures have come to existence 
 since that famous encounter with the mighty turtle and the brave plumber meeting on many more occasions 
 to decide the fate of the whimsical world, yet their first series of battles became a thing of 
 legend within the video game industry and the world as a whole. These first adventures become an 
 example to all future platformers and games in general on how they should be conducted. The Super 
 Mario Bros games, specifically 1 and 3, serve as the definition for Mario at his very best and 
 allowed Nintendo to garner great success within the video game industry. Nearly 16 years later, 
 a true sequel has finally surfaced baring the Super Mario Bros moniker. Aptly put, New Super Mario 
 Bros is a new entry to go along with the genre defining Super Mario Bros games. New Super Mario 
 Bros has a great deal of expectations to meet, yet it strides unhindered on to Nintendos DS system, 
 proving that Mario still holds the throne within the platforming genre.
  
  Even from the start, it is evident that New Super Mario Bros does not attempt to utilize any gimmick 
 to attain success. It is essentially a 2D platformer, similar to previous Super Mario Bros games, 
 yet the characters are all in glorious 3D. This has caused many individuals to cite the game as 
 2 &frac12; D, considering this clash of different perspectives. New Super Mario Bros is able to 
 compete with current generation games with the utilization of advances that 3D has brought, yet 
 keeps a great deal of the game play from the games that proceeded it intact. The game is a side 
 scroller and features an over world that is further split up into different sections. Each specific 
 section has common themes among the levels contained in the section and is equipped with its own 
 specific bosses and secrets. Mario himself moves between different points on this over world and 
 can enter a level or activate some other event depending on the section of over world. The actual 
 game play occurs within each level with the goal being the reach the end of the course in the allotted 
 time. Although functioning as a time limit of sorts, it does not factor greatly into the difficulty 
 of the game, only in place to ensure that one keeps moving along the path. One should not become 
 too fixated upon a particular area of a course in search of secrets, of which there are plenty. 
 In addition to the ability to collect special coins which can be utilized in the over world, there 
 are also various items which grant Mario an ability. Besides hopping onto an adversarys head to 
 cause damage, with the help of the Fire Flower, Mario can unleash fireballs upon his opponent, 
 while with the Blue Shell, Mario can plow through enemies with enough speed. The different items 
 are not limited in use to only combat, but can also impact on how one can travel through a given 
 course and are necessary to unlock several secrets. The DSs touch screen functionality may be 
 limited to the use of a quick tap in order to use items, yet this does not detract from the experience.
 
  
  Aside from the excellent game play, the games visual style is likewise endearing and serves as 
 a brilliant showing of Marios world. The colours are rich and vivid, providing a whimsical fantasy 
 world rich in character. The environment is incredibly interactive with a great deal of oddities 
 that, although not making a great deal of sense, add to the flair presented by New Super Mario 
 Bros and the Mario series as a whole for that matter. The game has received a large attention to 
 detail by its developer and features a level of polish that is rare among games. Many of the enemies 
 present throughout the game perform actions relative to the beat of the music, further adding to 
 the charm of the game with a dance of sorts. The music itself however, can be bit repetitive 
 at times and the most prominent theme is not of the same caliber as the original Super Mario Bros 
 theme. The songs that are present still fit rather well, yet many are clearly not as memorable 
 as the music of previous Mario games.
  
  Perhaps the true Achilles heel of New Super Mario Bros is the length of time one takes to complete 
 the game, which is rather low by the standards of today. The games climax can be reached quite 
 quickly if one is uninterested with several of the secrets has to offer, yet even with the completion 
 of said secrets, the time spent is not very notable. Although there are numerous courses, they 
 are not of great lengths and are rather short. Although this does complement the style of game 
 play, the length of the game begins to hinge on the revisiting of specific courses a bit too heavily. 
 Although secrets are abound, the nature of the side scrolling platformer does not allow for a great 
 deal of exploration, at least not in the same sense as action adventure games may feature exploration. 
 Despite this lack of relative staying power in the matter of length, New Super Mario Bros is still 
 a fantastic game that has the capacity to bring quite a few hours of enjoyment. It is a worthy 
 addition to the line of Super Mario Bros games, although not exactly surpassing them, but proving 
 to be a great game none the less. In a sea of Mario series spin offs meant only to milk the legendary 
 franchise, New Super Mario Bros is a refreshing turn of events indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheddarLimbo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  After filling just about every role possible in almost every genre of video game, Mario returns 
 to his side-scrolling platformer roots in New Super Mario Brothers for the Nintendo DS. Its great 
 fun and a terrific game so long as it is approached with the proper understanding of its genre. 
 New Super Mario Brothers is not out to reinvent the platformer. Rather, it embraces all the qualities 
 and traditions of the genre that gamers have known and loved for decades. As such, playing sometimes 
 feels like treading through familiar territory. The action takes place on the upper screen for 
 the most part, with the touch screen showing vital statistics like score, lives, coins, and a spot 
 for an extra power-up. The controls are limited to the cross pad, A and B. And aside from tapping 
 to activate your spare power up, the touch screens functionality isnt used at all in the main 
 game. This is not to be taken as a negative point, however. Instead, Nintendo is to be applauded 
 for resisting the urge to tack on touch screen functions where they simply arent needed.
  
  The plot is simple enough and traditional to the Mario universe: The ever-kidnappable Princess 
 Peach is whisked off by Bowser Jr. And once again its up to Mario to trudge through 8 levels of 
 pits and trampolines, lava and fire wheels, Koopas and Bloopers and even Bowser himself to win 
 her freedom. The story is paper thin, but thats okay. This particular Mario installment isnt 
 about the Why, its about the How. Marios repertoire is an amalgam of techniques hes learned 
 from various other games as well as some slick new moves. He can run and jump and hurl fireballs, 
 of course, but he can also use the butt-stomp and wall kick moves first introduced in Mario 64. 
 He can climb, swim, and with the proper terrain or equipment, even float through the air. But the 
 most interesting new moves come from three new power ups. Mini Mario, gains extra length on his 
 jumps and can walk on water due to his small size, but is reduced to one-hit vulnerability. Shell 
 Mario can duck inside for protection from enemies and opposing fire, but his jumping ability suffers 
 as a result. And finally, Mega-Mario grows to a height of the entire screen with the help of the 
 Mega Mushroom. This power up has a time limit, like the invincibility star, and like the star allows 
 Mario to tear through an area with little to no chance of being harmed in any way. While Mega, 
 Mario can smash through blocks, enemies, and even scenery plowing through the level leaving little 
 more than a flat plain in his wake.
  
  The game flow progresses more or less like you would expect. Moving from left to right, Mario advances 
 through each stage, killing or avoiding enemies, grabbing coins and leaping through pipes and over 
 pits. Its good clean platforming fun at its finest. There are vines to climb, clouds to float 
 on, and countless enemies to bop and smash. Each over-world has a map, and occasionally the paths 
 will diverge to give you some options, but for the most part, the progression is very linear. Some 
 worlds even have multiple exits, so its possible to skip several levels (or entire worlds) if 
 you are cunning enough to find them. There is really no learning curve to speak of, save for learning 
 to use the new power ups in the most advantageous way, and the difficulty ranges somewhere in the 
 easy-to-medium range.
  
  Each world also has a Tower level located roughly at the halfway point, and these are usually somewhat 
 challenging. Tower levels culminate in a battle with Koopa Jr., while the end-world Castles are 
 populated by some other type of boss indicative to the world. Most of the bosses are gigantic representations 
 of traditional enemies and the battles range from mind-numbingly simple, to pretty-not-so-easy.
 
  
  Graphically, New Super Mario Brothers is a joy. The colors are lush, the pre-rendered 3-D models 
 of enemies and heroes are terrific, and the levels design is as enjoyable to watch as it is to 
 play. The music and sound effects are also enjoyable as well as catchy. Some of the themes are 
 revised versions of classic Mario tunes, but many are original.
  
  New Super Mario Brothers is something of a short excursion, unfortunately. But this is due in part 
 to the fact that the game is so enjoyable and engaging that most people will play for hours at 
 a time, plowing through level after level. There are a number of things that add to the replay 
 value, though. An enjoyable new mode, Mario vs. Luigi, allows two players to run what is essentially 
 a Mario obstacle course competing to collect stars. There are also a slew of mini-games to enjoy, 
 all of which use the touch screen in some way. Some are stinkers, but several are very enjoyable 
 and all of them are easy to pick up and play for a few minutes at a time. Each level in the main 
 game also holds three Star Coins, many of them hidden or requiring a creative solution to obtain. 
 Collecting these can be a fun diversion, but by the time youve played through the game properly 
 collecting them is worth little more than bragging rights.
  
  Nintendo has proven a number of important points with this game. The DS is more than capable of 
 having great titles that arent about gimmicky touch-screen functions. Theyve also proven that 
 a classic formula stands the test of time. But in the end, New Super Mario Brothers is all about 
 simplicity  and its up to the player to decide thats a good thing or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinamael
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  It's a fun rehash of the classic Super Mario games, but nothing that will really blow your mind. 
 It takes me back to the NES days, and that's a good thing... mostly. The mini games are a nice addition, 
 but are the only real addition to the game compared to the classic Super Mario games. Some of the 
 mini games are frustrating, especially the action games, but overall they're a fun break in the 
 action.
  
  I actually prefer Yoshi's Island, but for the $, this is well worth it.
  
  The bottom line is, if you like Mario you will like this game. If you are looking for something 
 ground-breaking, this isn't the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  2D Mario platformers are just about the most highly revered, most legendary games in existence. 
 Just when you thought the brilliantly-executed mix of running and jumping couldn't be matched, 
 another one comes and does just that. Despite the relatively repetitive nature of the games, they 
 almost never get old. And no matter how many come out, we absolutely eat them up.
  
  NSMB is no different. Sure, you could argue that the powerup system isn't wonderfully diverse like 
 SMB3, or that its a short and easy game, but for the most part its nitpicking. NSMB, as a 2D Mario 
 platformer, is absolutely brilliant. Again.
  
  Even though it may not appear to have the flashy additions in the main game that most of the 2D 
 prequels did, it instead added minigames you can play. While most of these are unfortunately recycled 
 from Super Mario 64 DS, now you can play them versus other players in competitions, giving them 
 new value.
  
  And outside of that, it's typical SMB fare. Get to the end of the stage, stay alive. Simple as 
 that. It looks and sounds great, though in an SMB game it probably shouldn't have to matter, though 
 it's a nice bonus. Now survival is easier since you can get an item on the touch screen. Tap it 
 when you need help, and it drops from the sky for you to collect. Truly a lifesaver.
  
  Overall, even though it is easy, NSMB is on the level of its brethren. Nintendo hasn't lost its 
 touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario bros is a good game, no doubt. It uses an old gameplay formula but re-executes 
 it beautifully, however it is extremely short.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  They're pretty nice. They're smooth and 3d-looking yet in 2d. Backgrounds are nice and detailed. 
 You'll recognise most of the enemies and pretty much everything from old games, though I don't 
 consider this a bad thing.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Sound is excellent. Plenty of voice quotes and not at all tinny sound effects.
  
  Gameplay: 
 7/10
  The game is well executed, yet far too short-lived. The game consists of about 8 different islands, 
 though if you're an experienced platformer, you'll likely fly through most of these levels far 
 too quickly. Most of the bosses are pretty much identical, which gets a little bit boring after 
 a while. There is about 4 different powerups (the fire flower, the giant mushroom, the small mushroom 
 and the shell) however you will very rarely get 3 of the 4 and pretty much always be getting the 
 fire flower. Powerups like the shell and super mushroom can be really fun, however they are so 
 rarely seen that it feels more like you're only playing with one set of powerups.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Don't get me wrong though. This game is still an excellent platformer. My only major 
 complaint with its formula is that it was way too short. Unlike something like super mario for 
 snes, you'll find yourself very rarely repeating levels if you like platfomers and find that the 
 game is surprisingly short and doesn't leave very many interesting bonuses (such as star road for 
 snes super mario) .
  
  This game is still worth playing though since its an overall good platformer if you can put up 
 with it ending a bit sooner than you would've hoped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioactiveApeX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since the last 2-D Mario game -- a long, long time.
  
  But now we have New. Super Mario Bros. for the DS, which effectively combines various elements 
 of almost every other Mario game to create a completely new game with a very nostalgic feel. As 
 I was playing through this game I was actually thinking, Wow! This part is just like in the 1st 
 Super Mario Bros. then a few minutes later, Hey! This is kind of like Super Mario Bros. 3 . In 
 this game's case this is actually more of a positive than a negative, because it doesn't feel like 
 any elements are directly taken from previous Mario Bros. games, more borrowed . One of the key 
 elements that ties in the nostalgia is the use of classic Mario music in the game.
  
  The controls are really simple... if you've ever played a Mario game before then you know what they 
 are (when in doubt press the A button) . Interestingly, Mario uses a lot of his 3-D moves to navigate 
 through the 2-D world, which is good because now, when you're falling into a pit you can wall jump 
 out. Also, there are more puzzles in the level that require you to use these moves and collecting 
 all of the gold coins will require mastery of them. Many new elements are added such as using Mega 
 and Mini Mushrooms, which either make you bigger or smaller, but it still feels like theres a lot 
 more that COULD have been included like Yoshi or different costumes and abilities. The content 
 is great, but there could have been more to it.
  
  Mario and all of the enemies are 3-D characters in a 2-D world which looks great and throws a new 
 spin on an old concept, because there is so much more to explore in each of the levels now. The 
 character animations also look great.
  
  The game itself is somewhat short, but there is a lot more to explore: hidden worlds, hidden levels, 
 collecting all of the gold coins, etc., and there are plenty of mini-games and a 2-player mode. 
 However, aside from the player's own pleasure, there's not much incentive to go back and try to 
 collect all of these things becuase they don't unlock anything truly significant and there's no 
 wi-fi mode to play online.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game that shouldn't be missed by any platformer fan. The only 
 major flaw with the game is the name and everything else should keep the player entertained for 
 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I have not forgot about my big excite &iquest; but...&iquest; at the beginning. New Super Mario 
 Bros. is an outstanding game; yet another great game for the DS, and a must buy. My problem with 
 it however is that I waited 12 years for this? It's been that long since an all new Mario sidescroller 
 came out, and while the game impresses as a whole, I can't help but feel that it falls short as 
 a Mario game. The alternate exits were fun to find in Super Mario World, but there aren't many 
 of them at all in NSMB. Flying around in Super Mario Bros. 3 and in Super Mario World were some 
 of the best moments from those games, but they were taken out of NSMB altogether. It's almost as 
 if for every step forward that was taken, another one was taken back. I had high expectations for 
 this game, since I've been waiting so long for it, and if I said it exceeded them, I'd be lying. 
 I am satisfied with the experience, I'm just left wanting more, which is the case most of the time. 
 Here's hoping I'm blown out the water with the Next New Super Mario Bros. (and that it doesn't 
 take another 10+ years to come out) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Fundamentally the same game as always, New super Mario Bros. Is surprisingly new in many areas, 
 whilst keeping that classic 2D side-scrolling-platformer feel that we all love to this day. Without 
 feeling unnecessary and cheap, New Super Mario Brothers is exactly what the DS has needed for a 
 long time. Frantic and fun, the game will give hours of enjoyment to experienced and new players.
 
  
  The story hasnt exactly changed at all, but that really doesnt matter, you still feel like rescuing 
 the princess one more time and ploughing through 8 brand new worlds NSMB has to offer, including 
 hidden paths to other worlds, similar to what super Mario world did. You will encounter obvious 
 world settings such as the desert and cloud worlds, but the level design is so perfect, you will 
 want to play through them regardless of setting, including the hidden worlds. The game does a good 
 job of bringing back old memories associated with classic 3D Mario games, Mario can do various 
 moves from previous games and some moves not seen in a Mario brothers game. Mario can ground pound, 
 shimmy across ledges, climb along cages and even wall jump, Nintendo did a great job of utilizing 
 these features in the levels, but sadly not enough, the same can be said about the power-ups, initially 
 there isnt a lot, you get the classic mushroom and fire flower, and the new mega mushroom and 
 tiny mushroom, each of these power-ups can play significant roles in some levels, the tiny mushroom 
 can aid you in reaching secret areas and even secret worlds, and the mega mushroom can just aid 
 you in completing a level. The only suit in the game is the blue shell suit, which turns you 
 into a kooper trooper-esque Mario, you can slide through enemies like a shell and hide inside the 
 shell to protect yourself from most enemies, it rarely pops up in levels which is a shame but its 
 useful when you have it. And not forgetting the star power-up that does exactly what it did years 
 and years ago.
  
  NSMB is frantic as well as fun, but not necessarily hard, if anything, your demise is usually associated 
 with impatience, running across the level, getting madder and madder as you lose can really enhance 
 the already superb experience NSMB has to offer, sure you will get annoyed but you will realize 
 thats exactly what you want with any SMB game. The later levels do get harder, more puzzle like 
 scenarios and dangerous situations occur, each world has a unique boss, including characters from 
 old games, the boss mechanic is what youd come to expect: ground pound your way to victory and 
 leave, but the later bosses do mix things up a bit and can get difficult, unless of course your 
 using a fire flower power-up. The sub boss, Bowser Jr. can get repetitive, its the exact same 
 thing each time, with a new setting, but the unique bosses make up for it.
  
  Other modes include a Mario vs. Luigi 2 player mode and a mini game mode. The 2 player mode consists 
 of Mario against Luigi, the goal is to get the most stars than the other player and attack each 
 other to steal their stars. The mini games are exactly the same ones found in the DS remake of 
 super Mario 64. Whilst not as many, its still nice to have something else to play now and then, 
 but the single player game is that good, you dont really want to play anything else.
  
  Surprisingly the music has completely changed, its a blend of old tunes with new tunes combined 
 to give the game that New feel without loosing the main characteristics that the series has had, 
 the same goes for the sound effects, youll hear the same jump noises and transforming noises youve 
 heard in previous games, but they all feel a little different.
  
  Graphically the game looks like super Mario 64 from a side view, but its still 2D in the sense 
 that the enemies and environments are still looking like they always did, some new visual effects 
 have been added just to give it an updated look that the DS can pull off really well. The main 
 game doesnt use the touch screen a huge bunch, but its does provide you with level details and 
 a stored item slot that is extremely useful. However all of the mini games use the touch screen 
 to its fullest advantage.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a superb game providing enough nostalgia for experienced fans and enough 
 to provide a classic experience on the DS, whilst still keeping the series fresh in many areas. 
 If you love Mario or just love platformers, then this game is an essential purchase for anyone 
 who owns a DS.
  
  ~Death Burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackwolf770
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a solid Mario platformer in years. Simple story, awesome gameplay, addictive music. Seriously, 
 I'm STILL humming the main theme of the game! If you have a DS, why the HELL are you reading my 
 review, get the game! If you don't have a DS, this is the perfect reason to get one for you, or 
 your friends, or your kids if ya have them.
  
  The good: The music will be stuck in your head, and you'll like it a lot! It's that good. The game 
 play is simple and addictive, with just the right amount of difficulty to make it interesting. 
 New mini games cool. 1-on-1 versus ROCKS! Although the game is completely awesome, there are a 
 couple of things that could've been fixed.
  
  The bad: Some mini games are ripped straight from Super Mario 64 DS. Sorta short. No Yoshi... Some 
 cool things from the first trailer have been taken out.
  
  Just plain cheap: Fireballs make most boss battles way too easier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The New super mario bros has a storyline to it Mini bowser steals Peach and say's that he's mother 
 say the peach is married to Bowser . The world set out were mario is the worlds are different from 
 each other . Mario has to go from world to world to verse mini bowser in the tower's then he ecape's 
 from tower to tower to a castle were the boss is . You defeat the boss to go to another world . 
 There is a minigame mode most minigames are from super mario 64 ds there is one player mode or 
 four player battle mode and there is Mario verese's liugi that only for two player mode . Most 
 of the levels are different in way's .
  
  ' It a 2d game but still fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xa-4
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brox
  
  Lately, when you see a game on a shelf, for a Nintendo portable system, and bearing the name of 
 the famous company mascott, you can't help but feel a little uneasy... Will it be yet another straight 
 port of a game we've already played on the NES or the SNES ?
  
  Fortunately, this is not the case here. It is actually a new game. Well, at least the level design 
 is new because for the most part, the gameplay is recycled from various games in the series : &laquo; 
 Super Mario Bros &raquo; (you jump, hit &laquo; ? &raquo; blocs, eat mushrooms...) , &laquo; Super 
 Mario 3 &raquo; and &laquo; Super Mario World &raquo; (from which the ghost house levels are inspired) .
 
  
  Actual new gameplay features are few, and they don't change the game experience in a deep way. 
 Most are even fairly under-exploited and unremarkable. Nintendo probably thought that if it ain't 
 broke, there is no need to fix it.
  
  For every world (there are eight of them) , different levels are spread on a map reminiscent of 
 what could be seen in Super Mario 3 and Super Mario World. Each step is a level you'll have to 
 complete in order to advance past it. There are quite a few branches, both on the map (you have 
 to find a secret exit to a level in order to take the alternative path) and, more surprisingly, 
 between worlds. Indeed, two of the eight worlds are entirely optional, which will probably come 
 as a big surprise!
  
  Graphics-wise, Super Mario's world has had a 3D facelift, a bit like what we had already seen in 
 &laquo; Mario vs Donley Kong &raquo; on GBA. Levels themselves are still two-dimensional, but the 
 character sprites give an illusion of 3D. One can like or dislike that evolution. It works, actually, 
 but those who were mainly attracted to the title for nostalgia reaons will probably have a hard 
 time at first.
  
  When it comes to sound and music, Nintendo didn't take any risk. Sound effects are familiar to 
 everyone and the music recycles a big number of classic themes (and some new ones thrown in for 
 good measure) .
  
  Where &laquo; New Super Mario Bros &raquo; somewhat disappoints is in its lastability. You'll promptly 
 get to the end of the last world (after about 8 hours, provided you've played other games in the 
 series) . The problem doens't really lie in the number of levels (there are plenty of them) , but 
 rather in the fact that most of them are on the easy side. If you want more, it's always possible 
 to play the two optional worlds (Just because you've already saved the princess doesn't mean you 
 can't try to beat them) , try to find the secret level exits and go though all the branches of the 
 map (some are quite challenging to discover) , or try to collect all the big golden coins (there 
 are three in each level) . This last task is quite frustrating because it often requires you to 
 play the same level over and over again. I gave up!
  
  And then, there are the mini-games, that you can access at any time. You don't have to unlock them. 
 You'll find about twenty of them, from card games like &laquo; memory &raquo; to arcade games, 
 including variants of &laquo; missile command &raquo;. Sadly, most are nothing to get excited about. 
 You'll probably find two or three in the lot that you will occasionally come back to, but the quality 
 is nothing like the mini-games in the &laquo; monkey ball series &raquo;. Don't expect to spend 
 numerous hours fiddling with them.
  
  One last remark : the game could almost have been developped for the Gameboy advance. With its 
 2D heart, the non-use of the touch-screen (except for the mini-games) , and the fact that virtually 
 everything happens on the top screen, you'll wonder why Nintendo hasn't at least tried to exploit 
 the DS main features and selling points better.
  
  All things considered, &laquo; New Super Mario bros &raquo; will certainly satisfy fans of the 
 series. Some will applaud at the fidelity to the original concepts, others will regret the very 
 minor nature of the innovations. And, while the hardcore gamers will long for a more challenging 
 and longer experience, you can bet they and others will find their share of fun !
  
  Graphics : 15/20
  Sound/music : 15/20
  Gameplay : 14/20
  Lastability : 12/20
  Subjective 
 score : 14/20
  Total : 70% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky_h22
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Wow come to think about it, i've been playing Super Mario Bros. since i was like 5 years old. When 
 i got my hands on the New Super Mario Bros. i was like damn this is old-school but i LOVE IT. It 
 brought back memories when i first started playing the original Super Mario Bros. Never the less, 
 this game is extremely fun whether your 5 or 35, you'll still enjoy it. The New Super Mario Bros. 
 got a few upgrades. New moves, great graphics, new stages, new bosses, and the best part, lots 
 of hidden stages. This game will keep you on your toes for quite awhile. Excellent game. Mario 
 you have done it again. Keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixAscalon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Mario has come a long way since his NES platforming days. In fact, it's been twenty-one years since 
 he starred in the original Super Mario Bros., a game that many still herald as the greatest platforming 
 game of all time. In New Super Mario Bros., Mario's newest incarnation for the Nintendo DS, he 
 and his often overshadowed brother, Luigi, face new enemies in new worlds, while still adhering 
 to the same formula that propelled them into video game superstardom.
  
  For those who have never played a Mario game before, the story has never strayed too far from the 
 original's. The princess has been captured by Bowser, and Mario plans to do something about it. 
 The gameplay is simple: run to the end of the stage and grab the flag. Along the way, remember: 
 mushrooms make you grow larger (and allow you to take another hit before losing a life) , fire flowers 
 allow you to hurl fireballs, most enemies can be stomped on, and kicking turtle shells is a good 
 thing. As long as you don't fall in any pits and avoid anything sharp, you'll be golden. This time 
 around, Nintendo tastefully added a few new (and kept some old) elements that add a new dimension 
 to the game.
  
  NSMB takes the best aspects from previous Super Mario games and implements them remarkably well. 
 The world map system from and item houses from SMB3 make their return, as do the notorious Hammer 
 Bros. Also, many of Mario's 3D platforming moves make their return, such as the ground pound, triple 
 jump, and wall jump. However, Nintendo created the mini mushroom, Mega mushroom, and blue shell 
 particularly for NSMB. What sets this game apart from all other Mario sidescrollers is the optional 
 worlds that can only be reached by using the aforementioned new items. During a playthrough you 
 might encounter a passage only passable by one who can walk on water, or a crevice that fits only 
 objects of a shell's height. It is absolutely possible to beat this game without having even played 
 half of it. NSMB is a 2D sidescroller with 3D graphics that are implemented quite well. Mario, 
 his enemies, and the levels are all aesthetically pleasing. The game's overall sound is excellent. 
 While playing, Mario veterans will be overjoyed when they recognize the nostalgic music and sound 
 effects, but they, as well as newcomers, will appreciate the game's original music as well. There 
 are two multiplayer modes to choose from in the game: Mario vs. Luigi or minigames. Mario vs. Luigi 
 is a game mode in which the brothers are pitted against each other in a race to obtain the most 
 stars. The competitors will have to use every tool at their disposal to knock one another out of 
 the race. This mode is especially fun and challenging, and offers a handicap to the loser, so that 
 one with a large lead may find himself on the brink of losing in the blink of an eye.
  
  Unlike in Super Mario 64 DS, the minigames in NSMB don't seem like they were tacked on at the last 
 minute. Most of the games have been carried over from SM64DS (the only flaw being non-transferrable 
 scores, perhaps) . There is a scoring system for multiplayer minigames now, and there are a few 
 exclusive multiplayer minigames, all of which are quite entertaining and serve as great ways to 
 kill some time.
  
  Overall, NSMB will grab your attention for quite a while, and even if you beat it quickly, there 
 are still the minigames and multiplayer mode. Whether you've played Mario from your younger years, 
 or you're only now in your younger years, the charm and appeal of this trusty plumber's platformer 
 right for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameeer1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a new Super Mario game (Duh!) for the Nintendo DS and is basically a classic 
 copying it's success from the past, maintaining that old-school 80's feel, while throwing in a 
 bunch of new stuff like music and new moves like the wall jump and butt stomp. Although the game 
 can feel too short, it's still a definite must have for your Nintendo DS. The game basically starts 
 off with the predictable Princess Peach has been kidnapped! type of deal, but this time, Bowser 
 doesn't do the stealing. Instead, the Koopa King's son decided to get in the family role of kidnapping 
 the princess, while you control Mario to run to the right across the screen, stomping on Goombas 
 and knocking Koopa Troopa's out of their shells. There are a total of eight worlds to go through, 
 but not necessary, as you only need to go through six worlds to beat the game. You'll probably want 
 to find the other worlds though, plus Super Mario World-esque secrets, as your missing out getting 
 perfect in the game, unless you're one of those get it done now type of people that just finish 
 a game in a couple hours or so. Like any Super Mario Bros. game, you'll find the usual types of 
 levels, ranging from automatic scrolling levels to swimming underwater to reach the goal, as well 
 as going through each world one by one to get to your destination: The Koopa Kingdom. The game remains 
 very intact with its circa-80's roots, enemies looking even better than before. In fact, everything 
 looks very well done. Mario has added a few new moves for him to use, as well as new items to get 
 him by. Of course, there's the basic jump and run manuveurs dating back to the orginal games, but 
 he also has added the butt stomp and wall jump to the moves that he usually uses. The butt stomp 
 is excellent for hitting boxes and bricks on the ground, while the wall jump can come in handy 
 for getting to hard to reach places, and can be useful when you're about to fall into a small pit. Mario 
 also has the Super Mushroom and Fire Flower power-ups from those days too, and now has a few new 
 ones to experiment with. The first one, the Mega Mushroom, turns Mario into a giant, breaking through 
 virtually anything that stands in his way, from the bricks to even the pipes themselves. If you 
 even decide to butt stomp in this colossal form, Goombas or coins will fall from the sky. The effects 
 are only temporarily though, so you want to cause the most destruction while it lasts. Another new 
 power-up does completely the opposite. The Mini Mushroom turns Mario very, very small, but it has 
 its upsides and downsides. First off, while Mario is in this form, you can jump a lot higher than 
 you would if you were regular Mario or any other at that. Mario is also able to access small pipes 
 and other small areas in specific levels. But aside from these things, Mini Mario has to butt stomp 
 regular sized enemies instead of the regular jump attack, and if he accidentally touches an enemy, 
 you lose a life. It has a permanent effect to it though, as long as you don't grab another power-up 
 or you don't touch an enemy. The last new power-up in the game is a blue shell. When Mario grabs 
 this power-up, he will turn into Shell Mario, with a few characteristics of a Koopa Troopa (Well, 
 he doesn't look like a turtle of course!) . When you use Mario's dash while in this form, he will 
 duck into the shell and start spinning forward, just like you would kick a Koopa shell, and bounce 
 back if he hits anything. Just like the Mini Mushroom, the Blue Shell is a permanent power-up, except 
 you won't lose a life, you'll just turn into Super Mario again that's all. The sound and music 
 are pretty cool in this game, putting in some remixes of the old classics, along with some new 
 stuff along with it. And in this game, some of the enemies in New Super Mario Bros. sort of dance 
 along with the levels music. Weird, yes, but a very nice twist to the game. The single player mode 
 is basically the game itself, but there are other things you can do. There are a wide variety of 
 minigames you can play using the touch screen, which are fun and sort of addicting. For example, 
 one of the minigames, you need to sort black Bob-ombs and red Bob-ombs into their designated pile, 
 and if you take too long or you put the Bob-omb in the wrong pile, the game is over and tallies 
 up your high score. There's a minigame everyone can enjoy in this game, you just need to find the 
 right one first in one of the four categories they have to offer. A definite impressive add-on to 
 New Super Mario Bros., in my opinion. New Super Mario Bros. sticks with its classic roots while 
 putting in some very new and interesting things into the mix of all of it. While some people say 
 that some of the levels and the game itself is too short, it doesn't have to be if you don't want 
 it to be. Plus, there are other things in New Super Mario Bros to keep you occupied with it and 
 should be in anybody's Nintendo DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACID_RHANE
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers
  
  The game starts off will princess peach being kidnapped by bowser, and mario sets off to save her. 
 The game is set out very much like super mario world (SNES) with things like secret exits in levels 
 which lead to different places, but unlike super mario world it is split into 8 different worlds. 
 In order to get to all of these worlds you will need to defeat bowser at his castles. Defeating 
 the final bowser in the world 8 castle is of course the end of the game, or is it?? Well just beating 
 the game once should only take a couple of hours so if you want to get your moneys worth I would 
 recommend getting 100% on the game. In order to 100% the game you must collect all of the star 
 coins, there are three in each level (240 in total) . Getting all of the star coins should keep 
 you occupied for a while, and after that you just need to find all of the secret exits and thats 
 100%J.
  
  Even after all of that you can still do even more with the game, well you can if you have 2 DS 
 and someone to play against. This is of course because of the minigames. There are 26 minigames 
 total but some of them are multiplayer only so if you want to play them by yourself you can only 
 choose out of 18 minigames. So when it comes to the minigames playing them multiplayer is the hands 
 down winner because its more fun and there are more games to play. These minigames make great 
 use of the DS touch screen, and provide a new style of gameplay.
  
  There is another mode called Mario vs. Luigi and its multiplayer only. In Mario vs. Luigi you 
 and your friend compete against each other (one of you Mario, the other Luigi) , and the objective 
 is to get 3 stars. Stars will appear randomly in the level, so you can either be the first to get 
 them, or you can steal them from your opponents by hitting them. First person to 3 stars wins. 
 The New Super Mario Brothers for DS is a great instalment to the mario brothers games and will 
 definitely not disappoint fans of the series. If your looking just to beat the main game it will 
 only last a few hours but the extra multiplayer options keep it lasting for much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmasterW
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  i thought that the old super mario bros. games were good, but this one was literally off the hook. 
 thew coloring was better and the gameplay was about two or three times better than the old ones 
 or any mario game. i also like the small games like cards and the find the character it gave you 
 a chance to do something other than stopping bowser. the two player was good too, unlike other 
 games the gameplay didn't change it was still good and it didn't take very long to load , about 
 the same as the one player mode. even though it was my only game for my ds (when i had it ) i thought 
 it was the best game for ds and will stay the best for a very long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-of-God
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Man did this game bring back memories of when I was just a kid. This game is def old school, but 
 at the same time it is a new game. It is very solid for a side scroller and I am not one to really 
 get into side scrollers. You do have the usual story (Bowser naps the Princess Peach) , and you 
 have the usual enemies, power ups and the vualble coins. however, now you when you can become huge 
 and involnerable for short peroids. that is really a kick to have mario as big as the whole screen.
 
  Over all this is just a old school game with a lot of modern fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangsta_al
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for a couple of minutes frantic gaming. You can just pick it up and play for 
 10 minutes then put it back down, and that is not necessarily a bad thing. You can really relive 
 old-school Mario in a 3d environment!! If I was talking about length then I would say this game 
 can be quite long if you play it like I do but if you stick at it you'll complete it in no time. 
 The learning curve can be quite tricky, if you overshoot a jump or if you hit into a Goomba it 
 can be annoying but the main thing is that you don't mess up, if you keep going and get through 
 every level ok, again the main thing is don't screw up. That is what is great about this game along 
 with the classic tunes you hear. I found this game hard but not too hard so you won't enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. succeeds in just about every way that a 2D side scrolling platformer can. 
 If you own a DS (sorry DS phat owners, but the game looks way, way better on the Lite) and you 
 like Mario, this is a no-brainer. If you are really not into platformers and/or Mario brothers 
 (really, some of these people exist) NSMB is probably not good enough to change your mind. The 
 gameplay is classic Mario Bros. I love all of the classic powerups, but I could do without someo 
 of the new ones. My favorite powerup is definitely the Giant Mushroom. However, I don't care for 
 the mini Mario powerup and it really ends up being quite useless. The sound is great and I genuinely 
 enjoyed the game. The game really does shine in the graphics department, I really think that this 
 game deserves a 10 in this category. The game is a bit short and therefore I docked its value category 
 just a bit.
  
  Now then, that about does it for my opinion on this game... get out there and get your Mario on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_Randazzo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This will be on the shorter side of my usually very long reviews (check my page if you doubt me) . 
 The reason is because the sidescrolling mario games have always trumped a very powerful concept. 
 Simplicity. And that hasn't changed here. Graphics : Take Super Mario 64 DS, beef up the visuals 
 a wee bit take out any noticeable slowdown and add a consistant 60 frame per second display and 
 you've got this game. There are some visual references to the old days, but nothing that leads 
 to disappointment. Brightly lit worlds and enemies. Awesome. Sound : Oh how do I say this kindly... 
 Not new. I've heard these same tunes numerous times before ( which is okay, because i like them) . 
 Having said that, they aren't really rebuffed in this game, just what you'd expect: simplicity. 
 Presentation: Through the roof. Tons of little secrets and the top down map view take you back 
 to Super Mario Bros. 3. The touch screen is used very little here, only to make the extra item 
 you stored drop down on the top screen. The menus and interface never slow you down. Don't wait 
 for any loading screens, keep on playing. The two screens help transitions alot, as well as displaying 
 all the information about the amount of points you have recieved, medals you've found, and etc. 
 on one screen to free up the other for gameplay. Gameplay: Usually in this section you want someone 
 to say nothing like you've ever seen before . But i'm here to tell you the exact oppisite, you've 
 seen all of this before, but not this well done. The general feel of play is exactly like the original 
 Super Mario Bros. but with some new bells and whistles, like the wall jump. In the same way that 
 Halo took a bunch of already established gameplay styles from the FPS genre and then perfected 
 them, as does NSMB for the platforming genre. Overall this game was very shocking to me. Like it's 
 predecessors you can blow through the whole adventure in a few hours, but why would you want to 
 do that if you could find all the secrets? I honestly had no idea that Nintendo was looking to 
 trump this as a full on Mario experience, but let me tell you, they did just that. Don't pass this 
 one by. Game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is easy way to easy has tons of replay ive played it 35 times already its about 12 hours 
 first time around but after you get in to it 3rd time around you can beat it in 2 hours. tons of 
 mini games funness. wifi minigames rules with 3 other people very worth while. mario vs luigi is 
 non stop feels like smash bros fighting for stars against your friend.
  brings back the old school feel lets hope they remake mario 3 on ds looking this good. this game 
 is worth a buy also running only wifi on one card is a great deal too like i said previusly they 
 better make mairo 3 again could you undrstand how awesomly it would sell but back to this game 
 get it worth a top 3 games list for any one priority 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick21989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is a pretty good game indeed. I've played all three original and this 
 makes me feel right at home. Although I'm liking this one a whole lot better. In the old ones you 
 couldn't save... maybe in the third one but I can't really remember. The addition of save points 
 is the best thing that I could have asked for ha ha. No more falling off that cliff after doing 
 it 10 times to just have to re-do the whole course again. The addition of some new mushrooms adds 
 to some interesting game experiences as well. The graphics are very nice and easy on the eyes and 
 the music is quite catchy. All of the old bad guys are in the game and several new ones are added 
 to. All eight worlds and mini games added on top of this makes the New Super Mario Bros. a great 
 game and one that everyone should check out. It's not to hard that you will go insane but it's 
 not to easy that you can beat it in a day. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikEhn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The first NES game (i think) was Super Mario bros.
  It is one of the best platformer ever.
  The team who made Super Mario bros is back again whit a superb portable platform game! New super 
 mario bros.
  If you ever played Super Mario bros and new super mario bros, you will feel that they are familiar.
 
  You can play single player, multiplayer and mini games (the most of them is taken from super mario 
 64 ds) .
  This time Nintendo tested to mix 2d whit 3d grapich, and the results is perfect! This time you 
 can see Mario a little bit more that you have been able to in the other Mario bros games.
  it's 7 worlds in New super mario bros, or six. 2 of them are hidden worlds.
  If you want to get 
 to the hidden worlds. You shall defeat the last boss on world number 3 and number 5 (if im not 
 misstaking me) .
  The sound and the music is the classical do do do dodododo.
  You know what i mean! And the new in this game is that you can be giant (Mega) Mario, you can crush 
 everything that stands in your way! Except for the bosses. And the multiplayer is very good for 
 being portable.
  it's 3 levels (I think) that you can play on. One stone level, one grass level and one stone level 
 (The stone level is very small) .
  there is stars that you and your friend shall pick up, and the one whit most stars wins! The minigames 
 is not so much to talk about.
  The most of them is taken from Super Mario 64 DS.
  I strongly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  New. Super mario brosh. is a super cool game the bosses are easy : (
  multiplayer modes are really cool ya multiplayer mode 1 : the 1 who has the game touches mario 
 vs luigi and someone other does ds download play the 1 with the game can choose mario or luigi 
 i like luigi. then you can battle with 1 of your friends :)
  multiplayer mode 2 Multiplayer player minigames!! its awesome gather up 3,2 or 1 friend and play 
 minigames with your friend (s)
  if your starting story mode and you are choosing your file then hold l+r and you will do story 
 mode with luigi if you wanna buy this game and you dont know it sure just buy it.
  new features. Mega Mario: you can break pipes kill enemies and destroy everything on your path Blue 
 Shell Mario: grab a blue shell and
  hold the dash button then you will roll''. Dash: hold y or x and dash you can chance the dash button 
 if you want. Old Tings: get lives by a green house
  and get mushroom a ''plant'' (to fire fire balls) . Yellow house: get a mega mushroom Tiny Mushroom 
 be a tiny mario and bounce on your enemies Have Fun With Playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game right after Xmas and at first i was a bit shakey about it because honestly, 
 some Mario games have been a bit of a let down lately (stop making the damn party/sports games 
 and stick to this kinda stuff!!!) , but boy oh boy was i wrong
  
  This is by far the most fun i've had with Mario since SMB3 for the NES, it is a charming, entertaining, 
 slightly unbalanced game
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks great for a DS game, it has bright and colorful flowers, skys and nit-bits which 
 really catch your eye, it gives the feeling like the old games like SMB3 gave when you first picked 
 them up, the only problem is alot of people wont get by the 2D sidescrolling aspect... their loss
 
  
  Sound:
  The game sounds really good, the sound effects are a mix of cute and funny, the music can get your 
 pulse going when the clock starts to get low, some songs are a bit distracting and annoying but 
 nothing major
  
  Gameplay:
  Like i said this is the best Mario IMO since SMB3... it is fun, you can play it over and over again, 
 and with all the mini games in it (which might i add some are as fun if not more fun than the main 
 game its self) , the only realy problem is now and than there is a bad difficulty spike, than there 
 will be a major drop in it, some levels are just tricky as hell, while some are way to easy.... more 
 easy than hard though, but with a 2D platformer it is to be expected
  
  Overall if you like Mario than this game is for you simple enough, one of the best DS games i've 
 played, and one of the best games of 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodet
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Another Mario game, everybody already knows what it's all about. Jump, jump and jump some more, 
 smash your head in a brick and jump over a flying turtle [a joke for the perverse minds] . Destroy 
 idiotic bosses .... stop already! We look at Nintendo as a revolutionary video games producer yet 
 after 20 years Mario is the exact same thing and I'm sure calling it NEW Super Mario Bros. was 
 with the objective of making it a joke. Yes, it is a great game and yes it's a hell of fun but 
 come on it's getting boring by now so just please stop Nintendo or make something completely different 
 like a game where Mario doesn't have to save Peach, I don't know, just go wright a plot! I'm not 
 going to waste your time with technical issues or non of that because we all know how mario games 
 are so should you buy it or not? Well only if you never played a mario game in your life [which 
 I think is almost impossible] or if you're very wealthy and have some money to spent on DS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CordeliaChase
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Very good game play. Enjoyable. Lots of cool power ups and generally a good continuation of the 
 Mario games (of which I am a big fan) Dual screen is quite well used.
  
  The problem is that the later worlds are not nearly hard enough. I am not a great gamer but I managed 
 to complete the game very quickly. Only died a couple of times throughout. Plus, koopas at the 
 end can just be killed with fire flowers. If you store a fire flower, you just activate it when 
 the koopa appears and just kill them off. Even the last one.
  
  Also, two worlds have to be unlocked, meaning that you get the the final kooper even more quickly.
 
  
  In summary, fantastic game-play, graphics and ideas let down by being too easy and too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I was very impressed by New Super Mario Bros. It kept the old formula of jumping, running, obtaining 
 mushrooms, and fireflowers, and stuff like that. But it also added new things like 3-D graphics, 
 mini mushrooms, the almighty defensive Koopa Shell, and the destructive mega mushroom. The story 
 has been done before. Princess gets kidnapped, Mario chases the bad guy to rescue the Princess, 
 oh and here's a spoiler, he rescues the princess, NO WAY! So the story isn't veery interesting, 
 but the gameplay definetely is. Each level makes you think/act differently. You can't just run 
 through a level, you'll just get yourself killed. New Super Mario Bros. isn't really hard, but 
 it's also not easy, there are some levels in which you will die many times, many, many times. The 
 game doesn't make very good use of the touch screen, except for tappping items so you can use it, 
 but that doesn't really count. The levels can also be quite short, which is a bad for you players 
 who like long intense games. As for the bosses, well, let's just say you will have more of a challenge 
 beating an actual level then fighting an actual boss. There are a huge variety of minigames you 
 can play with your lonely self or with three of your good friends. Or you can play the extremely 
 fun Mario v. s. Luigi with your other lonely friend. It's sort of like the main game, but your just 
 going against Luigi/your friend to find and collect stars in the area, while stomping and shooting 
 your oponent with fire. Very fun, very fun.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is an excellent game, I've already played through it three times, if you 
 haven't bought it already, you should run up to your mommy, ask for thirty-five dollars , get your 
 butt in a car, and go to Best Buy or Gamestop or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renagadez187
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  What's there to say about the Mario Bros? Well, they're the best Italian plumbers in the world. 
 Have you ever seen on the front page of your local newspaper Local Plumber saves Mushroom Kingdom! 
 ? Not likely. And to do it on more than one occasion, there's go to be something special about 
 them, right? Once again the Mario Bros. have steeped in to save the day and this time, it's sparking 
 a new look! The New Super Mario Bros. for the DS will definitely remind faithful Mario gamers of 
 the origins of the strong franchise and introduce to both followers and newcomers the distance 
 that the Mario Bros. have traveled to become what they are today.
  
  As most Mario adventures begin, Bowser, well Mini-Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach from Mario's 
 grasp. Mini-Bowser hides away in each of the world's castle while Mario must go through each of 
 the stages to progress to the castle. The New Super Mario Bros. follows similar gameplay to that 
 of Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World. To advance towards the castle, you must defeat the 
 stage at hand. And just like in previous Mario games, there are shortcuts to skip worlds, that 
 is if you can resist the temptation to complete the whole game properly!
  
  However, New Super Mario Bros. has certain differences besides the graphics that make it stand 
 out from it's brothers. Mario is equipped with several techniques that were taken from Super Mario 
 64 and Super Mario Sunshine. Developers have innovatively used these techniques to become beneficial 
 to the 2D platformer. The triple jump, wall jump and ground pound have all been incorporated excellently 
 into the jump and do play a substantial part in the game.
  
  Also making this game unique is the different type of power ups Mario or Luigi can get. They are 
 the normal power ups such as the Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, and Starman. Adding new additions 
 to the power ups list, and probably the one that stands out amongst the new power ups is the Mega 
 Mushroom. When Mario or Luigi find this mushroom, they grow into gigantic proportion, which in 
 fact is about the height of the screen. Whilst in this mode, they are basically invincible, crushing 
 almost anything in your path. Although they are only temporary, it has a damage metre which gives 
 you extra 1up Mushrooms depending on how many things you destroy. Along with the Mega Mushroom, 
 ironically comes the Tiny Mushroom. As the name suggests, it reduces Mario and Luigi to a miniscule 
 size, smaller than that of their normal size. With this, it allows them to fit into small spaces 
 and pipes, is capable of jumping higher and further, and able to run across water. It proves useful 
 at times, but renders its superior weakness of being unable to destroy enemies. The last new power 
 up and probably the most bizarre is the Koopa Shell. When Mario or Luigi are equipped with this, 
 they gain the skills of a Koopa. When you run and pick up pace, you'll turn into a sliding Koopa 
 shell, knocking your enemies into oblivion. All these items make great additions to the Mario franchise 
 and give the New Super Mario Bros. game its own different style to that of its predecessors.
  
  The main quest of the game only requires little use of the touch screen, but is used for the 
 sole purpose of the mini-games. There are a range of weird and addicting mini-games that will entertain 
 you if you aren't feeling up for the main quest. Games range from memorising, puzzle-solving, action 
 and table card games. Each mini-game makes great use of the touch screen and reacts quite well 
 to most games. Over time however, it becomes repetitive as the only reason you may be playing it 
 is to your friends score or your own.
  
  The Wi-Fi system is also available for use in New Super Mario Bros. Up to 2 players (Mario or Luigi) 
 duke it between themselves for the stars. Each stage has a certain amount of stars to be found 
 and the one who has the most at the end wins. During this time, you can search for stars or even 
 knock them out of your opponent. It's a simplistic multiplayer game which further shows the capabilities 
 of the Wi-Fi connection system but probably not suited to this game as it's the main quest you'll 
 be more likely your main concern.
  
  The graphics of this game is definitely unique in terms of it being a 2D platformer. Classic 2D 
 side-scrolling is combined with 3D visuals that will knock any Mario fan off their feet. The levels 
 spark the difference as it is completely different from past Mario games. Mario and Luigi also 
 look superb as do their enemies. Overall, an ingenious idea that will delight those new and old 
 to this franchise.
  
  Sounds of New Super Mario Bros. will also bring a feeling of unfamiliarity; while at the same time 
 bring about the sounds that were introduced 20 years ago. You'll notice classic sound effects such 
 as the gaining of a Super Mushroom, the similarities of the jump and the on-time quirks of Mario 
 and Luigi. What most gamers will notice is that the background has been modified and changed to 
 give it that feel of a new age in Mario gaming while keeping the same powerful songs heard in previous 
 games.
  
  Around 20 years since this franchise was born, and while keeping the classic formula the same, 
 it is still able to bring something new to the table. Although the mini-game section does feel 
 like a last-minute add-on to make use of the DS technology, it is the single player quest that 
 will really excite gamers, for its innovative use of using the classical 2D side-scrolling adventure 
 formula and its beautiful 3D visuals, making it a great addition to the Mario Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googleguru
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  A great classic renewed for the nintendo ds. Clearly one of the best games released for the system, 
 it makes good use of the touch screen, has innovative mini games that will bring excitement to 
 players, and lots of levels for people to have fun. You can save after you do one of those castle 
 levels (the ones with Bowser at the end) , as far as I know.
  
  The graphics actually look pretty slick for a Mario game. Mario can change from many different 
 forms, including the large Mario which can basically go through stuff, the mini Mario, the regular 
 Mario, the fire-shooting Mario, the slightly larger Mario, etc. which extends and builds on to 
 the classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Remeber the NES version of Mario Bros? If you do you'll enjoy it but its on DS. The main story 
 is Mario rescueing Princess Peach from Bowser JR, the main gameplay is really simple jump and dash, 
 you will also find Drag type items like magic mushrooms, fire flower that turn into fireballs that 
 can get rid of enimyies, there are new ones such as a giant magic mushrooms that can make you grow 
 big and destroy everything in your way. You can use the touch screen to active a power up. But 
 it is really fun 8 worlds that can keep you busy for more then a few weeks.
  There are also Mini games thast are realy with the touch screen, and the graphics are really good 
 for a Mario game for the DS and you can play with your friends too.
  If you like the Mario games you'll enjoy this or if you like platformer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  with gmaeplay that fells just like i'm playing the original NES version, this game really works 
 out well.
  with new graphics, it looks like i'm playing smash bros. melee. which also works out well.
  
 
  the want to get every single star coin is fun as well, and loads up immense replay value. with 
 a few new items, like the mega mushroom, which feels like like a mini game al in its own.
  
  this game, even if you beat it, you can always play it again.
  and something slightly new 
 to the side-scroller mario, you have different bosses for each world. all with different tactics 
 for beating them.
  
  the only letdown i had with this game was the bowser, with or without baby bowser, are way, way, 
 WAY, too easy
  
  but for $30.00, nothi8ng can be perfect, can it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hendrix4Lyfe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a great game for all Mario lovers. The game still has the same aspects 
 as the classic and some new added twists and upgrades such as new items and controls. The game 
 is unique in it's own way as being a DS game rather then a GB game because the touch screen is 
 used. To finish it off Nintendo decided to make it 3D which made the game what it is. I would say 
 play the classic first then play New Super Mario Bros so you can see how the game has changed over 
 the last 20 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game brings back the days of yester year with out ripping it off. there are plenty of new 
 things to do here, such as new mushrooms (big and small marios and a turttle shelled one) climbing 
 walls, new to this side scholling type game amoung different ways to defeat bosses. The difficulty 
 of this game is just right and I liked the save points and the chanllenges it puts on the players; 
 you can save any where you want, but it will cost you 5 coins so you have to make them count and 
 you can also save after castles for free. The graphics look great along with the audio making this 
 game worth playing. There are minor things that they should have worked on, such as the very short 
 levels, I mean really short, but this is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbash14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is very high in my list; it offers the classic game of Mario on a new gaming console 
 mixing the new with the old creating a very good adventure game for the whole family. The game 
 is basically like the other super Mario games, controlling a little man to save princess peach 
 while battling a variety of enemies new and old. I highly enjoyed this game mainly because of how 
 simple it was and how just plain fun it was to play while still offering story mode and minigame 
 mode. The only parts that disappointed me was the fact that it only used the touch screen for the 
 minigames and not in the main story mode and the microphone was only used once in the minigames.
 
  Personally I really liked this game but I want to know what you think so please email me your 
 comment on the game at gamefreak14@hotmail. co. uk.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejacko
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great, but unfortunately, there is some big walls in the way. First, there is some 
 difficult levels, but i think i can make it. But then there is an another thing, saving points. 
 Whats up with that? There is only two tree of them in each world, booooring. It should have been 
 auto save after each level, it a handheld for ___ sake! We are supposed to pick up, play in ten 
 minutes, and put it down. I must play in two hours strait, if i will have a change to get pass 
 a difficult level. Positive: - Great graphics - Nice figure models - Fun gameplay (some times) 
 - Good music and sound Bad things: - Some of the levels are pain in the .. donkey. - No auto saving. 
 Or save at each level end. Only some (too few) stupid houses to save in. - Thats (?) it! Btw: The 
 difficult level im talking about? Its an hight tower, were theres allot of rock boulders rolling 
 everywere, left - right - up- down, hard to keep up with them. And suddenly, all my life is gone, 
 and i must start from the last savepoint, witch is 4-5 levels back, booooring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Revos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Excellent! Perfect blend of modern Mario gameplay and the classic Mario feel! This proves that 
 the classic Mario 2D platformer is something that could never really grow old. Sure the storyline 
 and ultimate objective are the same (Princess Peach in need of rescue from Bowser) , but makes it 
 unique is that ever since Mario's debut on the NES, this particular storyline is one that will 
 never die. And from what I've seen, it just gets better! This is undoubtedly one of the best, if 
 not THE best platformer for the Nintendo DS, and one of the coolest platformers I've played on 
 any console or hand-held. Beautiful graphics, original and classic music and sounds, gameplay, 
 variety, and the amount of extras and surprises makes this game amazing. It's one of those games 
 that you can have a tough time putting down, just because it can be simply addicting! I'd love 
 to see more platformers like this in the future for hand-helds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgalindo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is great but with some minor falls that makes it not that great, the graphics are great 
 and the game play to, it makes you remember the old school Marios with a really nice twice to 
 it, the graphics are really good for a ds game, its nice to see Mario in 3d on a 2d scrolling world, 
 the mini games are a lot like the ones on Mario 64, but they make you have some fun, havent played 
 online or on two players so can say much about that, the sound is good but I was hoping for some 
 more old school song on the game, but its ok, the really bad thing of this game is that is too 
 short even if you collect all the coins and all, it seems to me a little to short, I finish the 
 game in about two days that makes for about 12 hours of play, and if I go for a second round now 
 knowing were are all the stuff I would finish it in about 6 hours tops, and if you go without collecting 
 the coins you will finish it really fast, and not going to the other worlds that you must enter 
 by secret passages, but well removing the short game this is a really good game had a good time 
 playing it and it remembered me when I was playing the first Mario and also I forgot to tell that 
 the boss fights are really nice add to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  Perfect, it has everything you need in a game. Despite the unoriginal story, even though taking 
 out the 'Peach is captured and Mario has to go save her.' In a Mario game would completely ruin 
 it. The game uses it's platformer features exceptionally well, so it lives up to it's genre. It 
 is also a great adventure as you go from dark gloomy forests to cold frosty snowpeaks. The game 
 has amazing controls, making the game easier to play and more fun, overall 'New Super Mario Bros.' 
 Has quality gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  For a DS game the graphics are exceptional. They are very deeply detailed and are exceptional. 
 I think that even though Nintendo do not put 'Graphics' as high priority they have certiainly outdone 
 themselves with what they have done to this game. This game is probobly one of the best graphical 
 games on the DS. Nintendo have not only made this game play good but have also made it look good.
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  In every Mario game you play you except to hear the same old tune and yet it never gets old. Nintendo 
 have made this game sound amazing, the forest sounds different than the jungle. Nintendo have also 
 made dungeons more suspenseful by the music that they used in the area. Also the sound effects 
 of jumping over an enemys head, aquiring a certain item and when the bosses use their weapon of 
 choice whether it is thunder or fire, just sounds amazing.
  
  Value: 
  
  Good game, good graphics and amazing sound. What more could you want in a game. This game is amazing 
 in many categories except one. This game lacks lifespan. It is a very short and easy game. This 
 game could have been made much longer and harder. However despite the lifespan this game is a must 
 buy.
  
  Lifespan: 
  
  The only major category that this game lacks in. The Lifespan of this game is very short as it 
 is extremely easy. There are only 8 worlds, with a maximum of 8 levels in each world, sometimes 
 less. However the levels are extremely short. It will take around 2-5 minutes to beat a level. 
 Despite the lack of worlds and levels and difficulty. It is still a very fun game, the levels are 
 extremely enjoyable and addictive. This game might be a little too short and easy, however it is 
 still fun and is definately worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a great comeback for 2D Mario and the game has everything you ever wanted 
 from a Mario game. This game tests your platforming skills.
  
  Bowser Jr is the main bad guy with Bowser and he takes Peach like he did on Mario Sunshine. You 
 control Mario and must go through 8 worlds to save the Princess. New powers ups like shrinking 
 mushroom, turtle shell protects you from enemy attacks and Mega Mario makes you huge and you can 
 walk on any enemy and with old like mushroom and fire flower and star. You collect star coins 3 
 in every stage which opens secret levels and there's alot.
  
  Also there are some mini games as well and you can play Mario vs Luigi who battle it out to collect 
 the most stars in vs mode. This is a great Mario title and everyone must play it. The best 2D game 
 on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_gamer2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  new super mario bros. is a brilliant platformer and the effects are brilliant but at the momment 
 a bit easy, i just got this game on new years eve and i was at my aunties so i only just started 
 playing this for a day and im already on world 6 but none the less this game is a brilliant platformer 
 2d-3d adventure in each world there are around 2-4 levels and then there is a mini bowser level 
 where you have to defeat mini bowser and then there is a around 2-4 levels and another bowser level 
 but this time you have to defeat something a lot harder then mini bowser, like big bowser and evil 
 big versions of the little enemies you will find in the game this game is still brilliant though 
 i had to get it for my ds just had to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krustykikr999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Mario. The red hat, the stomping, the 3-d platformer. Wait... what? A 2-d Mario game? For the 
 DS? That can't be right... Ah, but it is. Mario has decided to return to his roots in this addictive, 
 yet slightly easy 2-d platformer. The game is set across 8 lands - plains, desert, sea, forest/swamp, 
 ice, canyon, sky and volcano. You trek across these lands because - wait for it... Princess Peach 
 was kidnapped. Again. Oh, but not by Bowser. No, he's gotten lazy and he sent his son to do it! 
 As you explore you gain power-ups. You have the usual mushroom, fire-flower and star, but they've 
 added two new ones at the cost of other ones. Yes, the mini and mega mushrooms take the place of 
 the feather and the leaf, which would've been nice additions.
  
  The graphics are state of the art for a DS, the game truly looks like it jumped right out of a 
 gamecube. The only thing that could use a lot of work in this game is the music. On almost every 
 level from lands 1-7 you hear the same music over and over again. It makes up for it by making 
 the levels too short and easy to even notice that you just heard the same song about 10 different 
 times in that level.
  
  Is this game fun? Absolutely. Perfect? Not quite. Aside from the barely passable music score and 
 easy difficulty, this game is a must buy for all Nintendo DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vihno0201
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  For years on end fanboys and old school gamers have been pleaing for a great new (no pun intended) 
 Super Mario Bros...... well rest easy, for not only is this game great, but it meets the expectations 
 and more!
  Graphics- As far as graphics are concerned, you can expect a wide pallete of colorful backgrounds, 
 and well modeled 3D characters. Nintendo has done an outstanding job of combining both the 3D and 
 2D elements. The 3D gives you the wondrous feel of Super Mario 64, while the 2D brings back the 
 fond memories! However, some of the 3D models do look a little pixelated at times, but it certainly 
 isn't anything that constantly catches your attention all that often.
  
  Gameplay- Mario was the one to revolutionize games 20 years ago, and he is still doing it today! 
 The gameplay from the minute you pick up this game rushes all of those Super Mario skills, talents, 
 and memories all to your head! As expected, the game is a 2D/3D sidescroller filled with lots of 
 goomba jumping, platform hopping, and princess saving enjoyment. The stages are fairly easy if 
 your objective is just to get to the flagpole, but if you are going for those secrets and extra 
 levels (which most of us are) , then this game will seem to put up quite the challenge. There can 
 be several points of frustration with levels in the game which, I must say, feels great! I cannot 
 describe how much this game sticks to its roots, but yet still brings the fresh feeling at the 
 same time. Oh yeah, and the fireworks from the flagpole help bring all the memories back too!
 
  
  Sound- This game features a lot of both new music, and reworked old school music. You will hear 
 the classic star music, odd sounds when Mario gets a mushroom, and outstanding background music! 
 To sum the music up for this game, it just feels like Mario.... and there isn't anything wrong with 
 that!
  
  Value- New Super Mario Bros. is all about value. If the secret levels and worlds aren't enough 
 to keep you busy, there are always the minigames. I must say however, I am a bit disappointed with 
 the minigames due to the fact that a lot of them are the same ones as in Super Mario 64 DS. For 
 those of you who didn't pick up a copy of Super Mario 64, well, enjoy! Other than minigames, there 
 is also a multiplayer mode where you race against your friend! It may not be the most glorified 
 thing, but it does help increase the replay value quite a bit. As a fan of the Super Mario series, 
 and a longtime player, I must say that this is a fantastic game. It easily ranks up there with 
 Mario kart DS, and of course the old school fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. Is a fantastic side-scroller that takes a classic series back to its roots 
 and is mighty good fun. Once again Princess Peach has been kidnapped you think after getting kidnapped 
 all these times she would get a bodyguard to stay with her all the time. Anyways Peach has been 
 kidnapped by Baby Bowser and Mario has to save her once again. Basically the same story used in 
 every Mario game and there are no surprising plot twists or anything which is kind of a bummer.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. Really stays true to its roots in providing a great game. The controls are 
 almost exaxtly like they were in the original game only remaped to fit the DS. There are a total 
 of eight worlds in the game but you can skip two to beat the game. There are several levels in 
 each world two involving a boss fight. The gameplay is just like the original with the same concept 
 of progressing through a level and killing the enemies in your way. One new thing is the addition 
 of star coins there are three of these coins scattered around the level and you can use them to 
 unlock extra levels. Finding these coins is not easy at all as they are scattered every place you 
 wouldn't think to look and if you do find them it takes a perfectly positioned jump to get to them. 
 There are also new power-ups that are very cool such as the Mega-Mushroom which will turn you into 
 a giant undestructible freak and you get to rampage and cause chaos until it wears off. Another 
 new power-up is the Mini-Mushroom which will shrink you this isn't needed to complete the game 
 but you will need it for a couple star coins.
  
  The graphics are great for the DS's graphical ability's but that isn't saying much. The character 
 look nice but the backgrounds look pasted on. The sound is pretty good the sound is much like all 
 other Mario games which isn't a bad thing because the sound in Mario games is good. The soundtrack 
 is nice and the sound effects are pretty cool. Sadly New Super Mario Bros. Doesn't last very long 
 its a pretty short game that can be beaten pretty easily but its fun to go through the levels again 
 to get all of the star coins. New Super Mario Bros. Is a great game that should be bought by anyone 
 who has a DS or enjoyed the original Super Mario Bros. Games.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  OPINION - New super Mario bros. Is a great game, you can practically play it even if you don't 
 like Mario cause it has so many mini games thrown in. Its not my favorite for the DS but its a 
 close second to third. Trust me its no disappointment here folks.
  
  GAME PLAY - It has almost all its stuff squared on 2 different buttons the hole game, the touch 
 pad is included to grab extra and stored items and also in the mini games... It has new features 
 as expected like turning into a shell creature, fire flower as always, big Mario, small Mario, 
 super stars... and just a few other things that makes the game a perfect match of fun, speed, and 
 combos.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics are fairly good for a DS game id say for Mario games one of there better 
 one also seeing as how even though a 2d game it gives Mario himself a 3d feel, actually a bit strange.
 
  
  SOUND - LOL a great mix of tunes threw out the game, some are even funny cause the creatures will 
 dance to them for the first couple seconds or so if you look closely enough... Great fun!
  
  VALUE - For everything that you get with this little game its value is by far the best if bought 
 so far weather its my, your, favorite game or not its an amazing value.
  
  TILT - Trust me theres a lot of that, keeping it interesting the hole experience... Its funny before 
 i even beat the game i went back to play threw some of the older levels and worlds just because 
 its that fun. A must have really.
  
  RECOMMENDATION - Anyone who likes Mario games obviously. Anyone who likes a new feel to the old 
 games we have been playing for years now... Thats why they call it (New super Mario bros.) To be 
 more specific though someone who's literally looking for just another one of those endless hours 
 of fun kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The new super mario brothers is fun and quite enjoyable, but it doesn't seem too innovative. That, 
 out of the way, the game has terrific control, fun for all ages. The graphics are clean, colorful, 
 and extremely vibrant. The new super mario brothers evoke the feeling of the original game, and 
 brings back all the fun. The additional modes are blah compared to the main part of the game, and 
 the minigames are completely watered-down compared to Mario 64 DS. While some of the levels are 
 quite tasteful and satisfying, others seem a little too short for my pleasure. The new power-ups 
 such as becomming massive are fun, but i wish there was the ability to fly. Also, i love the blue 
 shell and its ability to let the user swim! This game is fun, but the fun definitely doesn't last, 
 it just brings back memories (good and bad) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linxdsayx3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  this was one of the best games i own. it is full of fun and adventure. i will never get tired of 
 this game. if you are a mario fan, i suggest getting this game. great graphics and story line. 
 it is very short, too short in my opinioon but still lots and lots of fun. i finished the first 
 world in about a half hour and there are only 8 worlds or 9 or something i think but it is still 
 worth the buy.
  
  this is a must buy so go and get this game if you don't already have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Gamespot says New Super Mario Bros. is a terrific 2D side-scroller that makes you think of the 
 old games but never feels like it's just cashing in on past success . I say i couldnt agree with 
 them more.
  
  New Super Mario Bros is a great game for the DS possibly the best game.
  
  EMERGENCY NEWS FLASH! Princess Peach has been kidnapped! (never saw that one coming) While 
 injoying a nice walk with Mario, the beloved ruler of the Mushroom Kingdom was whisked away by 
 an unkown assailant. How could this happen with Maio around?
  
  According to eyewitnesses, the walk was going on swimmingly when Mario and the princess spotted 
 smoke billowing out of peach's Castle. The mustachioed marvel immediately jumped imto action and 
 sped off toward the fire. The moment he left her side, the princess vanished!
  
  Who's behind princess Peach's dissappearane?
  Who's behind the attack on Peach's Castle?
  Are 
 the two incedents related?
  Didn't Bowser Jr. once think Princess Peach might be his mother?
  
  Looks like Mario's going 
 to need all the Mega Mushrooms he can find to get to the bottom of the mess!
  
  So now Mario has to save the princess again through 8 levels and over 100 stages of fun. You and 
 mario and i guess luigi if you put in the code to play as him will embark on an adventure to save 
 Princess Peach.
  
  New Super Mario Bros is a game worth playing and a game worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkrokk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a true successor to the Mario games, but it's also alot easier. There hasn't been 
 a true 2D Mario side-scroller in years, but now our thirst has been quenched thanks to New Super 
 Mario Bros. As the title suggests this is a new mario game, but sadly it seems like the game doesn't 
 really have any new power ups. Sure there is the mega and mini mushrooms, but they are rare and 
 the mini mushroom doesn't help, it only allows you to go through small holes. You also have the 
 Shell thing but the only place it really helps in is when you're underwater. The other power ups 
 are the Mushrooms, Fire Flowers, and Stars, which are from the original Mario. You will also notice 
 that this game is a cakewalk compared to Super Mario 3. Not only that but even after being delayed 
 for a while the game still has only 8 worlds, the levels aren't that long either. The thing I like 
 about this game is how the worlds have themes, it is also the reason I loved Super Mario 3. You 
 will see ice, forest, and desert worlds. Each world has around 10 levels. The problem with this 
 game is that you wont be able to put it down, you will speed through it and be dissapointed by 
 going to world 3 after what seemed like a short play session. This game is still a great classic 
 and I reccomend it to anyone. If you want a nice 2D game, you should head to the stores and buy 
 this game.  -Gameplay- This is the same 
 great platforming gameplay that you would expect from a Mario game. It is simple and anyone can 
 pick this game up and play it. All you do is jump and dash, only two buttons (you can also touch 
 the screen to make your backup item to come also) . At the end of each world there is a boss, the 
 bosses can either be easy or a challenge. The level design is also great and imaginative in this 
 game. While this game isn't as exciting as a frantic shooter, it still manages to be very fun. 
 This game is also very easy, it could be a pushover to Mario 3 veterans, I never even beat Mario 
 3 and yet I found this game easy. The main cause of this is the item reserve slot you have at the 
 bottom screen, you can get a flower and then get another flower in the reserve and when you get 
 hit use that flower and then fill the reserve again by finding another flower. You can easily plow 
 through the enemies.  -Graphics- The 
 backround in this game is in 2D while the characters and power ups are rendered in 3D. The levels 
 look imaginitive and nicely done and the 3D characters look great. Still this game isn't the best 
 looking thing to hit the DS.  -Sound- 
 The music in this game is has a nice rhythm. The enemies and power ups bounce to the beat. The 
 music in this game still isn't as catchy as the music in the other games but it isn't bad either. 
 The classic jumping and stomping on enemies sounds are still here also to give the game a nice 
 nostalgic feel. The bad thing about it is that there aren't many tracks of music.  
 -Value- This game is simply too short. You can probably beat it in around 2 or 4 hours. The good 
 thing is that this game has some nice replay value. There are some secret levels to find and this 
 game is fun enough to have you want to play it again. The sad thing is that there aren't any difficulty 
 settings. There are also some mini games in this game that you can play. The multi player isn't 
 that hot, but it is fun to play the mini games with a friend. This game supports download play. 
  -Tilt- I like this game simply because 
 it is mario. Although saving the princess from Bowser isn't very original it still works. The bad 
 thing is that this game was a disappointment to me, simply because it was too short and easy.  
 -Bottom Line- I reccomend this game to anyone who wants to have fun. This game is one of the greatest 
 on the DS and you will most likely love it. It is also very great for car trips. This is a quality 
 Nintendo game that everyone with a DS should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I had always had my eyes on this game since it first came out, and heard great things about it, 
 but never actually played it. When I finally got it, I was not let down. This game is simply amazing! 
 The sound is great, and the tunes never seem to get old. The happy techno music only drives the 
 desire of the gamer. Plus, the graphics are nice and smooth, and complement the capabilities of 
 the DS. I always enjoy playing a good DS game that takes advantage of both screens, and uses both 
 equally frequent. For those who have not played this game, don't doubt, just get it. I promise 
 you will not be let down. There are plenty of unlockables and minigames to keep the replay value 
 high. Jeez! Just talking about this game makes me want to play it again! See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jodan48
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  When i saw this game i knew that i must have it. I'm a mario freak so no matter what i would like 
 it. when i got it i could not put down my ds it was so fun and when ever i died in the game i would 
 turn it off but in 5minits i would be back playing it. the game it self though was good they could 
 of made a better plot . the game play is fun. the sound is a little pit off but not to much. If 
 you have a ds i would say buy this game because it is one of the best games i ever played for my 
 ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers is both an ode to the classic days of gaming and a reminder of the changes 
 that have refined the industry over the twenty years since the original. Gamers know Mario. Hes 
 one of the most iconic figures in the annals of gaming history. A stalwart and standard for over 
 twenty years, the red hatted plumber returns to his 2D roots on the DS, while at the same time 
 offering some fresh moves that brings him up to the modern day. /
  
  One part of Mario that hasnt changed is the story. The game still involves the evil Bowser (and 
 this time his son Jr.) stealing the innocent princess peach. Its up to Mario to save the princess 
 and bring peace to the Mushroom Kingdom. To do this he must jump his way through over seventy levels 
 of platforming action, and fight a series of gigantic 3D bosses. Mario has all the classic moves 
 at his disposal- that is, he can run and jump, in addition to enlarging himself into large Mario 
 and even more so into the fireball spewing Super Mario. This time, though, Mario has some new moves 
 and items at his disposal. He can turn into a blue shell wrecking ball, a miniature version of 
 his already short statured self and an enormous Mario that can essentially destroy everything in 
 his path. Nintendo hopes that these new items will freshen the now ancient formula, and although 
 it works to a certain extent, nothing here is groundbreaking. /
  
  The hook of New Super Mario Brothers seems to have been the gigantic Mario power-up. It's odd then 
 that this Mario form is the least fun to play as. In his gigantic form, Mario can't use any of 
 the new moves I describe below and for some reason he can't run or jump any faster than his smaller 
 form. In fact, gigantic Mario feels unwieldy at best. He's hard to control, and just not that fun 
 to play as. /
  
  Luckily Mario's blue turtle shell form is a blast. When in this form Mario can essentially slide 
 through levels, destroying blocks and obliterating any enemy in his path. In one level, Mario has 
 to climb a staircase in a specific amount of time, or said staircase will disappear and Mario will 
 slide back down. With the help of his blue turtle shell, though, Mario can literally slide up the 
 ramps without the need of steps. Cool tricks like that, and the inherent fun of flying through 
 levels at hyper speeds adds a lot to the game. Still, this isn't necessarily an improvement as 
 much as another power up in the series illustrious history. Cool? Yes. Better than before? Not 
 really. / That said, Marios new move set definitely is an improvement, very much so in fact. Mario 
 has gained some of the moves associated with the fully 3D Mario 64. He can butt stomp and wall 
 jump and he can do the special triple jump move, in which he jumps, lands, quickly jumps again 
 for even more height, and then jumps yet a third time for maximum ups. The wall jump is especially 
 helpful. Several times during the game, Mario mistakenly missed a jump. In earlier games this would 
 have been a certain game-over, but in New Super Mario Brothers, a quick second tap of the B button 
 can propel Mario back to safety. These moves can also help you in acquiring star coins which are 
 a very valuable commodity in the game.
  
  Star coins are used to unlock mushroom huts and bonus levels. There are three types of mushroom 
 huts; theres the one which gives you a random power up sans the gigantic Mario power-up; theres 
 the hut that gives you only a gigantic mushroom; and then theres the one-up huts in which you 
 play a mini-game to determine how many extra lives you win. Although these huts seem like a good 
 idea, they tend to make the game too easy at times, especially because, after dying in a level, 
 you can enter the hut, get a power-up and still start at the mid-level checkpoint.
  
  Although most past Mario games didnt let you save an item for future use, in New Super Mario Brothers 
 you can hold on to one power-up, which is used by touching its icon on the touch screen. This is 
 a great idea, except that it again makes the game far too easy, and it happens to be the only real 
 use of the second screen in the game. The touch screen also features a basic line which tells you 
 how far Mario is within the level, and a couple other stats. In addition, when going below ground 
 the game will switch to the bottom screen and the saved power-up is rendered inactive. With all 
 of the great uses of the touch screen weve seen over the past year, its unfortunate that one 
 of Nintendos flagship games makes such poor use of it. /
  
  New Super Mario Brothers has great, albeit short, levels. You will go through all of the standard 
 Mario fare, including the obligatory cloud, ice and fire levels. Still, the actual levels are well 
 designed and artistically sound. Although the game doesnt really push the DS to its limits, the 
 characters in the game are rendered in full 3D, and the bosses often take up most, is not all of 
 one of the screens. /
  
  Disheartening though, is the fact that these bosses take up only one screen and are mainly just 
 enlarged versions of the normal enemies you fight. One great exception is a tank boss battle in 
 which you have to defeat a mole firing bullet bills from a massive tank. Sadly, most bosses arent 
 nearly as inspired. In addition, almost all bosses are easily beat and none require any real strategy. 
 /
  
  It is important to underline the fact that regardless of how easy it is, or how unrefreshing the 
 new power-ups are, Mario is still a joy to play. Compared to many other games which have suffered 
 control-wise in the move to DS, Mario feels better than ever. He responds quickly and accurately, 
 and you'll always feel that, when plummeting to your death, the fault was your own lack of skill, 
 not the games faulty controls. /
  
  Mario sounds pretty standard. It features all of the basic beeps and bleeps of a Mario game. There 
 is nothing truly standout here, but the games sound is functional. The DSs powerful sound hardware 
 isnt put to use, but the characters are a little more talkative than in past games in the series. 
 It seems time for Mario to move into the next generation of sound, a problem that has plagued Nintendos 
 Wii launch games like Zelda. If other companies can include fully orchestrated music on a DS cartridge 
 than Nintendo should also be capable of that feat. /
  
  Mario doesn't make great use of the DS hardware and it isnt revolutionary in any sense, but it 
 still is some of the most fun you will have on Nintendos handheld. The question that you will 
 have to ask yourself when deciding whether or not to buy this game is whether you are more interested 
 in seeing the DS used to the best of its abilities, or if you would rather play a more standard 
 platformer that controls almost perfectly. /
  
  Once youve finished with the main game there are two more options to keep you occupied. First 
 off there is a basic multiplayer mode in which you and another player race to collect a certain 
 number of coins scattered throughout one of a handful of levels. This is a fun diversion, but it 
 cant be played online. It does only require a single cart though. Still youll find this mode 
 running short on gas pretty soon.
  
  There are also a spattering of mini-games available. Most can be played multiplayer with a single 
 cart. Again, the lack of online leaderboards or online play limits the value of these games to 
 how long you want to try and best your past scores. Also, there arent nearly as many games here 
 as there were in Super Mario 64 DS, which is a shame. Its still nice to see Nintendo offering 
 more than the basic Mario and Luigi game that we had to suffer through for the entirety of the 
 Game Boy Advance era. /
  
  Nintendo has gone to great lengths to build a solid and highly enjoyable Mario game. Its not the 
 ushering in of the next generation of platformers, but it is a highlight to just how fun the classic 
 formula can still be twenty years after it was first created. Still, the game is much easier than 
 in the past and the new moves, while a nice evolution make the game even easier. This may disappoint 
 some hardcore fans, but for novice DS gamers, this is a great chance to experience a gaming legend 
 for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixWright2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  There hasn't been a true 2D Mario side-scroller in years, but now our thirst has been quenched 
 thanks to New Super Mario Bros. As the title suggests this is a new mario game, but sadly it seems 
 like the game doesn't really have any new power ups. Sure there is the mega and mini mushrooms, 
 but they are rare and the mini mushroom doesn't help, it only allows you to go through small holes. 
 You also have the Shell thing but the only place it really helps in is when you're underwater. 
 The other power ups are the Mushrooms, Fire Flowers, and Stars, which are from the original Mario. 
 You will also notice that this game is a cakewalk compared to Super Mario 3. Not only that but 
 even after being delayed for a while the game still has only 8 worlds, the levels aren't that long 
 either. The thing I like about this game is how the worlds have themes, it is also the reason I 
 loved Super Mario 3. You will see ice, forest, and desert worlds. Each world has around 10 levels. 
 The problem with this game is that you wont be able to put it down, you will speed through it and 
 be dissapointed by going to world 3 after what seemed like a short play session. This game is still 
 a great classic and I reccomend it to anyone. If you want a nice 2D game, you should head to the 
 stores and buy this game.  -Gameplay- 
 This is the same great platforming gameplay that you would expect from a Mario game. It is simple 
 and anyone can pick this game up and play it. All you do is jump and dash, only two buttons (you 
 can also touch the screen to make your backup item to come also) . At the end of each world there 
 is a boss, the bosses can either be easy or a challenge. The level design is also great and imaginative 
 in this game. While this game isn't as exciting as a frantic shooter, it still manages to be very 
 fun. This game is also very easy, it could be a pushover to Mario 3 veterans, I never even beat 
 Mario 3 and yet I found this game easy. The main cause of this is the item reserve slot you have 
 at the bottom screen, you can get a flower and then get another flower in the reserve and when 
 you get hit use that flower and then fill the reserve again by finding another flower. You can 
 easily plow through the enemies.  -Graphics- 
 The backround in this game is in 2D while the characters and power ups are rendered in 3D. The 
 levels look imaginitive and nicely done and the 3D characters look great. Still this game isn't 
 the best looking thing to hit the DS.  
 -Sound- The music in this game is has a nice rhythm. The enemies and power ups bounce to the beat. 
 The music in this game still isn't as catchy as the music in the other games but it isn't bad either. 
 The classic jumping and stomping on enemies sounds are still here also to give the game a nice 
 nostalgic feel. The bad thing about it is that there aren't many tracks of music.  
 -Value- This game is simply too short. You can probably beat it in around 2 or 4 hours. The good 
 thing is that this game has some nice replay value. There are some secret levels to find and this 
 game is fun enough to have you want to play it again. The sad thing is that there aren't any difficulty 
 settings. There are also some mini games in this game that you can play. The multi player isn't 
 that hot, but it is fun to play the mini games with a friend. This game supports download play. 
  -Tilt- I like this game simply because 
 it is mario. Although saving the princess from Bowser isn't very original it still works. The bad 
 thing is that this game was a disappointment to me, simply because it was too short and easy.  
 -Bottom Line- I reccomend this game to anyone who wants to have fun. This game is one of the greatest 
 on the DS and you will most likely love it. It is also very great for car trips. This is a quality 
 Nintendo game that everyone with a DS should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ND_gamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game. It has excellent 2D graphics for the nintendo ds. It looks 
 awesome on the ds lite. The game is very easy if you've played all the other Mario adventures. 
 Even if you've never played a Mario game before you probably won't have any trouble beating this 
 game. You can easily beat the game in a couple of hours if you don't worry about collecting all 
 the stars and coins and etc (you can go back later and do that) . The sound is the usual. So overall 
 this game is amazing. It does get a little boring after a while though. But there is some fun mulitplayer 
 minigames that will keep you playing this game forever (almost) . I recommend getting this game its 
 while worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  New super mario brothers is about the best game ever in the Mario handheld franchise. The storyline 
 is classic, basically the same side-scroller as the original for snes. ( And the same old boring 
 storyline; Princess peach gets taken by kid bowser, you must rescue her... ; (...) But that is not 
 the point. The graphics are splendid making the game look like it's 3d the whole way through. Two 
 new upgrades including the huge mushroom and the shell. You can also ground pound now. Once you 
 beat the boring storyline it continues with all the fun in mini-games. Play original games like 
 reverse, 21, card yahtzee, pong. It also features tons of action and puzzle games to keep you busy. 
 This game features a 2 player game with wi-fi connection. You can play mini-games together and 
 play mario vs luigi where you must collect the most big coins before time runs out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_In_Line
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Like the little man always says, Momma mia! This game rules!
  I will get right to the point with this game, this is a great example of how great Nintendo can 
 be. Their side-scrolling days continue into this game.
  
  The objective is simple, save the princess. What Nintendo game doesn't have that objective? Mario 
 finally gets to take a break, but guess what? Bowser Jr. (or one of his other names) takes Peach 
 when he isn't looking! Now, you go from world to world chasing Bowser Jr. untill he has no place 
 to run!
  
  Going to each and every world that is different to all it's own. World to world to world, they 
 never are the same! The sound, look, and feel of each level are always different. One level maybe 
 a chase level, another could be a bonus level!
  
  A really great value for how much it costs. This is a buy if you have a DS!
  My only problem 
 in this game is that it is so short : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  An excellent work done by Nintendo. It's been over 15 years since the orginial Mario series on 
 NES, but the classic returns to be one of the best DS games ever. I would highly recommend this 
 game to any DS owner.
  
  Gameplay 10- Just like the original, accept with added mushrooms which means added powerups. The 
 levels are excellent and challenging.
  Graphics 10- Some of the best 3D on the DS system. Very colorful and detailed.
  Sound 9- Remixes 
 of the old songs, however I wish that the music was closer to the original than it is.
  Value 9- An excellent game that is worth keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juvenilehall
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't differ much from your classic Mario game, other than the fact that there are 
 extra twists to it. But one thing won't change; how addicting it is.
  
  Gameplay:
  Same thing as a normal Mario game. Side scroller? 2D? Mushrooms and
  Fire Flower Things? It's 
 got all the fundamentals of a great Mario game. Plus, it's got some extra features, too. But it's 
 all the same.
  
  Graphics:
  This is where this shines, baby. AWESOME GRAPHICS. I know that this is on the Nintendo DS and all, 
 but I'm downright impressed with them. Colorful and un-blocky characters and backgrounds always 
 give the game an extra kick. The cartoony and happy element of the graphics always put a smile 
 on your face. They impel me to want to play more and more.
  
  Sound:
  Everyone loves the classic owowow sound that Mario makes when he dies. It has all the normal Mario 
 sound effects such as the clucking sound of the fireball and the distinct sound when he gets minimized 
 out of touching a Goomba or something.
  
  Value:
  Having it be so addicting has good sides and bad sides. It's good because you obviously like it. 
 It's bad because it causes you to want to always play the game. But what I like about this is that 
 I don't mind playing the game a second, third, or maybe even a fourth time. The fact that it's 
 crazy hard adds to the playing hours, I guess.
  
  Tilt:
  New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS definitely deserves a thumbs up (I needed a catch line 
 :D) from me. It's extremely addicting and fun with enjoyable graphics that somehow drives me to 
 play more. It's difficulty is frustrating sometimes. Also, you can jump, and barely make it at 
 the end of a cliff. Guess what, you're dead anyways, YOU SLIDE OFF THE CLIFF AND DIE. Frustrating 
 as hell. But once you really get the hang of it, you'll enjoy the long and fun stages that just 
 seem to unwrap themselves. I'm not saying it's good guys, I'm saying it's downright kickass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boombazookab3ba
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You will be totally addicted to it, you'll have so much to do, defeating Jr bowser, Bowser and 
 ect is just cool and looking for powerups in the stages is cool or instead look for coins, and 
 exchange them for new cool items is just awesome, you can be giant, tiny, koopa style and the old 
 ones too, but something that I really enjoy, like in the other games, is being the hero to Peach 
 and being the enemy to Bowser's troops... in fact what I mean is that this game is just awesome, 
 and that you'll really enjoy playing it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite DS game so far! Here is my review.
  
  Gameplay is very precise. It's easy too! It's just like all the other old Mario games. vIf you liked 
 the controls for those old games, you'll be satisfied with these.
  
  Graphics are very fantastic! Good for a DS game. Mario good-looking in this.
  
  Sound is very 
 good. The Sound affects are very well. Everything sounds like a Mario game thing with good sound.
 
  
  Value is good, you have to beat bosss in a curtain way just to unlock world four. Same with worl 
 six, I believe.
  
  Anyway, you will be pleased with this COMPLETE remake. Some things are recycled from previous games. 
 But it is wonderful, and I believe you would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azirra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Mario as given as so much in the many years he lived in. He gave us Mario Bros 1, 2 and 3, he gave 
 us Mario Kart, he gave us Mario 64 he gave us Mario Tennis 64 and much more. But to be honest I 
 relly mish hes old good 2-D adventures. But not anymore. New Mario Bros isnt revolutenary its some 
 kind of a Greatest Hits Mario. Gameplay: The gameplay is a blend of Mario Bros 1, 2 and 3, Super 
 mario world and Mario 64. Like I said before its not revolutenary but its still a very good game. 
 The new power ups is funny espesilly Mega Mushroom and the shell. Its just a shame that they arent 
 used that much. For example you can only get the Mega Mushroom in the first level and in the Mega 
 Mushroom houses. And the worst thing about it is that its not very usefull and you cant really 
 use it to get stars. Theres also another problem about it. In many levels you cant use it. There 
 is not enough space to move! Its a shame because it is a funny little powerup. The shell is extremly 
 funny and you can see if you can complete levels without standing up. The fact is though thats 
 its not used so much to collect stars and so wich is really again a shame. The game though is really 
 good maybe a little to easy but the controls is simpel and the levels are AWESOME allthough a little 
 short. The minigames are also great! Grapichs: The graphics are just awesome. The whole bloody 
 thing is full 3-D and the animations are really good and funny. Its the most beitifull 2-D platmformer 
 ever made! Sound: The sound is classic Mario and some new. Its good and theres nothing wrong with 
 the sound but it dosnt sound perfect. Value: The game isnt that long most because that the levels 
 are so short but you can always play it again as shell Mario or something els and there is plenty 
 of good minigames. Revievers Tilt: New Super Mario Bros is simply a fantastic game. Its funny, 
 the graphics are stuning and the sound is great.. If you need a good platformgame look no futher. 
 New Super Mario Bros is nearly perfect. BUY IT!!!!!!! (What a lame ending :D) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jstur14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is the game I have been waiting for since Super Mario Brothers 3. This game feels just the 
 like the old games just with a face lift. The added a couple new items like the mushroom to make 
 you big where you just plow through everything and the one to make you small to get into hard to 
 reach spaces. The thing that makes it great is it feels just like playing Super Mario Brothers 
 3 and its on a hand held so I can play it on the go. I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 loves mario and especially anyone who loves the old mario. I do love all the newer 3d marios but 
 everything comes back to the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Everyone's favourite plumber has come a long way since the third and last episode of the original 
 "Super Mario Bros." series, but finally delivers a "New" one, so to speak, on its successful Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  In many ways, it's a great throwback to those old times: While the characters and monsters are 
 animated fully in 3D, you jump and run through the 80 levels set in 8 worlds in a 2 dimensional 
 manner just like you used to in the days of the NES and the SNES (and you end the regular levels 
 with a mandatory jump onto the flag pole) . All in all, the graphics are exactly what they need 
 to be, somewhat impressive, but always reminiscent of its predecessors.
  
  However, the low number of innovative features is rather disappointing, especially since many already 
 established, fun power ups have been dropped or replaced by less interesting mechanics. For instance, 
 while you won't be able to dress up as a raccoon or wear a cape to fly through the levels, Mario 
 can eat a tiny mushroom to turn into (you guessed it) a tiny Mario, light enough to jump slightly 
 higher and run over water (take that, Jebus) .
  
  And because the designers love the extremes, apparently, there's also a huge mushroom which, when 
 eaten, temporarily turns you into an invincible, all-crushing giant. However, these and a few other 
 additions are rarely used in very original ways, mostly due to a rather cheap level design for 
 a great deal of the (often surprisingly short) levels. All in all, you'll be throwing the well-known 
 fireballs as they seem the most efficient overall.
  
  The game therefore feels more like a Super Mario Bros. 1.5, as it takes mostly the concept of the 
 original game instead of building on the additions part 2 and especially 3 have brought to the 
 series. Luckily, there is at least a world map first introduced in #3 and you're allowed to save 
 your game at certain points (and at any point once you finished the game and go back for some extra 
 completion) .
  
  The DS's touchscreen also goes very under-used in the main game, only to activate a stored power 
 up to have it drop from the sky.
  "New Super Mario Bros." also comes with a number of minigames like Whack-A-Monty, Memory, Poker, 
 Bob-omb sorting games and many more, most of which are played solely with the stylus and are a 
 great deal of fun for a while.
  
  In the end, "New Super Mario Bros." is yet again a solid jump & run by Nintendo, however, oldschool 
 players will probably finish it in no time and find only little "new". Newcomers might find that 
 even a straight SNES port of the fantastic classic "Super Mario World" or "Yoshi's Island" 2 offers 
 more interesting and diverse gameplay or might just want to rent it for a quick try first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5haringan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so great! Bounding through levels with a mega mushroom crushing everything and 
 everyone in your path is just awesome! The pipes smashing in your wake is sweet. All in all it's 
 a great game. I only got about two problems with it though. It's when you play the later levels 
 and if your not too great at platformers you'll be chewed up and spit out. And the little Do-do-dodo-do-do-Do 
 gets annoying when you keep dying time after time in a row. Still great game that makes you relieve 
 the good old days of Mario with some new elements. The 3-D people are a nice touch and they look 
 great. Amount this to some great game play and awesome powerups (see mega mushroom and blue shell) 
 and you got a great platformer on your hands. If you have a DS this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrowby88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  It is great to see games like this on the DS. while it is instantly accessible, it is difficult 
 to master. If you dont own it, go buy it now.
  
  the great thing about this game is that it feels completely old school while at the same time feels 
 brand new.
  
  mario has always been the gold standard for 2d games, and this takes the standard formula and adds 
 enough to feel new but not superfluous.
  
  Gameplay: Classic Mario, some new skills, all around great
  
  Graphics: 3D on a 2d field... beautiful
 
  
  Sound: Nintendo... what do you expect.
  
  Value: Long game with hidden worlds and minigames
  
  Tilt: Go buy, borrow, steal, or rent it,.... now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  like I said this is one of the best Mario games if you loved the classic like I do...
  The Gameplay:
  if you liked the original you'll love this one from a 2D to a 3D game... it involves 
 some of the old places with some new stadiums and including using the DS bottom screen, but after 
 some time it could get boring with the same kind of things over and over Graphics:
  the graphics are real awesome with the DS they are pretty solid
  Sound:
  they are cool especially 
 the songs themes form the other Super Mario games Overall:
  I give it a 10 it's really awesome especially with some new things like the big mushroom which 
 it is very helpful against bosses and then the little mushroom it helps you find many new thing.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok so here is the deal its fun its any you mario fans would love but fun factor is so fun and funny. 
 So the awesome thing about the new mario is that it has a BIG MUSHROOM....... ok..... but its still 
 fun.
  
  And the cool thing about this is that it has some cool things you can do like the new wall jump 
 and the mini mushroom now thats cool and the multiplayer is alright but if i wanted to play the 
 same mini games i should have just got Mario 64 DS and i like the mini games too but c'mon now 
 wheres the fun in that i wanted to see more modes and more NEW!! mini games not just like five 
 or more.
  
  But yeah so here is my score i might be mean a little but its true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurf_55
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario bros. is a fun game, you get to explore through six worlds and eight if you can 
 beat world 2 and world 5's boss in little Mario. The game is fun and after I completed the game 
 I often go back and play it a bit. The thing i didn't like about this game is you have to beat 
 a boss or spend 5 big coins to save. The games story is about Mario chasing after little bowser 
 because he stole peach. You go through obsticles and vs bosses that little bowser has in plan for 
 you. This game makes it even more funner because of the minigames like super mario 64 ds had in 
 it, but there is new minigames not as much as super mario 64 ds. This game pulls of and amazing 
 rating around the world and it will be a classic someday in mario history. If you don't have this 
 game you should get it because it's fun and there is a lot of secrets in the game but i just went 
 on the internet to find all the codes. I would reccomend this game to everyone, it does get fustrating 
 somtimes and you do want to throw your ds at the wall but overall is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Hi this is Poe Tokoro on my 8th review, this time I'm reviewing New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Gameplay: This has the most simplest controls ever! Move left or right to move and down to duck! 
 Two buttons are all that are used, either Y + B or X+A. Certain combinations are made but they 
 make perfect sense. To Ground Pound you jump and press down, pretty simple huh? Well on to the 
 next category.
  
  Graphics: The game's graphics are a blend of 2D and 3D. The characters are in full 3D and look 
 absolutely gorgeous on the DS. The 2D backgrounds are some of the best looking backgrounds ever. 
 I have not encountered any problems with the game, there are no glitches.
  
  Sound: The music is great... sort of. The music that's there is great but there isn't enough different 
 tracks. Which is pretty disappointing to say the least but nevertheless, it is still some of the 
 best music ever.
  
  Multi-Player and other options: The mini-games are hit and miss. There are some really good ones, 
 but some of the mini-games from SM64 are not as good. The mini-games are fun for awhile. And unlike 
 SM64, the mini-games have multi-player. That's where the multi-player will mostly be spent, the 
 other multi-player, is fun but not for long.
  
  Overall: For $32, you can't go wrong with this game, I say Buy It!
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. on Ds. What can I say this game has renewed my faith on the Mario franchise to 
 some extent. Not only does and look and play well. But the game feels different almost nostalgic 
 in a sense. It almost feels like your playing the original Super Mario Bros. but with a twist. 
 New moves have been added since Super Mario Bros hit our shores in 85. For instance the now classic 
 triple jump from Mario 64 is in this 3D side scroller. Also a new spin move and the mega mushroom. 
 Plus there are fun mini games you can play with your friends. This is a very fun game to come out 
 in yrs. The downside with this one is like every other Mario game out there, it's still not very 
 lengthy. But I would say it has decent replay. all in all I give this 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back for again in New Super Mario Bros. for the DS. As the name suggest, the title is 
 a throw back to the classic 2D Mario games on the NES and SNES. And as such, you must once again 
 rescue princess Peach from Bowser. Mario and all of the characters you know and love are in full 
 3D. But the gameplay is the classic 2D style of platforming. Visually, NSMB is fantastic. All the 
 3d characters look great. And the 2d sprites look very nice. The frame rate is also consistent. 
 It is basically what you would expect from a Mario game. NSMB plays just like you would imagine 
 of a Mario game. You have the basic walking and running, the mushrooms and fireballs, and the stomping 
 and jumping around of the series. It is all in tack and feels great. They have also added a few 
 new items such as the Mega Mushroom, which makes Mario turn huge for a sort time. These new items 
 become a vital part of the game and you will need them to beat the game with 100%. Besides the 
 numerous levels, they have added a new coin feature. Each level has three big coins you can collect. 
 These are needed to get 100% and will earn you rewards. This adds a lot of replay value to the 
 game. But the game is still a short game. There arent as many levels as past games, and many seem 
 to be too short. NSMB also has a verity of minigames to play. Many of them are reused from Super 
 Mario 64 DS. So if you have played it, it might seem a little old. There are some new ones though. 
 But the minigames really shine in multiplayer. Not only are they some games only available through 
 multiplayer, but they seem to much more fun also. But NSMB is not without its short comings. Sound 
 wise NSMB doesnt offer anything new or creative. All the sounds have been done before. Nothing 
 really stands out much. And the game is on the easy side. You can easily breeze through the game 
 in one sitting. Also, Bowser Jr. is used for the boss battles over and over again. Overall, NSMB 
 feels like it is predecessors. It plays and looks great. It is a tad short and on the easy side 
 though. If you are a fan of Mario or just own a DS, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros brought back the classic platform style that we all fell in love with years 
 ago. This game is a great fit for the Nintendo DS becuase its a game you want to take with you 
 wherever you go, like school, work, or maybe playing while driving. You play as Mario of course. 
 This time, Mario must save Princess Peach from baby Bowser. Just like the older Mario games, its 
 consists of worlds and each world has a few levels and then a castle in the end where you have 
 your boss battles with giant plants, and other new bosses. This way, you wont get bored with the 
 same boss battles with Bowser. New Super Mario Bros will bring you back and you will enjoy going 
 back in time. Its a fun game with everything you would expect and even more with the Mario series. 
 This game is a perfect fit for the DS. It brings new flavor the the classic Mario style. And believe 
 me, it taste's good! If you own the Nintendo DS, then this game ,obviously, is a must have. So 
 get going, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nano511
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game brings you your favorite 2D gameplay and brings it to you in 3D.
  The graphics are some of my favorite on the Nintendo DS, the sound is decent, and the gameplay 
 is great. This game could easily beat out a few title on Xbox and PS2 even PS3 in terms of gameplay. 
 First off I never saw this game coming until I saw an Ad in Gamestop for it. The core concept of 
 them bringing you 2D gaming in 3D is really genious, Athough I have a grudge about it as well, 
 first off the game overall seems shorter than the original game (or maybe its just me) Either way 
 the game is a highly fun and addictive game and I strongly recommened the buying of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris0025
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  i love every part about this game except the length. may take you 1-3 weeks to beat and get highest 
 rank. you may want to consider renting instead of buying. levels are not really that repetitive, 
 and there is a lot of em. lots of enemies, and sweet power ups. mega mushroom can be useful at 
 times because it allows you to become gigantic. boss's aren't to easy but yet they are not to hard. 
 yes there are mini games, but i rarely play them, wide variety if ur into those kinda things. mulitplaya 
 is also good, mario vs. luigi is competitive and a great way to show off ur moves. you can also 
 multiplayer minigames. once you pick up this game you wont want to put it down, i recommend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exzero5263
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game is soo fun to play. Its challenging while remaining fun. Collecting the star 
 coins is almost like another game like a game long side quest... very cool. The mushrooms and upgrades 
 you can get for Mario are very cool to, especially MEGA MARIO! Playing as Luigi, too, adds a little 
 touch that just completes the game.
  
  Graphics - Impressive and smooth.
  
  Sound - You know when you get on that first level and that classic Mario song plays... thats what 
 the sound is like... everybody and their grandma's knows that song... great sound
  
  Overall this is one of the best games you could get now for anyone... its way cool and parents if 
 your going to buy it for your kids, give it a try yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomic_gamedev
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  OK, I thought I would hesitate on getting NSMB, but to my suprise I bought it anyways and with 
 the Multiplayer battle, the mini games, and the fact it has a single player mode with 8 worlds 
 that vary from 5 - 8 levels it's well worth the measly $35.00! What an awesome game. The fact that 
 it's a Mario classic of Nintendo you should go and buy it, but they have re made a classic and 
 the best thing is you can't even tell your playing a Mario game that in the past you've already 
 played. A gurantee Nintendo DS game of the year, one of the most addictive games you'll get for 
 your DS, and a truely addicting, classic adventure with our most favorite adventure game character 
 Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the long awaited sequel in the Super Mario Bros series has finally arrived. New Super Mario 
 Bros ( or what you could also call, Super Mario Bros 4 ) puts you back in the role of our beloved 
 plumber Mario in the classic 2D platforming style like the classic games. Princess Peach gets kidnapped 
 again ( oulala ) but this time by Bowser jr ( nop Nintendo, you failed to make it look different 
 ) . The game has 8 different worlds like the classic game, Peach gets kidnapped like in the classic 
 game but lets see if this game can do well like the classic game.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The gameplay is incredible, Mario can do a triple jump in the same style as in Super Mario 64. 
 Plus, Mario can store an extra item with him in the exact same way as in Super Mario Bros 3 and 
 Super Mario World; just tap the screen to drop the item to you. In addition to the famous regular 
 mushroom and fire flower, weve got 3 new items: the shrink-mushroom ( which can make you really 
 tiny and give you the possibility to get trough very small areas ) , the mega-shroom ( which makes 
 you enormous and gives you the possibility to destroy anything in your path ) and the blue shell 
 ( which gives you the possibility of being just like a Koopa and roll on enemies with your shell 
 ) . The gameplay has definitely improved since the old games, great job here. Also the multiplayer 
 part isnt bad too, you can choose either Mario and Luigi and race against each others to get the 
 most stars. Also there are some mini-games that are playable in multiplayer.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  Absolutely wonderful ! The graphics in that game are absolutely incredible and 
 are top notch for a DS game. Also there is absolutely no framerate problem and no glitch has been 
 encountered so far. What else do you want ? The game wins in this category.
  
  -Sound-
  
  Super Mario games have the reputation of having catchy music and this game is no different. 
 New Super Mario Bros feature a wide variety of music and sounds, plus, theyve even kept some of 
 the old sounds to make it sound more retro, great job with the sound !
  
  -Value-
  
  Thus this game hasnt failed in any of the previous categories, heres the first one where it is 
 hurt badly. This game is probably one of the easiest games ever, there was no challenge at all. 
 You can finish this game in less then 2-3 hours ( 4 hours to collect all the star coins ) . This 
 game should have been much harder and complex.
  
  I personally like the way this game plays and I had so much fun playing it on my first time, but 
 it is so easy to beat that my 7 years old cousin finished it in 4-5 days. Nintendo showed us a 
 great impressions on how they can make Super Mario games on the DS and I hope to see another similar 
 one but please make it harder ! A 2D style platforming with 3D graphics is genius !
  
  
  The Good: Great gameplay, multiplayer 
 is fun and the minigames are quite enjoyable too. Graphics are stunning for a DS game and the sound 
 is the gorgeous.
  
  The Bad: Game is very, very short and seriously easy.
  
  Is it worth to be bought ?: Although its easy, its also cheap, go and buy it, youll have fun 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Everyone, will look at my review in which I awarded New Super Mario Bros. a 8.0 and then look at 
 my description that is 'just to short...' and think this guy has no idea what he's talking about. 
 I'll admit I probably don't I've looked at countless reviews of the game many of which New Super 
 Mario Bros. was awarded a perfect score. However, I based my review on the matter that it's just 
 simply to short. I was done with it in 2 days. Those 2 days were a blast to say the least. But, 
 I can't help but feel there should be a little bit more. There's always the matter of going back 
 through the game and collecting Star Coins to buy new backdrops. Or, for just he heck of it using 
 my new discovered code to play through the entire game as Luigi. But, there should still be more. 
 Like maybe they could've made the minigames unlockable through the earning of Star Coins. Or they 
 could've taken advantage of the DS'S wi-fi capbilities. But, they didn't which forces me to take 
 this score that was once a 9 to a 8. Due, to a lack of enough replay value. Though, all in all 
 New Super Mario Bros. is a great game that should be on any Nintendo DS owner's list. Though, it 
 feels as though it could've had a little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros.
  Played on NDS-lite Black 
  
  New Super Mario Bros isn't all that new. Most of the game is just plain old sidescrolling platforming 
 with Mario. Wich is good. There are some new parts in the game like a bit of touchscreen implements 
 in the minigames. Also there are a few new powerups, wich make you big, small or give you the blue 
 shell to wear. These things aren't that exciting, but fun.
  
  It's all about what you want. Are you sick of playing Mario in a classic 2d platformer? Don''t 
 play this game, because that is exactly what you get.
  Everybody else, no matter what kind of games you like, I recommend it to you. Why? Let's read on 
 shall we....
  
  The graphics are awesome, bright and colourfull backgrounds and 3d characters mke NSMB look awesome! 
 I played it on the Lite, and with the brightest settings, this game rocks.
  
  The gameplay is classic, but the best off the classic mario platformers. Can't go wrong there right? 
 You won't get bored with it, because there is alot to go back to, collecting all the coins (wich 
 I personnaly go crazy for, and I'm not that big a mario fan....) getting some of the extra levels 
 unlocked, etc.
  
  The sound is really well done, the stereo speakers throw the sound effects from left to right and 
 visa versa. The soundtracks are what you could expect from a Mario game. Enjoyable.
  
  Lasting apeal is something important for me with NDS games, since most games are so short! This 
 game offers 8 worlds, wich will take you about a day per world, if you play everyday, and for longer 
 periods of time. Then you unlock and collect like I said above, wich adds in gameplay aswell. Great 
 no?^^
  
  All in all, NSMB is a game that made a non-mario fan like me go nuts on the DS. I really, really 
 liked all of the aspects of the game. And I'm going nuts for coins, wich hasn't been around in 
 my life since I bought this game: P
  
  I highly recommend this game.
  
  ZeroDemo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - The game has captured the whole 'Super Mario Bros.' vibe effortlessly.
  - Truly masterful gameplay, where the new power-ups bring a whole new aspect to the term 'great 
 gameplay', by making Mario (or Luigi) super-sized without making 'em go to the Mac (^_^)
  - Great music which makes you play for a while longer just to hear it.
  - Minigames that will 
 attract and addict all sorts of gamers (and non-gamers as well) , also great fun to play in multiplayer. 
 The variety will ensure you that you've spent your money well on this game.
  - High replay-value of the main game will have you hooked.
  
  The Bad:
  - The main game is 
 fairly easy most of the game, which is also pretty short.
  - It's easy to get 99 lives quickly.
  
  The Verdict:
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game 
 with plenty of innovation and variety.
  Though the game is easy to beat, it still is highly replayable. A must for every selfrespecting 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heathcliff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a tribute to the simpler days of gaming. It is all about recapturing the 
 feel of the classic side-scrollers that turned Mario into one of gaming's original superstars. 
 It succeeds brilliantly. It is classic platformer gameplay that stands the test of time. All wrapped 
 in some of the prettiest visuals I've seen on the DS. Yes, gameplay is 2D, but the character models 
 and backgrounds are in 3D. Levels are varied. There's jungles, deserts, snowy landscapes, haunted 
 houses, underwater areas, etc. You will jump, butt stomp, swim, ride clouds, and throw fire balls 
 while exploring these areas. While the game feels like a lost chapter from the NES/SuperNES days, 
 it is not all recycled material. Mario now has new items, such as mushrooms that can either shrink 
 him, or turn him into a giant. As if the main game wasn't fun enough, there's a great deal of mini-games 
 that make great use of the stylus. They come in the form of either puzzles or action minigames. 
 These are a lot of fun whether you play them with somebody else or by yourself. The game is a bit 
 on the short side, but it is challenging enough to keep you busy for a while. The only real complaint 
 I have with the game is that the main game doesn't make much use of the touch screen and stylus, 
 other than occasionally selecting an item to use. You play with buttons and the d-pad. They might 
 as well have made it for the GBA. It is only in the minigames where you really get to use the touch 
 screen. But the bottom line is that New Super Mario Bros. is one of the funnest games I've played 
 this year and possibly the best game available for the DS so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  If New Super Mario Bros. reminds gamers of one thing it is that the A button should always be reserved 
 for jumping. It is as natural a fit as the D-Pad is to movement and if anything else New Super 
 Mario Bros. is reminiscent of what games used to be like and how their unending charm is still 
 compatible even now. Indeed, for Nintendo-a company midway through the establishment of their "paradigm 
 shift" it is perhaps a necessary title to remind them (and perhaps it was for this very reason 
 why they made it) of what they used to make as their focus. Because of this, New Super Mario Bros. 
 is a game of nostalgia both in past and present. The main game stands side by side the mini-games 
 that dominated Nintendo's pre-Wii Sports days in ways that were previously unimaginable and though 
 New Super Mario Bros. may only be remembered as just another decent platformer by Nintendo; should 
 this be the end of the 2D Mario, then by coming full circle, Nintendo has certainly ended in style.
 
  
  Of course such pessimism is unjustifiable and implausible. Nintendo will irrevocably make 2D Mario 
 just as A will always be jump. But as New Super Mario Bros. is the first new 2D Mario game in 14 
 years the expectation and anticipation for something ground braking is as expected as the expectation 
 that the game will be good. New Super Mario Bros. does little to try and convince you otherwise 
 however; its familiar level design, the same flagpole and the deliberate absence of Yoshi all point 
 towards its famous title rather than ahead of it. The game does not try to be anything other than 
 an homage to itself, a grand retelling of its genre-defining platforming, and in that sense it 
 is simply a unanimous success.
  
  They say that the classics can be instantly played by anyone, with a learning curve that borders 
 in the seconds. While this is certainly true, for a game like New Super Mario Bros. its originator 
 ironically makes it initially harder to control. Shockingly, Mario now has weight; his sturdy collection 
 of pixels giving him more downward force, so while 8-bit Mario could glide through the air at a 
 serene pace, 64-bit Mario must suffer the effects of gravity as his descent back to earth is now 
 actually faster than the jump he took to get such great height. It's a clever expansion, making 
 the game more modern in our physics heavy industry and it is certainly not the last, with Mario's 
 updated move set better assisting him in the antics that has set his 3D iterations apart and it 
 inevitably forces Mario's learning curve into the tens of seconds rather than the single digits. 
 It is an interesting upheaval, but arguably for a game with such anticipation, it is not one that 
 goes far enough. 
  
  The problem with this series is that for all intents and purposes they are all the same game. Certainly 
 New Super Mario Bros. updates the Super Mario Bros. format, but in terms of Mario as a whole it 
 lacks the sense of strength that Super Mario Bros. 3 brought to the genre and it is a game that 
 refines only half as much (by comparison) as Super Mario World. Again the sense of the unjustifiable 
 comes to mind. The game never stated it would try to emulate either of the former games so why 
 should we criticize is as such? The feeling then turns to the again unjustifiable conclusion that 
 New Super Mario Bros. is a cop-out title: knowing they weren't able to feasibly advance the franchise 
 after 14 years they simply went back to the original and re-plastered it. Again, knowing Nintendo 
 this premise is equally unlikely but the inescapable feeling remains that New Super Mario Bros. 
 is a wasted opportunity rather than merely a missed opportunity.
  
  Though in title the game is a "new" Super Mario Bros., in reference the game represents all of 
 the pre-existing titles. In terms of weaponry New Super Mario Bros. features a variety of items 
 reminiscent of Super Mario 64. However, as in 64 the items here are as gimmicky and as blas as 
 they were over 11 years ago. The blue shell turns you into a turtle shell like cannonball, allowing 
 you to build up momentum and then rollout until your velocity stops. The trouble is that as a platformer, 
 making control deliberately harder is not something you often want to do, so the use of the item 
 merely becomes the two health bonus it grants you. Similarly the obliterating Mega Mushroom is 
 clumsily implemented: rarely granting you constant carnage thanks to the lure of hard to reach 
 star coins and annoyingly hard to destroy pieces of the environment, its use quickly becomes the 
 simple reward of 1-Up's rather than the pure joy of being able to wreck these wonderfully designed 
 levels. The surprise package of this weapon set ironically comes from the least likely of sources. 
 The mini-mushroom is somewhat of a Mario Bros. revelation, granting such free-form ability that 
 it remains the only real comparison the game has with Super Mario Bros. 3's legendary items. Its 
 shift to Mario's motion, making him more floaty and speedy, as well as the wonderful feeling of 
 being able to run across water and glance joyfully off enemies heads creates a genuinely new environment 
 of play that goes beyond the basic "small areas are now accessible" route that would have been 
 expected.
  
  The extra abilities Mario has gained over the years are much more of an enjoyable package than 
 the weapons. The spin jump, wall bounce and butt stomp feel completely at home in this game and 
 feel more like natural extensions to the design rather than experimental gimmicks that the items 
 irrevocably are. You soon wonder how you ever coped without them and for a platformer that needs 
 little additional complexity it becomes New Super Mario Bros. most memorable achievement. 
  
  Graphical presentation has always been one of the Mario series' most overlooked assets and 
 here the pedigree is fulfilled as the game again inherits Super Mario Bros.' clean, crisp and extremely 
 colourful art style. Though not as beautiful as say Yoshi's Island on the SNES (that remains the 
 most well presented Mario game) it still looks great managing to mix 2D backgrounds and 3D characters 
 well and although pixilation is apparent in these 3D models, in motion the depth given by these 
 models gives the game a welcome new sense of dynamic detail and the animation throughout-on both 
 Mario and his adversaries is simply superb. The games cheery score raises frequent smiles but the 
 tunes themselves are often rather forgettable. The usual parade of remixed Mario tunes from old 
 and new games does little to grate but also provides little to savor. However, like the art style 
 it features a variety of pleasant oddities such as the little twirls many enemies do in response 
 to certain sections of the soundtrack and the return of many of the series' classic sound bytes 
 is a truly remarkable piece of sound design-who here hasn't wanted to collect a bunch of coins 
 just to here the flowing ring of multiple coin accumulation?
  
  The game is far more forgiving than its NES original. The item reserve returns, making one-hit 
 platforming rare and the various abilities-particularly the wall jump make dying a relatively easy 
 avoidance. Even the three star coins hidden throughout each level are relatively easy to find. 
 As an introduction to the series however, such difficulty is perhaps understandable and in terms 
 of value: the number of worlds on offer, combined with the fact that at least two of them are secret, 
 as well as the fact that many levels house multiple exits gives you plenty of value for what is 
 a long, if easy play-though.
  
  Rounding out the single player sections is a mad and fun 2 player mad dash to collect stars that 
 is far superior to its Super Mario 64 DS counterpart and provides a surprising amount of multiplayer 
 enjoyment. Sadly the same cannot be said for its mini-games which are simply those from Mario 64 
 DS plus a few more; these feel stale in comparison to the rest of the game and even with the new 
 entries it already has the wry comparison to be made with the constant re-throws of Mario Bros. 
 at every Mario Advance title.
  
  In the same vein as Bionic Command: Rearmed New Super Mario Bros. represents a retooling and revamping 
 of an essentially unchangeable concept. Even with the spin jumps, mega mushrooms and mini-games 
 the game still whole-heartedly realizes what era of its universe it takes its inspiration from 
 and as such the game has an oddly nostalgic feel to it that a brand new Mario game simply could 
 not have. With all its slight faults and minor disappointments it remains a game that excels at 
 what it does best and when the moment of flowing motion and serene aerial leaping combine in any 
 one of the games perfectly judged platforming moments, it all feels utterly untouchable. The princess 
 may still be in another castle, but it's a journey worth taking over and over again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoh4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this game was a breath of fresh air for me. Videogames lost their charm when 
 they switched from 2-D to 3-D in sort of the same way that Bond movies lost their charm moving 
 from the 60's to the 70's. While still good, its not quite the same.
  
  As the title implies, New Super Mario Bros. is a new take on the older Mario games (Think Nes, 
 and Snes) . If you've played any of the older 2-D Mario games, you will easily be able point out 
 the various similarities that this game has with those classics. You will also be able to pick 
 this game up very easily with almost no learning curve. Newcomers shouldn't have much difficulty 
 picking this game up either. The game starts out with a quick sequence showing Peach being abducted 
 by Bowser once again. After that you are transplanted to a world view similar to Super Mario World, 
 only strictly left to right. The levels are laid out very nicely, and the difficulty of the levels 
 increases gradually as you progress through the games eight worlds. The graphics are mostly 2-D 
 with bits of 3-D expertly interspersed through out the game. The levels are very detailed, and 
 colorful with well drawn backgrounds, and effects such as snow in some levels. The top screen shows 
 the actual game play while the bottom screen shows how far you have progressed through a given 
 level and or world. You can use the stylus to tap on a world you have already completed and instantly 
 travel there. You can also use the stylus to tap on a power up you have saved in order to use it 
 while in a level. Occasionally when you warp down a pipe, the gameplay will be switched to the 
 lower screen which ads a nice little touch to the game. The music and sound are reminiscent of 
 the original Super Mario bros, but just enough touch is added to it to keep it fresh. All the classic 
 power ups are there (though not some of the more obscure ones like Kuribros shoe) , and some new 
 ones such as the turtle shell which lets you slide across the ground knocking out any foes or blocks 
 in your way, or the giant mushroom which turns you into a giant and lets you trounce through the 
 level for a short time nearly invincible.
  
  All in all, if you enjoyed the older 2-D Mario games you will be at home with this one. Or if you 
 are too young, and have never played the older Mario games, this is a great way to see how platformers 
 used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonthebig
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the New Super Mario Bros., it was amazing to say the least. The graphics 
 are crisp and environments are varied. Mario looks amazingly detailed, whether he is tiny, or takes 
 up the entire screen. The classic Mario music is back, along with some exciting, and some less 
 invigorating, tracks that accompany you on your adventure. At the end of every stage Mario also 
 congratulates you, which felt unneeded and corny. While playing through, you will discover that 
 Mario has taken moves and abilities from other Mario games including butt stomping . New items 
 have also made an appearance. These include the feathery light mini Mario, and impossible to control 
 shell Mario. This power along with many of the others felt tacked on and were hardly used. The 
 map system is taken from Super Mario 3 and uses animated environments to set the scene of the level. 
 The levels are well designed and include 3 star coins to collect, and although some felt too short, 
 they are memorable and will keep you playing them until you collect every star coin on the map. 
 Other then some less then memorable sound, the game seems to be shear perfection. That is until 
 you realize that many of the star coins in the levels are easily obtained. Also, when you reach 
 Bowsers Castle at the last world, it seems as if 3 hours has passed by. Once you have completed 
 the game there are some wallpapers for the bottom screen and some mini games, but they all are 
 recycled from Super Mario 64 DS. While the game play is solid and the design is flawless, after 
 you play New Super Mario Bros., you will be yearning for something more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't play Mario games these days. It was surprising that I actually payed a little attention 
 to this game and brought it! Man, am I glad I brought it!
  
  New Super Mario Bros is a DS game. It is basically getting to the goal as fast as possible within 
 the time limit. Princess Peach is kidnapped and Mario has to save her. So Mario is off trying to 
 save the princess.
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is surprisingly very good. Even though it is simple, it isn't bad. It's quite fun and 
 lot so frustrating either. Though, the fact that you have to jump on enemies to destroy makes it 
 challenging in a good way. And, no glitches are present in the stages. So overall, gameplay is 
 great. 9/10
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are pretty SWEET! They did a good job making 2-D/3-D game. It's 2-D and 3-D at the same 
 time! XD Anyway, the levels are well designed and the character models are well done too. Overall, 
 graphics are great. 10/10
  
  Sound
  Sound is pretty good too. Background music may sound corny but hey. It's a Mario game. It'll always 
 have that kind of music. Also, the sound affects are good and some musics are quite good and make 
 the game sound a little funny. Not to mention the one in the intro for the game in the main story 
 mode. So overall, the sound is good. 9/10
  
  So overall, New SUper Mario Bros. is a very good game. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Jeremy-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this is one of the best DS games to date. If you have ever played a Mario platformer 
 game you will know what to expect. Jumping on foes getting coins and powerups and all the stuff. 
 This Mario is all that with some extras. It is just really fun. This mario is actually a 3d sidescroller 
 yes mario is 3d. The graphics are pretty nice. The sound is really awesome with all the classic 
 mario sounds and much more. It just sounds great. This one has many powerups, some old some new. 
 There is the mushroom, the fire flower, the starman, the 1up mushroom, and some new ones like the 
 mini mushroom, the shell and the MEGA mushroom. It all works out well in the game. The game has 
 8 worlds each with a bunch of levels in them. It is really fun to go thru the game. There are lots 
 of new enemies. The game isn't very hard and its not to easy its just right. One downside to this 
 game is it is kinda short it will only take you like 8 hrs or so to finish the game. That is without 
 playing the extra levels and trying to collect the star coins. It is still an amazing new platformer 
 for the DS with a bunch of extras. Then there is like minigames and multi card/single card play 
 for a thing called Mario VS. Luigi where one person bes luigi and the other bes mario and you stomp 
 on eachother to get the coins. It's actually quite fun. There is also multiplayer for the minigames. 
 The game will last you a while but its single player is still short. If you like mario platformer 
 games or you have a craving to play a new mario platformer you should really get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  New super Mario Bros. is a great game classic 2D side scrolling game that mixes old school with 
 new school. Elements of the past 2D side scrolling games of mario are here. And if you played the 
 older games it will bring to you fun memories if you finished the game there is some variety of 
 minigames and a mario vs. luigi mode which is addictive. The minigames feels like mario party mixed 
 with wario ware but the only downside is it's only local wi-fi.. but the minigames are also addictive. New 
 super mario Bros. wont dissapoint you and its a great addition to youre library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EBEnthusiast
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the first true 2D Mario platformer since the release of Super Mario World 
 in 1991. SMW had lush, beautiful worlds, and an amazing amount of levels that would take you weeks 
 to beat. New Super Mario Bros. has some of these qualities, but for a game that has to follow it's 
 amazing predecesors, it just falls short of being a worthy follow-up.
  
  NSMB has everything you'd expect in a Mario game. There's a lava level, an ice level, and the water 
 world. In some aspects, that's fine, but when you think about it, it's sort of a cookie cutter 
 way of avoiding any originality. Controlling Mario is pretty easy- it's sort of a combination between 
 the 2D and 3D Mario games, so if you've played a Mario platformer before, you know what you'll 
 be doing. There are some differences in the way the game is played, but it is only thanks for a 
 few new power ups. The mini mushroom will allow you to go under small passageways for more coins 
 and items, and the max mushroom will allow you to grow tall, stomping away at everything in your 
 path. While these new editions seem fun, they feel more tacked on than anything else. Also, the 
 game flows along pretty easily- you'd most likely beat it within a day or two.
  
  The graphics are a nice blend of 2D enviroments and 3D models. This is easily the best looking 
 2D Mario game to date, although some people might complain about them, considering none of the 
 previous side scrolling Mario platformers used 3D graphics, but nonetheless they are fine as is. 
 The sound, however, sorely lacks in this game. The previous Mario games had a distinct soundtrack 
 that you'd recognize easily; however New Super Mario Bros. soundtrack is hardly noteworthy, and 
 you'd most likely forget any of the tracks after a few weeks of not playing the game.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a fine game, without a doubt. However, it lacks something that makes it 
 forgetable in the long run- a soul. The game is basically any other Mario game you've expected 
 to come by in recent years. And while that is good for some people in may cases, in some, it's 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The game, staying in its roots and adding some additional features makes this game one of the best 
 on the ds !!!!
  there is a lot to do in the 8 worlds of the main game !!!! there r 5-10 levels in each world with 
 2 bosses in each world !!!! they have added some things like mega mario and shell mario which makes 
 this game interesting !!! its a lot of fun !!! plus there are lots of mini games to play !!!!
 
  the graphics are awesome but the music is sometimes repetitive...
  to sum it up, this game is a must have and u will have a lot on ur hands !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  its a good game only the min points are the gameplay isnt long i hate it i had played my game in 
 a weak out! but i whas scared because bowser is so big in the game! but the end boss is realy cool 
 little bowser and big bowser thats realy hard to win but not for me i had used a big mushroom
 
  and make him death thats whas realy pwning the sound is good to only
  nintendo use almost the game melodies of the game there many more new feaures whith runing and 
 then do a special jump it is a good game good job nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Best_Gamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game that everyone should play, it combines simple but fun gameplay 
 with decent graphics and fun multiplayer. The gameplay in NSMB, aside from the mini-games, is pretty 
 simple. Like traditionally you jump A/B and sprint with X/Y. The touch screen does not come to 
 effect at all except for using collected items. Like in other Mario games, Mario goes running about 
 the various worlds whilst stomping on the heads of numerous enemies.
  
  Although many aspects of gameplay has stayed the same in NSMB there has been made a few new changes 
 here and there some of the changes include the new items. While the game still has the Mushrooms 
 and flowers the new items are: mini-mushroom (which shrinks Mario to very tiny proportions) and 
 the Mega-mushrooms' (which increases Mario to colossal proportions) .
  
  The graphics in NSMB are sweet to look at although it is a 2-D platformer, it is also a 3-D side-scroller. 
 It has good presentation
  
  The sound in the games is also great, with good music and sound effects.
  Even to the bits where 
 Mario finishes a level.
  
  The mini games are innovative which make good use of the touch screen. Mini games include Puzzle, 
 Action, Table games and Variety.
  
  Multiplayer is really fun while you try and get more stars than our opponent.
  The mini-game 
 multiplayer adds more mini games to the list such as snowball which is extremely fun while you 
 throw snowballs with Yoshi.
  
  All in all, New Super Mario Bros. makes for a solid package that is really fun to play!!! 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  While SM64DS is still the most ownage game on the DS, this is pretty good as well. The graphics 
 are purely beautiful, Gameplay has one of very few games where a 2D enviornment is good. This is 
 a great remake of a 23 Year old game. They took it and made it better with the graphic abilities 
 of the DS. The only problem with sound is how Mario/Luigi don't talk that much. I'd have to say 
 It's a great game that could use a little improvment, and It's pretty much worth it.
  
  If you liked the origional, GET THIS. It's a pretty easy game that brings back memories of the 
 NES game. And the new Powerups own, especially Mega Mario. Overall, this is one of the games to 
 consider getting with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Preese24AP
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a great game, and time well spent. The graphics are a great addition to 
 the game, Marios stache never looked better. There are also new power-ups in the game like the 
 Mega Mushroom , This power-up makes you **** HUGE so you can trample over every N00B in your way 
 to get free 1UPS! There is also teh Mini Mushroom and the Blue Shell. The Shell make you into a 
 little turtle and when you hit DOWN you can hide in the shell and kill your enemies like that. 
 the Mini Mushroom well it makes you mini so you can go into little spaces and mario has black man 
 hops. There are 8 worlds in this game the first world is just like a to get the rust of you and 
 remember how to play again. but the last three worlds are kinda challenging the boss's are like 
 the old-school one. for baby bowser just hit his head. and for Bowser just go across the bridge 
 dodge him and hit the axe. But this is another great Mario game this plumber never gets old buy 
 this new classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tEAm4za
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  The first game i played was the the mario bros [the first one they made] and i loved mario every 
 since. Mario has all ways been a classic and now the ds has a classic. This game rocks it has the 
 same gameplay the made mario side scrollers the best and the sound and graphicis are to die 4. 
 the only downfall i can c is that it's a bit easy a little kid could complete it but that's a good 
 thing in a way that he play all the other mario games and love them and mario. i give new super 
 mario bros a finger rating of 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  The old sidescrolling Mario games were classics in their own right but to look back and play on 
 them now would be tedious. Ingeniously, Nintendo, finally made a new sidescrolling mario that wasn't 
 a remake. The game is transferred from 2D to 3D. The graphics are, therefore, stunning for a DS 
 game. It mixes all the classic gameplay elements from the older games and the result is masterful 
 and is one of the best pick-up and play handheld games ever made. Classic music makes reminds you 
 of great times. The story isn't much different to the classics, in fact there is little change 
 at all, but the level design is different in many ways and the 'collect the coins' side story gives 
 the game much replay value. The only problem with this game is it doesn't make much use of the 
 touch-screen except on the mini-games, but the game is great nonetheless There are many secret 
 cannons to warp you to different worlds which makes you want to replay every level until you find 
 every single detail. Then once you've finished the single player there are mini-games left the 
 waiting for you to try out. This is a must buy for everyone, you will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonahb914
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  If NSMB accomplishes anything, it's in showing us that the genre of 2D platformer still has some 
 fight in it. If sega would learn this lesson with their sonic games, we may start getting some 
 decent titles for the blue blur again...
  
  Anyway, Sonic isn't the iconic mascot this review is about. This is about Mario. And it's nice 
 to play a platformer that can be a hit without the words subscreen , upgrade , or level up . However, 
 just because it's a hit doesn't mean it's perfect. Although the game delivers classic mario action, 
 well arranged levels, and a decent challenge by world 7+, one can't help but feel that if it weren't 
 a Mario title, it wouldn't have been half as sucsessful. Like a rich kid making his fortune off 
 of papa's bonds, NSMB may have earned most of it's 9.0 through the Mario name... for a game with 
 New in the title, there's not a lot to be found... noticibly these:
  
  a) There are only 3 new power-ups. Didn't super mario 3 have around 5? And that was made in the 
 early 90's!
  
  b) There aren't a helluva lot of new enemies. Didn't Super Mario World add a good 40 enemies to 
 the MB roster? Very few of those enemies are included.
  
  c) It's very linear. Just because it's supposed to emulate the style of the original SMB doesn't 
 mean they can't make it the best game possible... as previously mentioned, multi-pathed gameplay 
 has been a hallmark of mario games since SMB3.... Not much replay here.
  
  Regardless of the aforementioned rants, this game deserves the 8.5. It's still a great game, but 
 we musn't turn a blind eye to problems simply because it's got our favorite plumber in it...
  
  JB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintend-man86
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Here we go! New Super Mario Bros. is exactly what it sounds like. It feels pretty much like the 
 original. Once again Peach got her self kidnapped ( or should I say, princessnapped) for the umpteenth 
 time. Its up to our favorite plumber to go and gett her. The gameplay is simpole. X and Y to run 
 and A and B to jump and throw fire balls. Same old enemies but some new items. The mega Mushrrom 
 bacically turns you into mega Mario and you smash everything in your path. The blue mushroom turns 
 you tiny and you run faster, jump higher and you can access places you normally can. The blue shell 
 gives you a shell and you can slide in it and smash through your enemies. Bosses are simple to 
 figure out how to beat. Not much more you need to know ecept about the star coins. There is three 
 hiden in each level and you can use them to unlock certain levels and places This game is well 
 worth your money if you have a DS and you're tired of Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Here is New Super Mario Bros. for the DS, where nintendo have attempted to revive the old mario 
 gameplay with modern touches, and have succeeded!
  
  It sticks with the old NES side-scrolling camera angle, but characters models are all in 3D as 
 well as obstacles which is beautiful to look at, and highly immersive. Many many new modes of gameplay 
 have also been added to this, including some new enemies, seen from more recent mario games, and 
 it also includes some new acrobatic moves, such as the wall jump and butt-stomp. There are even 
 new items such as the large mushroom, which transforms mario to the size of the whole DS screen, 
 and its fun to him kick pipes and enemies as he charges through.
  
  Levels still seem varied and fresh, taking to account that we've seen the themes of these worlds 
 before, but the new enemies and obstacles, as well as the 3D input keep you going to the end. You 
 wont really struggle to get throught the levels, but your bound to die a few times in the process, 
 which will strive you to play on! Saves occur now and then as you complete either the mini castle 
 or the boss castle on each world, which i guess keeps the difficulty from being incredibly easy, 
 thats good!
  
  It wont take you very long to complete the game, some people who are slightly crazy could complete 
 it in one sitting, but no taking account hidden worlds and collecting all the coins etc. I only 
 play the game 10 minutes at a time as the game is so good you wont wanna complete it all at once. 
 You'll probably play it again once you've completed it anyway.
  
  Overall, if you have DS there is no question about whether you should buy this game or not, it 
 includes everything we have ever loved about mario and more, its essential for platformer fans 
 and all gamers, and it IS the reason why you bought a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetherocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is an awesome game, with only slight flaws. The graphics are fair enough, 
 though the characters are kind of pixelated. The boss fights put on a great show, but are really 
 way to easy. The whole game in story mode is WAY too short, but it may take some time to unlock 
 everything. The mini games are overloaded with fun, but they get boring after a while and should 
 have more available to unlock. The new power-ups and moves are over-the-edge. The ground pound 
 and slide down wall jumps are fantastic, making the game seem more like the 3D Mario games. As 
 for the power-ups, Mario fans have never seen anything like them. Stomp through everything with 
 a mega mushroom, or squeak under everything with the mini mushroom. The blue shell is a great add-on, 
 too. The only downside of the new power-ups is that in some places, you just end up getting killed 
 rather than helped. All in all, New Super Mario Bros. is a great game, but it's not so great for 
 someone who really HATES short games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OhhSnap50893
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  For those of you that have been gaming since the beginning, have probably played some of the original 
 Super Mario Bros games. Personally, Super Mario Bros 3 was my favorite NES game, I even have the 
 re-make for the Gameboy Advanced. New Super Mario Bros combined key features from those few games 
 and added some new twists in this great Nintendo DS title.
  
  It's got 8 worlds, mini dungeons, main dungeons, Mario, Bowser, sounds like a run of the mill SMB 
 game to me. But it's also got a whole new environment for you to play through. For example, in 
 World 4, some of the levels have vines you must swing across. In World 2, different sections of 
 the sand elevate so you can get those high items. In World 8, volcanoes pour out burning rocks 
 for you to avoid. These are just a few of the many new environmental features NSMB includes.
  
  The term 'Jumpman' has also been redefined. Now, Mario can jump from wall to wall to advance 
 through a level. This proves helpful when a regular jump just doesn't cut it.
  
  The graphics have also been improved. While you still get a 2D view, the characters themselves 
 move in a 3D way. That may sound confusing, but once you watch a few videos you'll see what I mean.
 
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros is definitely one of the best Nintendo DS games available right now, 
 and a great pick up for any die hard Mario fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo1391
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  When I was a little kid mario was one of the happiest memories I have. I am know 15 years old and 
 this game was all I hoped it to be. It has the same great gameplay and it didnt let me down from 
 start to finish. It was so enjoyable even though it isnt Gears of War or Halo3 it was somethin 
 that just made me feel great. Its nice to step away from some of the new games and just play something 
 that once made you so happy and will definately make you happy again and I rpomise you this game 
 wont let you down :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario is responsible for making me a gaming junky. When I was a kid we had a Magnavox Odyssey one 
 of my favorite games was K. C. and the Munchkins which was like Pac-Man but better. We had an Atari 
 and Intelevision too but gaming at home died up until NES came out on my 13th birthday I got the 
 N. E. S. w/ ROB the Robot Duck hunt Gyro-mite and of course Mario Brothers. I was so in love from 
 that point on. DS New Super Mario Brothers capture every thing great about classic gaming and brings 
 to the table many new features that will make you smile as you play. This is a must own if you 
 have a DS and maybe even a reason to buy the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a remake of one of the old Mario games!
  But I still say that this game is ok!
  This game is a GREAT multiplayer game in my opinion!
 
  But this is still not the best multiplayer game but it is NOT the worst!
  I am not really a big fan of remakes!
  But this game can be fun on some parts and just plan boring 
 on the others!
  This game is ok but not one of my favorites!
  The game has ok graphics.
  And its not all that hard on some parts of the game!
  But on other parts where its soo easy its 
 boring!
  You know I want a challenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docko86
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  I bought super mario brothers on the day it came out for my ds.
  i completed it in about 1 or 2 weeks to complete which is fairly short in my opinion. The game 
 gets fairly boring after world 2 or 3 and there isnt much replay value
  The graphics are good better than the other games of its type
  The gameplay is really just like 
 any other mario game in the series
  and doest use the touch screen hardly at all except for the mini games which are actually very 
 good
  
  But i am sure smaller children from about 4 to 7 would love it for a birthday or christmas present
 
  but for me it was to boring and there was no replay value apart from the mini games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When you want to play as mario, you want to be really really really big, and crush little turtles 
 beyond the rubber soles of your 2d/3d shoes, correct? OF COURSE! I respect this game for how it 
 shows off the old mario that you thought couldn't get any better, and it kinda just all of a sudden 
 did. I would definetely reccomend you run and pick up a copy of this as your first, second or 100th 
 game. Go get it now. You know you really have to. The greatest thing about this game, is that there 
 are soo many ways to have fun like you did when you brought home your SNES. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggshnyne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  That's right you heard me, and let me tell you, this game will bring back wonderful memories of 
 playing the older Super Mario bros, way back in the day. And the great news is you'll get to experience 
 it all over again! But this time you can take it wherever you want! The games Story: Well, the 
 story didn't change much, basically Peach gets kidnapped again... But this time around it was Bowser 
 JR. who kidnapped her. And then as you would guess, Mario went after Bowser JR. to save the damsel 
 in distress. Like I said the story is about the same as the previous one's. And to tell you what 
 I think, I think that's great, I wouldnt want the story getting more complicated than that. After 
 all it is a Super Mario Bros game.
  
  The game play is great, it's just as easy to grasp as the older one's, the buttons you'll be using 
 are very few, there's a dash button and a jump button, that's about it. Plus a few of Marios moves 
 from the 3d ones are back, such as the ground pound. And you can store an item on the touch screen, 
 a lot like you could on Super Mario World. But in Super Mario it was better, because in this one 
 say you have in item equipped and you have one stored, and then you take the item from the storage, 
 your current item that you were wearing will not go back into storage like it did in Super Mario 
 World. But thats just a small problem. And the game plays a lot like the first one with the flag 
 pole and all. Now for the graphics, it may still be 2d, but this time they decided to make Mario 
 and everyone and everything around him 3d, and let me tell you, that really gives this game a smooth 
 look. The music: In some stages you'll hear a simple remix of the older Mario games, such as the 
 cave levels, or when you get fire works when you jump the flag- pole. Most of the music is new 
 though, it's still just as catchy as the old one's, though it could have been better at times.
 
  
  And there is a good handful of new items throw in here, such as the blue shell, where you get 
 a blue Koopa shell and spin through a stage, like a Koopa would if you'd kicked their shell while 
 they were in it. And once you get the hang of the shell, it's really fun to go as fast as you can 
 through stages without stopping. There is also the mini mushroom were you get to shrink and go 
 through hiding places, and it makes you lighter so you can jump higher, and you can even run on 
 water when using this item. But careful not to get stomped by a Goomba. Then there's the mega mushroom 
 were Mario grows as big as the screen and then you get to reek havoc. And then there is the classic 
 fire flower and it still works great, the bunch to the flame is just as beautiful as ever. And 
 then there's the power star, and the Super mushroom. And there are plenty of fun boss fights, though 
 fighting Bowser JR, may not be as fun as it was to fight Bowser himself, it was still great fun 
 either way, plus there are a few other bosses you'll run into, along with a lot of other foes from 
 previous Mario games.
  
  Besides the single player, there's a battle mode for you and a friend to duke it out with. One 
 plays as Mario and the other plays as the younger bro, Luigi. Though it might not be the co-op 
 mode they said they were going to give us, it is still very fun. There is one other disappointment 
 in the multiplayer, there are only five stages to choose from, but do not let me discourage you, 
 it is still very good. Besides Mario games are more about the single-player. Then there is the 
 other multiplayer mode, were you can play solo, or with up to three other buddies. In this mode 
 you play a various amount of mini games, some from Super Mario 64 DS. For the mini games youll 
 play them by using the touch screen, and in one mini game you get to use the mic. As you can see 
 this game truly stands high with the series and it is not to be missed by any die hard Mario fan, 
 especially of those who loved the originals. And we can only hope that we will get to see another 
 one on this system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have no respect for Super Mario Bros, then I probably have no respect for you. The game 
 that brought back gaming, the game that started many classic 2-D platformers, and showed that Nintendo 
 meant business. New Super Mario Bros stays surprisingly close to these roots, just adding a few 
 new things for better or worse.
  
  The story of gameplay is the same. Get from one end to the next, trying to jump across pits, avoid 
 enemies, and do so in a limited number of tries (lives) . Its an extremely old, but good, formula. 
 And Nintendo even left the challenge that this fun formula created intact. NOT!
  
  Sorry to have to say this, but NSMB is WAAAAY too easy, and it hurts this game most than other 
 easy games (such as TLoZ: Wind Waker) . The levels are actually really well created, but lives are 
 TOO easy to obtain, making each level more of a try until you get it right type of challenge. 
 Half the time you can also return to the map and visit a mini-game house to get the item you need. 
 And only because the levels are still fun is this game worth playing.
  
  And its not like many other easy games that tend to try and give you a long game with lots of 
 extras. Nope, NSMB gives you 8 worlds filled with a few short levels each. If you enjoy the game 
 (and I know you will unless you hate 2-D platformers. or fun) , then you will blow through this 
 easypossibly in a single afternoon (and because of the fact that lives are earned so easily, the 
 game over screen is practically non-existant, and takes the fun out of trying for high scores) .
 
  
  And the extras, ha, nothing special. You have 3 coins to collect per level (for spending on things 
 probably not worth buying) , and a few neatly hidden exits in levels. The coins will take almost 
 no time, but the extra exits, and few hidden levels boost the length score up a point.
  
  After the main game (and why you should buy the game) , there are mini-games and a neat multiplayer 
 mode left over. The mini-games are a little fun, but so similar to (or often the exact same as) 
 the mini-games in SM64DS, and wont hold your attention too long.
  
  The multiplayer is also a short-lived diversion, but DEFINITELY worth checking out if you have 
 a DS-owning friend. It plays like the 2-D platformer, just in a repeating course, where you and 
 a friend fight to be the first to collect x stars, which you can steal from each other and run 
 around to collect. It is a truly fun mode (with just the right # of players) , but it lacks lasting 
 value simply because it lacks modes and maps. 1 mode, 5 maps, and maybe only an afternoon before 
 you tire of it. Still worth checking out though.
  
  Aside from the poor length, everything in the game is great. The graphics, are amazing. The 3-D 
 on 2-D effect works brilliantly here, and, despite being on the DS, the 3-D objects dont seem 
 that rough. There is no slowdown, the world is full of style, and all I can complain about is how 
 Mario is slightly blocky up-close (and thats pushing it) . And considering how well the graphics 
 factor in to making the old gameplay a little fresher, I couldnt resist a perfect score.
  
  And the music is nice. Its catchy, which works well for the game, but it doesnt live up to 
 the series name. Every 2-D Mario game before had some truly cool tunes, but NSMB is unspectacular. 
 It is good though, just not classic, and for some reason the Bowsers Castle music just feels out 
 of place (kind of like a Halloween world tune) .
  
  You should play New Super Mario Bros. Despite its short length, it plays close enough to the old 
 games to be worth a check out. And its proof that easy games can still be pretty fun (as long 
 as they have SOME challenge) . Now, I just hope Nintendo tries to make more 2-D platformers, just 
 that they have the guts to make them actually challenging and long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a fresh new Mario experience that will entertain you for a good while. The vibrant color, 
 sound, gameplay, and music are all rolled up into one beautiful package of side scrolling goodness. 
 All the classic Mario elements are here, warp pipes, secret vines, goombas, Koopas, chainchomps, 
 bullet bills, 1ups, and now with special mega and mini mushrooms, and an annoying koopa powerup 
 that isnt worth mentioning, all in glorious 2.5 D!
  You basically run around as an Italian plumber, jump on the heads of turtles, eat mushrooms, get 
 sucked into pipes, and butt-stomp on random floating blocks, all to rescue a princess named after 
 a hairy fruit from a giant spiked turtle. Does it get any better than that? One of the great things 
 about it are the star coins (three in each level) that you can find and collect to unlock special 
 backgrounds at the end of the game, and use to open secret paths or toad houses which can give 
 you items and 1ups. This is easily one of the best DS games, (Mario Kart being first, if you dont 
 own it shame on you.) The multiplayer is also a good aspect to the game. Its pretty fun to jump 
 on your friends head and retrieve one of his golden stars. this isnt the longest Mario sidescroller, 
 or the hardest. It may be short, but it sure is sweet. You can burn through the main game in about 
 4-6 hours, but collecting star coins, stopping to smell the roses, and finding all the secrets 
 can easily extend this. look at the hours I've logged. Do your self a favor and go buy this great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Once again its the same old same old story. This time the Mario in this game is more 
 like the Mario in Super Mario World 64 because he can do the 3 jumps, He can jump off walls, and 
 the graphics are in 3-D. keep in mind that this game is really short. like only 10 hours and the 
 bowser fights can be beat by even the most unexperenced players.
  
  GRAPHICS: There better than the other mario games with the 3-D type graphics. No lag.
  
  SOUND: 
 The music is like it just poped out of the Mario bros. universe but since its on the DS its more 
 polished off especally if you have headphones in.
  
  VALUE: Theres not much replay value in this mario game and the final fight can be beaten in about 
 two minutes along with the other fights involving bowser.
  
  TILT: I had fun playing this one and should be picked up for the younger players but if your a 
 fan of mario and really want to play this one just rent it or buy it used because your going to 
 beat it in about a week or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donaldo1989
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  A 2d Mario game is finally made and its what many people have been waiting for, and it doesn't 
 disappoint. For people who have played a 2d mario game before will know what to expect as it is 
 a platforming game starring mario. You will have to explore several worlds each with many levels 
 in order to complete the game. Each world has a minimum of 2 castles which means a minimum of 2 
 bosses which you need to defeat in order to proceed to the next world.
  
  Firstly the game is presented very well and mario and his enemies are made up of 3d polygons despite 
 this being a 2d game which makes this game very pretty to look at.
  
  The worlds are set similar to super mario world and super mario bros 3, meaning that you move from 
 level to level manually and are free to choose which level to go to whenever there is a choice. 
 Also there are toad huts on the world map which when encountered allow you to obtain items and 
 lives at the cost of star coins which a maximum of 3 are obtainable from each level.
  
  Completing each level and castle involves jumping and running from platform to platform while defeating 
 enemies in your path and it plays alot better than it sounds on paper. Each world has its own setting 
 so the gameplay will never get repetitive as you will be platforming through volcanoes which mean 
 you have to avoid lava, the skies which involve you jumping from cloud to cloud and also means 
 if you drop its the end. Some levels will even require quick reactions as you will have to jump 
 on a midair projectile in order to gain enough height to reach a platform. It is really good fun 
 to play and will have you hooked.
  
  You can choose the configuration but you will have a jump button and run button. Mario also has 
 some new moves that have never been seen in a 2d mario game including the ground pound, wall jump 
 and many other moves which allow players to keep on their toes and access secret areas which would 
 have never been possible before.
  
  A Mario game however wouldnt be a mario game without power-ups, you have the ordinary items like 
 the mushroom, fire flower and star power but in addition there are 3 new power ups the mega and 
 tiny mushroom and the blue shell.
  The mega mushroom greatly increases your size allowing you to be invincible and tear through platforms 
 while the tiny mushroom shrinks you to a tiny size rendering you very vulnerable but able to jump 
 higher and access tiny areas. Lastly the blue shell allows you to become a koopa shell, so that 
 when you are running you become an item that destroys enemies in its path. You will find enemies 
 new and old and some familiar secrets that were present in older mario games which will make an 
 interesting experience for older mario fans.
  
  The music is very mario like which isnt a bad thing but arent as memorable as the old tunes.
 
  
  Bearing this all in mind, new super mario bros is a great game. The difficulty is set at such a 
 level so that new gamers will be able to try out this game, this however is a double edged sword. 
 Old gamers, after playing games like the famous super mario bros 1 and 3 and the mario world and 
 land series will find this game a little too easy and a little too short. Some levels will be just 
 too short in length, enemies are never abundant enough to be a hassle and the power ups are just 
 too abundant so most people such as myself will never see the game over screen, simply because 
 in a level on average there will be about 7 different chances to get a power up and the 1up mushroom 
 is just about found everywhere including the world map where it is possible to collect more than 
 10 lifes from a single bonus. Like in previous mario games you are given a time limit for each 
 level but even the time limit is too generous for experienced mario gamers to ever see the time 
 up screen.
  
  The bosses are the best a 2d mario game has ever seen due to the fact that they are all so unique 
 but is let down due to how easy it is to defeat a boss, also due to power ups and the item storage 
 system some bosses which could have been a challenge are made to easy because of this.
  
  After saying all this the pros of this game do outweigh the difficulty issue of this game which 
 means you will still have a good time with this game and for the experienced mario gamers collecting 
 the 3 star coins in each level will provide more of a challenge.
  There is also a 2 player mode which features each player scrambling for a certain number of stars 
 and a 1-4 player minigame mode so there is enough to justify this purchase.
  
  So as a final note, new super mario bros is a must have in your collection due to its gameplay, 
 colourful graphics and enjoyment to play but experienced mario players may find this game a bit 
 too easy and short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers really sets the standard for future remakes of past games. not only does 
 it successfully maintain the charm and the feel of the old game, it adds in completely new features 
 that blend perfectly into the mix to produce one of the best games for the DS so far.
  
  though the single player story mode is short (not considering doing a 100%) , it is extremely replayable 
 and makes you feel like wanting to finish the game till completion. aka, collecting all the Big 
 Coins and unlocking all the secrets.
  
  the download play with your friends also adds in a total different spin on the game. its fast paced 
 and highly addictive. and it keeps you coming back for more.
  
  all in all, no one can really go wrong with New Super Mario Brothers. its an improvement in every 
 area over the game we all know and love so well. its music retains its awe and charm and the graphics 
 are beautiful and the controls seamless. the only thing holding this game back from being even 
 better then it is, is the length of the time and the challenge - for it will be pretty simple to 
 most experienced gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saba_ora
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap i beat this game in less than one 24 hour day, secret worlds and all. maybe i just have 
 too much free time. some nice new power ups like the gooba shell and the mega mushroom, and some 
 annoying ones like the mini mushroom. some of the old power ups were highly missed like the cape 
 or raccoon tail. its a nice take on the old one but i just wanted more *cough* yoshi *cough*. just 
 seemed too short for me. and the mini games just seem like a filler. i can see were mario fans 
 would want to own this game however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyYoshi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario brothers is very good. Nintendo did a good job recreating the pure awsomeness 
 of the first Mario games.
  Although it did get tedious at tmes. It would have been nice to have a few more power-ups, because 
 the two new ones they had weren't all that great.
  Even though the game was knid of short, you could always go back and do some more. (Like go through 
 different routes.) Another problem though, was the fact you really couldn't save all that often. 
 Although this only was for the first time you palyed through the game. After that, you could save 
 whenever you wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers is fun while it lasts. But it's too short. In-fact, you while probably 
 beat this within 3-4 days. The graphics are good for the DS and is very visualley appealing. The 
 sound for this game is nothing new and features all of the songs from the origional. Altough this 
 game has no wi-fi, it does have fun normal multi-player. You can go head-to-head in mini games, 
 or race around maps and try and get the most stars. This game doesnt really use the stylus that 
 much. During the game, you can use the stylus to select and item that you have already picked up. 
 but thats it. But all of the mini games are completley used with the touch screen and some even 
 use the microphone. Overall, this is a fun game that any fan of the origional should pick-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateKarl4613
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics and Sound: This is one of the best parts about New Super Mario Bros. This is the first 
 truly 2D Mario game we have seen since the SNES and 2D Mario has never looked better. The game 
 uses 3D objects on the 2D surface for some really neat effects. Rotating cannons, huge full screen 
 enemies, bright colors, and great backgrounds really give this game a great look. A lot of people 
 compare the DS to the PSP and the PSP usually gets the nod. For those of you who only have a DS 
 will really appreciate the graphics and whats its doing with its limited capabilites. The sound 
 too is great. What is really cool is the old school feel. It really has some music and sound effects 
 spanning all the mario games. Even with the great sounds; who doesnt just put on a pair of headphones 
 and listen to Slayer or whatever when playing portable games? Rock on Mario \m/
  
  Gameplay: The meat of the game. I really have mixed feelings about the gameplay. New Super Mario 
 Bros. is what i like to call Nintendo doing a half-ass job. Let me start now and just hammer Nintendo.... this 
 game is not orginal or innovative in any way. We have seen all of this before. There are 8 levels 
 all that can been seen a mile away. We have the sand level, the snow level, a tropical level inspired 
 by Super Mario Sunshine, and of course the last level is evil with an apparent halloween theme. 
 We only get 3 new items in this game. One is a blue shell that you can duck into and kill enemies 
 which is pretty cool. The other is a mushroom that makes you the size of the screen. A megamushroom. 
 This item like the other 2 new items is got sparingly so most of the game you will be in the flower 
 power. But the megamushroom makes it too easy. I used this mushroom on the final Bowser and the 
 fight was over in one second. The third is a mini mushroom. This is just used to access some spots 
 unreachable without it. Ex: to go through the game you only beat 6 levels. To unlock the other 
 two levels you have to beat 2 bosses while mini. That is just stupid. You should have a main game 
 with all 8 levels available. The only real innovation is on each level is 3 hidden coins you must 
 find. Some are easy and some are hard. But this isnt really an innovation because the same exact 
 thing is done on Kirby: Canvas Curse also on the DS. The difference is I wanted to go back and 
 find the coins on Kirby and put around 20 hours on Kirby. The coins in kirby were used to purchase 
 unlockable bonuses and you wanted that 100% but on Mario, you only can buy items or extra lives. 
 There are no bonuses or rewards! Going back to the items.... THERE IS NO RACCOON TAIL FROM MARIO. 
 Why? I dont know. The tail adds more depth to the game with the flight. This game takes enemies 
 and levels, and music all from previous games but there is another problem... on Mario 3 certain 
 special items were there like a water specific frog suit or a bear suit that can turn to stone. 
 But there is nothing like that in this game either. It is a very straight forward bare bones platformer. 
 Speaking of things from all the mario games, mario has new moves. He has the wall jump from Super 
 Mario 64 and the butt stomp from the same game. But where are more moves like the triple jump or 
 backflip. Again, adding more moves could deepen the gameplay but Nintendo missed the mark here 
 too. The only thing right with the gameplay with all of its problems is it is still fun! Nintendo 
 knows how to make a good 2d platformer but did a half ass job like they were lazy. Where is yoshi? 
 nowhere. where is any unlockable characters with different moves like wario or luigi? no where. 
 With all these problems like i said this game is still fun. but not very long.
  
  Lasting Appeal: This game has an odd feel to it. The original mario was short and had no save feature. 
 So everytime you play you start at the beginning. but that works. This game feels more like a save 
 the game. come back later. and try to save the princess like super mario 64. so you dont want to 
 start over. but the game only lasts maybe 5 hours. Like i said, i have to real desire to find all 
 the stupid pointless coins and there is no reason to go back and play except to unlock the two 
 levels. Once you do and see them that is it. I didnt test the muliplayer. I am just done with this 
 review. you, the nintendo power readers, have probablay gotten a good idea about this game.
  
  conclusion: is this game worth 30 bucks? it depends. this game isnt going to satisfy hardcore 
 mario gamers and me personally could have spent the money in a better way. NOTE* This game was 
 very difficult to give a review. it really was. It is fun and everything. but it is missing so 
 much. there are better DS games, Mario Kart, Castlevania, and Kirby and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHedgehog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Brothers. Everybody remembers that, right? I mean, who doesn't? Some time in your life, 
 you've no doubt played a Mario platformer. Usually, these games are of the pinnacle of the genre; 
 almost as if Mario commands the entire genre - whatever Mario does, everybody usually follows through 
 on. Unfortunately, after Super Mario 64, this trend seemed to kind of stop - Mario stumbled. All 
 it takes is one reading of my Super Mario Sunshine review to learn that I didn't really like the 
 game at all; it not only failed to produce a sufficiently innovative feature, but it even went 
 so far as to REMOVE some of the innovation brought from Super Mario 64. Debates raged on: Was Super 
 Mario Sunshine a good game? In a time when the Gamecube was showing serious signs of weakness, 
 and indeed, Nintendo as a whole was showing signs of weakness, people wondered if this might have 
 been the beginning of the end for Mario. Repeated delays of the titular Super Mario 128 did nothing 
 to douse these fears, either.
  
  Until the Nintendo DS came along. Like some kind of shinning beacon in the night, the Nintendo 
 DS showed us that Nintendo still had it. The system was an instant success; despite experimental 
 gameplay, it pulled ahead of it's rival, the Sony Playstation Portable, eventually outselling it 
 5-to-1 in Japan. And with the Nintendo DS came a title people had been waiting for since the SNES 
 was phased out in 1996: a new side-scrolling Mario title. Not an "updated" port of something from 
 Super Mario All-Stars, but an all-new, completely original Mario title. "New Super Mario Brothers". 
 Immediately hype levels were off the charts. Miyamoto announced that the team working on it was 
 comprised of some of the team who had worked on Super Mario Brothers 3 and Super Mario World 2: 
 Yoshi's Island, two of the best side-scrolling platformers to ever feature a plumber. And then, 
 the game dropped. After over a year of waiting, it was finally here. 
  
  So what do I think? A lot of what I had heard on the game prior to buying it was kind of questionable: 
 Curiously, most people seemed to complain that it just wasn't new enough. This completely puzzles 
 me; but that doesn't mean I think the game is perfect. It definitely needs work and suffers from 
 some of the problems that were seemingly inherited from the "Super Mario Advance" ports.
  
  So let's start at the good. Eight worlds with roughly 8 levels per-world. That's roughly 64 levels 
 and is nothing to sneeze at. Worlds are grouped on familiar themes, with some new themes poking 
 through; you have your typical Ice and Desert worlds, for example, but you also have a world dedicated 
 to Beach levels, Forest levels, and, harkening back to Super Mario Brothers 3, a world of the Sky. 
 The maps themselves look something like a cross between Super Mario Brothers 3, Super Mario World, 
 and Yoshi's Island. Worlds are broken up by two types of boss levels: Towers and Castles. Towers 
 typically come midway through a world, and at the end, you face Bowser's Son. Castles are where 
 the real boss fight of the world comes.
  
  The levels themselves fall into a mostly familiar Mario gameplay mold; bricks, question blocks, 
 Goombas, and Koopa Troopas are all present and accounted for. A new addition that's rather amusing 
 is the fact that music plays a slightly greater emphasis; enemies and items seem to time their 
 movements to certain musical cues. Goombas hop in time to the music, Koopa Troopas stop and pose 
 momentarily on certain beats - it's just something that makes you smile. New gameplay keeps this 
 from feeling like just the same old Mario, too; elements from the 3D Mario games have been blended 
 in - Mario's butt stomp, the triple jump, etc. The Butt-stomp especially becomes useful as you 
 can stomp question blocks and the item will fall out of the bottom - expanding gameplay possibilities 
 a great deal. Several times have I butt-stomped a brick block only to have a vine - originally 
 intended to send me to a bonus area - amusingly shoot downwards into the ground where it immediately 
 becomes useless to me. It's totally one of those "d'oh!" moments.
  
  The game introduces three new power-ups; returning are the Fire Flower and Super Mushroom, but 
 new to the table are the Mega Mushroom, which turns Mario into a massive, invincible giant who 
 stomps and crashes through every item, pipe, and enemy on screen for a limited amount of time; 
 the Mini Mushroom, which transforms Mario into a super-tiny, light-as-a-feather Tiny Mario, who 
 is able to squeeze through tight spots and utilize tiny Warp Pipes; and finally, the Blue Koopa 
 Troopa Shell. With this on, Mario pretends to be a Koopa Troopa himself: Run for an extended length 
 of time and Mario will duck into the shell and spin along nigh uncontrollably just as if you picked 
 up and kicked a Koopa shell. You can also use the shell for defensive purposes; hold down to duck 
 inside of it and you are impervious to nearly all forms of damage at the disadvantage of being 
 nearly immobile while doing so. Secondary power-ups are stored in a Super-Mario-World-esque "storage" 
 container, located on the bottom screen. Touch it at any time to release the secondary power-up.
 
  
  With the added power of the Nintendo DS over, say, the Super NES, New Super Mario Brothers introduces 
 a greater feeling of physics to the Mario world. Yoshi's Island touched on this a little bit, but 
 NSMB takes it to the next level. Water ripples as things touch it, ropes sway and objects attached 
 to string bounce around realistically; it's all very cool looking. Visuals do not disappoint either: 
 The levels themselves are made up of detailed, vivid, colorful objects that take advantage of the 
 DS's strengths over the Gameboy Advance. No cramped resolution; no washed out visuals. Objects 
 themselves - such as Mario, enemies, bosses, etc. are all crafted out of relatively detailed 3D 
 models. This gives them slick, smooth animations in addition to making things like the aforementioned 
 "Mega Mario" look quite impressive, too. Giant enemies also make an appearance here and there - 
 regular enemies, but at double the size. It all makes for one of the most visually pleasing Mario 
 side-scrollers ever made. So what's bad about it? My largest complaint is that the game is simply 
 too easy. The game throws a ton of extra lives at you and you rarely, if ever, need to use them. 
 By the time I finished the game, I had nearly 60 lives - and never did I once go out of my way 
 to collect or "farm" extra lives. Through the natural course of playing the game, it had just given 
 me all those extra lives. This same thought process effected the "Super Mario Advance" ports, too. 
 Those games gave you a lot more extra lives compared to their originals. But New Super Mario Brothers 
 is worse; it subscribes to the concept that secret levels are the ones that have to be difficult. 
 
  
  Perhaps it's their way of separating the hardcore Mario players from the casual gamers; while most 
 of the game is paced for the casual, those hardcore Mario fanatics will find solace in uncovering 
 every secret (including the "secret" Worlds 4 and 7) in the game - where the challenge ramps up. 
 But even the secret levels aren't hard. They're hardER, but in all 8 worlds of the game, the only 
 worlds that seemed to give me any trouble were parts of World 7 and the last half of World 8. Had 
 the last half of World 8 not claimed 10 lives, I might have actually beaten the game with nearly 
 70 lives instead of 60. I honestly assumed I would have topped 99 lives before I cleared the game, 
 and, had I gone just a little out of my way, I could've very likely done that with no problem whatsoever. 
 Just GETTING to World 4 and World 7 is harder than actually completing them, as you have to beat 
 bosses as Tiny Mario, whom dies in one hit. Failing that, every other boss in the game is easy 
 as cake: Like lives, NSMB isn't shy on giving you freebie power-ups. Both the Fire Flower and the 
 Mega Mushroom give you the opportunity of taking a boss down in mere seconds; and both are easily 
 stow-able in your Secondary Power-up reserve, ready and waiting to be activated the moment you 
 step into the Boss's lair. In short, New Super Mario Brothers is a game that's hard only if you 
 WANT it to be, and even then, it's not really that challenging. While parts of World 8 gave me 
 sweaty palms, nothing in the rest of the game did.
  
  "But wait," you, the reader, say. "You've been playing Mario games since 1988. Of course the game 
 is going to be easier for you."
  
  That may be true, but I make no effort in hiding the fact that I suck at games. I used to play 
 RPGs with a Game Genie, for crying out loud. Before a friend of mine went off to college, we went 
 on a retro-gaming co-op binge; we beat many classic SNES games together, including, for the first 
 time in nearly 10 years, Super Mario Brothers 3 and Super Mario World. Those games were a LOT harder 
 than New Super Mario Brothers. I don't think we ever even completed SMB3; we got up to World 6 
 or World 7 and couldn't get any further. So regardless of my skill level as a gamer, New Super 
 Mario Brothers IS, by a great margin, a lot easier than it's NES/SNES brethren. 
  
  And THAT'S why it feels like it's just going through the motions; it's not really challenging you. 
 Speed through here, stomp this goomba, hit this brick, slide down the flag pole and do the same 
 thing in the next level. Sure, it taps nostalgia like no tomorrow - paying homage to every side-scrolling 
 Mario game that came before it, but it's simply not hard enough for us to really remember any of 
 that cool stuff. It's got some nice ideas, but it just never really gets down and dirty enough 
 to make you remember those nice ideas. If this is your first Mario, it's not a bad starting point. 
 I just hope that in the sequel (and there BETTER be a sequel!) Nintendo ramps the difficulty up 
 considerably, as a common complaint I'm hearing from them for ALL their DS games (Super Princess 
 Peach, Mario Versus Donkey Kong 2) is that they simply aren't challenging enough - and New Super 
 Mario Brothers fits neatly within that same criteria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkguy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  ushoud buy this game the grathics are good game plays asome it is! u have to buy it man its just 
 soo unn i already beat the game i still mess aruond u must buy this game man its so fun like really 
 man this is the best mario game yet really the people out there that hate super mario are f***ers 
 hey wtf this is the funest and i mean fuuuun super mario game in the world man u hav tobuy this 
 game so al u super mario fans out there and the ones that dont hav new supermario urr missing out 
 of the fun! this game is the bomb everyone in the world should trie this game out! and turn out likin 
 it is soooo cool! man this game has to be perfect the best in the sers yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is now my favorite game on the Nintendo DS. And the good point's are classic 
 level's in 1P mode and the Mario and Luigi mode for two player's is fantastic. And the mini games 
 out Super Mario 64 DS are funny for four player's plus a pair new mini games to. And that baby 
 Bowser and other's level boss are easy and hard. And the new item's Mario shell and my favorite 
 item in this game the gaint Mushroom. but in Mario and Luigi mode want i a lava level in the multyplayer 
 mode. And Bowser's return in the level in crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princetonwuki
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  
  Many new cool new cool new moves in this game and same classical madness controls. Sometimes snackers 
 falls on Marios head and makes him cry for 3 minutes, and you lose time, so watch out for snackers. 
 If you see a flying potatoe, STAY AWAY. It will make Mario faint, and you will have to reset the 
 game. Mario will still be crying, and sometimes he will fart on Luigi. BUt Mario is nice and doesn't 
 do that.... anymore. The Goomba's jump on Mario. Mario attacks him but dies.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Sometimes Mario becomes ugly. You must buy him super snacks and he won't be 
 ugly. If you make him shave, he will explode. His mustache grows over time, and if its too long, 
 your game explodes. But don't buy this game again if the cover shows Mario with a long mustache. 
 Look for one with a short one, and Luigi will come and he will transform into a KFC Snacker when 
 he sees Mario. Don't let anyone eat Luigi The Snacker, though, because you will see many chicken 
 and bread on this screen. Luigi sees shmooblay, his arch enemy, and becomes ugly. If you see Mario 
 and Luigi BOTH with the SAME length mustache, they beomce snacky monsters, which effect the graphics 
 lots and lots.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Some of the music is still its classical madness, but sometimes you can hear Mario crying. Luigi 
 sometimes farts, too. Mario snores when he is sleeping or napping, and this happens when YOU are 
 sleeping. To avoid this, break your NSMB game cartridge and throw it in the garbage and burn it. 
 If done correctly, another NSMB will appear on your bed and the Mario on that one does not snore, 
 but Luigi does, so repeat for another one. If done correctly, you get another one. No one snores, 
 but people make annoying noises as sound affects during boss battles. Lots of people think it has 
 to be Toadstool, Toad, and Peach making the sound affects with instruments, and others think they 
 are banging on a trash can and street light. But thats only the snackers. When you see Mario jumping, 
 people snort as the sound for jumping. When Mario walks, people cry for the sound affects. WHen 
 Mario manipuates, people shmagatize the shmooblay powers of the smagadonez.
  
  Value: 8
  
  The mini-games are kind of mini, but they are still games. The games are very snackery, and 
 the campaign mode of this game is ugly. It doesn't last long because Bowser hacks into each Game 
 Cartridge and eats the game. If he eats too much of the game, your game explodes and you might 
 die. If you don't die and your lucky, you will die the next day. If you don't die the next day, 
 you will definitaly die on the next Tuesday, where you will also be forced to eat a snacker before 
 your death. The snacker is a symbol os Mario Cheese. Mario also works as a plumber and tries to 
 make the game longer by plumbing the things needed to be plumbed of Nintendo, and they will say 
 yes or no. Mario then goes to Plan B if it fails. Plan B is Mario working in Gino's Pizzeria.
 
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  The game tilts on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Saturdays. If it does not tilt, then you will probably 
 die. Dying will be fun, though. The way you die is you explode into pizza madness on Tuesdays.
 
  
  
  
  UNBELIEVABLE MADNESS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omy808
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Mario is one of those guys who just serves as a natural role model, despite his quirky funny plumber 
 look. Ironic, right? That's what I thought? 3 years ago.
  
  Let's rewind back to Mario 64. The nice gameplay and solid presentation just dazzled my eyes when 
 I played it two ago, and the novel sense of control was copied by numerous other franchises, including 
 Ratchet &amp; Clank. What about Super Mario Sunshine? It basically was a remake of Mario 64. Not 
 that it was a rip-off or anything; just that it lacked the novelty of its predecessor.
  Let's skip all the other Mario games (rpg, sports, party, ...) and pause on the latest installment 
 (discounting Super Mario Galaxy) : Super Mario Bros.! The first thing I need to tell you before 
 anything else (drumrolls please!) : I have spent exactly 30 min. playing the previous Mario Bros. 
 games, so I have nothing to refer to.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Unlike what I've seen with the previous Mario Bros. installments, the graphics in the game are 
 lovely. Everything in the scenery blends with everything else, and Nintendo has once again managed 
 to sync a totally 3D environment to suit a 2D player. Also unlike anything else that's been played 
 on my DS, the environments are each EXTREMELY detailed and colorful, not to mention worthy of getting 
 a 9/10 in ANY GC game. So... 4 thumbs up!
  
  Sound 10/10
  What I liked about this game is that it recycles most of the previous games' sound effects, such 
 as the hop of Mario, or the sound a coin does after you picked it up. The new sound effects, such 
 as the Desert Theme, add some more flavor to the mix. An interesting feature is that when you put 
 on earphones, the sound travels from one earphone to another according to the action (eg. when 
 Mario bounces on right wall - right earphone. left - left earphone) Another thumbs up!
  
  Multiplayer 9/10
  This game is one of the first games in the DS to bring up a new function of 
 gaming with one cartridge. I experimented it with the DS of my cousin, which was fun at first, 
 but was short-lived because the minigames were too boring. Value 10/10
  Worth every cent. What else to say?
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Worthy of mention, the gameplay features 
 are interesting, easy to remember / master, and slick. FINALLY a 2D game that brings acrobatic, 
 smooth motions! You'll just LOVE the new features this game has in stock, such as the new triple 
 jump (a first in 2D Mario) and the wall hop (also a first in 2D Mario) .
  
  Unlockables 10/10
  This game holds more unlockables than a room full of treasures! You'll be 
 able to purchase new themes for you pause menu (similar to the XBox 360 Dashboard) and unlock tons 
 of new worlds and bonus stages, accessible only through certain hidden areas in the game. In addition, 
 you will find that you can also win 3 WHOLE WORLDS!!! As if that's not enough, this game introduces 
 more interesting features, such as the addition of the Mega Mushroom and the Blue Shell. Again, 
 if you wanna get some hardcore Mario madness, GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_dude_666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Well yeah here comes yet another super mario side scroller were you jump on gombas trow shells 
 and, well you now. At firt this may seem like another game and yes the classic story where peach 
 gets caputred by bowser Jr. and he takes her to a castle. But actualy it may be the best super 
 mario 2D side scroller.
  
  Ok first bowser Jr. comes and kidnnapes peach. and takes to the first castle of well you guest it 
 yeah the first world. Like pretty much always theres eigth worlds. The mushrom world (naturaly) , 
 the egyptian world and so on. Each world contains eight levels or so wich you will finish pretty 
 easly.
  And there comes the first new feature that the game has to offer in each level you have thre big 
 coins that are somtimes hidden and sometimes realy easy to find. In each world see levels and little 
 toad houses. When you pay five of these big coins you can buy new levels and toad houses tath give 
 you random items or one up mashroms. And that realy like ads too the games value cause you are 
 probaly be forced to go back to levels you finished to get the coins. And there is the mega mushrom 
 that you either get in a mestery box or in a toad house. When you pick up a mega mushrom you get 
 realy (realy) giangantc and you start destoying evreything. And the more chaos you cause the more 
 one up mushroms you get.
  THere also is a bunch of minigames and a luigi VS mario game but the real focus is the main game.
 
  New super mario is a game that anyone will enjoy playing no mather if you are a serious gamer 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun. Very addicting. I like the graphics a lot. They were awsome. They were 
 of cource better that all the other hand held super mario games. As I said before this game was 
 very addicting. I couldnt stop playing and I was up all night trying to beat the world, then after 
 that, I thought I might as well go for another world. The sound was nice. The mario theme music 
 along with some new music. The sound effects were great. This game also brought on some new moves, 
 like the wall slide, which once mastered has saved lives many times from falling into lava. Then 
 theres the butt bounce wich lets you slide down hills, kill big enemys if you have a mini mushroom, 
 or just landing on boxes. They also brought on some new items you can get like Mega Mushrooms, 
 mini mushrooms, Shells, and ...... yeah..... The shell lets you be one of those koopa turtle things 
 or whatever you call em. You can dash and slide and break through blocks. This helps you get to 
 secret areas. Then the Mega mushroom makes you indestructable, nothing can kill you unless you 
 fall off a cliff. The mini mushroom makes you jump super far, go throu mini tunnles, and gets you 
 to world 4 and 7. To do that, beat world 2 or 5 bosses while you are mini. Thats where the butt 
 bounce comes in. So that my review on The New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a Mario side scroller on the DS for ever. But I didn't think it could have 
 been this good. Lets compare this to the NES Super Mario shall we? Stomping on Goombas? Check. 
 Launching fire balls at koopas? Check. Our lovable pal Bowser? Check. The graphics in this game 
 are phenomenal. It is still a side scroller, yet it is 3D. How does Nintendo do it? A small problem 
 is that it is rather short. And you just skip over worlds 4 and 7. They are secret worlds that 
 you have to unlock by finding a secret passage. The multiplayer is pretty fun. You can either play 
 minigames (there are a lot of them) or Mario vs. Luigi. This is where you try to get the big stars 
 on the level before your opponent does. Without a doubt this is one of the best the DS has to offer 
 and anybody can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderEight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is outstanding.... it brings out all the best of Mario, adds a few new things while bringing 
 back some goodies, and throws in a few challenges as well. Just a great, fun game! I couldn't decide 
 which I enjoyed better... Supersized Mario or Mini Mario. This is a game that will be played over 
 and over and over again. Another nice feature of this game is that it can be played by the whole 
 family. You can team up and help each other out, or challenge each other to see who can do better. 
 There are also some really fun mini games to be played. All in all this is a great game! Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The name Mario has been slapped and packaged onto many games, maybe half of Nintendo's ideas involve 
 the plump plumber or his assortment of wacky freinds in a world where mushrooms cause growth and 
 plants can devour you whole. Nowadays it seems as if the name Mario is overused. I mean, he's been 
 skiing, snowboarding, b-balling, dancing, fighting for dear life, partying, striking goals, swinging 
 homers, and much more in the past few years. It's hard to find a new Mario game that follows the 
 classic formula of simple sidescrolling, puzzle solving, goomba stomping fun that made the old 
 games great. Well, fans, look no further fans! This game is by far the best new Mario game to date, 
 maybe even better than the original Super Mario World for the SNES. This game is simple, fun, and 
 will always keep you entertained.
  
  PEACH GETS CAUGHT. There has got to be a political reason why peach keeps getting caught. Well, 
 whatever the reason, the Koopa King's Kid is up to no good with our pretty princess. The plot, 
 like other Mario games, is laughably simplistic, but it's always been. Go through levels of land, 
 sand, water, fire, ice, etc.; beat bosses; skip levels; unlock secrets; and do other Mario-esque 
 tasks to get closer to the final level where (SPOILER ALERT) Peach is saved. I wish this game had 
 a newer plot, maybe like a deeper involved plot like Paper Mario, but the classic formula always 
 works well and never bothers.
  
  MEGA SHROOM! Nothing but a level skipper. You simply mow down hinderences, even pipes and levels 
 you may need to go to to get secret coins and stuff. Then, the meter gets counted and converted 
 into 1-up shrooms. MINISHROOMS! Useless unless needed. Basicaly, you get really tiny. You can't 
 kill anything, but you can stay airborn longer and get to tinier areas.
  
  MINIGAMES! Yes, there are a few minigames to pass the time. If you're stuck on a level, just get 
 bored (highly unlikely) , or beat the game you have a few minigames to pass the time utilizing the 
 DS's touchscreen. Games like sorting bob-ombs, drawing pipes, and three casino-style games are 
 actually good enough to keep a single player enthralled even after beating the game.
  
  SAVING. You can only save your game after beating a fort, castle, or paying 5 big coins. I know, 
 you're probably thinking, WHAT?! But never fear, unless you get a Game Over, you can just close 
 your DS and put it into sleep mode. Mario will say See you next time! and when opened he says Itsa 
 me-a Mario! cutely.
  
  OVERALL: A classic that has already made thousands buy DSlites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMBfan13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a side scroller game made for the Nintendo DS. I personally had a lot 
 of fun with this and you will too. If you played the past series, then this game should be very 
 familiar to you. I am truly a Super Mario Bros. player myself, as you can see by my name. Ok now 
 let's get down with the elements of the game, which I enjoyed a whole bunch.
  
  Gameplay- Obviously you know the gameplay is the same as the past series, which is still 100% awesome. 
 There is also a couple extra moves Mario can pull off this time. He can slide on the walls and 
 do a triple jump. Well that's Mario alright. Luigi is also a playable character. If I told you 
 how to play him in this review, you would hate me. Graphics- One word: perfect.
  
  Sound- Well to me the sound is OK. Now that doesn't mean it's bad or good, but it's in between. 
 The sound can vary on what level your'e playing. do de pop pop... sorry about that.
  
  Value- The value is OK. If you are an extreme SMB fan, then you would play this game like 24/7, 
 which I do. For other players, the game can vary from 2 days to 4 days. The storyline is not very 
 long, which is why I gave the game a little lower score.
  
  Tilt- If you love super mario bros. like me, get it. If you're not in the mario mood right now, 
 then don't. It's an excellent game, but it all depends on you. I loved playing this game. Maybe 
 that'll boost your chances. I'm not gonna spoil the game for you. Another good reason to buy this 
 because of curiosity. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really know what to exactly expect when this and shadow of the collosus PLUS Resident 
 evil x arrived in the mail. I was thinking (man this sounds like a great game) from all the reviews 
 and videos. Well I think I made an awsome choice. This game isn't just a new version of Super Mario 
 bros on the NES and SNES, it revitalizes the games gameplay with amazing results. You don't just 
 jump and stomp and fire fireballs at enemies in this game. NOOOOOOOOO. You are introduced to ground 
 pounding, wall kicking, extra small power, living large (just play and you'll get it) , and mario 
 even gets to don a blue shell sometimes in some levels. The graphics are just beautiful. You will 
 be dumbstruck by the graphical change that may not capture a real retro feeling, but is remenesant 
 of Super Mario 64 DS graphics. All the hype and talk that surrounds it is expected too be met right? 
 Of course. That is one thing that makes this game great, it lives up to all the positive hubub 
 that surrounds this double masterpiece. The gameplay may seem too easy to master, but for me that 
 is not a factor. What may bother a bit is in the end is the changed music and sound. The sound 
 is great, but the music seems the same in most levels. Not creative. But that is my crappish opinion. 
 Overall, if you own a DS and you haven't bought this........ WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU WAITING FOR? 
 But if you want a rather lingthy adventure, this won't help. It may be short, but it is awsome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuban
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I never thought that they would make a game like this again. I'am glad I was wrong. To 
 see Mario walk, jump or throwing koopa shells have never been as good as this.
  
  Many people might consider SMW to be the best 2d Mario game, and it was until May 2006. Mario and 
 Luigi has returned with the greatest 2d Mario game to the date. I just could' nt stop playing until 
 I had beaten the game like...100 times. This game never goes old.
  
  All of you who've played SMB and SMW and liked them, you can't get around this one. It's a must 
 have for every DS owner. And those of you who have not bought it yet: Do it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManMasterer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was disappointed and started to think that Nintendo really 
 was milking the Mario franchise for all that its worth. As it turns out, I couldn't be me wrong. 
 Nintendo had intelligently combined some of the best aspects in all of the best Mario games ever 
 created into one new, solid original Mario game.
  They started with the world map setting that the classic Super Mario Bros. 3 already had and you 
 might say they improved on it. They included many of the items from Super Mario Bros 3 as well. 
 They incorporated all of that into how the original Super Mario Bros. played, very similar beginning 
 levels and basic stuff. They then took Mario's wall-jump and ground-pound from Super Mario 64 and 
 used them marvelously into this new game. Furthermore, they took the tiny Mario ability from the 
 Mario and Luigi: Superstar Saga and incorporated it into this new adaption of a classic as well. 
 Next, they super-sized Mario and gave him the blue turtle ability.
  The New Super Mario Bros. also featured many original levels and enemies, along with classic cannons 
 and tubes used in a different way than the older versions had done so. On top of all that, they 
 threw in some mighty fine secrets. Add it all up, and you have a brand new Mario game, retro style. 
 All together, this game deserves a 9.4 out of 10. I don't give it a full 10 because it lacks much 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Faithe_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying New Super Mario Bros. is all it's cracked up to be.
  
  Everything about NSMB will remind you of the old NES or SNES Mario days, and believe me when I 
 say those days were wonderful ones. With so many new improvements on levels, transformations, and 
 secrets, it is suffice to say your $34.99 purchase is worth it.
  
  The game incorporates the features of the Dual Screen in a great way. The levels make the game 
 really shine, in my opinion. Each level is filled with its own secrets, and all it takes is one 
 jump that can take you to that infamous red flag at the end of the level. With each world being 
 very unique (i. e. Desert, Underwater, etc.) , you'll find yourself loving one world and hating another. 
 You can choose to play every level or take a cannon to jump to another world. Freedom is given 
 for you to pick how you want to play YOUR game, and what's better than that?
  
  Power-ups take the game in a new direction also. Mario and Luigi can now transform into a Koopa 
 shell, mini-form, and jumbo-form. Althought I would have liked to have seen more transformations 
 (or even bring back the cape) , the power-ups are still great additions.
  
  I am a big fan of the mini-games, and sadly most of them are repeats from other games. While I 
 enjoyed playing them, I would have liked to see new mini-games.
  
  AND THE VERDICT IS...
  
  Invest in this classic! You won't be disappointed. If you enjoyed the old school Mario Bros., 
 then there is no reason why you shouldn't invest in another great addition to the Mario series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Metroid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, Nintendo has relesed many Mario Games.
  Ever since the begging, Nintendo has has put mario in many types of games. From RPG's to BasketBall! 
 But none is as good as the NES classic, Super Mario brothers! Now Nintendo has released a new super 
 mario brothers game, and its called New Super Mario Bros. 
  This Game will quickly become your favorite DS Game! The Music is great, just like the original!
 
  The Giant Mushroom is really a great add-on (as seen in Mario 64 DS) You can blast your way through 
 bricks and enemies so easily! Yet this feature really effects the Difficulty, why, because it can 
 make you finish a level in 2 minutes.
  This Game Also has excellent replay value, there are alternate worlds you can unlock.
  The only 
 problem this Game has is its diificulty, this game is extreamly easy! It will only take 3-5 hours 
 for a good gamer to beat! I beat this game in very little time.
  Also, once you pick this game up, you will figure out how to play in a couple minutes!
  But overall 
 this is a must have for your DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarysSoldier
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game basically pushed me to buy my DS Lite.
  
  It brings everything memorable about the original Mario Bros. experience, and greatly refreshes 
 it into a superb game.
  
  The game gets tons of nostalgia points. Especially in the sound which earned a 10 for combining 
 all the great pieces of Mario Bros. with Mario 64 and adds its own touch. The familiar enemies 
 and flagpoles and bosses bring me back.
  
  The addition of new moves such as the wall kick and butt stomp are awesome. It's sometimes like 
 a 2D Mario 64. The use of the dual screens is perfect. Especially when it switches screens when 
 going down a pipe. Sweet!
  
  Adding value is the element of three gold coins in each level which often require you to play through 
 a few times to find. Also pushing the Value to a 10/10 is the minigames which make great use of 
 the DS and are a great time-waster.
  
  The graphics also deserve a perfect 10! I did not at all expect a handheld game to look this good. 
 The backgrounds are in 3D and that adds tremendous visual style to the package. From the movement 
 of the water to the misty clouds to the little puff of smoke when turning to exit a door. The visuals 
 are a real treat.
  
  The only things hindering the game a bit are the relative shortness of the levels, which definitely 
 reduces the difficulty, and relative ease of the bosses. If you have flowerpower then beating a 
 boss is a matter of mashing a button. Other than that though, this game is flawless. A classic! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. is a name embedded in video game history. If your a gamer and have not atleast 
 played one Super Mario game, than your not really a gamer. This game revives the classic formula 
 and puts a little pizzazi in it.
  The classic 2D formula for platformers is all here. The classic music is all here.
  The jumping 
 and the stomping and the mushrooming is all here.
  You want a great Mario game, its all here.
  Whats new to the game is some powerups, like Extra-larging 
 Mario and stomping through an enitre level.
  The graphics look great. The levels are colorful and vibrant. The game is challenging and there 
 are mini games to pro-long and already long adventure. If you have a DS, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time a brand new 2D side scrolling platformer was released? Well the time has 
 finally arrived and after 3 years of waiting, New Super Mario Bros. has arrived. It feels like 
 a new game, cause it is, but it gives you that nostalgic feel of every other Mario game, thusly 
 making this real fun game. The game starts when Mario (or Luigi) and Peach are walking and all 
 of a sudden, Bowser Jr. ends up kidnapping Peach for the upteenth time and Mario must save Peach 
 for the upteenth time. The game starts out with an overworld like what you've may seen in Super 
 Mario World or Super Mario Bros. 3, where you can go to the levels or go to other locations to 
 get power-ups or extra lives. Speaking of power-ups, there are some new power-ups added other than 
 the classic Mushroom and Fire Flower. There is a Mega Mushroom that makes you as large as the screen, 
 so you can basically take out anything that's in your way. The Mini Mushroom makes you so tiny 
 that you can fit through small gaps and pipes with tiny openings. And finally the Blue Shell in 
 which it makes you a Koopa Troopa of sorts where you can slide inside your shell to take out rows 
 of enemies. Also, the game has a variety of non platforming moments such as swinging from ropes, 
 climbing fences, shimmying from ledges and balacing on ropes. The visuals look much similar to 
 what Super Mario 64 had to offer but better. Everything looks colorful and animate real well. Mario, 
 Luigi and the enemies are by far the best looking of the bunch. The sound is also good. A number 
 of classic sound that you may have heard for years now, along with some new voice samples and remixed 
 music are some nice touches. This is one of the best DS games made yet and you should get it. The 
 good: Excellent gameplay with variety, great graphics, unique new power-ups, sound has been as 
 good as it has been 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T13SAMBRLNM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  When was the last time a brand new 2D side scrolling platformer was released? Well the time has 
 finally arrived and after 3 years of waiting, New Super Mario Bros. has arrived. It feels like 
 a new game, cause it is, but it gives you that nostalgic feel of every other Mario game, thusly 
 making this real fun game. The game starts when Mario (or Luigi) and Peach are walking and all 
 of a sudden, Bowser Jr. ends up kidnapping Peach for the upteenth time and Mario must save Peach 
 for the upteenth time. The game starts out with an overworld like what you've may seen in Super 
 Mario World or Super Mario Bros. 3, where you can go to the levels or go to other locations to 
 get power-ups or extra lives. Speaking of power-ups, there are some new power-ups added other than 
 the classic Mushroom and Fire Flower. There is a Mega Mushroom that makes you as large as the screen, 
 so you can basically take out anything that's in your way. The Mini Mushroom makes you so tiny 
 that you can fit through small gaps and pipes with tiny openings. And finally the Blue Shell in 
 which it makes you a Koopa Troopa of sorts where you can slide inside your shell to take out rows 
 of enemies. Also, the game has a variety of non platforming moments such as swinging from ropes, 
 climbing fences, shimmying from ledges and balacing on ropes. The visuals look much similar to 
 what Super Mario 64 DS had to offer but better. Everything looks colorful and animate real well. 
 Mario, Luigi and the enemies are by far the best looking of the bunch. The sound is also good. 
 A number of classic sound that you may have heard for years now, along with some new voice samples 
 and remixed music are some nice touches. This is one of the best DS games made yet and you should 
 get it. The good: Excellent gameplay with variety, great graphics, unique new power-ups, sound 
 has been as good as it has been
  
  The bad: Some levels are short and some are too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cavv
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Was it really neccesary from nintendo to bring us a brand new Mario game on a beatifull 2-d gameplay? 
 In my opinion, yes it was. We needed a small refreshing since the not that amazing but ok Mario 
 Sunshine. Refering to gameplay, new gamers will find a lot of obstacles that will make the experience 
 fun in all levels. But, for advanced players, the learning curve will be consideratley diminished 
 and you will get a grip too quickly, flying by all the levels in no time. You&acute; ll have to 
 go through the game a few times to really enjoy it. Graphics are amazing and make it a nice looking 
 game. The same goes for the sound, although it gets a little too repetitive. Those retro bad fellas 
 add a special spicy ingredient that make it a fun-to-play game for all those who didnt enjoyed 
 those bad gays from previous marios. As for the replay value... well, it&acute; s just there. Those 
 wallpapers dont make it quite to the level. Minigames are indeed fun when played in multiplayer 
 and are highly recomended. One of the must have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is so much similar to the old one, which is still good. they made it so that it would 
 be mor fun. my friend is good with this game. when we were young (around 4th grade) , he called 
 himself Mario because he was short and not to make fun of him but he was a little chubby. i called 
 my self Luigi because i was tall and skinny. when ever we go to a theme park or water park (mostly 
 water park) , at the Lazy Pool, all the people in there are the enemy and try not to touch them.....=p (hahahaah 
 it was fun) anyway, back to the game, this game is fun for everyone to enjoy and worth buying it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  if you could only afford 1 ame as long as a ds, this would be the game to get. this was one of 
 my first games and i found it as a great game! i would play it for hours, and if i got stuck on 
 a level, it never got boring.. but thats to me at least, most people would probably find it frustrating 
 on levels they get suck on, but that dosn't happen much. this game is just like the callasic.. same 
 levels just alot better sounds and graphics which never get tirering! this game also features minigame 
 with are also alot of fun, so it you think the game is starting to get boreing, you could try and 
 beat your high scores in the minigames. this is one game, that you may never get bored with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Its hard to forget the original Mario Bros games for the NES and seeing how its been 20 years since 
 the little plumber started his own games, its unbelivable how much Mario has grown, from party 
 games to Go-karts Mario has dominated most genres of games, but lacked in where he originally started. 
 New Super Mario isnt a step back into the past, but a revoultionary new 2D platformer that captures 
 the gameplay the original game for the NES had.
  
  As usual Princess Peach has been captured and its up to Mario to traverse through many different 
 themed worlds and conquer castles in rescue of her. Although not a remake, this is a game that 
 can be replayed time and time again, jumping through pipes, gaining green 1up mushrooms and THAT 
 bit where on every level you see if you can jump over the flag at the end. (Ive tried numerous 
 times and it aint possible) Everything you remember back in 1986 is still here. For younger players, 
 theres nothing to worry about, anyone can pick this game up and play it regardless of their age.
 
  
  Whats new about the game is the small details that only come around often, for example giant mushrooms 
 turn Mario into well... a gaint Mario and stomp through anything in his path, but the only downfall 
 is its only effective on certain levels and bosses. The touch sceen doesnt really come into much 
 play as you can store an extra item and tapping it will appear on game for you to use, which comes 
 in handy as the later worlds get a bit tough. So, your playing through the game and you keep passing 
 levels, sounds about it tedious and same old does'nt it? Well in each level there are 3 large coins 
 to collect to open new paths on the map for mushroom house's that offer bonus rewards. Finding 
 all these coins offer a greater challenge to players as well as trying to unlock extra levels in 
 each world. The themes of the worlds are captured greatly from underwater levels to the Bowser 
 castles and with a lot of unique features in every level, you wont be finding them strictly tedious 
 or repetitive. Mario has some new moves too, taken from the Mario 64 game, you can buttsmash enemies 
 and bricks, as well as walljump between two walls to get higher in the level, essential for those 
 hidden secret coins you need to collect. The bosses come in different shapes and sizes, but most 
 of the time you'll be fighting Baby Bowser in the same mannor, but its brilliant to see a bit of 
 variety in the bosses themselves. Most require three hits and the same usual attack pattern, but 
 unprepared are quite tricky to beat, espeically if you trying to beat them shrunk down to size.
 
  
  The original music will also hold a place in our hearts and its classically redone in this one 
 too. The nostaglia of the time running out to when you enter a mushroom house really hold the true 
 image the 1986 game did. While the game isnt strictly difficult, (you'll end up racking what feels 
 like limitless lives) the odd couple of levels pose tricky areas which require a bit of timing, 
 but nothing to smash the DS up over. Lengthwise its satisying how far it takes to complete the 
 game, with a total of 8 worlds at most.
  
  Any fan of games with get their money' worth with this DS edition, and two players can Wifi up 
 and play a game where each player controls Mario, the other Luigi and race ahead time to gain Stars 
 scattered across the level. After about 5 minutes of this, it does get boring and you probably 
 wont want to play it again, Similar to the mini games on Mario 64 DS there are addictive minigames 
 which require the stylus, these little gems are great and are set apart from the main game, multiplay 
 is a lot better here and you can spend hours on them, they get as hectic as anything and are so 
 fun for just idling about. Theres something for everyone amongst these cool little minigames.
 
  New Super Mario Bros is possibly the best you'll get from a platformer at the minute, and you 
 wont feel ripped off as if its a remake. Definitive to the end! Viva La Mario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  This game is a really great Mario game since it has interesting new features and it has pretty 
 entertaining minigames. Aside from all that, It is a bit too easy making it too short. I mean most 
 levels are so easy that I could just simply get past without much trouble. Hopefully, if they make 
 a new mario game like this, it'll be a bit more harder. Even though its short, It is a nice game 
 that you can spend time with in a car or on a flight or if your really stuck in another game and 
 had enough then just pick up New Super Mario Bros and relax. I'd recommend this game to anyone 
 but those looking for hard games might be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  The gameplay itself isn't bad, and the DS' innovative touch screen isn't out into that much of 
 good use in the game. All you really use the touch screen for in the game is to select things with. 
 To actually control Mario (or Luigi) you use the control pad and buttons, not suprising really 
 but it would've been neat to perform special combos or tricks with the touch screen. The new items 
 also bring a new gameplay experience to be had, such as the blue shell that you can use to duck 
 down and not be exposed to any attacks. The new Giant Mushroom is probably my favorite to use because 
 you can run across the level smashing everything in your path, and that is just a lot of fun to 
 do for obvious reasons. To note, the mini games in the game are the same that you found in Super 
 Mario 64 DS.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics in New Super Mario Bros. is a little bit like Super Mario 64 meets Super Mario for 
 the SNES. The 2D Sidescrolling gameplay is there, but all the characters and various other things 
 are in 3D. The characters look pretty neat running around in 3D in a 2D fashion.
  
  Sound: 9
  The famous music returns in the music as well as the same old familiar voices from 
 the other games. There's also remixes of a few songs you'll more then likely recognize if you played 
 the other games. The annoyance factor comes into play here though because the music is like a happy 
 chicken dance type thing sometimes.
  
  Value: 10
  This is the absolute best game to own for your Dualscreen, the new types of gameplay and the new 
 characters and items that you can use ultimately make this game what it is. Could you really expect 
 anything less from a Mario game, though?
  
  Overall: 9.1
  If you're looking for a fun game to play on a long boring roadtrip or you're just looking to have 
 some fun on a boring day, whatever boring type of day you're having, this game delivers on what 
 you're looking for: fun. To note, a few minor problems like stupid mistakes, though it's probably 
 not the games fault, may have to frustrated. If you've got the money to put down on this game, 
 I highly recommend the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kornera
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is as you can see, a sidescroller mario game for the DS. It is very nice 
 to see nintendo finally releasing something from the old school mario but with the hint of the 
 new. The game plays almost like Super mario 64 but as a sidescroller really. It does have that 
 little taste of the Super Mario world feel since you are able to keep one power up in reserve durring 
 the game. the new power up, Koopa shell, is very interesting but can be very dangerous if you use 
 it the wrong way or wrong spot. not a game I can sit down and play for hours and hours like mario's 
 predecessors. This game will probably not change your mind if you did not like the side scrollers 
 everyone remembers, so if you did not like it but would like to give this game a try, i recommend 
 renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Just when we thought Mario was very busy, making some weird sport games, he came back, and as big 
 time. Old school players and newbies will love this game, not just cuz the same game play as the 
 original SMB... the game by itself brings you more exciting and interesting ideas to have fun with.
 
  
  The only bad little thing is that the original sound tracks are not included at all in this game, 
 just some sounds, but the music was, by far, the special thing that made SMB a classic, and also 
 the game play, but come on... who doesn't remember the classical Mario Theme...?... now you know 
 what I mean. Don't get me wrong, the music is fantastic, but could be better including those tracks.
 
  
  Anyway... the game is pretty the same thing... run... jump... kill... lol... the whole time.... 
 but It'll keep you playing a long time... This game will not disappoint you... tonz of fun inside 
 that little game.
  
  So.. go buy it... and spend some time with that flashback :D... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteMew
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Pretty cool game, a bit hard but has lots of lives to keep trying, the graphics are good and vivid 
 and even being a side scroller it has neat 3D effects for everything, is a great game, the giant 
 mario mode is a cool new fature, also the new powers, yeah they always seem to change that to keep 
 the game interesting, the music on the other hand is good but only 1 theme is really neat from 
 it, the story is a classic Super Mario story, quite simple but interesting, its nice to see that 
 as a change the enemy is now well bowser JR instead of daddy bowser 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamepopper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The plot is dead simple for Super Mario fans, Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser Junior and 
 what Mario or Luigi has to do is challenge through different stages and worlds, eating mushrooms 
 and fire flowers till you get the Princess back. Youll go through several enemies and find your 
 friends along the way. People who are new to the Mario series will find it easy to work out the 
 story but they wont find out the characters until they read the game manual. But that isnt a 
 big deal because Ive already have explained some of it to you. Mario and Luigi are the main characters 
 youll have to play as. Princess Peach is the ruler of the Mushroom kingdom you have to save. Bowser 
 Junior and his father are the ones who capture Peach. Bowser appears as the boss of the first world 
 and he will appear again, but I wont spoil that bit. Youll fight and follow Bowsers son, Bowser 
 Jr, the most.
  
  The main mode has features from classic Mario games like the side scrolling from the original Super 
 Mario Bros, map view from Super Mario 3 and Super Mario World and Marios from SMB to Super Mario 
 64. It also brings a challenge in the games. The only thing thats repeated is the sub boss, because 
 its Bowser Jr over and over again. They also feature to new mushrooms, mega mushroom which makes 
 Mario or Luigi as high as the screen to smash through nearly anything in Mario or Luigis way and 
 mini mushroom which makes Mario or Luigi tiny to get through small gaps, jump really high or light 
 enough to run on water. Mario verses Luigi is a multiplayer mode where two people face each other 
 off collecting the most stars at the end of the game. This can get pretty violent because when 
 you start but stomping each other to get each others stars.
  
  Mini-game mode is a fun go when you want to show off your stylus touching skills, the only problem 
 is that the mini-games are the same as Super Mario 64 DS. But since Ive never played that game 
 and I never realised that until I saw a preview of SM64 DS, I found the mini-games cool. The graphics 
 are amazing when Nintendo mix the 2-D side scrolling with 3-D characters, because Mario, Luigi, 
 Toadsworth and Peach and all the enemies look well done and kick ass on a Side scrolling background 
 and surroundings. You can see the perfect texture done on Mario and Luigi when they eat a Mega 
 mushroom . The music is really good, its different from the original Super Mario Bros Theme. The 
 music in the map view really go with its environment like world 2 is a desert so the music makes 
 you feel like your in a desert.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros is the best Super Mario game ever released on handheld consoles and 
 everyone should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendiny
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Nice, Superb..... any good decriptions you can think of. But one thing, too short. I just didn't 
 realise that I'm at World 8 last castle in such a short period. I would say it's gameplay is Magnificent, 
 with a cute, smoother graphics and with good animation. The Mario's cute, the tortoises' even cuter.. 
 they can even dance with the music. Sound quality is good, but not attractive enough. They should 
 be remixes on the Original Mario's music. ha ha.. Lots of features (but i still expect something 
 that can fly, like the previous versions) . he he..
  
  Not only Single Player, even Multi-player is very satisfying.. Mini games are good and enjoying. 
 even the ONE-on-ONE Mario vs Luigi part is very addictive. Where you can chase your opponent around 
 for the Giant Stars.
  
  I hope there will me Newer Super Mario Bros in the future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychogambit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. brings back some of the memories from the original side scrolling game most 
 of us played as kids, but also brings in a new funk that includes more 3-D textures and new moves. 
 The game itself is great. It has a familiar feel to it without going to far back to the 80's or 
 trying to move to far into the future. The graphics alone a outstanding. Even though this is a 
 2-D side scroller it still is a great game. Not getting lost with all of the 3-D games that have 
 come to try to take it over. So get out and play this game already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow2k6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. for Nintendo DS is pretty much a mix from a bunch of Super Mario Bros. games. 
 The game does bring new things to the table like new power ups and new designed levels and bosses. 
 The game also has a bunch of mini-games which add replay value to the game but the game itself 
 doesn't have a lot of replay value since the main game is quite short. Don't think that is had 
 no replay value though, it does its just not abundant of it.
  
  The game uses a map like in Super Mario Bros 3 to navigate each world and to go into each level. 
 There is also bonus levels and hidden items. New Super Mario Bros. for Nintendo DS is a great game 
 for mario fans and any fan of platforming games. Definetely a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General-Zod
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  You know the point of the story, so I'll keep that brief . This update greatly expands on the original 
 and the subsequent ports to other systems.
  
  The gameplay is as expected, and use of the touch screen is limited.
  
  Graphics are outstanding, 
 given that the source material is so universal, there was little they could do to change or make 
 it better .
  
  Sound is flawless, drawing on the classic audio from the original.
  
  The value is very good, as you will find yourself replaying levels to access sections of worlds 
 you could not get to before or collect all the large coins. At the end of some worlds, a choice 
 will need to be made to determine which direction your path will open, but you can replay and chose 
 the alternate path to open that, too.
  
  If you like the Mario franchise, then this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a really weird review for me. Out of the 43 previous reviews I've written on games, I owned 
 all of them. I tend to know exactly what games I like and what games I don't so I don't rent games 
 at all and I hardly ever borrow them from friends. I buy them, I play them, and I either enjoy 
 them a lot or sort of enjoy them. There rarely is a game I purchase that I absolutely hate. But 
 I don't own this game. I don't even own a DS. As I've grown up, I have tended to not enjoy handheld 
 systems or games as much as I did before. I had a GBA previously and didn't buy too many games. 
 Now, I don't want to spend 200 bucks or so on a DS or PSP for 2 or 3 games. Fortunately for me, 
 my roommate in college last year did own a DS and bought this game over the summer. When we got 
 back to college this year, I borrowed his DS and his New Super Mario Bros. This game is absolutely 
 amazing. It brings me back to my roots and brings back wonderful memories of growing up with the 
 original Nintendo. I still don't see myself ever buying another handheld system again, since I 
 am in college and in only a short few years, I'll be heading off into the real world, but after 
 playing this game, it's tempting.
  
  The gameplay is still some of the best gameplay around. It could even be argued that the simplistic 
 2D side scroller platformer is still the best genre of video game. You can have your Halo, your 
 GTA, and your World of Warcraft. Although they are all amazing games, I'll take Mario's new adventure 
 any day. If you've spent more than a minute in front of a video game system, chances are you know 
 how this game plays. The action is simple and consists of running to the right of the screen to 
 get to the goal. Although there are variations to this formula, such as moving upwards, swimming, 
 and levels where you must move with the screen, this is the primary aspect of gameplay. There are 
 still the regular power ups, the mushroom and the flower, but this time around there are two new 
 ones. The mega mushroom and the tiny mushroom. They do exactly what you'd think they would. The 
 tiny mushroom is a great addition and makes you incredibly small allowing you to access secret 
 areas and mini-pipes. The other mushroom, the mega mushroom, is less impressive. Although it certainly 
 looks cool to be as big as the screen and run through everything in your path, there is really 
 no reason besides that one thing. It doesn't help you access new areas. On the contrary, it actually 
 hurts your chances of finding new areas since you'll be destroying all the pipes in your way. The 
 game consists of 8 worlds with a various number of levels to complete in them. Every single level 
 is inventive and immensely fun. Each level also has 3 star coins you can collect. With these star 
 coins, you can unlock mushroom huts for extra lives and powerups or buy new backgrounds for the 
 bottom DS screen. It's tremendously fun to find all of these and I wouldn't doubt it if you worked 
 your way to get every single one. The best part of the worlds though are the alternate exits in 
 some levels. Some alternate exits are easy to get, but others are very hard to find, much less 
 accomplish. All of these exits open up new paths on the game world map, some of which take you 
 to warp pipes to warp to the end of the map, some open up cannons to shoot you to another world, 
 and others just open up bonus levels, all of which are just as exciting as the regular levels. 
 Besides the mega mushroom being unnecessary and the only reason this game isn't getting a perfect 
 10, the gameplay is absolutely wonderful.
  
  It's hard for me to judge the graphics because this is the first and only DS game I've played. 
 Although I can't fairly judge the graphics as others may be able to, I can say that they look gorgeous. 
 Everything is colorful, vibrant, and painstakingly detailed. Mario looked amazing as did Bowser 
 and his minions. It's amazing how a little handheld can have superior graphics compared to the 
 original Mario in just a little over 20 years. In 20 more years, who knows where we'll be in terms 
 of visuals? Undoubtedly, it will be mind blowing. Basically, I was very impressed with how this 
 game looked.
  
  The sound is one of my favorite parts of this game. The usual kicks and yells from Mario during 
 the gameplay sounds like it was ripped from Mario 64 and it sounds great. The best part though 
 is the music. The usual Mario music is still there, but there are variations of it. I was simply 
 delighted from everything audio in this game.
  
  Overall, if you are even remotely interested in video games, this is a must play. It's been argued 
 that this game was made for kids, but it's not at all. Although this would certainly be a great 
 first game for any toddler, it's also marketed towards adults and older teens that grew up with 
 the original Mario games. It's marketed towards the people that grew as Mario did and saw him through 
 the evolution of video games, from NES to now. It's hard for me to portray my joy with this game 
 in words, but I simply am ecstatic with this game and very grateful that my old roommate gave me 
 the pleasure of playing this game. It'll be hard for me to not have this game in my collection 
 to play whenever I want because of my lack of handheld systems, but it will always hold a special 
 place in my heart for bringing me back to my early days as a child, something no game has done 
 before. If you own a DS, New Super Mario Bros. is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ah... it's good to see a game that goes back to it's roots. Super Mario Bros. on NES is hailed 
 as one of the best games of all time. And it is even (sometimes or a bunch a times) hailed the 
 BEST game of all times. Well that game isn't my favorite game of all time but it still rocks! Now 
 my review: Plot: Yawn... the usual. Princess Peach (Princess who gets kidnapped a BUNCH!) gets 
 kidnapped! While enjoying a nice walk with Mario (the hero) the Mushroom Kingdom (Peach's place, 
 Mario and Luigi were born there I think because of a article I saw on wikipedia) is attacked and 
 Mario goes off to check out what just happened. With Mario away from Peach, Bowser Jr. (son of 
 a evil menace, Bowser) kidnaps Peach. Mario notices what just happened to Peach and rushes to save 
 her. After a chase, Mario gets hurt and Bowser Jr. get's away! Thus, beginning anothe exciting 
 adventure of the Super Mario Bros.! Luigi (brother of Mario) is playable in the game, hold L and 
 R while selecting a file.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely perfect. Stomping a Goombas brings old school gamers back to the old days 
 of gaming. It also has some new features: The Shell item has the ability to make Mario (and Luigi) 
 turn into a shell and slide forward, hitting enemies on the way. Most attacks cannot damge you. 
 But you can surely kill yourself!
  
  Mini Mario (Mini Luigi if you use Luigi) : When using the Mini Mushroom (or Poison Mushroom, whatever) 
 you will be tiny and can go faster than the standard state. When you jump in this form it takes 
 Mario (and Luigi) longer time to land. Mini Mario (and Mini can stand on water (I think) too. But 
 the Mini form is really weak. Get hit once and your donw for. You can only kill enemies in this 
 form by doing a butt stomp. How to unlock World 4: Beat the boss of the last castle of World 2 (the 
 caterpillar wiggler like thing) with Mini Mario (or Mini Luigi) . They will go to World 4.
  
  How to unlock World 7: Beat the boss in the last castle of World 5 with Mini Mario or Mini 
 Luigi. They will go to World 7.
  
  Mega Mushroom: The most powerful item in the game. When you get this item, you will be HUGE and 
 invincible for limited time. All the enemies who get in your way will be destroyed. This is my 
 favorite item in the game. Classic Items: Recurring items. Super Mushroom: You become stronger.
 
  
  Fire Mushroom: You can shoot fireballs. More recurring items are in the game.
  
  Sound: Nice Music. Good Voice acting. But though the sound is good, I wouldn't give it a 10 because 
 that is a little too high.
  
  Clsoing Comments: Buy this and Sonic Rush if you want to start you DS game buying spree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v_p
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  With taking the classic game design of the NES and Snes titles as a starting point, then deftly 
 changing and refining it, New Super Mario Bros is a yet another lesson in simple, elegant and clever 
 design.
  
  The gameworld is clean and easy to understand but the mechanics give you great exploration, and 
 the heritage of the design is such that you know there are going to be many secrets to find and 
 discover.
  In Super mario world, you had the cape that can make you soar into the air, exploring areas that 
 had been thought to be inacessible. For New Super Mario Bros, gone is the cape, but instead are 
 three new powerups. Mini Mario shrinks you into a tiny size, which gave you an exaggerated jump. 
 Mega Mario is the complete opposite turning you into a giant Mario giving you the ability to destroy 
 almost anything you run into, naturally this only lasts you awhile. Lastly theres shell mario which 
 is potentially the most fun powerup. As Shell Mario a brief dash run will start you spinning along 
 the ground in your shell, bouncing off any walls in the opposite direction.
  
  The new powerups, while arent rare, are really just bonuses. The normal evolution of powerups end 
 with the traditional fire Mario.
  The trick with the bonus powerups is obviously to know where to use them. The mini mario in particular 
 is really easily wasted.
  
  In every stage there are also three star coins to find, some are quite hard and some are quite 
 easy. Its pretty good as it pushes you to come back to revisit the stages to find all of the coins.
 
  
  The only bad side of this game is that it could be a litte too easy for veterans, also that Nintendo 
 have not even try to include a story, its just the same old, peach gets kidnapped and on every 
 single world, you face either bowser jr or one of his minions.
  
  Overall this game is a great game that for anyone who has a ds, this should be a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caleb_Holcombe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  The Super Mario Bros. have been around for well over a decade now and have been getting older and 
 wiser with each passing installment. Just like us Mario and Luigi both wish they were still young 
 when life was simple. Why can't life in the Mushroom Kingdom be like the old days? Nintendo says 
 it can in the newest 2-D installment in the Mario Bros. legacy.
  
  In this brand new, pint sized adventure you get all the benefits of the simple, old school game 
 play with a zesty splash of new features. Included are the single player Mario Game, Mario Vs. 
 Luigi wireless multi player battle, and a shell full of mini-games (which can also be played via 
 the DS wireless multi player connection) . As you begin a new game you will see a short cut scene 
 showing how the Princess gets snagged and tagged by Baby Bowser then your thrown head first into 
 the game play pipe. You will have access to a 3-D Mario 3 style world map where you will choose 
 your next destination. After playing the first level you will surely recognize the classic game 
 play mechanics from so long ago. If you have never experienced a classic Mario game before then 
 you will be able to see what all the hype is about with this game then wonder why people always 
 say your a sad excuse for a gamer.
  
  The levels in New Super Mario Bros. are about equal in length throughout all eight worlds. Although 
 they could be longer at times almost every level seems to have a good amount of exclusive content. 
 You will find yourself leaping from lava, jumping away from bombs, riding monsters, and performing 
 flying ballerina moves. Each world you fight your way through has secret paths and special pipes 
 or cannons allowing the adventurous type to scout out secrets and proceed quicker through the worlds. 
 To aid you through all this fun exciting new content there are some new mushroom power ups. The 
 Mega Mushroom which will allow you to grow as large as the screen and crush almost anything in 
 your path and the Mini Mushroom which allows you to access special areas.
  
  One of the new features including in New Super Mario Bros. is the Star Coin challenge. Each level 
 has 3 star coins to find and collect which will eventually give you access to special mushroom 
 huts, alternate routes. The Star Coin Challenge takes great advantage of the new power ups making 
 it somewhat of a challenge to collect them all. Once you complete the game you will have access 
 to a special hut to spend your left over hard earned star coins.
  
  The Mario and Luigi multi player game is very fun for a few rounds pitting the two against each 
 other to collect a player-set amount of star coins. A variety of levels are available for the fight 
 but they're all small and feel cramped. The mini games can be fun with your friends including action, 
 card, one-on-one, and more but alone tends to be quite boring.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. takes the dudical duo back to their roots and gives a fresh coat of paint 
 for an all around fun adventure that is definitely worth your money. Just don't expect the game 
 to take many hours to complete or the multi player to last longer than a few fun sessions with 
 your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  From a little stupid looking 2D figure to this amazing new 3D character, Mario started his role 
 in super mario bros. around the 1980's, a long time ago for you youngsters who only play the new 
 Super Mario Bros. , Mario and his pals (luigi, Princess and toad) have there adventures but in 
 this new super mario bros. you can do all new moves, you can turn into a giant mario thing and 
 full sqaush think and own any enemies you must destroy, although this new mario generation is cool 
 it's still the same mario we loved since we were youg little fellas or girls or what ever you are 
 (alien, robot, freak, mutant, mushroom (I HATE MUSHROOMS) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  I would go as far as to say that Mario was what made me the gaming nut i am. I had an interest 
 in games before but when i played Super Mario Allstars my life was changed. All these years on 
 i picked up my copy of New Super Mario Bros hoping for a return to those great days when Nintendo 
 ruled the world and Mario was the face of gaming. Gameplay wise NSMB is great. The controls have 
 been simplified which is both good and bad. These simple controls have made NSMB very accessible 
 for non gamers but for me i found the controls had been simplified far to much and ultimately felt 
 a little let down by them. Then there are the new power ups such as giant mushrooms. These add 
 a whole new side to the Mario games and were well implemented. The enemy AI was okay but boss battles 
 were far to easy. Each level is filled with many enemies and traps and i can confidently say that 
 each one was a joy to play. The amount of enemies and traps are jsut right and the difficulty was 
 spot on, not to difficult but not to easy. While playing through NSMB i had many memories of the 
 glory days of Mario and it was great how this game really reminds you of the good times you have 
 had with the series and yet still doesn't depend on it to much.
  
  As well as the main game there is also a large collection of Mario themed mini games which are 
 mostly good fun although the odd game is a bit boring but they all look good and are a significant 
 distraction from the main game.
  
  Graphics wise the game is brilliant. The levels look stunning in their 2-d glory with lots of colour 
 and really remind you of the old games. The enemies and your characters look great and have lots 
 of character and combine well with the brilliant levels to make one of the best 2-d games i have 
 sene in a while. The menus in the game are simple to navigate and are well presented.
  
  The games audio is great with some classic tunes on both the menus and in game. The music accompanies 
 the game brilliantly, capturing the action well. The sound effects are what you would expect from 
 a Mario game and do the job well although its hardly difficult to make the occional jumping noise 
 right.
  
  The length of the game was an issue for some people with many thinking it was far to short, however, 
 i have to disagree with this. Although the main game is of an average length the mini games adds 
 a significant amount of time and the multiplayer adds a further few hours. The story is your typical 
 Mario affair and while not at all engaging it doesn't matter as Mario games have never been more 
 than an excuse to fight Bowser.
  
  So has this game taken me back to the glory days of Nintendo and Mario? The answer is a resounding 
 yes and NSMB great mix fo nostalgia and new features have got me REALLY excited about Super Mario 
 Galaxy which could better even the Mario classics. So do yourself a favour, buy this game, enjoy 
 it, remember the good old days and prepare yourself for the future and maybe a return to those 
 former glory days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbrendan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was great fun and a new expierence, offering a great time to mario fans. With 
 that being said, the fact remains that you cant teach an old dogs new tricks. While meshing old 
 and new was a great idea, Too much new ended up showing and barley any of the old was there. Basicly 
 the only thing that survived from the orginals was the Flag at the end of each level. Wheres the 
 keys from Super mario world? Where is Yoshi?? Where is the CAPE?? Most of these questions haunted 
 me while i tried to sleep. Boss battles werent bad, they were just ill-timed. Killing off bowser 
 in the first was a twist, but it was a really bad one. I dont want to fight baby bowser i want 
 the real thing! With all the negatives being said, it makes the game soudn horrible, but in fact 
 it isnt. Its very enjoyable but i dont see it as super mario bros, it reminds me more of supermario 
 world being hacked with various mods. But thats not nesscarily a bad thing. I think if you have 
 a DS and you love mario, then this game is great. But if your a diehard mario fan whos looking 
 for more of that vintage play, you may be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaKadeem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  just like the others this super mario title is a must have. not as challenging to most super mario 
 bros gamers but it sure is a great have. i got me a ds &amp; my 1st game was obviusly the new super 
 mario bros &amp; i beat in like 5 hours because i was gettin all there was to get in the worlds 
 &amp; wat not. but its the same old story peach is kidnapped by bowser or king koopa as some know 
 him by &amp; either mario or luigi gots to rescue her. i'd say the game is fairly easy if you know 
 how to time your jumps &amp; all that but if your a newcomer to the old school mario styles then 
 have a seat &amp; have some fun. so inconlusion the new super mario bros is fun &amp; must be owned 
 by all who has a nintendo ds &amp; is a super mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say, Thank You Nintendo for bringing out an old School game, polishing it of with 
 new Graphics but keeping the same game works of the old Mario on the Super Nintendo.
  
  100% Effort If you like your old School Mario Games then you will fall in love with this one. And 
 plus its portable on the DS. GREAT!!! Bet that Sony PSP HAHA
  
  The Graphic are amazing and colorful, the sound is perfect, and the game play, well lets say the 
 magic is still there.
  
  Its a Sin if you have the DS and not owning your copy of this game.
  SO, What you wanting for, 
 Buy it now and see for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryban2005
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  this is an all around good game. There are elements from all the old school mario games put into 
 one. The addition of huge mario also adds some excitement. Getting through the game however does 
 no take very long. It took me less than ten hours to complete the game. that ten hours was filled 
 with solid game play but previous mario games had a lot more to them. not to say that this game 
 is bad but they could have added more to it. i still would recommend this game to anybody looking 
 for a fresh mario game because it definitely comes through on that aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  New Mario Brothers isn't really all that new.
  It doesn't mix things up too much.
  But in this instance, thats a good thing.
  
  It's classic 2D Platformer Mario with 3D visuals, 
 which look awesome.
  Theres a bright colorful world filled with mushrooms, koopa-troopas and all sorts of things waiting 
 to suck you in here.
  
  The single player game while not difficult on the whole, offers enough challenge to make it worth 
 your time. And the multiplayers the icing on the cake.
  
  With one player as Mario and the other Luigi the players race to grab gold stars and whoever grabs 
 the set amount or the most before time runs out wins.
  You can try to slow down or destroy the oppisition with various power ups including the classic 
 fireflower and some new ones.
  
  Such as the mega-mushroom, grabbing this will dramatically increase your size allowing you to crush 
 pretty much anything in the way. All you really gotta look out for while it's in effect are pitfalls.
 
  Then theres the mini-mushroom, which does pretty much the oppisite of the mega-mushroom, in making 
 you small. While real tiny you can jump a little higher and walk on water, but it'll take only 
 a single hit to kill you!
  And my favorite the Blue Koopa Shell. Duck down in this and you'll be protected from the opposing 
 players fireballs, but becareful because they can kick you! If your lucky though you may just hit 
 a wall and rebound back.
  It's a lot of fun.
  
  Theres also a good variety of stylus based minigames to play, but they won't keep your interest 
 for that long.
  
  On the whole NSMB doesn't do anything new, but it revitalizes something old and makes it worth 
 grabbing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecuber28
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game shortly after it came out and had alot of fun with it. The story is same 
 old peach is captured and it's up to mario or luigi to rescue her again by traveling though eight 
 different types of worlds with lots of secret paths and levels. Secrets aside the game will be 
 a breeze for veteran mario players taking about a day to complete. I am already done with the game 
 completely and there isn't much else for me to come back to but i do think i got my money's worth 
 because it is a great and original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickythenewt21
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a Mario sidescroller before. I was walking into the store, thinking to myself 
 if New Super Mario Bros. would live up to the hype. I pointed to the box behind the glass case, 
 and the sales clerk grabbed the box that was labeled New Super Mario Bros. I give him my money, 
 and my father and I walked to our car. Luckily, I remembered to bring my DS, so i ripped the plastic 
 off the box, and quickly grabbed the game out. I was so excited, I forgot to read the manual. I 
 played the first level, and experienced what would become my favorite game up to date.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10. The controls are so simple that anyone who has never played a video game before 
 can beat the first level with ease.
  
  Graphics: 10/10. Using 3D characters in a 2D world is pretty sweet.
  
  Sound: 9/10. This game 
 would have scored a total 10 points if it weren't for the music. It seems like some tunes get played 
 in too many levels.
  
  Value: 10/10. If somebody stole my copy of New Super Mario Bros. I'd be REALLY pissed.
  
  Tilt: 
 10/10. Don't know what tilt means, but New Super Mario Bros. deserves a 10/10.
  
  If you own a DS and have New Super Mario Bros., you have awesome taste. If you own a DS, but don't 
 own New Super Mario Bros., then get off your fat lazy bum and buy it. If you don't own a DS and 
 don't own New Super Mario Bros., then get a DS Lite and New Super Mario Bros. wit h it (like the 
 Costco bundle) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_asswhooper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I tried it out, and I discovered that it only utilised the d-pad and 2 buttons. 
 This surprised me quite alot, but I kept playing. I got hooked on it by World 2 and this is what 
 REALLY surprised me: My stepmother who speaks no english and constantly jokes about my large amount 
 of time put into games got HOOKED ON IT. I reccomend this to anybody, its so simple to play but 
 the gameplay is challenging without being annoying. The only annoying thing about this game is 
 that you can't save the game without either stopping and spending 5 golden coins on either extra 
 lives, random powerups or an alternate route through the map or completing one of the boss levels. 
 Awesome game which doesn't require ANY prerequisites which you can just pick up and play. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamteam411
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  In October 1995, Nintendo released Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. The game had a unique graphical 
 style not seen in any of the Super Mario games before or even after, to be honest. With the release 
 of Nintendo 64, Super Mario games moved into the 3-D era, which was not at all a bad thing. After 
 eleven years though, I welcome a 2-D Old-School Mario adventure with open arms and high expectations. 
 This game certainly fills a void that has existed in video gaming over the last decade, and thank 
 God for that.
  
  The graphics consist of a mix of 3-D characters placed into a beautiful 2-D world that really brings 
 back the good ol' days of Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario World. It doesn't have an exceedingly 
 different graphical style as Yoshi's Island does, and it works well nonetheless. The graphics are 
 truly old-school and put a new spin on those that we saw over a decade ago.
  
  While I'm not about to hum the theme song of this title, as I know I did for each Super Mario game 
 up to, and including, Super Mario Sunshine, the sound, or at least as I remember it, fits the levels 
 very well and sticks to be bright and cheery when it needs to be, as well as castle-esque when 
 it needs to be. It does the job.
  
  The Gameplay isn't too different of the old Super Mario Bros. games. Triple-Jump and Double-Jump 
 are back, along with dashing, wall jumping, and the like. It takes Mario a bit of time to work 
 up a dash, which can be annoying at times, but it's also a logical inclusion. No part of the game 
 is too difficult, and there are a veritable bevy of new and old obstacles for Mario to interact 
 with. My favorite level is probably the one where Mario uses the Springboards to move upwards to 
 reach the exit. That level just never gets old. The game also, naturally, uses the SMB3-esque method 
 of level selection, which makes more than one way to get to the Castle level of each world. Speaking 
 of worlds, each one is diverse and fun, although the final Spooky World is a bit to spooky for 
 my taste. (Read: I'm a scaredy-cat) Overall, this gameplay is solid and it's everything you'd expect 
 for a Super Mario Bros. game.
  
  Unfortunately, this game's one flaw is it's length. Especially using secret exits, someone can 
 speed run through this game having never played it before within a few hours, or even less honestly. 
 I made it my goal to get every coin and play every level, so it's naturally going to take me much 
 longer, but I'm almost finished with the game and it certainly hasn't taken 40 hours. The lack 
 of length in this game makes its replayability something to be desired.
  
  The multiplayer is nothing spectacular, and is quite dull honestly, but I'm just glad is has multiplayer, 
 and even more glad that it has single-cart multiplayer so I don't have to worry about someone else 
 having this game to play DS's with them. (Honestly though, who has a DS without this game?)
  
  This game is straight-up fun, and that's where its true awesomeness lies. Thank you Nintendo. 
 You rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass-shager
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that even after you've completed it. you stil want to play. it 
 is a coulerfull, fun and addictive game. it has also got fun minigames in which yo can have even 
 more fun, and they also involve the touch pad. the multyplayer on this is another good quality. 
 you can do it on the minigames or play mario v luigi, but that anly uses two players. but it is 
 fun to jump on you friends heads. the controls are simple to master. the gamplay is awsome and 
 all in all it it a good game. and should definatly be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  the movements are pretty easy to control using the buttons and d-pad but that is one particular 
 move that most will pour their hair or throw their DS, i. e.; the wall jump! it makes me want to 
 overcome this difficult move yet scare to move forward, worrying to let a (mario) life die.... 
 the pressure is beyond description.
  
  yes, i do agree that this is a good game that allows one to play for 2 weeks on average. (for me, 
 i probably take forever...) it definitely has the pull factor to make one to go back to the game 
 to complete the world tour or continue the last saved part which one left off. i have this love-hate 
 relationship with this game. one moment throwing my DS with NSM on my bed and the very next moment 
 retrieve it from my bed/bag to continue the challenge to save Princess Peach... even with the guide, 
 it doesn't mean that you can move through the game with ease as ultimately our thumbs and fingers 
 are still on the DS to move Mario to achieve his goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therandar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  That's just fine by me. Everything old is new again. It's been too long since a proper 2D Mario 
 platformer. It was hard to imagine what Nintendo could do to freshen up this classic, but after 
 playing, it just makes sense. The huge and mini mushrooms are genius, and the new coin collection 
 is a great challenge. The game looks and sounds perfect. The graphics have tons of charm. I am 
 still not sure about the control however, something is just... off. I like the new moves in the 
 repertoire, the stomp and wall jump, but things don't seem as intuitive as they should. I have 
 not logged as many play hours as I would like, so I hope it's just my timing, and not the game's. 
 I also miss the quick exits from Super Mario World, where you could enter a stage grab the power 
 up and exit. One last gripe is the huge mushroom, its placement is limited, understandably due 
 to its extreme advantages, but I think the designers could have tried better level design to challenge 
 players rather than limit its availability. All told New Super Mario Bros. is a great game especially 
 considering the Mario Party-like mini games included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewisgannon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  This is the reason to buy a ds and it is a 100 times better than any psp game. The gameplay is 
 superb the graphics and presentation are top notch. Though its pretty much the same formula and 
 lay out as smb3 and supermario world. Its very easy at the start but gets teeth grindingly difficult 
 at the end. The game has 3 new power ups. it has mini mario which is fun to use and helps you get 
 into sall spaces, there is also mega mario which is used sparingly throught out the game but is 
 easily the best and is a visual treat. the final new power ip isa turtle shell which spins through 
 the level killing all in its path and when the shell is closed mario is invunerable, though it 
 is hard to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icym
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Wonderful remake of a classic with add ons that make the value of this game very worthwhile. Even 
 after the nostalgia wears off, you'll keep playing with the group mini-games with friends for sometime.
 
  
  The main game plays like you would remember it with extras features and power-ups. The touch screens 
 adds on extra ease to move from level to level and world to world. Everything you expect from the 
 old days is added and improved upon in this new version of Super Mario Bros. Overall, the game 
 isn't hard to finish, but to fully unlock everything and find everything and, of course, mastering 
 every level will keep you working and coming back to SMB for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyBunny55
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros occupies an unusual space in the Mario franchise. The visuals are much more 
 reminiscent of the N64 or GC games. The levels, for the most part are a hybrid between the original 
 SMB and Super Mario World. They're fairly linear, ala SMB, but there's more variety between the 
 levels, ala SMW. Mario himself is more reminiscent of the original Mario with a few moves taken 
 from the N65 and GC versions, such as the ability to rebound off of walls. Surprisingly, you won't 
 find any power-ups from SM3 or SMW in this game.
  
  Gameplay wise, there's not really much to say. It's Mario in all of his 2D glory, which, in my 
 opinion, fits the handheld format much better. The gameplay is addictive and perfect for short 
 gameplay sessions. Difficulty is just about perfect. You'll probably be able to beat half of the 
 levels the first time through, while the other half will take a couple of tries. The visuals are 
 all very bright and colorful and well animated. I only had two gripes with the game. The first 
 is that you can only save when opening alternate routes on the world map or after beating a castle. 
 This is only a minor annoyance though since the DS holds its charge in standbye mode remarkably 
 well. The other gripe I had was that the game is almost a little too simplistic. The back to the 
 roots style of NSMB comes at the cost of a lot of gameplay advancements that platformers have had 
 over the years.
  
  All in all, if you're looking for a simple, addictive game to blow a few minutes on the bus ride, 
 NSMB is for you. If you're looking for a deeper gaming experience though, you might want to keep 
 looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echo_ent
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  In 1985, Nintendo released Super Mario Bros., a game that would change the gaming world forever. 
 Since then, every platformer and 2D side-scroller has emulated it.
  
  Now, nearly 21 years later, Nintendo has reinvented the wheel.
  
  With the release of New Super 
 Mario Bros., Nintendo has retained its stranglehold on the platformer market.
  
  The story is almost nonexistent, but with a Mario Bros. game, there doesn't need to be page after 
 page of dialogue to get the point across. In New Super Mario Bros., Princess Peach gets kidnapped 
 by Bowser Jr. and Mario has to run, jump, swim and repeat nearly two hundred times to rescue her.
 
  
  It sounds simplistic and repetitive, but it works amazingly well. The translation of the original 
 Mario Bros. is evident from the opening level. New Super Mario Bros. more than just adds a fresh 
 coat of paint on a worn-out wall.
  
  Nintendo took the original game, added 3D elements, took inspiration from other Mario-themed games, 
 and turned out an entirely new experience.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. seamlessly transitions itself into the DS mechanics. The top-screen is used 
 for game play when playing in an above ground level, while the bottom-screen is used for game play 
 when in underwater and underground levels.
  
  Each level is played out separately from each other, with paths to new levels and special bonus 
 levels opening up after each previous level is completed. Each level contains three special coins 
 to collect that are used as currency to open paths to special levels and bonus levels. There are 
 eight worlds to navigate, with two of them being special worlds that need certain requirements 
 to be met before they are available to play through.
  
  The only real issue with saving progress through the game is that a player can only save his or 
 her progress after beating a castle level or a bonus level.
  
  Other than the minor inconvenience of not being able to save the game after each level, New Super 
 Mario Bros. more than makes up for it with sheer enjoyment of being able to let players relive 
 the original Mario Bros. and give new players a glimpse of the past.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. does everything it sets out to accomplish and then some. For one to entirely 
 enjoy everything this game has to offer, it would easily take over 30-40 hours.
  
  Any fan of platformers or side-scrollers would be remiss to pass up this title as it is a definite 
 must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meesey01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1985 Nintendo released the first Super Mario Bros. video game. It was a hit and is listed 
 in The Guinness Book of Records as the highest selling game of all time. It includes a lot of new 
 features, new power-ups and multiplayer capabilities. Although to finish it doesn't take too long.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a sequel to this very game and in some ways has improved a lot. It includes 
 3D graphics on a side scroller game which isn't a bad idea. New moves such as the triple jump, 
 wall kicks and ground pounds. These are essential to the game as you cannot pass some levels without 
 them.
  
  The second and possibly the most important point is the fact this game includes multiplayer and 
 new power-ups. Multiplayer mode is simple but highly addictive. Each player chooses a bro, Mario 
 or Luigi, and they must race through a continuous level collecting stars. The first person to get 
 a certain amount of stars wins. The game includes some power-ups which no Mario game would go without 
 such as the regular mushroom and the power flower giving you the ability to get bigger and stronger 
 and hurl fireballs at enemies. But what we all wanted to see were the new power-ups such as the 
 mega mushrooms, mini mushrooms and the blue koopa shell. Mega mushrooms help Mario to grow to a 
 colossal size destroying everything in his path while mini mushrooms help Mario get into hard to 
 reach places and pipes. My favourite power-up of all, the blue koopa shell, helps Mario crash into 
 enemies while inside the shell on his back. You can jump while in your shell although cannot change 
 direction very easily.
  
  The one downside to this game is that it doesn't take too long to complete it. I finished the main 
 storyline in two days although there are secret levels and worlds to find.
  
  This is a great game for gamers of all ages and would recommend anyone who hasn't bought it already 
 to do so now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazetek
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. If youre not a Mario fan, you will absolutely love it. And if 
 you are a Mario fan you will love it even more! Right from the start, it catches your eye, with 
 its wonderful graphics and excellent game play. You will also love it's level design. It is also 
 good they chose not to over use the touch screen. The mini games were also a nice touch. This game 
 really shows off the ds and it's graphics. It's really quite something. This game is a revolution 
 in the game industry. It is the best ds game in history! (so far) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  All the best mario platforming elements into 1 game. The levels in this game are 2D, with 3D characters. 
 I guess its 2.5D. The level designs get creative. There are many Alternate exits that you can find 
 to unlock new levels. There are alot of cool moves that you call pull off, like wall jumps, triple 
 jumps, ground pounds, and others. There are alot of cool upgrades too, like the mini mushroom, 
 mega mushroom, fire flower, regular mushroom, and koopa shell. The mega and mini mushrooms dont 
 show up too often, but if u enter a toad house, you can keep one in reserve and use one wherever 
 you want too. I save the megamushroom for the boss fights, and kill them in i stomp. This game 
 is very fun, and u will play it for hours and hours. Buy it if u like having fun. If u enjoy being 
 bored, then buy winnie the pooh's rumbly tumbly adventures. (in no way am i making fun of winnie 
 the pooh. i am only making fun of anybody above the age of 5 who bought it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzibitnationz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is utterly the most spectacular handheld Mario game ever to settle a seat 
 on Nintendo. The 8-Bit graphics of classic 1980s Mario have been replaced with spectacular color 
 3D graphics making the game visual and real as possible. The worlds are nicely designed from 3D 
 warp pipes to nice Mushroom cottages sticking their way into our eyes. The levels may be a little 
 short, but the gameplay is truly amazing as it re-lives its former glory for die hard Classic Mario 
 fans with a twist of modern day graphics. Truly great game, a must-have and recommended for Classic 
 Mario gamers seeking to find the lost treasure oof 8-Bit Mario in their day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGreaper
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  this was a great game. it brought back the feeling of the old mario bros. but in a crisp clean version. the 
 new abilities in the game are great. all of the new features were awesome. the wide variety of maps 
 was good. but i will have to say that once beating the game it may get repeditive. but on the flip 
 side there are so many things you can collecet in each level. also there is a secret that if you 
 punch the right buttens you get to play as luigi in general if you like mario in any way i would 
 suggest you go out right now and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xray5656
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  recently i have been complaining about how games don't have the quality/novelty that they use to. 
 well NSMB proved me wrong... NSMB was the first game i bought for my new DS Lite and what a choice. 
 this game is hella great, it has that classic feel and yet manages to have a new vibe... the graphics 
 are crazy cool... the sounds are amazing... this game is just brilliant, no one will be disappointed 
 i'm not gonna write a long blurb about how effing amazing this game is... so in short, NSMB is 
 an amazing must buy for gamers of all ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  the game play is a little similar if not very similar to the old school mario bros games on the 
 nes/snes gbc and gba except it is fully 3d mixed in a side scrolling game which they ve done the 
 best job in creating a yet fun 3d sidescroller 10/10
  
  the graphics again in 64 true 3d mixed into a nice colorful world this game will please many fans 
 of mario nintendo or platformers in general 9/10
  
  the replay value is nice it has some miniganes a 2 player mode and you do not need 2 cards to play 
 it either it has 8 levels like always hard and challenging this time the red coins are back but 
 not in a way you need to collect them they spawn items for you to use if you get all 8 in time 
 10/10
  
  the sound .music is ok not as fun to hear like the original mariobros but still the gameplay makes 
 up for it in every way possible this is the best mario game besides mariokart and 64 on the ds 
 right now truly proves nintendo is the stongest at 3d and 2 d games period 7/10
  
  tilt so go ahead buy this game if you havent already im sure its worth 35$ nintendo should release 
 a sequal on the ds soon 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Mario, Nintendo's key icon, is back in this superb 2-D game since Yoshi's Island on the SNES. The 
 games starts off just like any other Mario game: Princess Peach is kidnapped by one of Bowser's 
 minions and it is up to the plumber to save her. When the first level starts, you will feel right 
 at home with the controls. Mario jumps, runs, swims, the like. The top screen (and sometimes the 
 bottom) show the gameplay, while the bottom screen has a course map and an item button, when touched, 
 will give you an extra boost if you are losing the battle (just like Super Mario World) . There 
 are eight worlds total, but you can only access worlds 4 and 7 by beating the bosses differently 
 in worlds 2 and 5. The single-player mode is solid and challenging, giving you new ways to play 
 such as wall jumping, floor stomping, and new items like the propellor, giant mushroom, and Koopa 
 shell. There are two types of multiplayer in New SMB: Minigames and Battle Mode. The Minigames 
 are similar to Super Mario 64 DS, this time in a more organized format. Battle mode allows two 
 players collect stars in a never-ending level of pipes, fortresses, and other landscapes, and both 
 the minigames and Battle can be downloaded by someone who doesn't own this incredible game. Don't 
 miss out on this game! It is still one of those platformers Nintendo fans are still playing to 
 this very day. Ma Ma Mia! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheoKratos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  Peach got kidnapped again? call Mario!
  this game is better then what I expected. old school, and maybe the best plataformer in DS. pretty 
 good graphics, 3d characters in 2d background are awesome. the bad thing here is, that is too short. 
 in 1 week, you can reach the last boss fight... this is what I give to it:
  
  Gameplay - 8, the game is fun to play, but really short. the story is good but after you reach 
 the last boss, the game starts being a bit boring... got to catch all the star coins...
  
  Graphics - 9 This is 3d character in 2d backgrounds!!! maybe the best Mario game ever... Sound 
 - 9 the musics remember me the old super mario bros.... good old times. thats why ill give it 8.9, 
 if you own a DS you definetly got to have this game. too bad it hasnt wi-fi... : (
  and one of the best things... Luigi is a playable character!!! oh, and look at the price! OMFG!!! 
 $34.99!!!!!! People! this is Mario!! Mario in his best!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dygel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  My wife and I went camping this weekend*, so naturally I picked up a new handheld title to pass 
 some time with. (It was either that or a fishing license, and I can't fish worth anything.) Most 
 of the DS software that I'm most intersted in isn't on shelves just yet, but there was one title 
 I'd been meaning to pick up: New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Straight off the top, I'm going to lay out my single biggest criticism of the game, and that is 
 this: New Super Mario Bros. is a stupid name for this. If you haven't looked into the title, you 
 might be inclined to think that this is some kind of port (like virtually every Super Mario title 
 for the Game Boy Advance) or collection (like Super Mario All Stars) . Not the case here. New Super 
 Mario Bros. is very much a brand new game, worthy of a Roman numeral or revised naming convention. 
 The "New" in the title is much too ambiguous.
  
  Like every other core Super Mario game, the basic plot is the same. The Princess is nabbed by some 
 spiked-shell wearing degenerate with nothing better to do with his time than scatter troops and 
 traps around. This time around, said villian is Bowser Jr., who grabs the Princess and runs after 
 distracting Mario with a Koopa assault on the castle. Realizing his mistake, Mario leaps into action.
 
  
  As always, Mario's favorite flora - mushrooms and fire flowers - are to be found in abundance throughout 
 the land. Instead of capes and racoons' tails, some new power ups have been added to the mix. Shell 
 Mario dons a blue Koopa shell and, when running, turns into a spinning projectile. The draw back 
 is that once you've tucked into the shell, you don't exactly stop on a dime. The much advertised 
 Mega Mushroom increases Mario to mammoth size, allowing him to smash through blocks and many obstacles 
 with ease. On the flip side of that coin, there's also the Mini Mushroom, which shrinks Mario down 
 to itty bitty size, allowing him to squeeze into otherwise inaccessible areas.
  
  The level design is really quite brilliant, easily comparable to the variation and ingenuity seen 
 in the Super Mario World stages. Each stage has three Star Coins, a midway restart point, and the 
 good ol' flagpole at the end of the line. Some stages also have hidden exits that open alternate 
 paths on the world map.
  
  Each world is laid out as a cross between SMB3 and SMW's world design - the most important stages 
 being towers, ghost houses (in later worlds) , and boss castles. Additionally, the mushroom people's 
 homes will provide bonus lives and power up as you gain access to them. Star Coins earned in stages 
 can be spent to unlock some of these mushroom homes. Each world has more than one way to get from 
 start to finish, making the speed run tradition possible with this installment.
  
  The animation is fluid and well-rendered on the hardware. I only recently noticed that, in some 
 levels, the Koopa Troopas are actually dancing to the rythym of the background music -- at certain 
 beats, they'll pause and look towards the screen. The game's sprites actually feel like they're 
 out of a 2.5D platformer, as the camera will sometimes change zoom levels and perspectives depending 
 on the context of the scene. For instance, warp zones exist as massive cannons, that fire Mario 
 at an angle away from the screen -- the camera zooms in on the sky as Mario flies away and disappears 
 into a speck.
  
  There's other extras too. Minigames galore for people who are into that sort of thing. I appreciate 
 the fact that I'm not missing out on any kind of unlockables by not playing the minigames. There's 
 also a two-player versus mode (over wifi) that pits Mario and Luigi against each other in a battle 
 for big stars.
  
  There's very little to complain about with this title. For one, the control sensitivity is not 
 entirely consistent with other Super Mario titles. This doesn't take long to adjust to, but when 
 you first start playing you may find Mario's aerodynamics a little awkward. Additionally, the inability 
 for the player to save the game at will can be a little frustrating. This is particularly true 
 if you're a completist like myself, and you spend a good deal of time revisiting old stages rather 
 than tackling new ones that might save the game.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a strong addition to Nintendo's original platformer franchise. It takes 
 some of the best bits of the original Super Mario Bros., SMB3, and Super Mario World and blended 
 them together with finesse. Then it builds on that foundation and presents something fresh and 
 worthwhile. If you own a DS, this is one of those titles you should definitely own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brosits been forever since weve seen a classic, 2-d, mario side-scroller. In 
 fact, the last one weve seen was Super Mario World 2, in 1995, for the SNES. 11 years. Long time. 
 But its finally here. This game is 2-d mario side-scrolling  simple, fun, addicting levels where 
 you must go through the level and reach the end of it. Of course being a MARIO platformer, it has 
 tons of secrets to find, as it has been in any other game. For example, there are alternative exits 
 and large coins to collect, but Ill get to that later.
  
  The graphics of this game are superb. Wondeful 2-d backgrounds, combined with 3-d Mario and enemies, 
 make the game look great. They are very attractive and always good to look atand most levels a 
 good level of detail is put into the environments. As for the sound, there are mostly new songs 
 unfortunately. I always liked the old SMB musicthere are several new songs, a remixed underground 
 song, and a new water song. For the most part theyre greatjumpy, catchy, and are what a mario 
 platformer should be  fun. However, the tunes get repetitive after a while, which is why it didnt 
 score a 10.
  
  Nowgameplay. As I said before, its 2-d scrolling levels. Very simple, you can jump and dash to 
 destroy and get past enemies, navigate the terrain, and collect stuff. The game also has an overworld, 
 just like Mario 3 and Mario Worldalternative exits as well as item houses you can access by spending 
 star coins (which you accumulate throughout the various levelsthere are 3 hidden in each) . As 
 nice as it may be to get lots of 1ups and items, this just makes the game easierwhich is a shame 
 because all of the levels are too easy. This games levels are more like the old Super Mario Bros. 
 levels (easy) instead of the more challenging Mario 3 and Mario Worlds levels, which is a shame. 
 There are 80 levels across 8 worlds, which is a good amount, but there could be much more as the 
 DS is capable of much more (and there were 90 in Mario 3 and 76 in Mario Worldit would be nice 
 if it had the most levels of all of them) ... which also means that the game is short, as well, (about 
 6 hours on your first run through) because the levels are not as full as previous entries as well. 
 Of course, the levels are fun, but easy, and have alternative exits and 3 hidden star coins, which 
 are sometimes a challenge to find and are used to access secret passageways and item houses on 
 the world map. New moves galore in New Super Mario Brosthe wall jump and ground pound are introduced 
 and are handled very well. You can also triple jump. There are also new powerups in this game. 
 Unfortunately, they pail in comparison to Mario 3s powerups (Tanooki and Frog were just awesome) , 
 but they are still nice. There is a Mega Mushroom which grows Mario to a monsterous size and takes 
 down everything in his pathand rewards you with 1ups. There is a Koopa Shell, which helps you 
 swim better as well as destroy blocks without ground pounding them. However these 2 new ones are 
 not very useful and rare, it would be nice to see them integrated more. The Mini Mushroom however, 
 which makes Mario tiny, is greatly handled and shrinks him down, where he jumps twice as high, 
 can fit in small gaps for alternative exits, and can only kill enemies by ground pounding them.
 
  
  Replay Value is good like any Mario platformer  the Star Coins and alternative exits, plus the 
 80 levels, will keep you coming back for more... up to a point. (another 10-15 hours) And they are 
 just fun to playyou can take your time and get everything or just speed run through the entire 
 level.
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is a great new 2-d Mario platformer that weve waited 11 years to 
 see. Unfortunately, it does not top Mario 3, Mario World, and Yoshis Island (Mario World 2) because 
 it doesnt bring a lot of newness to the table, the length isn't the greatest, and just doesnt 
 have as good of levels as the games above. It is easy and short (good for casuals) , has lots of 
 secrets, and is just plain fun. One of the best games for DS and recommended for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDUB_x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario brings the series back to his 2D side scrolling roots. Anyone who has played any 
 of the NES or SNES Mario titles will be able to jump right in and run, jump, and stomp Goomba's 
 as the Plumber in red on his quest to rescue Princess Peach.
  
  Gameplay: Classic Mario style 2D platforming action with new power-ups and levels. 10 out of 10
 
  
  Graphics: Same classic art style with a new 3D look. Great character designs. Levels have lots 
 of detail. Everything you would want in a Mario game. 9 out of 10
  
  Sound: Old school Mario tunes and sounds mixed with new songs, sounds, and voice overs. 8 out of 
 10
  
  Value: Nintendo has managed to give fans exactly what they needed. they have released a brand new 
 Mario adventure. Aside form the main quest there are plenty of extras to collect, a new Multiplayer 
 mode, and a collection of mini games to check out. All around this is a solid package. Anyone who 
 enjoys Mario games or 2D platformers in general will definitely enjoy this game. 9 out of 10
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Brothers is really about bringing Mario back to what Mario does best, 
 Running, Jumping and Saving the Princess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I never really wanted this game until it came out and I saw that it got amazing reviews. So I wanted 
 to try it out, so I bought it. I opened the case and popped the game in. I wasn't really surprised 
 it felt like any other Mario platformer with just new levels and items, which isn't a bad thing.
 
  
  Game Play 9/10: Here, I can't complain. The game play is very good and fun and feels like any other 
 Mario platformer, but with new levels and items. The new items are the giant mushroom, blue shell, 
 and tiny mushroom. My personal favorite is the blue mushroom. It acts like a your a koopa in it's 
 shell; when you run. My only complaint here is that it can get frustrating at times.
  
  Graphics 9/10: Top notch graphics that give the mario platformers a great and new look. One of 
 the better games with graphics, on the DS.
  
  Sound 8/10: Just what you would expect from a Mario game. Some of the old Mario themes are in this 
 game remixed which gives the game an "old-school" feel to it.
  
  Value 6/10: Ugh hh. This is where the game lacks. The game only lasts a few hours and ends very 
 quickly. This game is SHORT. Other than that there are a few mini games you can play, but most 
 of them are on Mario 64 DS so it's not that great. The multiplayer isn't that bad, the mini game 
 multiplayer is fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourOpFeR
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game really disappointed me. There was so much hype around it... and after playing through 
 it I'm asking myself why.
  
  Mario has gained some new abilities. You think that's cool? Humm... sometimes.
  
  An example: 
 With a certain mushroom Mario can grow really big and stomp on everything in his way. Yeah, this 
 sounds cool. But now another example: This game has 8 worlds. 2 of them can only be unlocked if 
 you beat the boss of the world before the hidden world while being small. REALLY small. For becoming 
 REALLY small you need a mini mushroom. Have fun finding one and have fun playing through the boss 
 castle as Mini-Mario! One hit and you're dead! And then you have to find a mini mushroom again 
 and replay this castle again! And what do you get for killing the boss as small Mario?
  
  A new world with lots of new coins and secret levels that want to be found.. sigh... There are 
 3 coins in each level. Some of them are really hard to get, and others can only be found by using 
 a walkthrough from the internet because they are hidden at freakin evil places a normal guy can 
 never find. That's sad and annoying. Now you might say: There were many things to find in Super 
 Mario World, too! Wanna know the difference? Here it is: Super Mario World was funny. New Super 
 Mario Bros is not, at least it isn't when you have to search those coins... It's just frustrating 
 to search those dammit coins. Some of them can only be reached as Mini-Mario, and if you die... 
 well, you know the rest. So, where's the fun?
  
  Another thing is, you cannot save whenever you want. If you had 0 coins and found 2 and want to 
 save this progress, you cannot. Why? Because you need 5 coins to pass through certain areas. If 
 you paid the coins, you can save. Annoying, huh?
  
  The levels themselves are funny and entertaining as long as you don't search for the coins.
  
 
  But enough of this. It makes me sad that a Mario game can disappoint me. Please don't think I'm 
 whining about it because I'm a noob. I've played through 5 other Mario games before, and I had 
 no problems with playing through New Super Mario Bros. The game can be completed in 3-7 hours, 
 depending on how much you look for getting coins.
  
  If you've played through this game, there's nothing more fun to do. As I said, finding all coins 
 and secret levels is frustrating and wrecks your nerves.
  
  Many people overrate this game just because of the hype that was made around it. Don't be fooled!
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very, very good. That's what gamers want to see.. If just the game would be so 
 good, too.
  
  Sound: Same goes for the sound.
  
  Value:
  
  If you completed this game once, there's nothing more to do. Some people may be crazy enough to 
 collect all coins, but if you do this, please let the internet help you, or you will be really 
 frustrated.
  
  Tilt:
  
  The old Mario Games (those for SNES) were better in my opinion. If you have money left, don't buy 
 this game. Buy a SNES and Super Mario World. You should get them for about the same price as New 
 Super Mario Bros., but you will have much more fun with them.
  
  So, everything is said now. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParaFish
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. Review
  
  New Bro, same flow!
  
  It has been roughly fourteen long years since the last Super Mario Bros. title was a 2-D platformer. 
 New Super Mario Bros. breaks the mold by returning to the roots of gaming. Does the title live 
 up to the legends? Is it worthy to be classified with the rest of Marios 2-D adventures? Find 
 out in the review!
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are top notch. As most of you know, the game is entirely in 2-D. Even though New Super 
 Mario Bros. is based on 2-D, Nintendo did not cut any corners when working on the graphics for 
 this title. The game consists of smoothly rendered graphics and very little, if any pixilation. 
 The world map and levels are highly detailed and full of content. There are usually several colorful 
 layers of background to add life and depth to the 2-D world. Mario and the enemies on screen are 
 very animated and there doesnt seem to be any blocky movement or quirky physics. Nintendo really 
 took their time with the title and made sure even the smallest graphical blemishes were touched 
 on. I loved the graphical direction that was taken for New Super Mario Bros. and was highly pleased 
 with what the hardware capabilities of the DS could really pull off.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The overall gameplay is very similar to Super Mario Bros. 3 released on the NES. There are a total 
 of eight colorful worlds for Mario to venture through. However, two of these worlds are somewhat 
 of a secret and are usually passed up by the average player. The environments can consist of all 
 the traditional areas Mario is known to visit such as haunted houses, creepy castles, scorching 
 deserts, frozen tundras, bottomless oceans, sunny beaches, and your traditional grassy plains. 
 I was pleased with the number and variety of worlds found in New Super Mario Bros. The physics 
 and movement of our hero Mario have been modeled after his star platforming titles found on the 
 NES. I never once became frustrated by the controls or felt cheated by a flawed physics scheme. 
 If you were able to control Mario in his past platforming titles, you should feel right at home 
 with the controls of New Super Mario Bros. Like most cases, with a new edition of classic Mario 
 platforming comes a few great new items that he will be able to use on his adventure to save his 
 beloved Princess Peach. The traditional Fire Flower and Mushroom remake their appearance in the 
 title but new to the Mario platforming world are the Blue Shell, Mega Mushroom, and Mini Mushroom 
 items. The Blue Shell has a variety of effects on Mario. When Mario begins to run he can tuck inside 
 the shell to use his momentum to mow over his enemies. He can also tuck inside the shell at anytime 
 and be protected from most outside enemies, similar to the Tanooki Suits defensive capability 
 found in Super Mario Bros. 3. Lastly, when worn, the Blue Shell gives Mario an added degree of 
 underwater mobility for some of those more difficult underwater stages. I wasnt much of a fan 
 of the Blue Shell. I felt the item made Mario too difficult to control sometimes. I would begin 
 running through a stage only to find that Mario tucked himself inside his shell and had begun bouncing 
 all over the screen, only to wind up in a bottomless pit. While at times the Blue Shell had its 
 fun moments, overall it was just a pain to try and control. Next on the list is the Mega Mushroom, 
 an item that makes Mario grow to gigantic proportions. I tend to have the same mixed feelings toward 
 the Mega Mushroom as I did the Blue Shell. Many times when I used the Mega Mushroom, instead of 
 completely destroying everything in my path as intended, I would instead get stuck on some part 
 of the environment and remain stuck until the effect of the Mega Mushroom wore off. It seems that 
 there are only a few specific levels were the Mega Mushroom could have come in handy. Once again, 
 the item is fun to use at times but I just never really found any practical use for the Mega Mushroom. 
 Lastly we have the Mini Mushroom. As you might of guessed this item has the exact opposite effect 
 of the Mega Mushroom and shrinks Mario to a miniscule size. In this miniature state, Mario has 
 the ability to jump higher and fall slower due his light weight. Like my view of the other two 
 new items, the Mini Mushroom feels gimmicky. There are few areas were it would be put to practical 
 to use and the Mini Mushroom is mainly used for reaching alternate exits or secret routes in a 
 particular stage. Unlike the other two items, I didnt really find the Mini Mushroom  that fun 
 to use and out of the three new items I would say it is my least favorite addition. The new items 
 add a bit of depth in the game but for the most part they are hardly necessary and rarely used. 
 I am actually glad that a lot of focus was not put on these additional items but that more of the 
 focus is on the classic Mario platforming we all know and love. Moving on from the new features, 
 lets take a look at what classic gameplay Nintendo has decided to keep. The world map found in 
 New Super Mario Bros. is very similar to that of Super Mario 3 or Super Mario World. You will move 
 Mario from point to point completing various stages till you reach the final castle and boss of 
 that particular world. The length it will take to complete New Super Mario Bros. is roughly a little 
 more than it would take you to complete Super Mario Bros. 3. There are the classic warp pipes that 
 can be found throughout the stages and can be used to totally skip through a few of the worlds. 
 If you were playing hastily you could easily complete New Super Mario Bros. in one sitting. Some 
 complained about how short the game was but I believe Nintendo developed it this way so that you 
 could pick up the title and play it every now and then, similar to how you could Super Mario 3 
 or the original Super Mario. Nintendo has catered to both the hardcore and the average gamer in 
 that New Super Mario Bros. contains secret routes, warp pipes, and two secret worlds to unlock. 
 While the main game can be played in one sitting there are still many hours to be played to completely 
 unlock everything. Each stage found within the eight worlds is played out as your traditional 2-D 
 side-scroller. Mario has the ability to hold an item that he collects similar to the feature found 
 in Super Mario World on the SNES. This is a great feature to help with the more difficult levels 
 later on. The only complaint I have about this feature is that you must touch the items icon in 
 the bottom screen to activate it. While this may seem picky, I dont particularly like putting 
 paw prints all over my DS just to use the touch screen features. It can also be aggravating to 
 constantly take out the stylus for a game that is primarily played via d-pad. It would have been 
 easy to assign a button such as Select, L, or R to activate the item. All the traditional elements 
 of Mario can be found such as 1-up mushrooms and the collection of one-hundred gold coins for an 
 extra life. New Super Mario Bros. does add a somewhat new concept to the whole coin collecting 
 idea. Throughout each stage there will be three hidden star coins which when obtained allow Mario 
 to buy alternate routes on the world map. These routes can lead to Mushroom Houses which Mario 
 can take a gamble and try to earn extra lives or extra items from. Lastly, I found that New Super 
 Mario Bros. had a solid level of difficultly. I found that the stages designed were a tad easier 
 than the Original Super Mario Bros. , Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World. As far as game 
 modes go, New Super Mario Bros. comes with a variety of different mini games that appeared in Super 
 Mario 64 DS as well as a few new ones. There is also a two player mode called Mario Vs. Luigi, 
 which was fairly fun. The extra features arent really explosive but they do add a little extra 
 topping on an already great single player adventure mode. The gameplay sticks to the original roots 
 which is right were any 2-D plat former should be. I believe New Super Mario Bros. can be placed 
 right up there with Super Mario 3 and the original Super Mario Bros. It is a legendary game that 
 really stresses the fact that the solid gameplay of 2-D platformering is still alive and well in 
 our age.
  
  Sound & Music:
  
  I found nothing wrong with the music and sound within the game. There were quite a few remixes 
 of the original Mario songs found throughout his 2-D era. Each stages music fits perfectly with 
 its world environment and the sound effects are top notch. I never found the songs to be annoying 
 or repetitive. There are also a few original songs that are quite nice and definitely worthy of 
 being Mario music. The music was highly nostalgic and I honestly enjoyed the sound of New Super 
 Mario Bros. from beginning to end.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great representation of what the 2-D platforming of Super Mario was 
 all about. The environments, the enemies, the sound effects and music will all bring you back to 
 that golden age so long ago. I would highly recommend this title to not only Mario fans and old 
 school gamers, but pretty much anyone. The title offers many different types of gamers a chance 
 to take a trip down memory lane and provides a type of game you will want to pick up over and over 
 again (Like its other 2-D predecessors) . In my opinion, New Super Mario Bros. is one of the strongest 
 titles on the DS. From graphics to gameplay, this game has you covered.
  
  Final Score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everccr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Yes its true mario is went back to his 2d side srolling roots in New Super Mario Bros. This game 
 i would recomend to any ds owner. Its a fun game but the biggest problem i had was the fact that 
 it was too short. an experienced gamer can beat it in a few hours. The new editions they added 
 though are really fun and intresting. Like the giant mushroom obviously makes you giant so you 
 can crush enemies. The mini mushroom makes it so you can fit into small places and walk on water. 
 The multiplayer is a nice new addition that you can play for hours on end. Overall New Super Mario 
 Bros. Is a great but short game. If you dont have ds this would be the reason why to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna go too much detail about how i feel about this game, but let me start by saying WOW.
 
  Simply put, a superb combination of gameplay, from all the previous super mario brothers games, 
 there's a bit of everything in here, From Plush 3D Graphics, Awesome sounds, Kick Ass challenges 
 and it's totally simple to play.
  I didn't enjoy this game as much as i did Super Princess Peach, but at the same time, i can't really 
 fault this game at all, as it kept me playing thru to the end.... i did like several features NSMB 
 had to offer:
  
  Like the ability to back track thru the worlds to replay stages to get Needed power ups to do certain 
 things to get remaining Star Coins, The Spinning Platforms, Mini and Mega Muchrooms :D Smashy Smashy 
 anyone??!! XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I can't remember the last Mario 2-D platformer that wasn't simply a remake of one of the SNES/NES 
 ones. New Super Mario Bros. has a lot to offer, with new gameplay mechanics and different obstacles 
 from any of the others. Nintendo has finally done many gamers a favor through giving us a true 
 Mario game.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  The graphics are darn good for the DS. Most areas look crisp and you never run into lag. The different 
 environments are true eye candy, and really enhance the whole experience. Mario and the other 3-D 
 characters are a little blurry, but honestly I don't care because it doesn't really make that much 
 of a difference.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  New Super Mario Bros. has a lot of new gameplay mechanics that aren't in the previous games. In 
 this particular game you can groundpound, become extremely small in order to reach different areas, 
 gain a shell in order to spin into enemies, swing on ropes, become giant and crush everything in 
 your way, and jump on certain pads which make you fly for a short amount of time. All of these 
 improvements really add a lot to the game, and make it different. This time around it doesn't involve 
 simply jumping on goombas heads.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound in some levels is charming and enjoyable. It doesn't really make that much of a difference, 
 but lets just say that if you were to play with your ds volume turned off, it wouldn't take away 
 from the experience.
  
  Overall: 9
  
  This game truly is superb with its new additions and great level designs. Any DS owner is recommended 
 to get this game, it is very worthwhile. The one downer is that it's extremely short, but you just 
 might find yourself playing through again or trying to get all of the star coins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woody121
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  What can I say? New Super Mario Brothers is a fantastic remake of the origional game. Brilliant 
 graphics and a fresh new remake with several new and exciting worlds, powerups and secrets. Become 
 gigantic and just blast everyone out of your way and be laughing all through it. Become mini and 
 squeeze your way through tiny little gaps and find a little crevice where you can find a secret 
 exit to the world and get blasted from a cannon into a new, unknown place. You will be totally 
 engrossed with this fantastic game and get lost in the wonderful world of Mario. This is undoubtidly 
 THE best game for the DS out now. I highly recommend getting this game, hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdscrub
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the best game to come out in 2006, now i have always loved mario games and this 
 one builds on everything that made the series great.
  
  There was only one thing that really bothered me about the game and that is the difficulty level, 
 it is far to easy and it does not take long to get through the game. don't get me wrong the game 
 has alot of lasting appeal collecting every starcoin goin to the two hidden worlds (2 and 4) and 
 trying to beat your highest score tons of stuff.
  
  Its got everything you would expect from a mario game mushrooms, fire flowers, goombas and bowser. 
 they also have somethings yopu would not expect a world bosses that are each different not just 
 different koopa kids with a different look, other things you would not expect is the wall jump 
 ability and the wall slide those are welcome additions that come from the 3-d mario games.
  
  All in all this is the best game to come out for the DS yet and it just shows how much promise 
 is still in the mario series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_623
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  It's about time nintendo made a brand new super mario game. With the improved character control 
 and new level design this game is superb and a must buy for any ds owner.
  
  The new collection of power-ups make new super mario bros. a fresh new adventure with all sorts 
 of secrets such as alterate level exits to new levels. The amount of secrets and joy make this 
 game impossible to put down. The difficulty of this game is actully pretty easy if you want to 
 get from start to finish, but if you plan on getting all 250 star coins (which you could later use 
 access additional levels and mushroom houses) , expect it to be harder nonetheless. Trying to get 
 all star coins and unlock alternate paths give this game some amazing replay value. The bottom 
 screen is extremely helpful as you could check your progress through the level, save power-ups 
 when you need them, and warp worlds. The only negative about this game is the sound, which is not 
 as good as previous games, I was expecting more from the music that'll make me hum the tune all 
 day. Also, I think the bosses are a bit to simplistic ( just hit them 3 times and they're defeated 
 ) There are also mini games ( most of them are ports from mario 64 DS) all of them are touch based 
 and are great when you're extremely bored and want to take a break from the game.
  
  Overall this game is a excellent game and a must buy for any ds owner. So if you're bored and need 
 a new game to play, it's new super mario bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekstiles2012
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  well its all (best game) sorta thing and quite frankly its not the best on ds if u like mario then 
 u MIGHT like this not all its cracked up 2 be soo its pretty much origanal platforming but not 
 a must buy!!
  
  and its the sammmme old save peach routine and battle bowser
  
  buy if theres nothin else u want
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  AC WW rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I never play the original Super Mario Bro. (I was born after it came out.) But after I play this 
 game I had seen why it ended the video game crash. It very addicted. It very fun. And you can play 
 as Luigi too. If you get bored with the main quest you can play some of the awesome mini-games. 
 If you play those already and you know someone who owns a Nintendo DS too. You can play a multi-player 
 game where you collect stars. It hard to win these multi-player but you can also play multi-player 
 with the mini-games. So if you own a Nintendo DS and LOVE Mario or want to play some Super Mario 
 Bros this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustSomeGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is just the game I've been waiting for. It has great old school side 
 scrolling action on the level of the original Super Mario games. With basic controls and quick 
 gameplay I could ask for nothing more out of a 2-D side scroller. They didn't try and overdo themselves 
 with tons of different items and abilities which just makes the game even more simplistic. But 
 if your like me simplistic is good. The story could have been developed a little better but what 
 can you expect from a Mario game. They haven't exactly had innovative stories. So if you are like 
 me and love the simplistic controls of the Super Nintendo this is definitely a title you will want 
 to pick and keep for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iGroves
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Once again, a new Super Mario Bros game is out on the DS! And its not just a new game, its a new 
 fantastic game. With all the enjoyment it by gar makes it the best game on the DS.
  
  You are Mario, on a side-scrolling screen, trying to get to the end, collecting 3 Big Coins on 
 your boyage to the end. It sounds simple, but it really isn't. These coins allow you to get to 
 secret places, such as a Power-up and because of thise, the coins are kept in secret places, and 
 you have to keep an eye out for these coins, and ways of discovering them.
  
  The graphics are amazing, even though it is side scrolling, with the variety of colours everywhere, 
 just amazing, and also the music is good too! The idea of this game is to try and rescue Peach 
 from Bowser, and travel all the different worlds trying to get her back. I don't see why shes to 
 helpless and can't stop getting kidnapped, I don't know..
  
  There is also Mini-Games that you can choose from, most from Super Mario 64 DS, but I don't see 
 why you should want to spend to much time on these, as they arn't that great. Just if your a bit 
 bored, and feel like a quick game of something I guess.
  
  So basically this game is really enjoyable, and fun game, so its definatly a must if you own a 
 DS /DS Lite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattiasmak
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers takes you back to the time when you first connected your NES to the television. 
 But as soon as you landed in nostaligia country, you're back home, cus' this is innovative and 
 good!
  
  NSMB does steal a lot from the original game released back in 1985, and it combines it with stuff 
 from SMB2, SMB3 and SM64. And it does it very good. The game is fun, it's entertaining and it makes 
 you smile. On top of it all the mini games a great fun. The only flaw this game has is that it's 
 a little bit short and for true gamers it won't be much of a challange. It's too easy. I remember 
 struggeling with SMB3. I didn't make a sweat beating this game.
  
  But all in all it's a must-have for DS owners. The grafics are superb and the game is a lot of 
 fun, and has a lot of great music in it.
  
  We all love Mario, and this is why we love him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aya-Kun
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I normally love the Mario games epically all the originals, epically on the nes and snes, but the 
 new Mario for the ds was the most disappointing game that i think ive ever brought. I waiting epically 
 for it to come out and i brought it the day it come out at work and i also took it back on the 
 Monday and swapped it for something else.
  
  The game play is good and it is just like any other Mario game so it is easy for people to pick 
 up new to Mario or coming back for more, and it has all the old elements plus some new items that 
 make the game a bit more interesting but not enough. Even all of the mini games that where included 
 even though some are ones just brought over from the Mario 64 DS version.
  The new elements brought in for me just where not enough. I also think that this game was to easy 
 and a bit of the same old stuff. As i said brought it on the Friday completed it over the weekend 
 ~even if i didn't unlock everything~ i didn't want to play it any more.
  
  This has to be one of the biggest disappointments in a game, and i know everyone loved it, and 
 it does have its moments. But im sorry this game just didn't really do it for me, and that made 
 me kinda sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oilers99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  With a name, there are expectations. These expectations can work for or against a game, and in 
 the case of New Super Mario Brothers, both at once. New Super Mario Brothers cuts a lot of the 
 extras fans of the latter Mario games have come to expect. While some may call it dumbed down, 
 it is rather an extremely focused interpretation of what makes Mario such a revered series, and 
 this focus pays off. With unrivaled design quality, New Super Mario Brothers proves that less is 
 more.
  
  Controlling Mario is intuitive. It's thrilling to run at high speeds, jump high or kick off a wall. 
 It's also more difficult than series fans are used to. Mario carries his momentum a lot more. Managing 
 Mario's momentum adds to the game's kinetic feel, but it will bother those who are used to older 
 Mario games.
  
  The power-ups in New Super Mario Brothers add a dynamic gameplay element. The fire-flower is back, 
 letting you shoot fireball projectiles at your enemies. New is a giant mushroom which temporarily 
 turns Mario into a godzilla-sized version of himself, allowing you to smash through otherwise challenging 
 obstacles. Another is a blue shell, which lets Mario turn into the equivalent of a koopa shell 
 after running for a while, but gives you the added ability to jump. Becoming a human pinball is 
 highly entertaining. The last is a mini-mushroom, which shrinks you down to tenth of your normal 
 size. This gives your jump a better trajectory, allows you to run on water and access some areas 
 that a normal sized Mario can't. Each of these presents a unique approach to a level, and adds 
 to the entertainment value of being Mario.
  
  Not that the levels need the help. They are beautifully designed, constantly demanding a different 
 approach to navigate them. The variety is immense, as each level has its own platforming elements 
 that makes it unique. Levels take place underwater, scroll automatically, involve jumping over 
 tall obstacles, use maze-like designs, use a variety of bottomless pits or something else equally 
 entertaining. You'll never feel like you've played the same level twice. Further enhancing each 
 level is their willingness to borrow from past Mario games or use something entirely new. There 
 are little gameplay elements borrowed from past Mario games, and ones that are entirely new to 
 this game. When the gameplay elements from past games appear, they're used in fresh ways. It comes 
 together superbly, and every moment is distilled joy.
  
  Controlling Mario is so engaging, that combined with the varied and top-notch level design, Mario 
 ends up being every bit as good as its predecessors. But comparisons to its predecessors will hurt 
 the game, not for quality, but for the absence of features from past Mario games. You won't find 
 the power-ups of Super Mario Brothers 3, the non-linear design of Super Mario World (though it 
 branches a bit, just not all that much) , the ability to fly, Yoshi or 2D sprites. There's near 
 infinite room to nitpick all of the differences between New Super Mario Brothers and past games.
 
  
  But it doesn't matter. New Super Mario Brothers is engaging without these elements. The absence 
 of some of the more complicated features from past Mario games do not hurt the game, except in 
 the eyes of those who expect New Super Mario Brothers to be something it is not. The subtractions 
 of all the extras merely cause the game's focus to shift to the fundamentals of the gameplay, which 
 are every bit as entertaining as the fundamentals of past Mario games. If anything, New Super Mario 
 Brothers feels more cohesive. While some of the past Mario games included some elements that were 
 not particularly well-implemented in the design (some of Super Mario Brothers 3's power-ups come 
 to mind) , everything in New Super Mario Brothers seems to fit.
  
  New Super Mario Brothers is pure. It sticks to the essence of a Mario Brothers game, and it succeeds 
 better than anyone could have anticipated. Brilliant control and dazzling level design come together 
 for what should be ranked as one of the greatest Mario games of all-time, and one of the greatest 
 games of all-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker101B
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The last original Mario Side-Scroller Came out in 1992 and it was for the Game Boy. Super Mario 
 Land 2 - Six Golden Coins. After that Mario went 3D with Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo64. Sure, 
 we had remakes come out on the GameBoy and GameBoy Advance. But not a original Mario Side-Scroller. 
 Then, New Super Mario Bros comes out on the Nintendo DS. WOW. It has recaptured that Mario feel. 
 I started with Super Mario Bros on the NES back in 1986, and I loved Super Mario Bros 3 and Super 
 Mario World. This game is right up there. If you do not own a Nintendo DS, go out and buy one. 
 I bought one for this game and the new Zelda. The control is as good as the older ones, and it 
 pays a great homage to past Mario games. Can't wait for the sequal!!!! WELL DONE NINTENDO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastlevaniaFan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I hate to be the one to give this game a bad review, but people need to see this game from a different 
 perspective. When you pick it up from the shelf, it is a great package! Versus multiplayer, mini-games, 
 and best of all- finally another Mario side-scroller.
  It's a nice game, new items you use alot and some creative little mario platforming. Also it has 
 great gameplay and great graphics, almost perfect when it comes to these two factors. Unfortunately, 
 this game starts to lack everywhere else.
  Remember then NES and SNES mario side-scrollers? The music was half of what got you into the game 
 so much- blending perfectly with the scenery with old-school beeps and boops. The music in the 
 game is not so great, kicking out the old themes and replacing them with annoying steel drums and 
 mexican fiesta music. And the overall worth of the game makes me depressed, when you look at it, 
 it just looks like a cry for help from the mario series as it is not near as good as the old games. 
 Replay value is not all that great either, you'll beat it through and might get the urge to play 
 a level or two now and again afterwards- but not much more.
  The best part of this game is the mini-games, gamespot reviews depicted them as "boring and bland", 
 but I found them amazingly fun. Play with up to 4 friends or by yourself in these mini-games that 
 give Mario party a run for it's money.
  All in all it is an okay game, but really I wouldn't call it that. It's too mixed; whether it be 
 bad in value and sound it is good in graphics and gameplay. Whether it be super hard at one part, 
 some levels all you have to do is kill a lakitu- steal it's cloud and skip the entire level. I 
 guess whether you liek it or not depends on what you consider should be the best within a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar52
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the latest handheld mario game and in my opinion its the best handheld 
 mario game. Theres something about but i just cant figure out what that is? The 2D/3D graphics? 
 The multiplayer? The remake of one of the greatest games ever? Yeah thats probably it. It's like 
 exploring new versions of the good old levels and worlds. This game has a really fun multiplayer. 
 I remember the this last year me and all my friends would show up with our ds in pockets and theyd 
 download the minigame thing from my new super mario bros and we would all play miningames. It was 
 awsome we would like have tournements over food lol. Very geeky? Iknow. but i don't care what others 
 think its just a great game and you should try it. Mario is back and this time he meens business. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Everyones favorite hero, Mario, returns to his plumbing roots in New Super Mario Bros, essentially 
 a more detailed look at the 1985 classic, Super Mario Bros. Despite being showcased in Super Mario 
 Strikers and Mario Baseball, NSMB shows that Mario still can be the perfect piece in an excellent 
 side scrolling adventure. The game utilizes a simple control scheme that allows for crazy level 
 design. The plot and some of the environments from Super Mario Bros are re-used, but the game is 
 significantly longer and has a pair of multiplayer modes. As a whole, New Super Mario Bros adds 
 enough content to make it a new game and not a simple cash-in.
  
  Remember back when Bowser kidnapping Princess Peach was an epic storyline? NSMB re-uses that same 
 storyline, but this time Baby Bowser has captured Peach. Naturally, Mario must traverse the massive 
 Mushroom Kingdom to stop Baby Bowser and save the Princess. The story isnt the most interesting 
 one, but it gets the action going, lets itself out of the way, and has a good sense of nostalgia. 
 
  
  Although Mario isnt the strongest videogame character, he still defeats a ton of different enemies. 
 Mario has three basic moves in NSMB: jump, run, and butt stomp. Yet, this small arsenal of moves 
 puts away every enemy. Throughout the eight worlds, no enemy is tough enough to withstand more 
 then 3 jumps on the head. Their weakness arent because they are all the same though, as they 
 change more then weather. Youll see brand new enemies like a bird that hurls snowballs, a web-spinning 
 bumblebee, and mad caterpillars. Of course, you still get to see plenty of Koopas, Goombas, Bom-ombs, 
 Hammer Brothers, and Dry Bones. A lot of the enemies are level related, so expect to see caterpillars 
 in the forest, fish in the water, and Ghosts in the ghost houses. 
  
  Therefore, each of the levels in NSMB is different and inventive. Youll get to soar through the 
 clouds, swim in the rivers, escape dimly lit caves, and move through lava-filled dungeons. Each 
 of the worlds has its own theme, like the jungle, desert, or sky that change the levels in terms 
 of visuals. Fortunately, its not just colors that make the levels different, but textures and 
 designs as well. Certain levels have slippery ice to slide on, others have you moving along on 
 a platform, and youll jump from wall to wall to reach the exits in others. They all require patience, 
 timing, a little bit of luck, and the ability to dodge shells, boulders, bullets, and whatever 
 else opposes you. 
  
  Regular Mario may only be able to jump to beat opposition, but strewn about the worlds are tons 
 of power-ups. You may recall that in Super Mario Bros, Mario could grow with a mushroom and shoot 
 fireballs by grabbing a flower. These classic power-ups return, as well as three new ones. These 
 include a Shell, Mini Mushroom, and Mega Mushroom. The Blue Shell gives him the ability to slide 
 through levels opening paths and eliminating foes. The Mini Mushroom shrinks Mario to a micro-size, 
 giving him a loftier jump and access to mini pipes. The opposite of the Mini mushroom is the Mega 
 Mushroom that enlarges Mario, making him temporarily invincible. With it you can smash your way 
 through anything and defeat any boss quickly. All these power-ups are implemented nicely, and help 
 to keep the game from straying down a similar path. 
  
  Of course, these mushrooms also serve as ways to deviously hide bonus content. Every level has 
 three hidden star coins, which are well hidden. You dont need them to finish the level, but youre 
 human and your instincts tell you to grab each one of them no matter how many deaths it costs. 
 When you skip one, youll eventually to return to grab it and find the others. The star coins serve 
 as the save system, until you beat the game, at which time you can save freely. When hunting for 
 these coins you may find one of the many alternate exits, which unlocks a bonus level or a path 
 to the Warp Cannon. This hidden content tacks on some extra value to the eight hour adventure. 
 
  
  In addition to the single-player, NSMB has a pair of multiplayer modes. The first, Mario Vs Luigi, 
 is similar to Sunshine Battle in Mario Kart DS. The goal is to collect as many stars as you can, 
 and whoever has the most, wins. Stars can be taken away by jumping, hitting with a shell, or spewing 
 a fireball to an opponent. The second mode, mini-games, is a unique set of games that rely heavily 
 on the touch screen. For example, youll use the screen to maneuver a snowball down a hill or draw 
 lines for Mario to reach the stars. Both modes pack on some additional value and fun times with 
 friends. 
  
  The single-player and multiplayer are highlighted with some excellent sound. Returning from the 
 classic Mario games are the catchy level songs that have you humming along. Whether its the spooky 
 ghost music, the dark castle music, or the upbeat tunes youre sure to sing along. The music is 
 light-hearted and blends seamlessly with each level. Its loud enough to be heard, but doesnt 
 overpower the sound effects. They are spot on, whether its the squishing a foe or the chomping 
 of a pipe plant. Unfortunately, there is virtually no dialogue, except for Mario or Luigi saying 
 Thank you so nice or Yeah for me, Luigi! 
  
  Also complimenting the entire game are some top-notch graphics. Despite being hampered by some 
 minor frame-rate problems, the characters are excellently 3D rendered in the 2D world. Marios 
 mustache looks excellently bristled and his painters overalls are lavishly colored. Furthermore, 
 the enemies look absolutely amazing and feature a ton of detail, like intricate shell designs and 
 smooth flapping wings. In addition, the environments are brought to life with a bright palette 
 of colors, and the Mushroom Kingdom looks bright and cheery capturing the essence of the entire 
 game. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros isnt a breath of fresh air, but a breath of that old perfume that you still 
 love. NSMB has enough new content to eliminate the cash-in feel, and after so many Mario sports 
 games, its nice to see that Mario can still save the Princess. Due to its fantastic gameplay, 
 beautiful graphics, and captivating sound New Super Mario Bros comes recommend to all DS owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricLeamen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. for Nintendo DS
  
  Super Mario Bros. still holds the record for best selling game of all time. Now, Mario is back 
 in an all new side scroller for the Nintendo DS.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great new 3D Mario game for the Nintendo DS. The story is the same, 
 Princess Peach gets captured by Bowser, actually, it's Bowser Jr., and Mario must save her. In 
 this game, Mario ventures through 8 worlds (2 of which are unlockable) , with about 8 levels each. 
 You jump on enemies to kill them, or use power ups, which are available throughout the game. Power 
 Ups include the fire flower, mini mushroom, mega mushroom, the blue koopa shell, and all of your 
 favourite classics power ups from the original Mario.
  
  Not only does Mario have some new power ups, he has learned some new moves over the years! The 
 ground pound can be very helpful in breaking those pesky boxes in hard to reach places. They also 
 let you access hidden areas, blocked by boxes. Mario can also now climb up walls! Using the wall 
 jump, you can climb to high places, that sometimes hide secret items!
  
  The screens have a very simple layout. The top screen is where gameplay takes place, and the bottom 
 screen charts your progress in the level. You can also keep track of your lives, the number of 
 star coins you have collected, and the item you've picked up, and saved.
  
  Of course, along the way, you'll have the help of the familiar green plumbing pipes. In this game, 
 when Mario slides down a pipe, gameplay takes place on the bottom screen. Some pipes are too small 
 for Mario to fit into, so you'll have to find a mini mushroom to access them.
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome! Excellent for the Nintendo DS. Gameplay doesn't take a long 
 time, in fact I've had the game for less than a month, and I'm already at the last level. But, 
 this game has a lot of replay value, because you can replay each level that you finish. And the 
 newly discovered Challenge Mode. Challenge Mode only lets you scroll forward, you can't backtrack 
 in the level, just like the original Mario.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. also comes packed with over 50 fun and challenging mini games, that you can 
 play with your friends! The minigames also provide even more replay value, once you've completed 
 the game!
  
  Although I've made this game sound perfect, there is one distinct flaw! You can't save whenever 
 you want. You can only save at certain checkpoints!
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great new game, and I highly recommend it to Mario fans, and non-Mario 
 fans alike. I give New Super Mario Bros. a 9.5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _shadowdude_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Its a great game, but The Mega and Mini Mario just ruined The original Super Mario Bros. Oh well. 
 I was disappointed that there was no raccoon Power and that there was no Yoshi or Wario. But overall 
 it was a great game. I wasn't going to expect there to bean extra two Castles at world 8, That 
 shocked me, and I was so mad, I thought I beat the game! But again overall is was a great game! 
 Once I found Out that I could Play as Luigi I was playing Non-stop. The Most Challenging thing 
 in The New Super Mario Bros. is to get all 250 star coins. The multi-player on The New Super Mario 
 Bros. is Great!!!! Now only if they had a two player adventure!
  I recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishamuffypuppy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Mario - who hasn't heard of the red plumber in blue overalls - or even the games 
 he stars in himself. The Mario series is the trademark and character mascot of the Nintendo company, 
 and is also the best selling franchise in video game history. Ever since the portly little plumber 
 appeared on the Nintendo Entertainment System in the late 80's, Mario has become a smash hit producing 
 dozens of spin-offs and adventures on his own. But it wasn't until the market debut of the Nintendo 
 64 that Mario actually moved truly into the 3-Dimensional World, in Super Mario 64. Since then, 
 Mario hasn't appeared in a 2-Dimensional side scrolling adventure for nearly a decade. Well this 
 has changed, as Mario has starred and appeared to his old roots yet again in a game entitled, New 
 Super Mario Bros. The title, being a new trademark for the Nintendo DS, reflects the same style 
 that made the Mario series so popular, and the game itself encourages and places in some new elements 
 as well to make this game so successful. Mario is back again - to his original platforming adventures; 
 and quite simply, this game is just about as compelling and addictive as his past generation game's 
 were in the days before the Nintendo 64.
  
  Story: The Mario series has a traditional story on its own merits, and its quite simply known for 
 its simple plot, yet it never seems to get weary. The story begins as Mario and Princess Peach 
 are strolling in the meadows of the Mushroom Kingdom, when all of a sudden, Mario discovers that 
 Princess Peach's castle in under attack. He tells Peach to wait calmy while he checks out this 
 conspiracy, and then when he returns, he realizes the princess is stolen yet again! However, it 
 is not stolen by Bowser himself, but his son, Baby Bowser. So as always, Mario sets off to rescue 
 Peach, to save her from whatever plot Baby Bowser may be planning, and to save the Mushroom Kingdom.
 
  
  Presentation: New Super Mario Bros. has an interesting presentation, primarily because it seems 
 like a combination of all of the past Mario games alike. The graphics are represented in the same 
 2-Dimensional side scrolling world, but Mario himself, as well as many other elements are presented 
 in 3D. The game sports the same feel as other Mario plat formers, and the game really takes you 
 back into the older memories of previous Mario side scrollers. The is a nice and well rounded package 
 that is suited well on the Nintendo DS, and it is a great achievement made by Nintendo after such 
 a long decade without the plumber in his classic, side scrolling style.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in New Super Mario Bros. are absolutely gorgeous! The worlds are vivid in 
 color, and each of the games many worlds are represented differently with plenty of design reminiscent 
 of the past titles - surely Nintendo hasn't lost their flair for designing the classic Mario style. 
 The animation of Mario itself is absolutely smooth, and him and other elements in the game are 
 represented in great 3D. The 2D graphics are smooth sprites that have wonderful elements and a 
 great Mario feel to them, and the contrast with the 3-Dimensional graphics is works together to 
 form an absolutely brilliant work of art. The level design, character design, and overall graphical 
 feel is represented perfectly, and the game surely doesn't lose the favorite feel that Mario has 
 kept alive for the past 20 years. The game is an absolutely wonderful achievement in terms of graphical 
 technology, and surely a game like New Super Mario Bros. can remind you that both 2D and 3D can 
 work together to create a visually stunning masterpiece.
  
  Sound: The sound in New Super Mario Bros. is a great production as well. The sounds effects are 
 represented wonderfully, from the traditional 1-Up to the Game Over jingle. The game still has 
 the same Mario feel that any gamer who picks up and plays will surely remember and love. The games 
 music on the other hand, is just as catchy as the memorable sound effects. Newly rendered tunes 
 that still represent the classic Mario feel are represented wonderfully in the game, and they suit 
 each of the Mario worlds nicely. Just like the game's graphics, New Super Mario Bros. presentes 
 a great presentation overall that really sets the Mario series apart from the rest, and it is still 
 the great achievement gamers know and love.
  
  Gameplay: So how does the gameplay stack up in comparison to the original side scrollers? Well 
 I can gladly say that New Super Mario Bros. succeeds and out does it self in terms of creative 
 design, and both the same platforming elements that has made the series so popular - and it's just 
 as addicting as ever. Just about everything from the original titles are back, including the traditional 
 live system, Mushrooms, Coins, the Time, and of course the ever famous Star Power. The game also 
 introduces plenty of new elements as well, and each of them fit perfectly in the Mario universe. 
 So what's so new about New Super Mario Bros.? Is the game still the same classic Mario that we 
 know and love? Well again, the answer is yes, so here is how the game stacks up so nicely in all 
 respects. The game is represented in the same presentation as the previous titles, except for the 
 knowingly obvious fact that there are 3-Dimensional elements involved to make this game different, 
 yet so compelling as a new reflection on the series. When you start the game, you will be placed 
 on an overworld map that was present in both Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario Land. This is 
 represented on the bottom screen during this time, and is also represented in 3D. It's still sports 
 the same classic style of control - moving around the map, and selecting what world you would like 
 to visit. And of course, just like the traditional side scrolling predecessor, there are eight 
 worlds in total to visit in New Super Mario Bros, with plenty of lands in between. And of course, 
 there are eight castles by which they need to be conquered in the levels, and each one of them 
 contain a different and more difficult boss as you progress through the games worlds. They all 
 sports feels similar to the world they are in, and they are great twists rather than the traditional 
 Mario nemesis (and surprisingly, each of them must be defeated differently) .. But simply note, 
 that there is more to visiting each world than meets the eye, and it is not simply just advance 
 level to level; but to get that information, you have to play the game for yourself. As well, there 
 are plenty of other places to visit on the overworld map, so I will explain that part later. So 
 once you select the land you want to explore, you will be immersed in the classic Mario world of 
 platforming, and its still the same experienced you enjoyed and remembered from the olden days. 
 Mario is controlled with the D-Pad, and his actions with the four face buttons. X and Y held down 
 will have Mario run faster or by pressing them you can fire Fire Balls from Mario's palms; while 
 the A and B buttons accordingly will have Mario perform his jump action, and its still as responsive 
 as ever - and of course, there will be plenty of jumping that needs to be done in the game. Jumping 
 why? To gain access to platforms, and of course to avoid enemies. Yes, the classic enemies are 
 back in New Super Mario Bros, and they are as lovable as ever. The unintelligent Goombas return, 
 as well as the classic Green Shell Koopas, and even the ever famous Bullet Bills with a vengeance. 
 They all are determined to stop Mario in his tracks - but of course, depending on your skill with 
 the game, that is simply up to you whether or not your foes will succeed. Well we know what you 
 do - run, jump, avoid damage, progress... is that all there is? Well in basic terms, yes, that 
 is the quick rundown of the classic Mario formula, but of course there will be plenty of obstacles 
 and stoppage blocking your path - as well as all the powerups to satisfy your old-school cravings. 
 Just like the past Mario games, Mario is presented in his three main apparent life forms. Mario, 
 Super Mario, and the ever classic Fire Mario - all of these forms can be updated by simply obtaining 
 the ever famous Mushroom.. Simply enough, normal Mario will lose a life instantly if he is hit 
 or falls in a pit, but retrieve a Mushroom and it will take two hits from an enemy to pummel Super 
 Mario, and three hits to pummel Fire Mario - with pits being the exception for all of them. They 
 all have their advantages and disadvantages, Super Mario can break blocks, Fire Mario shoots inferno 
 from his palms, and normal Mario can fit into tight spaces - easy enough to understand. But if 
 you are continually pummeled by enemies, you will lose all of your lives, and its game over for 
 you, simple as that. And its because of that is why you continually pummel blocks for Mushrooms, 
 (including the ever famous 1-Up Shroom) and coins. Once you collect 100 coins from the levels, 
 you will gain a new life, which of course comes in handy simply. But of course, Mario woudldn't 
 be Mario if it didn't sport the classic Star Power power up. With this handy trick, Mario will 
 become invincible to anything that stands in his path, and enemies are simply out of luck for stopping 
 Mario in his tracks. So there it is - jumping, hitting blocks, collecting coins, powering up. Is 
 that it? What is the new in New Super Mario Bros.? Well there are plenty of new features to the 
 game, and these elements are explained here. Well first of all, it is easily apparent that Mario 
 is represented in 3D, and of course, this means that it will take advantage of this opportunity. 
 By which, Mario will be able to perform actions in which he able to perform in the traditional 
 3-Dimensional Mario titles (i. e., Super Mario 64) . The most notable is the Triple Jump, which is 
 easily obvious in this game. When you hold down the X or Y button to have Mario gain speed, you 
 will have to try and make him jump three times in a row to perform the high flying front flip that 
 makes Mario soar higher then he ever could with his standard jump. It's a useful tool, but honestly 
 it does take a bit of getting use too and is more considered a 3-Dimensional gimmick than a feature 
 to be constantly used in the game - but that is not present in Mario's next arsenal of moves. His 
 next move available is the Ground Pound, by which when you press the Down Arrow on the directional 
 pad while jumping, Mario will perform a pound onto whatever he may be landing and perform extra 
 damage. Its an interesting turn that is used occasionally throughout the game, and can be quite 
 useful for defeating the bosses that are waiting at the end of the world's castles (and in some 
 cases, the new 3D elements are needed to take down some of the bosses) . The last 3D feature available 
 for Mario to use in his arsenal of moves in the, (very entertaining) , wall jump, by which you will 
 need to use frequently throughout the game. With this handy tool, you will need to time your jumps 
 so Mario can land on anything, from blocks, platforms, or ropes over swirls of gurgling lava. It's 
 some of these features that make New Super Mario Bros feel so fresh and new, and all of these are 
 very welcoming and don't seem to overshadow the classic Mario moments one bit. As well, you'll 
 have some new power ups as well. With these, you'll have Giant and Mini Mushrooms, which will change 
 Mario's size simply. With this, you can pummel anything in your path and stop anyone as Mega Mario, 
 while as Mini Mario you are quick, agile, and of course small - and quite vulnerable. These are 
 great additions to the game and really do add a great portion of value. There is even another power 
 up available in the game that is reminiscent of the Tanooki Suit in Mario Bros 3, but I won't spoil 
 it for you. And again, there are more features in the game to be explored. This one however is 
 quite important and needs to be constantly considered throughout the game. In each of the games 
 levels, there are three special coins that can be collected, and in some ways, almost needed for 
 a casual gamer. This is because without collecting these coins, you can't gain access to certain 
 areas or save the game - in contrast, every time you spend coins, that will be considered your 
 Save Point, and strangely enough, that is the main way to save in New Super Mario Bros. It may 
 sound strange at first, but you will soon find that these coins are not difficult to spot early 
 on and should hold you no trouble. These coins can even be used to access special locations on 
 the map such as Toadsworth's Huts, which will give Mario power ups available for him to use, which 
 is another feature available. Mario will power up throughout the levels accordingly, but he can 
 also save a Power up which he will place in the Touch Screen of the DS that can be used for later 
 use. This is a very useful tool and can become handy in tight situations, so keep an eye on this 
 system as you progress through the game. The Touch Screen however, isn't altogether necessary in 
 the game - it simply shows your progression through the level (in graph form, it's not a map) and 
 just stores information that quite simply could be checked with one screen. So while its not the 
 DS's features itself that make New Super Mario Bros special, the game is a great step towards Mario's 
 traditional roots of how Mario games were originally intended to be played. But then again, New 
 Super Mario Bros. does include it's own arsenal of DS special features. However, in reality it 
 is a recycled feature that was present in Super Mario 64 DS, and evidently this is the game's Mini 
 games. The Mini games themselves are great in their own respects, and take great advantage of the 
 DS's hardware, however, if you enjoyed them in Super Mario 64 DS, chances are you won't be spending 
 time with these games at all - particularly because there are only about three (out of fifteen) 
 mini games that are new at all. However, even so, without the Minigames, New Super Mario Bros wouldn't 
 be any different then it is in terms of how great the adventure is. It is an amazing feeling to 
 play Mario back in his traditional elements of side scrolling adventures, in these terms, it makes 
 New Super Mario Bros. an instant hit on the Nintendo DS with the same, challenging, and overly 
 addicting game play that gamers have known and loved for generations. Multiplayer: Again, New Super 
 Mario Bros. doesn't end when it comes to new features available. This game sports a Multiplayer 
 option, however, it is not a feature that is going to be used constantly unlike the games addictive 
 single player adventure. These options are rather bland so to speak, the first mode available is 
 the competition between two players where they race to the end of the level, and the other option 
 is Multiplayer Minigames that are present in the single player. There is nothing particularly wrong 
 with this, and Multiplayer is always a welcome addition for any game and does last to the game's 
 value, but it is still overly shadowed by New Super Mario Bros, amazingly addictive, and compelling 
 single player mode.
  
  Value: Well New Super Mario Bros arrives on the Nintendo DS in an original adventure that is both 
 as inspiring, fresh, and addictive as his original adventures. Sporting the classic game play style 
 with plenty of platforming and Goomba stomping, New Super Mario Bros. succeeds on the whole as 
 a successful single player adventure that you will surely be playing for hours to come. The game 
 itself won't take you too long to complete, but the addition of special coins in each level really 
 adds to the hardcore gamers desire to finish the game completely, and the game is so overly addicting 
 that this game is simply hard to put down. Easily, New Super Mario Bros will be beaten more than 
 once, and cherished by all gaming fans everywhere. The 3D elements add a new flair the game that 
 really puts the game in a different suit as the originals, yet it still feels like a solid game 
 in the series that will surely spawn new sequels for the handheld. New Super Mario Bros. is successful 
 in almost every way - from the classic, revamped presentation, to the amazingly addictive single 
 player adventure, New Super Mario easily takes gamers back to Mario older roots - in a game that 
 is simply an instant classic on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  One of the best mario games on the ds and every other system.
  This game has lots and lots of levels and is pretty long for a ds game and you can also play as 
 luigi but I wont tell you its very interesting 3d graphics on this game are very good and is packed 
 full of things to do like collect all 250 star coins or beat bowser on the very very last level. 
 The multiplayer on the game is pretty good. There things to do on multiplayer that are very fun
 
  I recommend this game to everyone who has a ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morganman900
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  In case you didnt know (If you been hiding under a Koopa shell for the past few months) , New Super 
 Mario Bros. is the newest side scrolling Mario platformer. In fact, the last one was in 1992, some 
 14 years ago. But on to the game. 
  
  There's a variety of new powerups to use, such as the mini mushroom, a small blue version of the 
 normal mushroom, which strangely enough, turns you into a mini version of Mario. While in this version 
 you can get into secret pipes and exits otherwise to big, and because of you decreased weight you 
 jump a lot higher. The reverse of that is the Mega Musroom, a large version of the normal mushroom, 
 which turns you into a huge version of Mario. In this version you literally knock everything out 
 of the way, pipes, small enemies, big enemies..........
  
  The plot? Go on, guess. Yup, Peach has been kidnapped. Yup, again, but by Bowser Jr. Like father, 
 like son. There is a new suit too. A Blue Koopa Shell suit, in which Mario jumps inside a blue 
 shell. When you run while wearing it you hunker down into the shell, basically becoming a remote 
 control Koopa shell. Mario can do a wall jump ( jump at a wall, jump off it to reach higher distances) 
 and the ground pound is in too allowing you to smash bricks underneath you.
  
  The visuals are great. While the gameplays is played in the usual 2D perspective, the background 
 and characters are rendered in full 3D. There is also a wealth of touch-screen minigames to unlocked, 
 of the same kind as Super Mario 64 DS, but you most likely wont' play with those for long
  
  This is a great game, and needs to be on top of anyones wishlist for DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  It's an okay game but if you play it more than 4 hours it could be boring. I mean just jumping 
 around and reaching to the castle seems pointless in every level. Then there's the boss level where 
 you fight a creature after you do that then Bowser Junior steals the princess and take to another 
 world. I feel it too repetitive. Excellent remake but they should'eve put more excitement into 
 it! The graphics are awesome and sound, gameplay seems easy but hard at the same time. It could 
 be annoying dieing again and again. Minigames seem to be fun and challenging!! I enjoy becoming 
 a giant and crushing in my sight. he he he 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakk_3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Level Design is interesting and fresh for each level. Character models are of high quality 3-D. 
 Gameplay is fun, feels like a Prince of Persia/Mario 64 blend with the new wall jump and but stomp 
 moves. Super Mushroom powerup is awesome. The only bad thing about this game is its short length, 
 but there are lots of secret levels, and there is a large incentive to go back and collect the 
 star coins. Great fun for a handheld, because you can just pick it up and play. A few mini-games 
 which are quite enjoyable as well for a quick pick-up-and-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisisMurderous
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. goes back to it's roots and it's great. The graphics look nice and the levels 
 offer a lot of variety but while everything is great it could of used more. Besides the mostly 
 useless new powerups I was disappointed to only see the fire flower and mushroom return. I would've 
 liked to see the powerups from Super Bros. 3 return. The only other issues were the way to easy 
 boss battles and the short length. There are a lot of mini games but they probably won't keep you 
 interested for long. Still though, this game is loads of fun are there are moves taken from many 
 Mario games and clever level design. It could've been a little better but New Super Bros. is amazing 
 as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddddd388
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  although this is a short review basically new super mario bros has unleashed a whole lotta fun 
 to all mario fans. with all the new weaponary this game is perfect.1 more thing 2 perfectly enjoy 
 this you have to forget all about the old old old super marios. the mega mushroom can in use a 
 whole lot like when you come to facing a boss you can simply touch the mega mushroom which makes 
 mario huge and crush ur boss. like in super mario 64 ds mario now has a triple jump. luigi is very 
 useful so read carefully At the "select a file" screen, keep pressed L and R buttons and choose 
 one of your saved game files with the A button.
  Now you'll play in the game as Luigi instead of Mario!
  tada this cheat really works.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Well I played alot of the mario games. All the ones for the NES, the SNES one and the N64 one. 
 Not all the mario games as thats crazy just the adventure ones. So I decided to pick this game 
 up for some good memory's. The game has alot of that old feel of mario style which mario fans will 
 love, such as your mushrooms, fireflowers, enemies you get the point. The same storyline is present 
 princess peach is captured and so Mario must go and save here. One part I found confusing was the 
 castle looked like it was being bombed or something and then a koopa or something of the sort takes 
 princess peach. Mario runs after the princess but totally forgets about the castle. Most likly 
 it was ment for a distraction and all but I just felt that having Mario focus completly on the 
 princess and not at all on the castle and all the toad people and such was kinda whats the word 
 I am looking for Un-Hero wise... thats not even a word lol. Like a hero is ment to save everyone 
 not just the princess in distress. Oh whatever no one cares reguardless so lets get on with the 
 game lol. The game has a map like the good old days and you go to each part of the map for each 
 level. While in the level its a 2D screen, but mario is 3D. I felt this a bit wierd at times trying 
 to control mario, manly when trying to run. Also the buttons were basically only 2 buttons as the 
 DS has 4 buttons but the game itself just makes A, B do the same thing vis versa for Y, X. I also 
 found it wierd that lvl 4 and lvl 7 of the game were SECRET levels....? In a way making those secret 
 levels made the game shorter and when you decided to do them you don't understand why as the princess 
 is not even there lol. I would of liked like a secret lvl 9 never done before sort of thing, but 
 I guess they wanted to keep to the original style. The graphics were well done, and the sound were 
 preety good. I really enjoyed the castle music to this game but everything else was about average. 
 This game to me only has 1 major flaw and its the fact its short. A bit to short. This short length 
 reminds me of the good old NES days where you could beat the game in a day, but I was expecting 
 something a bit better in length. Reguardless it makes up for its short length with lots of replay 
 value to get all the gold coins, unlocking all the secrets, and whatever records you like to set 
 for yourself. This game also offers mini-games to play. I find these useful when your in the car 
 or something and can't concentrate on the main game so these little games pass the time if this 
 is the game you have with you at the time. The mini-games are preety basic but thats to be expected. 
 Theres also a 2 player mode where theres special levels to battle with your friends on. I never 
 did this feature in the game so I have no comment on it. The difficulty is up and down I find. 
 Most the games seems easy, but theres some really tricky levels in this game with moving toad tree's 
 and other crazy stuff. I found the hardest level was the first castle in lvl 8. I could never beat 
 that for the longest time so after dying 60 times I just got to that little strimp koopa using 
 a super mushroom and crushed the little sob lol. Overall quiet a good game and keeps you highly 
 entertained and reminds you of the good old days. Bad flaw short length as you could beat the game 
 within a day or 2 and all the secrets and such within a 2 week period at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jervous
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is a very awesome game!
  It's my 2nd favourite on the DS.
  There are a lot of differences in this one and the old one, they sort of took some ideas from other 
 retro Mario games. (Desert levels, water levels)
  They brought back Dry bones! Yay! Now there's a new breed, huge ones.
  Old classic Bowser fight, 
 but not as hard. You fight a lot of cool looking and fun fighting monsters!
  What else... It has very good graphics for the DS, which makes it worth your while..
  Oh yeah! 
 There is a story to it!
  Well, it's a very good game, and I totally recommend it to adults, and kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 30125g
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  this mario game is perfect becus it features alot of gameplay and reminds me of the good old mario 
 games back in the day well an't nuthin much to say about this game except perfection this game 
 is so prefect that i bought a ds lite just to play this game well it was worth it this is a game 
 u would call old school so don't rent this game buy it this is definitly one u would go back to 
 just like all the mario games but there really isn't no down parts in this game if u think that 
 the secrets are down parts there really aren't nintendo is just doin wat mario games are suppose 
 to be like so just stop redin this and go buy it and if u don't got money nor ur parents well just 
 get a lawn mower and cut grass for money thats all i got to type about this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusfreak01
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is probably the best Super Mario side-scroller to date. Who can forget the 
 wonderful days of Super Mario bros. 3 and Super Mario World? This game has brought all that back 
 plus more to make one brand New Mario adventure!
  
  For starters, New Super Mario bros. is an awesome game that anyone will enjoy. But, for those who 
 have been following the Mario games, this one will be that much more enjoyable. If you've played 
 the previous games you'll notice that this game has all kinds of blocks, enimies, power-ups, and 
 moves from all sorts of Mario games! You've got the flower power and the and several new power-ups 
 like the Mega-Mushroom, the mini , and the turtle shell! If you collect the turtle shell you can 
 turn into a Koopa Troopa! You can even play as Luigi.
  There are also some of the same blocks in the game too. If you've played some of the other Mario 
 games you can recognize the ? blocks are from Super Mario World! It's really neat to see the 3-D 
 graphics encorperated here as well. Yes it may be a side-scroller but things like enemies, Mario, 
 blocks, and other stuff are done in 3-D. This is a really cool thing to look at especially since 
 it's done well. The levels are done very well and enemies look great. Also, the music is great! 
 There's always that noticiable Mario tune but it's re-done for an awesome new mario music experince. 
 For some reason, I just can't get enough of it!
  
  The controls are as simple as the NES. You can use one button to run and one to jump. But if you 
 press down on the d-pad while in the air, you'll do a butt stomp! You can also do a wall jump which 
 is usefull for getting into hard-to-reach areas for great rewards. And probably my favorite new 
 Mario move, the triple jump! Yes, that's right. Mario can do the triple jump from SM64. All these 
 moves are really fun to do and ad a whole lot to the traditional Mario side scrolling action.
 
  
  Everything said, this game is right up there with the top games on the DS and in the Super Mario 
 series. Anyone looking for a fun game will want to check this out, but if you're already a fan 
 of Mario, you'll love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Once again Nintendo has brought us a beautiful game that any age can enjoy. New Super Mario Bros. 
 is an instant classic that will be enjoyed all through the years along side his past adventures 
 of Super Mario Bros., 2, and 3. There were instances where I thought I was playing Super Mario 
 Bros. 3, but then I concentrated on all the beautiful colors and 3D mixed in with 2D graphics. 
 I will admit, the plumber would get me into a frenzy having to play in the same spot multiple times 
 before being able to advance in the level and not being able to save after every level got me a 
 little aggravated before I would start to play, but as soon as the level's music started, I was 
 a happy 10 year old again. Oh, the joy of Mario's theme songs.
  
  There was a slight hint of challenge with the smaller screen than my TV and the bunched up enemy's 
 at every "turn". The game went by a lot faster than 1, 2, or 3, but the replay value is definitely 
 there. I must say Nintendo put a ton of effort into this game. The bosses could have used just 
 a little more planning out, but all in all this game is definitely a best seller by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunman03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers for the Nintendo DS was a real breakthrough for this game console. It 
 is a newer version of the old Super Mario Brothers for the NES. In my opinion the new mario brothers 
 is a must get for the DS. So many levels to play and alot of secrets. I own the Super Mario Brothers 
 for the NES and sometimes i would compare the two games. I like how in the NES version there are 
 a lot more secrets than in the new version. But also in the new version i like the mushrooom houses 
 and collecting the star coins. What i didn't like about the DS version is that in the second world 
 and the fifth world that you have to beet the bosses as minny mario to get to world four and world 
 seven. Unlike in the NES version once you completed a world you went to the next or you can find 
 pipe transporters that will take you to different worlds. DS version in my veiw is better than 
 the old version, not accounting the graphics, because of how long it is and how much stuff you 
 can do even if you beet the game. The old version once you beet the game that was it nothing else, 
 but in the DS version you can go back collect the star coins you missed or go look for some of 
 the sub levels. i gave the New Super Mario brothers for DS a 9.1 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10: This game is just fanaminal!! This game has so earned the score gamespot gave them. 
 They inhanced the game so well. And it keeps u really busy. With the all new minigames its so fun 
 and when u play wirelesly u get a multiplayer it is so fun!
  
  Graphics 10/10: The graphics are so good. Nintendo has done a very well and clean job on the graphics. 
 it's really great i think they redid this game and the graphics.
  
  Sound 10/10: Mario's back with the same voice and funky saounds they added since the first mario 
 bros for NES. Very very good sound effects, there really isn't any thing else to say about it.
 
  
  Value 9/10: when the game first came out the price was very good and it still is iI think 40 bucks 
 is not to much and not too low for this very great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toppsseller
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I would be happy for life if Nintendo churned out a new Mario game every year. While I like the 
 3d adventures, there is nothing like the simplicity of the 2d games. The story is standard fare. 
 Peach is kidnapped and you, as Mario must rescue her. Many of the worlds have been in the Mario 
 universe for a long time. You start off in the standard looking world and progress through ice 
 levels and desert. Mario has a few new weapons in his arsenal including a super mushroom which 
 allows him to grow the height of the screen and smash through everything. He also has a mushroom 
 that shrinks him and allows him to travel into some of the smaller warp pipes in the game. They 
 have replaced the frog suit with a turtle shell that helps you swim underwater, and also allows 
 for a spinning attack when you gain enough speed on land. What I really miss though is the raccoon 
 suit from Mario 3. This isn't the best game in the Mario series, I reserve that title for Mario 
 3 which is still consistently fun to play nearly twenty years later. You can't go wrong with this 
 Mario title. It is just the right length and the learning curve is perfectly placed. Games like 
 this are what make the DS the dominant hand held. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornholio360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros is a short, yet fun game. It combines a 2d side-scroller with some 3d. The 
 graphics are pretty good for what it is. The main game has very little use of the touch screen, 
 but the minigames use the touch screen a lot more. This game has great replay value since after 
 you beat the game, you'll still want to go back and collect all the star coins, "purchase" levels 
 and powerups with star coins, etc. If you own a DS and want a fun game, this is the game to get. 
 
  
  *Warning* This game is beatable in ONE day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humanwurm1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Mario platformers are one of the few series in which each game can be predicted as an instant classic. 
 Mario holds a special seat in the pantheon of gaming gods, up there with classic characters like 
 Link, as well as newly inducted deities such as Master Chief. However, recently Mario has been 
 to busy playing sports and board games to do what he does best: platforming. On the rare occaisions 
 that mario has chosen to hop around recently, he has chosen to do it either in remakes or 3D games. 
 Mario's 3D platformers have been great, but they do not satisfy like his old-school games do. You 
 can imagine the ecxitement of fanboys worldwide when Nintendo announced this new 2D mario platformer 
 for the DS. After playing through the game, I can assure all of those fanboys that it was well 
 worth the wait. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros is one of those rare games that can appeal to hardcore and casual gamers at 
 the same time. The game features simple controls, great music, smooth graphics, and one of the 
 best platforming experiences ever. If you've ever played a Mario game before, you're farmilliar 
 with the plot. Princess Peach has been kidnapped, and you, the brave plumber Mario, must save her 
 by traversing the mushroom kingdom, stomping goombas into the ground along the way. Each level 
 contains its challenges, but the game isn't particularly diffucult. The game will, however, make 
 you hate yourself in inconcievable ways for dying because the fault is purely your own. It was 
 strange that the game, easy by most standards, frequently tempted me to hurl my ds into the wall. 
 For those muscleheads seeking further challenge than the main quest provides, they can seek to 
 collect the star coins that open mushroom huts, or acess two hidden worlds. 
  
  The game boasts a cartoony look, as do all mario games. Some might go so far as to say it looks 
 "kiddie", but in an age where art direction in games is growing increasingly repetitive, "kiddie" 
 is fine with me as long as the gameplay is enjoyable. 
  
  Although the games music is not as wonderful as that of previous installments in the series, it 
 still is one of the better game soundtracks for a handheld game. 
  
  If the main quest still does not satisfy you, the cart also includs a simple but fun 2 player mode, 
 and a variety of minigames, some from Super Mario 64 DS, some new.
  
  Really, all I have left to say about this game is: buy it. If you own a DS, that is. If you don't 
 own one, buy it, along with New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuffj68
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is kinda short, but there's still many things to do that substitute for that. For example, 
 there are many secret routes and special flagposts (red instead of black) that lead to shops, cannons, 
 and other routes. There is also multiplayer mode which you have to battle for stars. The minigames 
 can also keep you company!
  
  There are many amazing new powerups and enemies in this game. Some new ones are the Shell, which 
 if Mario goes fast enough, he can ricochet off walls and crash into enemies (and give the Koopas 
 a taste of their own medicine) . There is also the Mini Mushroom, my personal favorite, which makes 
 Mario smaller, gives him air resistance, and can make the effect of some items, such as the trampoline, 
 more powerful. The Mega Mushroom is a devastating weapon to all enemies. Mario breaks pipes, cannons, 
 bricks, and many other things. All these items are great with the classic Super Mushroom, Fire 
 Flower, and Starman.
  
  It truly is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah103090
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game can be described in 3 easy ways. Fun, Fun, and FUN!!! This game combines the best of 
 the original 2D Mario games, and add a mix of DS flair with new powerups, a reserve item slot, 
 and hidden levels (wait those were already there) . 
  
  Gameplay- The game play just like any other 2D Mario sidescroller, fluently, and fun. The use of 
 the touch screen can sometimes slow you down, but other than that its works well. However, the 
 new powerups sometimes just feel thrown in, and dont mesh well sometimes with the level. 
  
  Sound- The music in each level is just what you'd expect for a Mario game. The little audio 
 from Mario and Luigi is clear and easy to hear. Other than that its great.
  
  Graphics- This game looks as great as it plays, which is amazing! It looks very clear with very 
 few flaws in the design. I was quite impressed with all the detail used in this game.
  
  Overall- This game is just a fun experience for those who crave a simpler time of NES goodness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderraichu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The Classic Side Scrolling Platformer finally gets a Revamp, keeping the Old School feel there 
 WHILST adding new features, a feat that is hard to do.
  
  My Review will be Split up into categories for easy reading,
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  New Super Mario 
 Bros. takes the essential elements from the original (Peach is Kidnapped by Bowser, Mario to the 
 Rescue etc.) and adds new features- such as Wall jumping (Possibly the life saver of all of them) , 
 wall sliding, ground pound etc. The Result! er.. NEW Super Mario bros. This Game is an Instant 
 classic! although there are a few niggles I must mention. You Can't save anywhere you want for 
 a start, only after you beat a castle, tower, unlock a toadhouse or secret level or Complete the 
 game. And also, the multitude of bosses is Okay, but after beating each boss, I want to see a toad 
 sayingThankyou Mario, But our Princess is in another castle!". Apart from that, Gameplay = Near 
 Perfect. 9/10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  2.5D Sprites, also Crisp Clean, Shoot the Ratings up here. Perfect. No Glitching. 10/10
  
  
 SOUND:
  New Songs for each level, classic sounds recreated again, boost up the ratings, but It misses the 
 Classic Mario Bros. Overworld Theme from the Original. 9/10
  
  VALUE:
  Great Value, but after beating the game, there is not much to unlock.
  9/10
  
  REVIEWER'S 
 TILT:
  I beat the game RIGHT before typing this ^^ 10/10
  
  9.5 SUPERB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominirican3351
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright this game brings back memories of the classic Mario games. The graphics are good since 
 they relate to the clasic mario graphics (2D) . Since it's Mario you Know you are going to be playing 
 the game for a while. The only Bad part that I saw in the gameplay was some of the levels were 
 too easy and/or short. Also killing the bosses became repedetive. I recomend this game if you were 
 a fan of the classic Mario, if you weren't then don't get it as you might not like how it plays 
 ( since the gameplay is "old school:) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShogoHiryu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  All right it may not be the freshest review, but here it is, The New Super Mario Bros. Like the 
 title implies... it's new, but it doesn't stray from the series. Princess Peach is again captured, 
 Koopa is involved, and Mario goes after her on an adventure that takes him through, what I can 
 only guess is the mushroom kingdom, and eventually ends up on Koopa's turf. 
  
  The action feels just like a mix of all the original titles. You won't really find any big surprises 
 in gameplay here, unless you haven't played a Super Mario game.... ever. Mario is packing a few 
 new moves though. For example players may find themselves sliding down and jumping off walls, or 
 power stomping their foes. Along with a couple of new moves, Mario has packed a few more items 
 for his new adventure. One is the SUPER mushroom, and as you could've guessed it makes you really 
 big.... I mean breaking apart the level big. I'm serious! When Mario uses the SUPER mushroom and 
 becomes huge, he can literally walk through most levels breaking apart pipes, blocks, enemies, 
 and just about whatever gets in his way. On the other hand though, there is also the tiny mushroom, 
 which of course makes you tiny. Now you're going to want to watch yourself here, because like little 
 Mario, tiny Mario can only get hit once. The advantage though, is that as tiny Mario you can get 
 access to certain tiny Mario exclusive areas, such as tiny pipes. Also, tiny Mario gains the ability 
 to jump higher and fall slower. I guess he's lighter or something. Third, there is the Blue Shell. 
 With this, Mario can duck inside and basically be impervious to damage. I think it also gives you 
 faster swimming ability. The one real drawback to the whole shell thing is that when you run, the 
 game automatically pops you inside the shell and you kind of lose a little bit of control. All 
 in all though, these new toys work pretty well and adds a little more flavor to the series. Oh 
 and of course the classic Star and Fireball are 
  also along for the ride. 
  
  The Graphics look all right. I didn't think they were anything really fancy, but they were good. 
 Basically it looks like a classic Super Mario game, and that actually isn't a bad thing. I think 
 it really gives the game a nice feel of nostalgia. Same goes for the sound, although I did find 
 the music a bit repetitive at times. Overall though I think Nintendo did a good job with this game 
 on both fronts.
  
  I definitely enjoyed this game, and despite my small criticisms about the music, the game as a 
 whole really works well. If you are looking for a game to fill your classic side scrolling Super 
 Mario Bros. void then I would give this game a shot. In the end, this is a game I kept picking 
 up, trying to get every little secret... and there are a few.... Including the two worlds I still 
 need to get to and complete. So if you're looking for some "old school" feeling fun for the DS, 
 go out and give The New Super Mario Bros. a go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NflMlb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the best game available for Nintendo DS and a must-buy for anyone who 
 considers himself or herself to be a true gamer. It mixes some clean old-school action with some 
 new twists.
  
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is made in the mold of Super Mario Bros. 3, but it by far surpasses its predecessors. 
 The levels are very well designed and bring back nostalgia from the golden days of video gaming. 
 The graphics have also been given an update and look beautiful on the DSs dual screens. The bottom 
 screen is not utilized very much, but you can use it to activate a power-up that youve saved. 
 In speaking of power-ups, New Super Mario Bros. has some new ones. It has the expected mushroom 
 and fire flower, but it also has the new big mushroom, mini mushroom, and koopa shell. The koopa 
 shell makes you into a Koopa Troopa of sorts, but it isnt all that effective and is only needed 
 to retrieve a few of the star coins. The big mushroom super sizes Mario but wont help you that 
 much in collecting star coins, and often it wont even help you defeat a level. However, the mini 
 mushroom is a sheer product of genius. It makes Mario tiny, enabling him to fit into tight spaces 
 and into mini pipes. Also, it allows Mario to run on water and gives Mario a much better jump than 
 usual. Using the mini mushroom is key to finding the games most difficult-to-find star coins.
 
  
  
  These star coins of which I speak are coins, three of which are hidden in each level. Some of these 
 coins take cunning to get, and trying to find them all is great fun. Unfortunately, the only downside 
 of this game is its relative brevity. It is somewhat short and a tad on the easy side for old-school 
 gamers. Most of the boss fights are quite easy, but dont let the games difficulty, or lack thereof, 
 scare you off. If you own a DS, buy this game! If you dont own a DS, buy one. The only question 
 I have about the game is when is New Super Mario Bros. 2 coming out?
  
  
  This is certainly Marios greatest moment. New Super Mario Bros. is by far the greatest side scroller 
 of all time. It combines classic gameplay with beautifully developed levels to make what could 
 be the game of the year. While the multiplay and minigame options arent as good as the main game 
 (in fact the minigames appear to have been ripped of Super Mario 64 DS) , this is truly a game for 
 the ages.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrenalinDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Many years have passed since we've had a Mario game like this. New Super Mario Bros. goes back 
 to the good platforming roots of the old games, and even though it's a very easy game, it shouldn't 
 stop you from enjoying this awesome game on the DS.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. follows the usual Mario story, such as Princess Peach getting kidnapped not 
 by Bowser, but by Mini Bowser. Mario must travel through many worlds to rescue her. 
  
  Now, you've still got all your Mario moves here. Such as Jumping and throwing objects around but 
 you've also got some new ones, such as Ground Pounding and Wall Jumping. These are very useful 
 moves, because at some point or another, you're gonna need them. 
  There are also some new Mario powerups as well, such as the Super Large Mushroom, which allows 
 you to be super large and destroy blocks and enemies. The other two are the Blue Shell powerup 
 (which allows you to roll in a shell and hurt enemies with) and the mini mushroom which allows 
 Mario to turn tiny and get to some secret areas. All of these are useful, and work well in this 
 game.
  
  Now you'll meet all the usual Mario enemies here such as the Koopas and the Goombas so you don't 
 need to worry about that. The gameplay is pretty much the same as the old NES Mario games, such 
 as Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3. You've also got your usual water levels in here as 
 well.
  
  Now, I'm going to admit that this game is very, very easy!. You could finish the game in about 
 3 hours and many levels are very short. There are also plenty of lives on this game as well. However, 
 there are plenty of secret areas and bonus levels to find, so there's always some replay value 
 here.
  
  The graphics are colourful and what I'd expect from a Mario game. The usual Mario sounds are in 
 here and some of them are from the older Mario games to give it an old-school feeling which is 
 pulled off successfully.
  
  So, New Super Mario Bros. is a must own game for all DS owners and especially Mario fans. If this 
 game doesn't impress you then you truely don't like Mario games at all!. It's a fun and easy platformer 
 for everyone and it truely sticks to the old Mario platforming rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki205
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  New super Mario bros, brings more to the table then the older Mario bros in the series. It first 
 offers a quick simple video to show that you have to save princess from Bowser! The game play is 
 simple run, jump , and pound just like all the others but there is new power ups witch you will 
 be looking for all the time. you can be tiny mario, super sized mario, and blue koopa mario. Tiny 
 mario is needed to get to 'bonus areas". You can distroy as Super Mario to fill a extra life bar 
 to get up to 5 extra men. last but not least (and my personal favorite) Blue koopa shell mode lets 
 you use the dash feature tell you with draw into the shell and you can bounce off things and break 
 bricks just like a koopa troopa shell would! i give New super Mario bros a 9.0 for its great re-invention 
 of an old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 815mdavis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  This is game that shouldn't be avoided, it has that classic mario atmosphere that draws u into 
 the game from the very beggining. every thing was basically great in the game, thier were a couple 
 levels that were alittle to short but as time went on things changed. Thier plenty of worlds to 
 keep entertained and thiers not just single player as in mario 64 on the ds they have mini games, 
 but what is differnt for these mini games are u can play another person or up to 4 players with 
 a ds which is a good way to kill time. all these things are what makes super mario bors go past 
 the mark for platform gaming Bottom line if u have a ds u should own super mario bros 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  You'll be hard pressed to find a more entertaining game on the DS than New Super Mario Bros.. It's 
 simple, fun gameplay coupled with its pleasing presentation will enlighten even the most hardened 
 of gamers. The game also offers a wealth of content, so the experience isn't over anytime soon.
 
  
  NSMB's gameplay is straight up 2D platforming, so if your looking for am innovation to the platforming 
 genre, this game really isn't it. What NSMB does is perfect the genre, by making the gamplay tight, 
 responsive, and extremely polished. The level design is absolutely phenomenal, with creative obstacles 
 that always keep you guessing. And while NSMB may look and feel like a kids game, it does get incredibly 
 challenging in the later stages, especially if you try to collect all of the big Star Coins. The 
 Star Coins add most of Mario's length to the single player game, and trying to get all three in 
 each level is alot of fun.
  
  The visual presentation is also outstanding, and is just as clean and polished as the gameplay. 
 There are tons of sharp-looking visual effects, and in fact most of the game's graphics are in 
 3D. These 3D effects are flawlessly implemented into the 2D gameplay. 
  
  The audio is no pushover either. There are tons of great audio effects (and thankfully Mario's 
 script is kept to a minimum) all around the game, and these all sound crystal clear. The music 
 is great too, with some new tunes added as well as remixes of past mario tracks, all of which you 
 have a good chance of catching yourself humming.
  
  NSMB packs alot of gameplay into its package. First off, there is the compelling and suprisingly 
 lengthy single-player mode, and then even more fun is the multiplayer mode. The multiplayer is 
 fast-paced, frantic, and overall tons of fun. Anyone with a DS can play with you (meaning they 
 don't have to own a copy of the game) , and you could find yourself spending hours and hours delving 
 into the deceptively simple multiplayer. Included in the package are the minigames from Super Mario 
 64 DS, which is certainly a nice addition, since most of them are helplessly addicting. Even more 
 nice it that they have been reworked for multiplayer, so these add quite a chunk of value into 
 the already jam-packed game.
  
  NSMB is an outstanding game. The DS has already been graced with some outstanding titles, and this 
 one couldn't be more welcome. This is certainly a must-own title; easily recommendable to anybody 
 with a DS. And if you were thinking about buying a DS, its hard to imagine a better time than now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  it's been a long time since Mario was in a proper original 2-D sidescroller. For the DS his new 
 game is just that
  
  The gameplay is typical old-school Mario. You make your way from left to right to the end of the 
 level while killing enemies in your way. Then once you get to a mini tower you go through a level 
 and face Baby Bowser at the end of the level. Then at the end of each world is a big Castle where 
 you face a new boss at the end of the level. It's very addictive.
  
  The graphics is 3-D characters in front of a 2-D background. It all looks very nice. The sound 
 is also classic Mario.
  
  The complaints are the save system is bad. You can only save after each Tower or Castle, so you 
 can't save after a level. Also the game is short and not very challenging.
  
  Overall, this is an essential puchase to any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielgriswold
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I can't believe that a game could reinvigorate the fun that I had when I was in elementary school 
 all over again. I remember hiding the on light on my nintendo and turning off my TV so that I could 
 come back after Church on Sundays to play beyond world 2 on Mario Bros. 3. Now here I am playing 
 New Super Mario Bros. with the same kind of puzzle solving, quick moving, 2d fun and color fests 
 of old, but a hundred time better. I can barely believe it.
  The new levels are familiar and my only complaint is that it is a bit too easy to get extra lives 
 this time around. All I have to do is go back to the beginning and pick up a few green mushrooms 
 or just hit the flag at a certain time to open up a toad house. 
  Another frustration is the secretive way they hid two of the worlds to the side instead of letting 
 you play just straight though. I feel that this is unneccessary and is a turn off to people who 
 don't want to have to figure out how to beat lil bowser in mini form to play the other worlds.
 
  It really is all good though, because in the game, the level designs are spectacular and fun. 
 The music is expertly arranged and there are so many side games and alternative paths that you 
 can replay the levels you don't have to unlock millions of times over.
  I highly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby182
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  A new 2D Mario at last, it was announced last year and the wait has been fairly long. However there 
 is a slight disappointment. The game is way too short, 2 days to do it, come on! Then it says about 
 mega mushrooms, there are hardly any at all, yes you have that, the mini and normal mushroom and 
 firepower but its disapointing. Its average for me. Compare to Super Mario World or Super Mario 
 Bros 3. : ( The bosses are rubbish, the level is ok, the world map is average and thats about it. 
 We need a much better Mario game thats 2D or should nintendo carry on withg 3D Marios like the 
 forthcoming Super Mario Galaxy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers is a throw back to the old NES days with the addition of a few new mushrooms 
 and moves plus 3D graphics. Nintendo does a masterful job at giving the game a classic feel.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Nintendo pulled off a simple concept, and turned it into a great game 2 decades 
 ago, and that concept still works today, just as good if not better because of the technology. 
 The movement is smooth, jumping feels good, powerups are good. Think Mario Brothers 3 without the 
 raccoon, and with the Mega and Mini Mushrooms and Wallkicks and you get the gameplay in NSMB.
 
  
  There are some kinks unfortunately. Boss battles are extremely repetitive, featuring the exact 
 same mini boss (okay it changes once but whatever) and a boring final boss. They don't even change 
 the way to get to the other worlds. Its the same way to get to both of the extra worlds. The game 
 is not difficult until the last few levels, but before then I only died a few times because I was 
 careless. Its very easy to go through worlds 1 - 7 without dying more than once or twice. The game 
 is never overly challenging even at the end though, so it never gets harder than relatively easy.
 
  
  If you want to go for extras, there are coins in every level to collect, and you can purchase stuff 
 like extra paths with them. None are too difficult to find, so it doesn't add too much time onto 
 the game, and doesn't add too much difficulty
  
  Mini games have mostly been seen in Mario 64 DS, but now with multiplayer!!!. I did have some fun 
 with this, though many are too simplistic for more than a day or play.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphics are top notch. High polygon models, colorful backgrounds, good effects. Everything you'd 
 expect from a first party Nintendo game. Just don't expect anything out of a 2D plane though.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The game suffers there. Mario's voice is back, for better or for worse. It never really bothered 
 me, and seemed to add something to the game than if I muted the volume altogether. I'm not sure 
 if its just me, but I disliked most of the music in this game. It wasn't up to snuff with classics 
 such as Mario World. Some I turn the volume down because I heard them way too many times. The castle 
 tune is catchy unlike the rest though, and I did enjoy it. Unfortunately, the first levels song 
 is the song used in most levels, and its the one that got on my nerve. After hearing the great 
 music in other Nintendo series (Zelda and Metroid games) I really expected better.
  
  VALUE
  
  Too short, that is the trend with many Nintendo games now a days. Since the GC game 
 out, I've felt that many Nintendo games main game were too short if you just go for start to finish, 
 and it once again proves true in NSMB. If you go to beat every single level and get every special 
 coin, you may get around 20 hours out of the game if you are an experienced gamer. Thats good value 
 for a hand held game, but for a hard core gamer like me, it took me 5 days for 100% completion, 
 I was disappointed.
  
  TILT
  
  I wanted to rate the tilt lower, but it hurt the score too much to my liking. Tilt for me usually 
 comprises of how the story got me into the game and my drive to beat it. In this game, there was 
 a drive to beat it, to get all the coins, but the story was so terrible, I wanted to quit at the 
 beginning. If you thought Sunshine had a stupid story, this game will make you think Sunshine had 
 a master piece for a story. Basically, don't pay attention to the story, just go play the great 
 gameplay.
  
  OVERALL
  
  It has great gameplay and graphics. If your looking for a fun week or two of gaming, this is the 
 game for you. For people looking for a deep story and a lasting appeal to complete more than once, 
 wait for Phantom Hourglass (Everyone saying its going to be the killer ap so its a safe bet to 
 wait for it) . 
  
  I enjoyed NSMB, just don't expect a rough ride or an emotional story. Expect a cake walk and silly 
 story, albeit fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Many DS owners have been waiting patiently for New Super Mario Bros, and theyll be ecstatic to 
 find that not only is it now here, but its one of the best Mario adventures ever crafted, with 
 a highly replayable and significantly challenging single-player adventure that feels highly unique 
 and nostalgic all at once. It also taps into the DS capabilities with wonderfully bright and colorful 
 visuals and nicely separated and cheery audio design. Its multiplayer doesnt add much to the 
 proceedings, but the fantastic solo adventure is more than enough to make any Mario fan part with 
 their cash.
  
  Tell me if youve heard this one before  Marios dame, the pink-loving and apparently not-too-bright 
 Princess Peach, gets herself kidnapped by a member of the Bowser clan. You have? Well, of course 
 you have  no Mario game would be quite the same without this set-up. This time, Baby Bowser has 
 the honors. The game is essentially a chase through eight different themed worlds, each containing 
 several regular stages as well as a few boss stages that step things up a notch.
  
  The worlds have a good variety to them and fit in line with what youd expect from a Mario game. 
 Theres a desert world, an ice world, some water levels  all of the stuff youd presume would 
 be there is present and accounted for. Some of the changes are cosmetic, though some effect the 
 gameplay a bit  many platforms in the ice world will be slick and send Mario sliding, requiring 
 a bit of a different touch to get through successfully.
  
  Like other Mario games, youll start at the left of a level and move to the right, bopping enemies 
 on the head and navigating tight areas of platforms. However, youll also get a number of moves 
 that have previously only been in Marios 3D adventures, such as the wall jump, which will let 
 the plumber leap consecutively in a triangle pattern to scale walls and the like. There are also 
 new environmental features like tightropes thatll launch you high up in the air, and cliffsides 
 Mario will have to shimmy across slowly. The game balances the new elements brilliantly with the 
 core platforming action  often in set pieces that really play up a mechanic  and what you end 
 up with is a feeling of newness and excitement in just about any level. Theres definitely no filler 
 in New Super Mario Bros.
  
  This is especially true of the castle levels and their inevitable boss fights. Gone are the days 
 of simply fighting Bowser over and over again (though dont worry, hell definitely be showing 
 up here from time to time)  New Super Mario Bros. offers up some exceptional boss encounters that 
 youll definitely remember long after completing the game. A Monty Mole inside a multi-tiered, 
 Bullet Bill-shooting tank stands out as particularly exciting.
  
  The visuals in the game are bright and colorful, and their just the right size on the DS upper 
 screen. The lower screen is used to display how close you are to completing a stage, as well as 
 providing a one-touch activation for the power up you have collected, which range from old standbys 
 like fire flowers to things like Mega Mushrooms, which will inflate Mario to the size of the entire 
 screen, allowing you to plow through pipes, enemies, and anything else. The audio provides the 
 requisite cheery tunes and yelps in an excellent stereo or surround separation.
  
  Happily, this is a game that can last you quite a long time. It probably wont take you more than 
 five or six hours to plow through to the end of the game, but youll likely still have a few worlds 
 to discover (as your progression through them branches in two spots) , as well as special, collectable 
 coins to find in each level (handy for unlocking pathways to power-up houses on the world map. 
 Youll also unlock the other half of the Mario brothers upon completing the game. Additionally, 
 a multiplayer mode called Mario vs. Luigi, which is essentially a race to collect more stars that 
 youre opponent. Its a decent mode that takes a complete backseat to the main action. Finally, 
 some touch screen minigames from Super Mario 64 DS are included for good measure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game really is amazing, the only people not enjoying as much, are those who over anticipated 
 or over hyped this game.
  
  New super mario bros is simply must have for DS, why? because it has the word FUN all over it. 
 you can enjoy this game at any time anywhere. It is also a great game for first time DS owners.
 
  
  In single player mode, you are challenged by bowser, his mini and eight worlds for you to explore 
 and complete.
  
  you can also play a series of mini games, and more are available through multiplayer.
  
  multi 
 player mode is very addictive, with more modes and maps to go through and play with your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Nintendo really succeded in making a new Mario game with the original Mario Formula and added some 
 new innovations whichs simply makes this game very fun to play.
  
  If you are a mario fan this game is a must for you, and if your just a Gamer looking for great 
 game on the DS you should rent it..
  
  My only problem with this game, Is that it is way too easy.. Nintendo should of putten more challenges 
 while playing this game.
  
  
  
  To sum it all up..
  New Super Mario Bros is just a fun game to play and its definetly one game to try on the Ds
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game mainly because I have only played 2D Marios but never owned them. The game opens 
 with Mario and Princess Peach walking through the mushroom kingdom when sudenly the castle is hit 
 by a bolt of lightning and Mario runs off investigating and while he is gone surprise suprise Princess 
 Peach is kidnapped by Bowser junior (cant she look after herself) .
  
  This opening leads to a great chase across the mushroom kingdom involving goigng through desersts, 
 ice realms, tropical islands e. g. The game plays like how 2D Mario should be played A is jump and 
 X is dash/attack. The graphics are bright and crisp with superb animations and details. The audio 
 has great Mario tunes and the coin collecting ring. 
  
  There is also a multiplayer involving collecting coins and a fair few maps and also minigames which 
 are a fun distraction.
  
  The New Super Mario Brothers is an exellent title that will appeal to fans and non-fans of the 
 series and will make any DS owner feel proud.
  
  Please recomend this review and leave feedback if you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  It's really straightforward. Good. Old-style mario sidescrolling with the beloveness of new 3-D 
 Graphics and amazing sounds effects, enemy overviews, and great level design. It has sweet easy 
 to get to lands with a new 3-D walking stage select, along with Toad House item shops, for the 
 masses who don't want to find them. With new power-ups like Super Mushroom, you can grow super 
 big for a dose of 20 seconds and destroy anything in your path. Also, brand-new koopa shell control 
 allows you to hop into the shell and be a koopa! With great swimming abilties underwater, this 
 shell is pretty useful. And finnally, mini mario. With the quirky shrimpy sized version of Mario, 
 you can fit in small spaces, but can't jump too well. and for all those that were dissapointed 
 for no Luigi, guess again. At the title screen hold L+R and hit A, or just watch the credits after 
 you beat the game to see the code. This game is a must have for DS owners, and Mario fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodigity
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  mario does it again and still looking as red as ever. the classic gameplay of the original super 
 mario bros. with the added abilities hes been handed over the years really make this game interesting, 
 the fights with bowser jr remind me much of super mario 3's battles in the castles that used to 
 unlock the big doors. needless to say this is not a game that revolves around amazing graphics 
 although they arent bad, but it is as it was before all about the gameplay people jump on turtles 
 and use their shells to do your bidding. in addition i will say that while the mini games are fun 
 they dont shine unless your playing with other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkiller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  The perfect game when the DS Lite came out. This game has the classic Mario features and some new 
 features such as turning mega size with the mega mushroom, there are others such as small mushrooms 
 which make you mini sized. But this game has it all whether if your big or small you can play through 
 this game with excitement. This is game is really addicting I found my self playing for hours and 
 hours until I beat it and the best thing is the controls are easy and the use of the touch screen 
 is simple not difficult. The game isn't that long but the length is good enough for an average 
 player. Its not difficult which makes the game more fun. If you don't want to play the single player 
 mode you enjoy the mini games and there are tons which use the MIC and Touch Screen which is really 
 fun. Its a classic game and all Mario fans and DS players should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  wonderful game that allowed Nintendo to use there imagination to the fullest. from upgrading the 
 original Mario game to adding mini games that will get you going.
  
  gameplay - not as simple as the original game. what they have added is great graphics new mushrooms 
 that make you HUGE and small. the ability to carry an extra item while you play the level, and 
 a map to see where you are at in the level. the mini games range from puzzle games to action games. 
 allowing you to use the little pen in various way. the mic is also implemented in the game as well. 
 
  
  overall - this game is a must keep for a ds user. its great for those road trips and will have 
 you playing during the entire drive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  First off New super mario bros. is a great game. The graphics and sound are suprisingly good and 
 this is definitely the game to buy if you ave a ds. The gameplay for this game feels pretty old 
 school but with lack of decent powerups (with the exception of the giant mushroom and the fire 
 flower) and a few scenarios you either have to spend 3 hours timing it just right, or just forced 
 to die unless you have a powerup you wanna lose. The shell is absloute rap unless there is a slope 
 somewhere, giant mushrooms are good but you can only find them if you spend the star coins to unlock 
 the level, mini mushroom is good for exploring, finding star coins, etc. but it leaves you completely 
 defenseless when an enemy comes by. All in all this game has the great classic mario feel but with 
 a few twists and even if you don't end up liking this it is still worth checking out.
  
  GRAPHICS: best on the ds so far
  
  SOUND: Old school and really good
  
  VALUE: High for 
 a mario fan or someone who needs a new ds game
  
  REPLAYABILITY: Moderately high if you wanna start over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superyu7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw my friend playing this game I thought... Why in the world would I want to play 
 such a simplistic game? At first when my brother bought I went to my friends and played against 
 him for fun... I loved it! So naturally when I knew I couldn't play the game against my friend I 
 started playing it 1-player... You know I just thought, well hey when I played the first level on 
 my friends game it was pretty cool so why not start a new game? I quickly advanced through the 
 first world, amazed by the fun I had I continued flying through the levels. Then I actually got 
 stuck on a level. I was in awestruck thinking, how could I get stuck on a 2-D game?! Then I realized 
 although this is a 2-D game with a 3-D twist to it, its actually alot harder then I assumed. Now 
 this is by far my favorite game ever on the DS. But I believe that the multi-player is alot more 
 funner then the game, possibly because I beat the game and my friend is an extreme challenge to 
 me... If you don't own go buy it, I think it will be, the best DS game of all-time until they make 
 a second one. Which I'm hoping will happen soon, with a ton more multi-player levels. Well that 
 about sums it up for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamaicanBadBoy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This 2-d slide scroller made a good impressioon on gamers. In this new version of Super Mario Bros. 
 You can become several of Mario forms such as mini Mario, Fire Mario, shell Mario, and new to this 
 version Mega Mario. There are 8 stages in this game,2 of which you have to access secretly through 
 warp cannons.
  
  There are also some Multiplayer and Minigames, those of which i will not go into .The main point 
 of this game is to rescue princess Peach from the clutches of Bowser and Bowser jr. (yet again) .
 
  
  The controls are basically the same as the last few games of Mario almost never ending quest to 
 save princess Peach. The only difference is the y and x buttons which are controls for running, tucking 
 into your shell (shell Mario) , and trowing koopa shells at your enemies. There are also some advanced 
 moves such as wall jump, crouch slide, triple jump, ground pound, gap dash, incline slide , and finally 
 but not least wall slide. There also some of your basic moves such as  
 swinging.
  
  
  Overall this game is a solid 2-d slide scroller that I would recommend to any Mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Hanks79
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario bros. is a good game but with some flaws. The good parts of the game is the clasic 
 feel to the game, and the contorles are pretty good but you wish the buttons were alittle better 
 placed, I'v alsways found on the DS definatly when playing a GameBoy game the the buttons are in 
 to much of a diamand position and should be more slanded. There also arn't enogh levels, you can 
 unlock levels but it's wierd because you use a coin star system whin in the levels, instead of 
 secret exits like in past games. With the power ups there not that great because the small mushroom 
 gets you realy small but can leace you defenseless if an enemy goes for you. The shell only works 
 if theres a slant and ones you get into it you lose alot of controll. The big mushroom is alright 
 but is realy rare to find. The lack of a flying suit also kinda buged me a bit. One promblem that 
 I find on evry Mario Side scroling game is the movment of the character. You go too slow, or you 
 go too fast, you can never tell where you or an enimy will land any every thing always seemed alittle 
 scrambled. Another bad factor is the grafics, I think they should have keeped a 2-D look, the grafics 
 almost look wrose than Super Mario 64 DS, also for the frist time in a long time mario turns small 
 when hurt, didn't look horible on 2_d vertion but in 3-d it just looks creepy. Even thogh there 
 are so many flaws in it it still is a good game, you realy do feel like your playing a true 2-D 
 mario game, and must of the things I've mentioned have always been in mario games, I just figured 
 they would have fixed them by now. Over all this is a preety good game and any mario fan or fan 
 of 2-D side scrollers should definatly buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlock_gamer
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Those who have never played the original Super Mario Bros would love this game. The gameplay is 
 superb, the graphics are 3D played in a 2D classic style to give the classic mario feel and if 
 the quest mode isn't enough for you then you have the mini games to keep you going for sometime. 
 Who has never played the original Super Mario bros? Being the New Super Mario Bros i expected this 
 game to have exactly the same gameplay as the original but it didnt feel like that at all. Playing 
 mario or luigi when jumping felt heavy and there was no height. I thought the triple jump was neat 
 but useless because all the platforms were reachable without having to jump thrice. But hey, this 
 is the New Super Mario Bros right?
  
  This game killed my desire of getting coins. In the original getting coins meant a chance to grab 
 those rare 1ups so that you can have the chance to finish the game. In this game i saw no point 
 in getting coins because the amount of 1ups you get in this game is so easy that it doesnt require 
 effort to get them. Thanks Nintendo for so being damn generous.
  
  This game also encourages you to try find three major coins in every level so i did that. What 
 did i get after all that? Just a display saying complete . Is that it? No wait there must be somthing!? 
 Then it dawns on you, you just wasted your time getting all those major coins for nothing and i 
 can see subconsciously the Nintendo team laughing their butts off at you. The difficulty level 
 is very easy to those who played all the mario games. I finished this game on my first sitting. 
 When i was half way through the game i felt bored. Bored as in i didn't feel this was challenging 
 enough. The power ups wern't impressive. Mega mario was just stupid and spoilt the whole game. 
 You can just run through the level or kill of any boss (including the last one) with this over 
 the top item. Thanks again to Nintendo for making it easy. Mini mario came into use for getting 
 the two extra worlds you cant access and getting into those mini pipes to earn more annoying 1ups 
 and getting those silly major coins. Apart from all that the item is just plain usless. The blue 
 shell isnt something new, we seen it before in Super Mario bros 3 when mario turns into hammer 
 mario with the black shell. So Nintendo thought to make the idea interesting by turning mario into 
 a shell and knocking enemies off their feet by running into them. Neat but i didnt see it add any 
 depth to the game so i thought it was useless. It's clear that Nintendo had run out of ideas.
 
  
  As the game went on i realised Nintendo tried combining all the elements from every mario game 
 into this game. It just didn't work. If that became the idea then why not bring the cape mario 
 and frog mario to make it alot more interesting? You also get the mini games. It's a fine addition 
 to the game knowing Nintendo has screwed things up but then it soon becomes boring and then you 
 realise your playing somthing like Mario Party with no one around you to enjoy the fun. Dull.
 
  
  The graphics are rendered 3D and it looks great with some great background music that made all 
 mario games a pleasure to listen to.
  
  This game had expectations to live up to and it didnt live up to mine. A mario game that Nintendo 
 tried too hard, beefed up and too easy. If there is one thing to be happy about is that Nintendo 
 listened to their groaning fans for a 2D mario game and they got it. But it makes me wonder if 
 they pulled this one out of their trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrick1o1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Mario was one of the best games ever to come out on the DS. It was a genius idea to take the old 
 mario, and shake it up a bit. the graphics are something, stating the fact that its 3D. New Super 
 Mario Bros. Gameplay is exactly like the old, 8-bit Super Mario, but even better! Graphics enhanced, 
 new power-up like the incredibl mega mushroom, new moves such as wall jump, insane and somewhat 
 challenging castle and towers. New Super Mario bros is a good game for people who regret throwing 
 away thier NES, and wanting a trip down memory lane, and for people who just want to have a good 
 game on their DS. Definetly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpu1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  looking at this game it seems that Nintendo tried to pull a Frankenstien, they brought together 
 all the good things from every Mario game and put them together. Plus it has the strength of ten 
 men. The only problem is that there should more power ups, at least the super cape. You'd think this 
 game would be easy but its actually kind of hard (I was stuck on world 5 almost for a week) One more 
 thing before I start typing about the minigames, is it just me or is lakitu annoying in just about 
 every game he's in? The minigames are pretty fun and are great multiplayer and trying to keep your 
 high score is still fun after all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  new super mario bros. is the best game you can ever ask for on ds. i have to say ive been disapointed 
 in thew new mario games like the ddr mario and sunshine, but this game is no sellout, this game 
 is perfect in every way and form. its a 2-d side scroller like the old games, it has depth and alot 
 of replay value, like unclocking worls and geting all three major coins in every level . and with 
 a 30$ price tag theres no reaoson you shouldnt get this. now, some people think its the exact game 
 from the orignal nes but its not i assure you theres great funnew game play elements and great 
 fun for hours of time i give this game a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_saget_832
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is easily the best mario side scroling game, ever. * worlds, every 5th level 
 you fight Bowser Jr. It is just amazingly fun. I dont even know how im gonna fit this whole review 
 sheet with 100 characters. But the gameplay is AWESOME, the graphics are AWESOME for the DS capabilitys, 
 the sounds is GREAT, the value is HIGH- once you beat it, you will want to beat it again and again 
 and again. The difficulty depends if you suck or not. Time spent, once again if you suck or not. 
 The learning curve is about .8-1.5 seconds to learn. It is easily the best side scrolling mario, 
 EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiderSouth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  After only one level in one world, I knew this game was for me. New Super Mario Bros. is easily 
 one of my all-time favorite games. This is an instant classic, and we haven't had too many of those 
 in recent years. I can't help but give this game a perfect 10. The gameplay is fun, and even when 
 I die once on a world, I'll come right back and just keep fighting my way through. It's not too 
 hard, it's just right for me. I may only have just finished the first save point in World 3, but 
 this is one game I'm not going to quit playing until I've got it completed. This is a game for 
 me, and it's a game that's going to entertain alot of Mario fans. And I might as well go as far 
 to say even some non-Mario fans. This is genius. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I had given up on the DS. I'd had all the "great games" that just weren't great; Nintendogs, Animal 
 Crossing, Mario 64, you name it. I was about to sell the whole system when my younger brother bought 
 New Super Marios Bros. but *surprise* his DS was lost. So I decided to try it. I haven't stopped 
 trying it. Simply the best game for DS. I only wish there were more than six worlds. If you were 
 sucked into buying a DS and have $30, BUY THIS GAME!!!
  
  Gameplay- Addictive
  Graphics- The best you'll get on the DS, which isn't great, but isn't horrible.
  Sound- Classic 
 Mario!
  Value- Worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  
  Games have gone far since the days of the Super Nintendo and the original gameboy, but that doesn't 
 mean that game developers should back away from the classic game play.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is the latest edition in a classic series of games, which are all highly 
 addictive and fun to play. The latest version is no different; the game sticks to the classic rulebook 
 perfectly, which will attract fans of the older gameboy additions and the Super Nintendo versions.
 
  
  Although it sticks to this simple side- scrolling game play, Nintendo have been ambitious enough 
 to experiment with some new features and some crazy levels.
  
  One of the best features of New Super Mario Bros. is the multiplayer and single cart download play. 
 The multiplayer options are simple, yet effective. The basic objective of the multiplayer mode 
 is to be the first to collect a certain number of stars, and you can do this by racing, fighting 
 and tricking your opponent.
  
  The music in the game is to par with others, Mario games always have fantastic theme tunes and 
 background music! 
  
  To summarise, if you havent played any of the classic Super Mario Bros. game then youve missed 
 out - here is your chance to play, and if your a fan of the series then this is the burst of new 
 life you have been waiting for!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disengage12a
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  First Impressions: My first impressions of this game were extremely high being it's a side-scrolling, 
 platform-jumping, true blue Mario sequel. When you first pop it into your' DS you'll immediately 
 feel giddy as your about to experience a brand new Mario adventure for the first time in a few 
 years not counting all the Mario sports and miscelleaneous type games Nintendo has released in 
 the past few years.
  
  Sound: As you hop into the first level you'll immediately notice the new music theme and not the 
 old Mario theme about everyone in the world can recognize instantly if you sing it. As awkward 
 as it sounds to have a new Mario theme for alot of the levels, you'll be extremely pleased because 
 all of the new tunes they've thrown in are downright awesome and fit very well into the Mario world. 
 Worry not nostalgia lovers! Alot of the old themes are back like the underground tune. From jumping, 
 coin collecting, and beating a level to goomba smashing, boss thrashing, and pipe warping you'll 
 notice that the sound is absolutely phenomonal.
  
  Graphics: No complaints here either. This game even looks good for the DS smashing old stereotypres 
 that all DS games look like a watered-down N64 games. The graphics are crisp and clean and frankly 
 you'll pause for a moment and say to yourself "I can't believe a DS game looks this good." Well 
 it does. As you can expect from a DS game the framerate and overall solidness of the graphics are 
 top-notch. You can totally tell Nintendo took their time when designing character models, backgrounds, 
 water affects, etc.
  
  Gameplay: Well I could babble on explaining the dynamics of a Mario side-scrolling platform game 
 to you but chances are people reading already know what it's like. But the burning question is 
 "Is Mario still fun after all these years since the original?" The answer is yes my friends. Somehow 
 Nintendo preserves the fun factor in Mario roughly 20 years later with old school platforming and 
 some new, cool features on this little game pak. Some new features and around two dozen minigames 
 are a very welcomed addition to this game's mechanics. Some of Mario's new tricks include wall-jumping, 
 turning massive and pretty much destroying the level's foundation, and turning very micro size, 
 being able to reach some very cool hidden locations for finding a plethora of Fire Flowers and 
 1-UP's. My absolute only problem with this game is it's quite easy. Most hard core gamers will 
 be ale to breze through this in about 4-6 hours depending on how long your gaming sessions can 
 be. Even though it's difficulty is nowhere near it's prdeccesor's it's still a fun, addictive game 
 that absolutely no Nintendo DS owner should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royal_demon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  
  The new super mario bros. is a great game for the ds. The graphics are fluid and colourful. The 
 3d models are very detailed 
  
  The gameplay is amazing the amount of new feautures is decent and fun to look at like when you 
 do a running triple jump and mario does a somersault in the air. 
  
  The sound is always good full of loads of jump sounds and marios "woo hoo" sound when jumping. 
 Also if you close the ds without switching it off, when you open it again mario will speak to you. 
 
  
  The game is very good and for 30 pounds it may be a bit too much because of new super marios short 
 lifespan making it easy to complete in a mere 10 to 20 hours.
  
  Although definitely worth getting for your collection of ds games 30 pounds is a bit much so maybe 
 get it preowned at around 25 pounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  My personal favorite Super Mario game is Super Mario World, but the New Super Mario Bros. game 
 for the DS is one hell of a game. This game is the only reason I bought a DS, when I heard there 
 was a new 2-D sidescrolling Mario game coming out I had to have it.
  
  If you have played any of the 2-D sidescrolling Super Mario games then you will have no problem 
 getting into New SMB, it plays just like the classic SMB games. They have added a few new features 
 to this game to improve on already solid gameplay. You can do a ground pound attack to break blocks 
 and kill enemys, Mario basicly jumps in the air and sits on the object below him. You can also 
 wall jump like in the classic Ninja Gaiden games. Mario also has two new power-ups, the mini mushroom (makes 
 you really small) and the mega mushroom (makes you really big and you smash anything you run into) . 
 There is also a blue shell power-up which is like the hammer bro power-up but you can't throw hammers, 
 you get a shell dash move that smashs you into your enemys while you are tucked inside the shell, 
 it's ok. 
  
  Other then those things I mentioned above the game is mostly the same as the other SMB games. It 
 has most of the familar levels, ice, underwater, desert, ect. It has most of the classic enemys 
 but it has a new feeling to it and it's really a blast to play. This game is worth checking out 
 no matter if you are a SMB fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinefinn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Man I can't believe how addicting this game is! I thought it was going to be too kiddie for me, 
 but boy was I wrong. This game has taking all of my time wasted in lines etc.... This game is perfect 
 for the DS. I think Nintendo knew this. It is perfect for the pick up and play when you want game.
 
  
  The controls are identical to the original old school. The hidden stuff is plenty and cool. The 
 graphics are just slightly updated. There is some new powers and challenges.
  
  All in this game is the game that should be sold with the DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis-Kun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  At last, a new Mario platformer game, Mario, the icon of the videogames is back after many years, to 
 kick the other platformer fools and to demonstrate that he is still the best in 2d style.
  
  This Game is like a fusion of Super Mario bros and Super Mario bros 3, it has 3d graphics in 
 Mario and his enemies, but the background and gamestyle is in 2d.
  
  New moves from Mario 64 like the triple jump and the ass fall atack are here, and new items like 
 the Giant Mushroom, that let you transform into a very giant Mario and smash all your enemies (even 
 the boss of the level) .
  
  The gameplay itslike Mario 3, jumping into plattforms squashing Koopas and Goombas and a castle 
 and the end, but all this added with a new and fresh modern style.
  
  The bad point is that the game is a bit short and a bit easy, and there are no really extras (only 
 few minigames of mario 64 ds, and only 3 of them are new) but the game is a really fun experience, that 
 you will play over and over again, just like all the mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  the reason why this game is so fun is becuse your mario back in 2d but this time mario has some 
 new moves like for example mario and luigi can jump off walls turn really big and envincebal or 
 really small and fit threw tiny cracks. this game is fun and entertaining but when you start getting 
 into it it does kinda get easy, but still really really fun. but this game isnt nothin to special 
 sence the levels are so short, but whats great about this game is when we look back at the nes 
 and see how much more approvements we have know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilt0193
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  The new super mario bros. is a great addition to the mario series. A select few of the older fans 
 of the series ahvent like the newer 3d addition to the series. They would rather just have the 
 good ol' side scrolling masterpiece. 
  
  QUICK REVIEW:
  
  The good: Darn near everything
  The bad: Cheap multiplayer games
  
  Gameplay: Purely old 
 mario with new moves
  
  Graphics: 2d levels with 3d effects... awesome. Really fluid
  
  Sound: Has everything a mario game requires
  
  Value: I would suggest borrowing it from a friend. 
 Can be %100 beaten in a good 14 hours or so.
  
  Multiplayer: Includes a star collecting game with 2 people doing mario vs luigi. Also includes 
 all the minigames from super mario 64 ds and the vs mode in super mario 64 ds. A better single 
 player game.
  
  My opinion: A combination of Super mario world and Super mario bros. 3, which in my opinion are 
 the best in the series. If you are a mario fan I can guarantee you will enjoy this game.
  
  
  
  DETAILED REVIEW:
  
  The storyline is not very important but if you for some reason 
 dont want to be spoiled just move on down to the next paragraph. This time in the Mushroom Kingdom 
 Bowser is not the main villian, but his son is. The opening scene of the game shows baby bowser 
 kidnapping princess peach. Mario was busy watching what was going on at the castle so he couldnt 
 stop the kidnapping. It shows a mini battle scene of mario chasing baby bowser and then being shrunk. 
 
  
  The gameplay of this game is narrowed down to just the pure mario formula. Jumping, ducking, stomping, 
 butt mashing, running... and getting mushrooms. This game is called "New super mario bros." but 
 in reality there are very little new things about it. It adds 3 new items, the giant mushroom which 
 makes you huge and you can go on a rampage through the level for 10 seconds. The mini-mushroom 
 obviously makes you small and can allow you to go into small pipes or fit into areas where as you 
 wouldnt normally be able to reach, and you get a floaty jump as mini-mario. The final new item is 
 the blue shell. The shell turns you into a koopa troopa. It's hard to get used to at first, but 
 eventually you get good with it. The final new thing to the game are star coins. There are three 
 coins in every level... these coins cna be used to gain acess to hidden areas and after you beat 
 the game to buy new wallpapers for your bottom screen. 
  
  The problem with these new items (other than the star coins) is that you rarely see them. The big 
 mushroom can be accessed at certain houses a maybe 2-3 levels. The mini-mushroom only comes up 
 in levels that you need it and if it doesnt I had to always go back to level 1-4 and put it in 
 my item slot. There are many star coins that can only be acessed with a mini-mushroom. The blue 
 shell is the rarest of all... it only shows up in item houses or roulette item boxes. 
  
  The graphics are really good for just a 2d side scroller. The textures make it seem like a 3d game. 
 Water will bounce, fire will bounce, mario will punch the air. Two new moves which are very cool 
 to add to the 2d series are butt-bounce and wall jump. Butt bouncing is simple... but wall jumping 
 must be mastered (and its not very hard) for completion of the game. 
  
  The sound is perfectly fitting to the series. There isnt a sound effect missing or one that shouldnt 
 be there. Bowser strikes terror with his lively growl (not really but eh) .
  
  The game is a great game but in my opinion you should either get it on sale or borrow it from a 
 friend. But of course I always buy games cheap so you can disagree with me on that. But I borrowed 
 this game from a friend and I beat it %100 in a good 15-16 hours. So if you are a %100 gamer then 
 you'll be happy with the game. But if you just play the main game and beat it in 6 hours then you 
 might feel cheated. It all depends on personal opinion.
  
  If you have liked ANY of the mario platforming games... you will most likely enjoy this. Thank you 
 for reading the review
  
  -lilt0193- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEnd123456789
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is the reason that I went and bought the Nintendo DS. I havent played 
 a new Mario 2D game in about 14 years. It is about time that they make a new one and this one certainly 
 did not disappoint me. The game is just way too much fun. It has 1 Player mode where you play through 
 8 levels to get Princess Peach back. You also get tons of mini games and even more when you play 
 against someone. There is Mario VS Luigi, which is one of the most fun games I have ever played. 
 Yes this game is quite easy, but combined with the mini games and trying to get the 3 star next 
 to your file it makes for a long lasting game. The graphics are great, the controls are easy, the 
 mini games are addictive, the music is good, but not as catchy as its predecessors. All in all 
 this game is wonderful and would recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asassinmario
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  A great Mario game and real fun to play. It is a great little game. A fine addition to the Mario 
 games family. It is a fun remake of an old Mario game that was also was a great game This a game 
 some people who do not like it................ BUT hey it is their loss. Because I think this game 
 is really fun and many people would enjoy playing this game!!!!!! It is truly a great game you 
 know that. I like it and you probably will too, because it truly is a great game. You will probably 
 like it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeldaMaster32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with a scene of Peach and Mario enjoying a peaceful stroll in the Mushroom Kingdom. 
 When the couple sees the castle in the distance, it is struck by lightning! Mario runs to investigate 
 this incident, and sure enough, Princess Peach is kidnapped by Bowser Jr. Looks like Mario is off 
 on another adventure to save the Princess...
  
  Mario is the king of platforming, so naturally, the game should be focused on gameplay. New Super 
 Mario Bros. doesn't disappoint. It's all here. The running, the jumping, the mushrooms, and the 
 fire flowers. In this new adventure, Mario has all the moves he has learned from previous games 
 barring his name. 
  
  Mario can do a triple jump, ground pound, wall jump, sidle on walls, swing on ropes, and much, much 
 more! And since this is a Mario game, there are powerups. And there a power ups. Like I stated 
 before, the mushrooms and fire flowers make a welcome return. But now, Mario has even more hurt 
 to dish out on Bowser's minions.
  
  There is now a Mega Mushroom. This makes Mario grow to enormous porportions, taking up the entire 
 DS screen. While it sure is fun, the mega mushroom can sure hurt the gameplay. For fun, destroying 
 blocks sure sounds like fun, but in one of those could be a "Pirhana Plant Ladder" causing you 
 to miss one of the game's secrets. 
  
  There are two more new powerups. One is the Mini Mushroom. This has the exact opposite effect of 
 the Mega Mushroom. It causes Mario to shrink to tiny porportions, so he can fit through small warp-pipes 
 and small passageways. The other item is a Blue Koopa Shell. After dashing for a certain amount 
 of time, Mario will curl into the shell, and you will be sliding through enemies with ease. At 
 first its fun, but when you progress to the game's later worlds, this item becomes obsolete. 
 
  
  Speaking of worlds, this brings up another disappoint in the new Mario. While some can indeed be 
 challenging, most are super easy romps, making the game considerably shorter. Some of the bosses 
 can be challenging, but most of the bosses won't cause you too much trouble. The final castle in 
 the game though is really the biggest disappointent. I remember the final castles in the Super 
 Mario World games being truly challenging, and the one here was just too easy.
  
  Let's move onto the graphics. The game has 3D characters in a 2D world. While there are some nice 
 effects here and there (especially the fire) , the game is mostly not that special. But make no 
 mistake, this is one fine looking side scroller, especially for the DS.
  
  Next is the music. The music in a Mario game is always my favorite and this game delivers on every 
 level. The classic Mario themes are all remixed and make wonderful ear candy. It truly brings back 
 memories of Mario games past, and this isn't a game you play with the system on mute.
  
  In the end, New Super Mario Bros. is a great romp through the Mushroom Kingdom. Just keep in mind 
 that the game is a bit easy and short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Outstanding. All the extra features is what puts this over the top. So many great moves, 
 it just kept me addicted way more than any Mario before it. Once you play it enough, put it up 
 for a while, then take it out again and you'll be addicted for a long time again.
  
  Graphics- First side-scrolling Mario game in 3D. Could've been better, but I'm not complaining. 
 Everything looks great and it gives the Mario games a whole new feel. Outside of each level looks 
 great too.
  
  Sound and Music- The sound effects are about what you'd expect. The music is basically the same 
 stuff as ever, but it's not music that makes a great game, so who cares?
  
  Story- It's Mario, so you go in not expecting much in this category. Mario has to save Peach, same 
 as always, but the game's great so who cares?
  
  Multi-player- Fun to play every once in a while, but nothing special. It's better than most multi-players, 
 so there's nothing to worry about. I loved it; not as much as the single-player, but it was good.
 
  
  Overall- This was a slap in the face and proof that Mario still deserves to be milked to the max. 
 A definite must-buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8terdude24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  yeah its that good, this game is great, i got it the day it came out and im still playing it and 
 having fun. its got unbelievable graphics for a NDS. There is so much levels and diferent obtacles 
 then the last its pretty much like you go level to level until you reach the boss then when you 
 beat him you go a couple more levels then another boss and then you go to another world. The only 
 bad thing about the game is if you wont to save you either have to put your ds in sleep mode, beat 
 the boss and it will ask you to save or if you have five stars you can go in a locked door and 
 it will save for you. but other than that this game is awsome if your a morio fan you have to get 
 this game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moncefdark
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a load of fun. It is pretty easy so anyone can play it. The only hard part of the 
 game is figuring out how to get the extra levels. All the levels are relatively easy. 
  The game is very short. This game is good good good good good good good good. I love love love 
 love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love love 
 it. Its grat great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamestastationg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a must-have for Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite owners. Featuring addictive, fun 
 levels, great graphics (similar to Mario 64, or Mario kart DS) , and addictive levels. The only 
 downfall might be the easy difficulty and shortness. But, a cure for that is to finish the game 
 completely. Beating the game is only one 4th of the game. You need to unlock secret levels, collect 
 all the star coins, and play all the mini-games. All together, this game will last you weeks of 
 unstoppable fun. Also, I has great replay value, because will WILL want to play these great levels 
 more than once.
  
  Good: Terrific control; excellent graphics and animations; nostalgia-inducing; excellent level 
 design; two-player wi-fi game; tons of secrets.
  
  Bad: Music isn't nearly as good; water levels aren't as fun; not particularly long; annoying save 
 system; not as challenging for veterans.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a terrific game that is a necessary addition to any DS's owner's library, 
 not just because it's a Mario game, but because it's also very good.
  
  It works a lot like previous games, intentionally. One button does the jump. The other one does 
 the fireflower/dash. It still works perfectly, but this time, Mario has some new moves added to 
 his repertoire, borrowed from the 3D entries - the butt-stomp and the wall-jump, which both control 
 great and integrate very well into the level design. Mario also has his usual power-ups, such as 
 the mushroom and the fireflower, as well as a blue shell power-up that renders you invincible when 
 you crouch, and the star, which makes you invincible for a short amount of time. 
  
  The two big new power ups, though, are the mini and mega mushrooms. The mega mushroom makes you, 
 well, huge for a limited time, and as you walk you smash everything in your way, including blocks, 
 pipes, and enemies. The more you smash the more 1ups you get at the end of your stint as a mega 
 mushroom. The mini mushroom makes you mini until you get a regular mushroom to make you big again. 
 Obviously, the mini mushroom doesn't make you any better against enemies, but it's very useful 
 at discovering various secret areas.
  
  Another mechanic in New SMB is collecting big coins. There are three in each level. They don't 
 really do anything, to my knowledge, except that you can use five of them to unlock new paths to 
 a mushroom house or a mega mushroom house, or even some levels, and an impetus for people to go 
 play through levels just to get all three coins. Also, each time you use five of them, you can 
 save.
  
  The save system is a small annoying part of New SMB. Save points are very rare and only come after 
 a tower or a castle, of which there are typically one of each on each world, or when you spend 
 five coins. If you don't have the coins on hand and lose your last life in a tough castle, you'll 
 have to go back to your last save point, which means you can potentially lose a lot of progress. 
 If not for a loophole in level 1-1, which is the only level where you can always get a mega mushroom 
 and therefore 1ups, I would have had a significantly harder time beating New SMB.
  
  New SMB won't take very long for experts to beat, and not especially long for regular gamers to 
 beat either, but it does have some unlock able content. There are eight worlds, as usual, but get 
 this - pretty much everybody who beats the game will do so while skipping two worlds. Two ENTIRE 
 worlds, not levels, though you'll probably skip a couple of these too, and more if you find secret 
 exits in levels which get you to a warp pipe or a cannon. Most people will want to unlock these 
 levels and worlds, so it's a good amount of content that is lying there for you to get (plus you 
 can see all the levels and/or worlds that you haven't unlocked, which only serves to make them 
 that much harder to ignore) .
  
  A little extra value is added in the two other modes New SMB has, though most of it comes from 
 one. One of them is a minigames mode that can be played singleplayer or with local wifi multiplayer, 
 which is fun enough but will get boring after a while. The other mode is more fun, though, and 
 is local wifi multiplayer only and can be played with two players only. No, unfortunately it's 
 not co-op, but its called Mario vs. Luigi, when you and a friend face off as these characters in 
 a battle to collect however many coins you specify. It's pretty fun, albeit a little frustrating, 
 as sometimes whoever wins can be more or less arbitrary.
  
  New SMB looks very good, as it should since its 2D. Mario (and Luigi) animates sharply and convincingly, 
 and the enemies look great (albeit mostly familiar) as well. There is never any sign of slowdown, 
 especially in the single-player game.
  
  The same can't be said for the sound. The sounds are terrific, as in the sound effects. The music, 
 though, is not up to par, especially considering the standard the terrific Mario games previous 
 to this one set. The familiar old Mario Theme plays in one spot (not in any levels) , sure, but 
 mostly, the music's new, and it's a disappointment. It's not bad, or anything, but it's disappointing 
 considering the pedigree of the games. Not to mention the composer seems to be really into a female 
 chorus saying 'DA' at various intervals in the music, which is annoying.
  
  All in all, though, New SMB, despite its faults, is well worth the purchase for any DS owner, any 
 Mario fan, and is a good impetus to adopt the DS handheld if you haven't previously.
  
  (^.^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best Mario games to come out in a very long time. When you play it you 
 feel like you are playing the old Mario, but when you look at the graphics you can see that it's 
 a brand new game. You start out in level one then work your way over to level eight, but the thing 
 is that you don't automaticlly go to level four or seven. So you will have to find the secret passage. 
 And all of the things that change you are different in this game. There is now a turtle shell, 
 a red mushroom, a flower, the star, blue mushroom, and the big mushroom. The shell makes you into 
 a turtle, the flower gives you fireballs, the star makes you invincible. Then there are the mushrooms: 
 the red mushroom makes you medium size, the blue one makes you very small, and the big one makes 
 you huge (almost as big as the screen) . And there are mushroom houses and what ever color the are 
 is what kind of mushroom you will get in there, besides the red one which lets you get that and 
 the other non-mushroom power-ups. Plus in each level there are three coins that you can collect 
 and use to go to the mushroom houses. And in some levels there are two ways to finish it, and one 
 will take you to a secret level. And that's about all you need to know to beat the story mode.
 
  
  There are mini-games too, which are just a bunch of fun games that have nothing to do with the 
 story. And unlike in Super Mario 64 DS you don't have to unlock them, but there are some of the 
 same ones as in 64 DS. Now go and have some fun with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpin21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Wow, it has been a long time since a good old mario game, right? Well after over a decade of waiting 
 mario returns in all of his glory. In NEW SUPER MARIO BROS.
  
  If it isn't broke, why fix it? That saying goes well with the game. Very little has changed gameplay 
 wise for mario's latest 2D adventure. The addition of a few new powerups are about all, and triple 
 jump and wall jump is about it. The games set up is similar to SMB3 because of the map screen. 
 You move from one location to the next on the map eventually working your way to the big castle 
 where Bowser Jr. is usually hiding out in. The only huge fault in the gameplay is that it is VERY 
 easy. It also dosen't that it is a short game also. But it is easy to overlook this due to the 
 quality of the old fashioned gameplay.
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the DS, each area looks and plays differently. You have sand 
 wastelands, water worlds, lava filled mountains, old castles, and more. It blends some minor 3d 
 effects in the 2d world also. So overall the graphics do a fantastic job displaying the new adventure 
 for mario.
  
  Here is the low point of the game.. None of the new mario tunes were ever memorable, the classic 
 theme remains intact only for a safe house stage. It just didn't cut it for me. If they were trying 
 to go back to the old school vibe, then why not bring back the old awesome music? The sound in 
 general is NOT BAD, just the music simply downgrades the whole catagory.
  
  There is alot to do here. The main game will take 8 hours at the most, 15 or so to get all the 
 secret coins. You can play multiplayer with a single card and 2 or more DS's. Also you can play 
 a single player mini game type deal. But they are reused from Super Mario 64 DS though. Overall 
 the replay value is enough to keep you busy for a solid week or two of playing.
  
  Overall I think New Super Mario Bros. is in general a great game. It is not better than mario's 
 previous 2d adventures buti it is certainly a fantastic game in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinofire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  When the first Super Mario Bros. was released over a decade ago in 1984, it critically changed 
 the way video games were made. It has been crowned as one of the more influential games of our 
 times, the best selling, and responsible for dragging Nintendo (nay, the entire game industry) 
 out of the 1983 video game depression Or so claims the Wikipedia entry I consulted to get some 
 background info on the series (W1) .
  
  While the Wikipedia might not be the most impartial source out there, its hard to fault at least 
 some of the claims: the general concept, and feel of the original Super Mario Bros. game has certainly 
 been appropriated in countless other titles. In having been so widely mimicked, and by being one 
 of the first games to explore the possibilities and limitations of the side scrolling platformer, 
 the game can be seen as the progenitor for almost every other platform game since. This doesnt 
 necessarily exclude other games from having had an influence, but in the same way that Doom or 
 Quake are generally acknowledged as having directed the rules for an entire genre of play, without 
 having been the first games to explore that genre, so did Super Mario Bros. come along at just 
 the right time to inspire countless game players and designers.
  
  The original Super Mario Bros. game also marks in my mind a far more important milestone in video 
 game history, as the point at which games began to come into their own, not only in terms of design, 
 but as the chosen media for an entire generation. While video games are certainly a maturing field, 
 they are by no means an old one. In terms of years, they pale in comparison to the printed word. 
 Even cinema, which in itself is a relatively young form. But if the medium is young, then the same 
 can be said of its audience. When the original Super Mario Bros. was released, I was barely three 
 years old, and according to figures on the ESA website, at least fifty percent of the people playing 
 games out there today wouldnt be born for another half a decade (ESA) . So while for many gamers, 
 video games were something that were noticeably invented in their lifespan (either with Russells 
 Spacewar! or Bushnells Computer Space) , for the rest, quite possibly the small leading majority, 
 the original Super Mario Bros. marks out the point at which a generation began to have games available 
 as a viable medium from the time of their birth  all their lives. More importantly, the original 
 Super Mario Bros. isnt just a Spacewar!-like abstract experiment, but about as close as we can 
 get in these early days to a seminal text. 
  
  Which means that by the time most of the Mario-Generation were actively playing games, what had 
 been developed and pioneered by people like Shigeru Miamoto, a fledgling industry, would have already 
 presented titles like Mortal Kombat, and the aforementioned Doom. And always, of course, Mario 
 titles, which have been released for just about every major system since their original appearance 
 on the NES. So the original Super Mario Bros. represents not only a step forward in game design, 
 but a tangible marker delineating the generation of players for who games were a novel form, from 
 those for whom games are, and have always been, a ubiquitous presence.
  
  How all this effects the way in which the New Super Mario Bros. game is received might just be 
 as worthy of investigation as the game itself: Even the titles adjective seems to suggest an awareness 
 of the generational presence of Mario. There is an air of assumed knowledge on the part of the 
 player here, that is lacking in other games that are not direct sequels or descendants. Its not 
 central to gameplay, but certainly to appreciate the games nuances we are expected to have at 
 least seen or heard of the original Super Mario Bros. game, if only to understand that (through 
 the general aesthetic, level design, and pacing) this is a game whose primary concern is nostalgic. 
 But then, if the game is nostalgic instead of innovative, why the New? Does the New, announce 
 nothing more than a further iteration of the franchise? Having been named on the cusp of the development 
 of another new Mario game for the Nintendo Wii, the New seems less proclamatory than a superficial 
 reading might suggest. If not referring to the novelty of the game, then perhaps the usage is ironic: 
 a purposeful allusion to the nature of other new Mario games to rest upon the shoulders of their 
 precursor, the original Super Mario Bros. 
  
  It may certainly seem to border on academic sophistry to place so much importance on a single word 
 in the games title, without yet having written a single word on the game itself. Still, I would 
 alternatively caution that to begin an examination of this game without at least partially attempting 
 to construct a historical framework risks reducing far too much of the games content, clearly 
 well and methodically thought out, to crude chance. While a contextual analysis is not necessarily 
 a requirement to enjoy the game in and of itself, that one can be made at all is worthy of attention, 
 and not something to be casually dismissed.
  
  As it stands, we have here a game that, so the title suggests, is quite new. And yet, as should 
 by now also be apparent from the attention garnered upon the title, a game which mimics almost 
 to perfection the tropes and methodology of the original 2d Mario games. To what end? The DS is 
 by no means incapable of rendering the 3d environments that have become more the norm over the 
 last few years. You can even find a version of Super Mario 64 for DS, another game which in its 
 original form can arguably be said to have reinvented the mechanics for platformers, only this 
 time in 3d. So why take what seems at first blush a backwards evolutionary step? It might be helpful 
 to open with a look at what the game is, and what it is not.
  
  To begin with, are we really taking a step backwards? While the camera never does anything other 
 than pan slowly to the left or right, and zoom in and out of the action, according to Marios size 
 or speed. This is obviously an arrangement of purpose, not convenience: while the character graphics 
 have at times the outwards appearance of having been drawn by hand, they are for the most part 
 rendered in 3d  its their small render size that loans them their sprite-like appearance. Most 
 of the backgrounds and a lot of the environmental aspects, on the other hand, look as though theyre 
 hand-drawn. And, while I have to admit to being one of those people that would have preferred a 
 genuinely hand-drawn game, the introduction of 3d in this context does give the movements of all 
 the characters a smooth and natural feel. This having been said, theres also no reason why Nintendo, 
 whose pockets are deep, couldnt have put down the money necessary to draw each animation and character 
 by hand. More so, if it really was the sheer nostalgia of the game that they were targeting, this 
 would have been the logical way of doing things. Conversely, Nintendo could have easily rendered 
 all the platforms and backgrounds in 3d. 
  
  This kind of 2d/3d hybridisation is nothing new. Games have been doing this kind of thing for years 
 as a computationally viable alternative to rendering entire scenes, in addition to complex character 
 models, in 3d (see the brilliant Grim Fandango or Resident Evil) . Here, however, the context within 
 which it emerges should be seen as an aesthetic choice, rather than a work-around of some internal 
 limitation of the DS.
  
  This means that what is immediately noticeable about the configuration of the games graphics is 
 the strict system of limitations imposed upon the player. While its certainly within the technical 
 prowess of the DS to escalate the degrees of freedom within which the player operates, here we 
 have a purposeful barring of that freedom. In short: Sure, you could technically just walk around 
 those Piranha Plants, in this game youre just not allowed to. 
  
  So heres a question: why would you do something like that? Whats interesting about these limitations 
 is that they dont feel particularly restricting: theres never any instance where the player feels 
 theyre being unfairly handicapped by the technology of the game. Not in the same way that the 
 camera in a game like Tomb Raider often feels as though its working against the intention of the 
 player. While its true that Mario is unable to walk around an enemy, its just never enough of 
 an issue to even warrant a passing worry. 
  
  This kind of utilisation  and restriction  of player freedom suggests a game that has a good 
 understanding of the mechanics, or rules, that drive its genre (these being those points of commonality, 
 like jumping from platform to platform, that group different games together under a single classification) . 
 As well as this, a game in which the implementation of those rules has been based on something 
 other than the technological restrictions of the hardware.
  
  To clarify, if we take a look at the original Super Mario Bros. game, from which many of these 
 same conventions of genre were later appropriated, we can see that the methodology of play is followed 
 in many cases in a context of necessity; almost everything, down to Marios initial appearance 
 (HM) , was dictated in some shape or form by the physical limitations of the NES hardware. Because, 
 for instance, the calculations required to check for collisions on only two axis are far less than 
 those required to additionally check each characters depth. On the DS, we can assume that even 
 though the process for checking collisions against an entirely 3d environment would be more involved, 
 as has been proven by Super Mario 64 DS, it would be far from impossible.
  
  On the other end of the scale, New Super Mario Bros. never over accentuates the capabilities of 
 the DS. Not in the same way that Super Mario 64, in which play was expanded to three dimensions, 
 modified the constraint of play by exploiting the technical prowess of the Nintendo 64. In this 
 case, the creation and exploration of a new paradigm for play was due to the introduction of technical 
 capabilities that were up until that time out of reach. And so, a lot of what we see in this game 
 is the result of experimenting within a newer, 3d medium introduced by the Nintendo 64. Theres 
 only the barest minimum of this in New Super Mario Bros. For example, the touch screen is used 
 to select which world the player wants to warp to, and to drop spare power-ups, which can now be 
 stored for later use. Outside of the mini games (which dont really fall into the scope of this 
 reading) , thats about all you get.
  
  So, while new Super Mario Bros. adheres as closely to the tropes of the two-dimensional platformer 
 as the original, the reasons for so restraining the rules of the game to those of the genre are 
 purely voluntary. There is no computational barrier here, and no necessity to explore the benefits 
 of new hardware. While the game makes use of, and takes advantage of the 3d capabilities of the 
 DS, it does not rely upon them to define the role of the player in the game. This suggests that 
 New Super Mario Bros. is a game wherein those rules of genre that are (or arent) followed, have 
 been selected in order to communicate a certain ideal of gameplay, rather than to succumb or exhibit 
 the technological capacity of the console.
  
  The question was: why do something like that? Unlike the other Mario games, influential in their 
 own right, New Super Mario Bros. is an example of design wherein a team has set out to create a 
 game whose content is dictated solely by the creative vision of that group.
  
  And the meaning of that elusive adjective? The original Super Mario Bros., Ive already said, marks 
 a milestone not only because it influenced the style of play for all subsequent platformers, but 
 because it marks the point at which video games became a widely accessible medium. It also (though 
 this honour should rightly be shared amongst many) appropriately marks a step away from the abstract 
 nature of earlier games, towards a more conceptual aesthetic of design. 
  
  While there is always some unavoidable measure of posturing in claiming these laurels without the 
 hindsight of history, New Super Mario Bros., or at least the climate into which it was borne, may 
 mark another such milestone. This time, it marks the change away from game design driven by feats 
 of technological prowess, and towards the utilisation of the hardware solely as a means to express 
 the intention of the author. 
  
  That New, to which so many readings can be pinned, may well refer to something apart from the 
 game itself. Perhaps to the process of creation. When the New Mario generation is playing games, 
 a decade from now, we may well have seen a movement towards an even more conceptual field of game 
 design. Already, weve started seeing games released on next generation hardware that, apart from 
 such trivialities as increased frame rate or polygon count, are functionally identical to the games 
 of the previous generation. Taken in light of Nintendos focus for the Wii, less of a technological 
 powerhouse and more of an experiment in styles of play, it seems as though a new bent of design, 
 towards challenging or exploiting concepts of genre rather than incrementally improving their technical 
 aspects, might just be on the cusp of realisation. And if thats right, then the Mario series 
 crowning achievement may not be the ability to develop new rules of genre, but the ability to take 
 those rules, and within them create something which is truly new and exciting. 
  
  And that can only mean good things for all of us.
  
  *
  
  Super Mario Bros.." Wikipedia, 
 The Free Encyclopedia. Wikimedia Foundation last accessed: 01 August 2006 (cited as: W1)
  
  Game Player Data, ESA website, Entertainment Software Association. last accessed: 01 August 2006 
 (cited as: ESA)
  
  History of Mario, The Mushroom Kingdom, Dan Deezer W. last accessed: 02 August 2006 (cited 
 as: HM)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a must-have for Nintendo DS and Nintendo DS Lite owners. Featuring addictive, fun 
 levels, great graphics (similar to Mario 64, or Mario kart DS) , and addictive levels. The only 
 downfall might be the easy difficulty and shortness. But, a cure for that is to finish the game 
 completely. Beating the game is only one 4th of the game. You need to unlock secret levels, collect 
 all the star coins, and play all the mini-games. All together, this game will last you weeks of 
 unstoppable fun. Also, I has great replay value, because will WILL want to play these great levels 
 more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: books84
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  this really brings you back to the good old days with mario. not only is the gameplay great you 
 get great graphics. if you have played the original super mario bros. and enjoyed it you will also 
 enjoy this game. it lets you take a great game from a console and lets you take it on the road 
 with you. the sound, graphics, and gameplay come together to make a game that is timeless.
  
  the mini-games maybe repeats from the other mario games on the ds but sure doesn't detract 
 from enjoy them. alot of the levels are remisint of the old games and the side scrolling is well 
 done in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingadopollo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  a very fun game, I think it's the best remake of a classic mario game ever made, but the levels 
 are too short and somewhat very easy! You can complete the game in just a few hours. The interesting 
 part is to go back and try to get every star from every world, find secret passages and that's 
 it. Also, you can't save whenever you want, you need stars or to complete a world's final castle. 
 Maybe some more power ups would have been nice, there's not enough super mario in this one, maybe 
 for the mario bros 3 remake. And there are not enough places to have fun with the Mega mushroom 
 and the shell suit. You'll want to keep on playing the first world just to destroy everything with 
 the mega mushroom. Anyway, it's a very good addition to your ds library, an instant classic, but 
 if you miss it, nothing, i mean NOTHING will happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatherOnFire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game comes with three play modes from the menu. The main game, which holds 3 files, Mario 
 Vs. Luigi, where you play against a friend, and Mini-games, which are mostly from SM64DS, and allow 
 1-4 players. Once you beat the main game, you don't have much else to do besides collect star coins, 
 and try to beat the rest of the game 100%. 
  
  In Mario Vs. Luigi mode, you and a friend get to battle it out to see who can get the set amount 
 of stars first.
  
  In Mini-game mode, you, and up to three friends, (You CAN play by yourself, though) can pay many 
 games against each other using the touch screen. Some minigames can apparently only be played in 
 multiplayer mode.
  
  Overall, this game could use some more features, but it's a good buy, or if you think you're REALLY 
 good, a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Oh yes, another Super Mario Bros. Any gamer can appreciate this classic platformer, from young 
 children to adults. The classic plumber duo have made much progress over the years, from being 
 an 8-Bit game on the NES to a snazzy looking hand-held game. The New Super Mario Bros. has just 
 what you'd expect from a Mario game. Hard core Goomba - Stomping madness.
  
  If your looking for a modern Mario, and are willing to dish out 35$, then this is game for you. 
 And although the game is easier then usual and short, its still one heck of a game. And if you 
 get bored the actual game, it includes the mini games from Super Mario 64 DS (along with a few 
 new mini games) to play.
  
  Sure to be an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Good: Terrific control; excellent graphics and animations; nostalgia-inducing; excellent level 
 design; two-player wi-fi game; tons of secrets.
  
  Bad: Music isn't nearly as good; water levels aren't as fun; not particularly long; annoying save 
 system; not as challenging for veterans.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a terrific game that is a necessary addition to any DS's owner's library, 
 not just because it's a Mario game, but because it's also very good.
  
  It works a lot like previous games, intentionally. One button does the jump. The other one does 
 the fireflower/dash. It still works perfectly, but this time, Mario has some new moves added to 
 his repertoire, borrowed from the 3D entries - the butt-stomp and the wall-jump, which both control 
 great and integrate very well into the level design. Mario also has his usual power-ups, such as 
 the mushroom and the fireflower, as well as a blue shell power-up that renders you invincible when 
 you crouch, and the star, which makes you invincible for a short amount of time. 
  
  The two big new power ups, though, are the mini and mega mushrooms. The mega mushroom makes you, 
 well, huge for a limited time, and as you walk you smash everything in your way, including blocks, 
 pipes, and enemies. The more you smash, the more 1ups you get at the end of your stint as a mega 
 mushroom. The mini mushroom makes you mini until you get a regular mushroom to make you big again. 
 Obviously, the mini mushroom doesn't make you any better against enemies, but it's very useful 
 at discovering various secret areas.
  
  Another mechanic in New SMB is collecting big coins. There are three in each level. They don't 
 really do anything, to my knowledge, except that you can use five of them to unlock new paths to 
 a mushroom house or a mega mushroom house, or even some levels, and an impetus for people to go 
 play through levels just to get all three coins. Also, each time you use five of them, you can 
 save.
  
  The save system is a small annoying part of New SMB. Save points are very rare, and only come after 
 a tower or a castle, of which there are typically one of each on each world, or when you spend 
 five coins. If you don't have the coins on hand and lose your last life in a tough castle, you'll 
 have to go back to your last save point, which means you can potentially lose a lot of progress. 
 If not for a loophole in level 1-1, which is the only level where you can always get a mega mushroom 
 and therefore 1ups, I would have had a significantly harder time beating New SMB.
  
  New SMB won't take very long for experts to beat, and not especially long for regular gamers to 
 beat either, but it does have some unlockable content. There are eight worlds, as usual, but get 
 this - pretty much everybody who beats the game will do so while skipping two worlds. Two ENTIRE 
 worlds, not levels, though you'll probably skip a couple of these too, and more if you find secret 
 exits in levels which get you to a warp pipe or a cannon. Most people will want to unlock these 
 levels and worlds, so it's a good amount of content that is lying there for you to get (plus you 
 can see all the levels and/or worlds that you haven't unlocked, which only serves to make them 
 that much harder to ignore) .
  
  A little extra value is added in the two other modes New SMB has, though most of it comes from 
 one. One of them is a minigames mode that can be played singleplayer or with local wifi multiplayer, 
 which is fun enough but will get boring after a while. The other mode is more fun, though, and 
 is local wifi multiplayer only and can be played with two players only. No, unfortunately it's 
 not co-op, but it's called Mario Vs. Luigi, when you and a friend face off as these characters 
 in a battle to collect however many coins you specify. It's pretty fun, albeit a little frustrating, 
 as sometimes whoever wins can be more or less arbitrary.
  
  New SMB looks very good, as it should since it's 2D. Mario (and Luigi) animate sharply and convincingly, 
 and the enemies look great (albeit mostly familiar) as well. There is never any sign of slowdown, 
 especially in the single-player game.
  
  The same can't be said for the sound. The sounds are terrific, as in the sound effects. The music, 
 though, is not up to par, especially considering the standard the terrific Mario games previous 
 to this one set. The familiar old Mario Theme plays in one spot (not in any levels) , sure, but 
 mostly, the music's new, and it's a disappointment. It's not bad, or anything, but it's disappointing 
 considering the pedigree of the games. Not to mention the composer seems to be really into a female 
 chorus saying 'DA' at various intervals in the music, which is annoying.
  
  All in all, though, New SMB, despite it's faults, is well worth the purchase for any DS owner, 
 any Mario fan, and is a good impetus to adopt the DS handheld if you haven't previously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khamsaiumn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  it's all its cracked up to be.
  
  There isn't much that needs to be said about his game, it is phenomially good. The only thing i 
 have to say that wasn't as good as thought was the fact that the power ups aren't as inspiriing 
 as they use to be. it is just this game though. it seems to predicted about. 
  
  the graphics are great the it's good for some short fun thime here and there. no loading time which 
 the psp games suffer dearly.
  
  In terms of anything else there isn't much that needs to be said about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCWhiz1012
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is quite different to the other Super Mario Bros. games. First off, there 
 are new moves, including the ground pound, wall jump and triple jump. These all help to complete 
 the levels, as wll as reach secret areas. Then, there's the different forms that Mario or Luigi 
 can be. These usually come from mushroooms, like Mega Mario - which destroys everything, Mini Mario 
 - which lets you walk on water and enter small pipes, and Super Mario. Also, making a return is 
 the Fire Flower and Super Mushroom, plus an all new Shell Mario, in which he can slide about like 
 a kicked Koopa. A new feature is the Star Coin feature, which when you have enough, lets you open 
 new paths and buy backgrounds (when you complete the game) . When you play through the game, you 
 may notice that two worlds don't follow the pattern as you complete the bosses. These have to be 
 secretly accessed (I won't say here) .
  All in all, a game you can't afford to miss. 97% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maitron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  It's really fun, but easier than older marios used to be the first time you try them. That could 
 be because I was too young. I like the new tilts to the game though, those make it all worth while. 
 The only bad thing is becomming huge, that just seems like you don' t need a brain to do. I was 
 suprised that they made another mario to actually match the old ones, that is a lot to live up 
 to. I don't like knowing where all the secrets are on the map, that was kind of disappointing because 
 there is no mystery. Overall, it's probably the game that is most worth its money in the last year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel0524
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was great it really brings you back to the good old days of the NES. But despite its 
 name, there is really not much new about it. The new features like the mega and tiny mushrooms 
 are fun, but few and far between. The one real problem I had with this game did not really, occur 
 to me until the day I popped in Super Mario Bros. 3 into my NES and realized how hard it really 
 was. New super mario bros. is far less challenging then most other sidescrolling mario games, but 
 still was a ton of fun! It is a must have for anyone who owns (And those 5 of you who don't) a 
 Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resiguy15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Well good old Nintendo brought Shigeru Miyamoto's classic back to, well... what made it a classic!.
 
  New Super Mario Bros combines all the classic NES gameplay and almost the same story, but also 
 adds in better graphix, sound, new levels and new worlds to explore and enjoy.
  The game has 8 worlds in total but because they went so much into the roots of the old games there 
 are of course the secret exits so you only play through 6 of the 8 worlds. because of this and 
 not any super long boss levels you can play through it in about 20 hours the most (it took me 9 
 hours) . The multi player mode is simple and only needs 1 game to play, this mode simply has you 
 and your opponent collecting giant stars and trying to keep them, you can also find power-ups and 
 bash up your opponent and collect 1 of their collected stars that fly out of thier heads.
  The touch screen does'nt have much to do with this title besides selecting on the main menu, and 
 you can collect a power-up if you are already... powered up and tap in on the bottom screen to make 
 it fall down to you for use.
  They have even included the same mini games as they did in Super Mario 64 DS
  New Super Mario 
 Bros Is a instant classic, the multi player mode is only fun the first couple of games but besides 
 that, this game is one of the best Platformers to date and 1 of the best DS games out there.... GO 
 GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snickerscd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  This was a buy I made before going on a long trip, details of the trip aside, I found this game 
 to be quite fun, hailing back to the hey day of Mario games.
  
  There's no getting past the fact this game is straight fun, no story to worry about, no complex 
 controls, if you've played one Mario game, you should be able to tackle this one, it's easier then 
 a bicycle.
  
  Now, I may say alot of negative things, but take into light that there's only so much I can focus 
 on with the good, this is a simple game, with a simple purpose, and that's a good thing, but now, 
 after having it for over a week, I'd suggest a few things to those thinking about purchasing it.
 
  
  One. It's really short. I mean, really, really short. Being as how this game is straight forward, 
 there aren't really any side quest. It's probably the shortest Mario game I can think of, 1, 2, 
 3, and World were all seemingly longer, and harder for that matter.
  
  An extension of being shorter, is that the game is extremely easy, you're going to find extra lives 
 every where, and it's not like you'll be using all that many of them up. 
  
  It's a solid game, again, I need to reiterate that, but you can probably beat it all, unlocking 
 the extra two worlds included, within a week, or the time of a rental easily. It just doesn't do 
 much to out do the previous titles of the series, World, 3, easily out do this one.
  
  Another thing I think that holds this game back is that it really tries to go back to its' roots. 
 Where as every Mario game before it was an improvement on the last, 1, 2, 3, World, 64, Mario vs. 
 Donkey Kong, all borrowed elements from the games before themselves and tried to improve upon them 
 to make a better game. This game doesn't necessarily do that. There's no flying power up, and the 
 new power ups, which include the shell suit, and mini-Mario, are pretty 'effin lame. Mega Mario 
 is cool, no doubt, but that's about it.
  
  What else... Hmmm, I haven't tried the multi-player, but it offers enough mini-games to be considered 
 a Mario Party in its' own right, and Nintendo could have easily sold them to us as so, so there's 
 a reason to give it a better score.
  
  All things considered, this game is fun for the first week, then fairly weak sauce, little replay 
 value. 
  
  I'd sooner get one of the Mario Advance titles, such as 3 or World, both superior titles. 
  
 
  Sorry, the reviewers let the first few hours of this game go to their head, they should have to 
 play it again and see if it has the same appeal.
  
  Plus
  + Good ole fashion Mario.
  + Simplistic game play
  + Wireless Mini-games, almost a game on their own.
  + Mega-Mario power 
 up.
  
  Minus
  - Goes a little to far back
  - Doesn't do anything to out do the series.
  - Easiest game in the series.
  - Short
  - Little 
 to none replay value.
  - Earlier titles in the series easily better (3 and World)
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalesKales
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great Mario game with great graphics.
  
  The controls on a mario game are always good, but for some reason the controls on this are better. 
 it takes the classic Mario controls and makes them smoother and better. And I love the new items.
 
  
  The graphics are great. its like everything that you would see in a reguler Mario but much better. 
 Level design is better, characters look better, and better animation.
  
  This takes the original great Mario sounds and maes them crisper. There is new music in the game 
 witch is pretty entertaining.
  
  There is some unlockables in the game that arent to hard to get wich is unlocking world 4 and worl 
 7. I have not beaten world 7 but world 4 is easy. But you will have to figuare them out on your 
 own.
  
  The controls are simple and good working as usuall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It is basically like a sidescrolling Mario game with stomping, shoting fireballs, jumping, and 
 going through a bunch of levels. Bowser Jr. takes away Peach and you have to use Mario and get 
 her back by going through 8 worlds that have a couple of levels. You can also use Luigi if you 
 hold down L and R at the File select screen and then choose your file. There are mini castles in 
 the worlds and you defeat Bowser Jr. at the end of them but then at the last castle of the world 
 you have to defeat a different boss. You dont have to do world 4 and 7 but you can go to them. 
 In the levels you have to do a few different things like swimming in water, killing bad guys like 
 goombas, jump to places, etc. 100 coins give you a 1-Up. There are 3 star coins in each level that 
 can be used to go to mushroom shaped houses where Toadsworth gives you an item or go to different 
 levels. The items are Mushrooms that make you a little bigger, blue shells that can make you do 
 a shell attack, fireflower that makes you shoot fireballs, and a mega mushroom that makes you huge 
 and you crush everything in your path. There is a meter on the top and for every slot you fill 
 up (by crushing stuff) you get a 1-Up. This game is slightly short but you can play the levels 
 again and play the minigames. The minigames are fun and have records but some of the games are 
 ones from Super Mario 64 DS. Also you can play Mario and Luigi, a multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a wonderful title that takes the format of the older Super Mario games 
 and succesfully brings it onto the DS. For those of you old enough to remember how those games 
 worked it was pretty simple, you travel a variety of a worlds stopping at several levels in each 
 world along the way. Every world has a tower (sometimes two) which features a mini-boss and then 
 a castle which features the world's boss. All in all ther are eight worlds which you can travel 
 through, some of which are not necessary to finish the game. The game plays as a traditional side 
 scroller and looks great doing so, even with a low polygon count the DS does an amazing job of 
 making the characters, enemies, and environments pleasing to the eye. Mario and Luigi have a couple 
 of different "modes" during gameplay, the first the standard size, then the super size with the 
 aid of a mushroom, and then fire power from the flower. Of course a few new items have been added 
 to make it interesting. The mega mushroom makes you grow to a screen size version of the character 
 and is invincible as you stomp through the level, the mini mushroom allows you to fit into small 
 spaces, run on water, and can jump higher. While the blue shell lets you wear it and do spinning 
 attacks and not fear being hurt by enemies. While these new items seem pretty cool, its unfortunate 
 that they aren't utilized as much as they could be. Aside from the main game, there are several 
 mini-games you can play, both by yourself and wirelessley with friends. New Super Mario Bros is 
 a great game for any fan of the Mario series and has plenty of replay value in the mini games and 
 collect all of the star coins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imasmartguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I saw this game on T. V. and had to have it! It looked so fun! I love Mario games, all the way back 
 to Super Mario World on the SNES. I researched it on the web and it made me want it even more. 
 So, I instantly went out to buy it and when I got there, they were SOLD OUT! I live in a small 
 town and I have never seen that happen! When I finally got my hands on it, I popped it in my DS. 
 The story was once again the same, Princess Peach kidnapped, I was a little disappointed there, 
 but the games had just begun! I played and played and played and played. I love the graphics. 3D 
 on a 2D background. The new features are awesome. It is possibly the best Mario game yet. I had 
 another problem with it being so short, but I found the Challenge Mode and I love it! BUY IT! IT 
 WIL BE THE BEST $30.00 YOU SPEND FOR YOUR DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is perhaps the best so far on a DS game. Good and variated maps, good control, cool 
 power-ups and so on. You really get the good old Super Mario Bros. feeling! Any mario fan should 
 consider purchasing this game! If you get angry very easily though, you should be aware that this 
 game can be extremely frustrating at times!
  
  Graphics:
  I don't think there are any 2D games with better graphics than this game. Although it is 2D, I 
 wouldn't want it any other way.
  
  Sound:
  Great remakes of old soundtracks, the sound here is as good as you can get in a Mario game. But 
 still, giving this a 10 would be an insult to other games.
  
  Value:
  It takes a lot of time to play trough all the courses, and even longer to collect all the star-coins. 
 But once you have done all that, there isn't much left to keep you playing.
  
  Tilt:
  WHERE DID FLYING MARIO GO?!? I really miss that power-up! I expect flying Mario in Another New 
 Super Mario Bros. (if they ever make one) !
  And I have to say, salvaging the completely broken and boring mini-games from Super Mario 64 DS 
 is just sad. The new mini-games are fun, but I expected an all-new arsenal of mini-games, not the 
 TERRIBLE mini-games from Super Mario 64 DS. And before I receive any hate-pm's, I know that mini-games 
 are 1% or less of New Super Mario Bros., but it's still annoying me! But all in all, I really enjoyed 
 the other 99%!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvelGreenDay
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is one of the best games for the DS so far. It puts some old levels in the 
 mix, without being a remake. Just like every other Mario game before it, it can get frusterating, 
 but ultimately pays off. The new power-ups, like the giant mushroom, are fun to play with. The 
 game even rewards you if you smash a lot with big Mario. Of course, there are some problems with 
 the game. Most of the minigames are taken straight from Super Mario 64 DS, so they aren't as fun 
 this time around. BUT, they now have multiplayer, so it makes it better. You also can't save anytime 
 you want, you can only save if you have beaten a castle, or if you've bought something. It makes 
 it a hassle to beat level more than once. Beside those problems, this game is great. If you love 
 any Mario games, you must get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesta123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game I thought it was not going to be good but then I just could not stop 
 playing it ( I played for six hours straight in one day! ) because it was so addictive. I have 
 two friends with the game and we all agree that it is the best because it is a side-scrolling Mario 
 game and we all agree that the 3-D free roaming Mario games such as Super Mario 64 DS. The best 
 Mario game there is, is te original Super Mario Bros. game for the Nintendo Entertainment System 
 or the NES for short. The New Super Mario Bros. for the DS is in second place on my list along 
 with the Mario RPG that was released for the Super Nintendo or SNES for short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is probably one of the best remakes of all time, it adds a little of the 
 old school gameplay, and exciting momentum with a little better graphics, a lighter screen, and 
 a touch screen. And most they added the mini games. The game also has no glitches. Personally gamespot 
 has more glitches then this game. So far the game has never froze, or crashed, and Ive played 
 it for over 30 hours. The controls are good the camera view is pretty good, and its overall pretty 
 basic. The makers of Nintendo new exactly what to do with this game: leave the gameplay alone, 
 add a few mini games, and use the touch screen as to their advantage, and thats exactly why I 
 give this game is so successful. My main concern when I bought the game was how much they would 
 change the gameplay, and change the main storyline. 
  
  Its funny but Nintendo seams to like to remake games after 10 years, for instance the remade donkey 
 Kong country 1 in 2004 as its 10th anniversary, they did it to even a originally sonny game resident 
 evil this year as its 10th anniversary. And now they remade this game as its 10th anniversary 
 and out of those 3 all of them were amazing, and I gave them all above an 8.5. This is one reason 
 Nintendo is so successful, because they make old games become new successful games, and this, and 
 those 2 others are proof of it. 
  
  The great thing about the game is you hardly ever get frustrating, and mad. Its a basic fun game 
 that just ant to hard. The only thing I wish they did change in the game is how you save the game, 
 because I hate when I beat one really annoying level, then got to beat 3 more just to save it, 
 or beat a major boss to save. The game almost reminds me of the donkey Kong remake for GBA. The 
 levels are still very cool, much like the original. 
  
  As far as tips, and the multiplayer goes. Well there is a multiplayer mode, but its not too amazing, 
 but I dont use that against them, because theres not much they could have added. My only tips 
 for hue ever plays this is go threw the levels slowly, so you can get all the gold coins, and then 
 save it more often. Also make shore youre a big Mario before you vs. any of the bosses other wise 
 your doomed! 
  
  One of the things I liked a lot was the stoeyline, something I didnt really except it to have. 
 I liked how there was a little storyline behind it, but did not revolve around the storyline. There 
 were no real poses with it and no real words, but it was there, you just had to look for it. The 
 only thing that I felt was stupid and childish is how the prince keeps getting taken by the same 
 guy over and over, and thats fine but I killed him like 6 times, instead of him attacking me, 
 they should have had one of his bosses attack us not the same guy, plus he does the same moves 
 all the time, no change no challenge. That right there almost made me give the gameplay a 9 but 
 I was in a generous mood. 
  
  As far as the touch screen goes it is very helpful in the game it holds your stats, like your stars, 
 your gold coins, and a mini map. It helps a lot with the mini games, especially when you have to 
 move stuff from the touch screen. The game really isnt too hard its 
  Actually pretty average. 
  
  Another thing that I loved was how the seasons were there. Each 
 world was like alive figure, 1 world would be fall then winter ect you get the idea, the way they 
 made it go bye made it seam like I played the game for 1 year straight without stopping. One day 
 I was playing world 5, were it was snowing non stop, and I played for 2 hours straight, and when 
 I stopped and I looked outside for a minute I got confused thinking it was winter lol. 
  
  The gameplay definitely gets a 10 for several reasons. #1 it has that amazing old school gameplay, 
 and a great mix of new technology, and an amazing touch screen. #2 the mini games are some fun 
 that if they took those mini games out and made a separate game out of it I would pay up to $30 
 for it. There are 18 of them, and theyre organized into groups. Action, puzzle, table and variety 
 I personally like action and variety the best. 
  
  The graphics is a 9 for very simple reasons. The graphics are great, but on certain designs they 
 could have been way better like those rocks that dive to kill you they arent very detailed there. 
 I also wish they had more back round scenery. But I guess that would be hard considering its a 
 2d game. 
  
  The sound is a definitely 10 the sound effects are very realistic, and very clear. The screams, 
 and Mario screaming are very realistic, and sound like how they did on the nes, and snes. At yet 
 it still has that music that I love also much. 
  
  Ok now for the value a definitely 10 mainly because the gameplay is so good, and the game is so 
 fun, and the game is very long, and the mini games you could play forever. Plus its only $35 witch 
 isnt too bad for a game now in days. 
  
  Now for the tilt I gave it a 9 mainly because its more of a kids game, and even though I enjoyed 
 it, it just ant my personal thing any more, but still an amazing game. 
  
  Thank you for reading my review please read some of my other good recent reviews, also please leaves 
 a comment in my blog, and please give me some feedback. If you have any questions regarding this 
 game or anything else please pm me. Thank. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I recently got my DS Lite and after playing the demo of this game, I had to get it. I grew up with 
 Mario on my NES and I am so glad that he is back. Now it has been years since gamers have been 
 able to play a new Mario 2D platformer, but it has been worth the wait.
  
  I think that the artwork of this game is amazing and the different worlds really come alive. I 
 also like how the enemies move in beat with the remixed music, it is a very nice touch. The control 
 is good, but it is hard to find a Mario with bad control.
  
  Just the overall gameplay is enough to buy this game alone and at around $35, it is a resonable 
 price (I still can't believe that I used to pay $50 for PSP games...) . And on top of that the mini-games 
 are fun and the 2 player mode is entertaining (A lot better than the Mario Bros. gba 2-player) . 
 
  
  If you are a DS owner you need to get this game. If you don't have a DS and like Mario or if you 
 have around $170, this game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarmaster96
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Its been ten long years since an original mario platformer came out. Luckily, this game was worth 
 the wait. The story is nothing much (peach gets captured gasp!) , but the gameplay is excellent. 
 If you've played a 2-D mario game before, there is not much new, but the addition of the wall jump 
 and ground pound are important. The three new power ups (in addition to the mushroom and fire flower) 
 are a giant 'shroom, a mini 'shroom, and a blue shell. They are all fun to use, but don't turn 
 up a lot. The graphics are great and animate very nicely. The sound might be the weakest part of 
 this game, not reaching the standards of other mario games. The main part of the game is short, 
 but addicting. The collecting of star coins takes much longer however. This game is a must buy 
 for any ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Original review here...
  http://www. mattbrett. com/archives/2006/06/new-super-mario-bros-review/
  
  If someone had told 
 me 19 years ago when I got my NES for Christmas, that Id be playing Super Mario Bros. when I was 
 26, I doubt I would have believed them. Not only am I playing it, Im having a blast doing so! 
 New Super Mario Bros. is a return to the classic SMB gameplay that so many of us grew up playing. 
 Everything from the basic d-pad plus A+B controls to the goofy music that gets stuck in your head 
 for days to sliding down a flagpole at the end of each level. Its all there and it sure is refreshing. 
 Youll feel right at home the first time you fire it up and will no doubt be smiling the entire 
 time.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. brings elements from all of the past games in the series to the table, as 
 well as some new moves, worlds and enemies. You have a map similar to SMB 3 where you go from level-to-level 
 and taking down Koopa castles as you progress through the 8 worlds. Theres mushrooms houses that 
 can be unlocked along the way for bonus items and extra lives. And even the odd Hammer Brother 
 will try and get in your way of saving Princess Peach. Some things dont change!
  
  As usual, Mario has a bag of tricks at his disposal. Mushrooms to make him grow big, and now enormous 
 and absolutely tiny. The fire flower is back as well, and another new addition, the blue turtle 
 shell. When you run with the turtle shell on, Mario will go into a spin as the shells do when you 
 throw them. If youre not careful though, youll find yourself falling down holes as I did quite 
 a few times. It would have been nice to see some of the other items from SMB 3 and SMW return as 
 well. Like the Hammer Bros. suit, raccoon tail or cape. Yoshi was also MIA which was a little disappointing, 
 but I got over it!
  
  Theres lots to keep you busy in NSMB. Theres still coins to collect - 100 will still get you 
 a 1up. But theres now star coins (similar to those seen in the Mario Party series) that are collected 
 in each level. Theres 3 per level and 5 will get you a pass to a Mushroom house. The star coins 
 can be pretty tricky to get to or even find at times but a really smart addition to the game to 
 keep you going back and replaying the levels. I didnt pass by a level until I had all 3 star coins 
 up until world 8 at which point, I just wanted to beat the game. But now Ill go back and get them. 
 The fun is hardly over once youve saved the Princess. Theres a whole pile of mini-games that 
 are tons of fun to play. All of which make excellent use of the DS touch-screen and built in microphone. 
 Theres also a multiplayer mode via WIFI, but Im yet to check that out. I hear its pretty fun 
 and includes some custom levels that you play as Mario and Luigi in a battle for coins.
  
  I only have one complaint, and this is something that goes for every handheld game out there. Handheld 
 gaming units are made to be portable. So you can whip it out and play for a while, or for a few 
 minutes wherever you may be. That all sounds fine and dandy, but good luck doing so when you cant 
 save your progress when its time to put it away. In NSMB you can only save once youve beaten 
 a castle or unlocked a mushroom house. This became increasingly annoying as I found myself having 
 to shut the console off after completing a couple levels without the ability to save my progress. 
 Once you finish the game, youre able to save simply by pressing start when youre on the map screen. 
 Would have been nice to have that all along, and really, would have made a lot more sense.
  
  With the exception of the save functionality, this game is top notch, old school gaming greatness! 
 And on top of everything, its $15 cheaper than most DS games. You really cant go wrong with New 
 Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmessaiah
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is Super Mario Brothers, pure & simple, the gameplay everyone is familiar with and that it's 
 still considered one of the best gameplays ever... and now even better.
  
  One of the best and more surprising details in this game is the fact that it's not just a simple 
 remake, with questionable voiceovers and just slight changes (which happened with the Super Mario 
 Advance series, in which all the games were remakes) , but still takes us back to the old days... but 
 only in the good parts... the gameplay was changed... slightly to not change the essence of the Super 
 Mario 2D gameplay. Mario can do a triple jump, like in Super Mario 64, can use the classic kick 
 to the wall trick to get an additional jump (another maneuver that appeared in Super Mario 64) , 
 pretty useful when you slighty miscalculate a jump or see two walls pretty close.
  
  The basis is the same: jump over the enemies, or throw fireballs, avoiding falls, getting power-ups, 
 like mushrooms & flowers.
  
  And the graphics, well, excellent: detailed, colored, with lots of animations (one of the most 
 impressive, the water waves when a fireball crosses the surface of water... may not be realistic, 
 but that's not what Mario games were meant to be) .
  
  Whether this is the perfect sequel to the classic 2D platform saga or not, it depends.
  
  I, 
 for example, really think they should have put more power-ups, since there is only, aside from 
 the flower, star, red & green mushroom, a big mushroom (the biggest innovation) , a mini-mushroom 
 (weird but sometimes useful to find secret passages and get to pretty high places (since mini-mario 
 jumps pretty high and walks over water) , and the worst addition, in my opinion, the shell mario, 
 because when he runs, he gets into a shell and is a bit hard not to fall, since it's difficult 
 to control him in that form.
  
  There is a detail, already seen in Super Mario World: a square in which you can store a power-up 
 for later (but now you touch the item on the touchscreen to make it fall to the level) . But you 
 can only save one. And there are priorities: for example, if you've got a shell in that place, 
 if you catch a flower, the item won't be changed (if you don't use it to grow, of course) , and 
 that is questionable.
  
  Another questionable detail is the sound. It depends: I don't really like hearing Mario's voice 
 or Luigi's voice (except in Mario & Luigi Superstar Saga) , but since he doesn't talk that much 
 and most of the sounds are retro-like (for example the jump, or the grow-up when he gets a flower 
 or mushroom, or when he gets a life (1-up) ) .
  
  You may have some problems finding certain special stages, and there are two hidden worlds, but 
 there isn't much variety to it, so when you complete the game or feel tired of playing it, the 
 replay value isn't that big (although there are some mini-games) .
  
  There is in each level 3 special coins, used to clear certain ways, most of them leading to mushroom 
 houses, in which you may get a certain or random power-up or get 1-ups.
  
  Definitely the best part of this game is still the gameplay.
  
  Well, with that said, New Super 
 Mario Bros is worth a place in the Super Mario Hall of Fame nonetheless, and I expect to see 
 some more Nintendo games go New, maybe like New Legend of Zelda or New Super Mario World. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is fully enjoyable. From it's colorful atmosphere to it's clever level design, this game 
 delivers on all aspects. NSMB is sure to please any platformer lover, mario lover, or any gamer 
 who enjoys innocent fun that makes one smile from ear to ear. 
  
  As always, a game has downfalls. NSMB is rather short. I beat it in under three days and that was 
 with casual on and off playing, and I beat it with over 30 lives. The game is very generous with 
 1ups and it was no problem losing 20 lives on a single level alone. As of challenge, I would have 
 liked to see more as NSMB is on the less hard side.
  
  Aside from that, the game is solid with secrets to explore on every level and every world. Each 
 level brings both new and old things to enjoy. A must have for all DS users and a game worthy of 
 a DS purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowBass989
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is kind of like a remake of the old NES Mario Bros. It's not as good but its 
 just as fun. First off this game looks gorgeous. The graphics are clear and colorful and the game 
 play value is very fun. The music in the game is just as entertaining as the old version from long 
 ago so you will most likely find yourself humming along with it. There are a new host of items 
 to use this time around instead though. Of course the old memorable items are back which include 
 the Mushroom and Fire Flower. This time though we have 3 new items. First is the mini-mushroom, 
 which by the name makes you mini. You can run on water and let me just say that when you get this 
 item, I'm sure you will have The Matrix going through your head. The next item is the Turtle Shell. 
 When your start running real fast Mario will hide in his new shell and you can then control the 
 shell and jump while still in the shell. It's pretty fun to try and go through a whole level while 
 in the shell. The last new item and probably a personal favorite is the Jumbo Mushroom. This mushroom 
 will make a super sized Mario that can break and destroy everything in your path, but sometimes 
 you can get stuck and might have to wait till your small again since it only last a certain amount 
 of time. There are eight (8) worlds that you go too and each world has there own new and unique 
 boss, yes thats right, you don't attempt to jump over Bowser at the end of every castle now, you 
 have to fight a boss to proceed. Halfway through each world you must complete a mini castle in 
 order to proceed and at the end you fight Baby Bowser, yes he is in this game as well. On the other 
 side, if you get tired of playing the story mode there are many fun, mini-games to play that will 
 put your DS stylus skills to the test. Over all this game is highly addictive and really fun to 
 play. The controls are easy to learn and will most likely only take you one level to get them down. 
 It's a little short but like I said you will be finding yourself going back through the levels 
 and playing them over and over again and then playing the mini-games. Over all this is a must buy 
 for all DS/DS Lite owners that can't simply be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhailrgeorge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This new game in the Super Mario universe just oozes perfection, great graphics, great music and 
 some new power-ups that makes this title one of the best Mario games created.
  Again we know the story Princess Peach is kidnapped again, Mario or Luigi has to go and get her 
 back from the nasty Bowser Jr and Bowser Sr. This great task spans 8 worlds, from deep underwater 
 to snowy filled hills. This game will keep you entertained for months.
  
  Overall this is just another great game that can take its place high in the mario bros universe. 
 Another top notch title from Nintendo and Shigsy!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros for the DS is a classic... It honestly could be the best portable sidescrolling 
 platformer of all time. It is just enough like the old games to be extremely nostalgic, and just 
 new enough to stand on its own. Playing with 3D Mario is always fun. Playing with #D Mario on a 
 2D plane is even better. The power ups in this game seem to be the only thing that bothered me. 
 Keep in mind, that it only bothered me for about 10 minutes and then after that, it seemed natural. 
 I mis the cape from Super Mario World and I the Metal cap from Super Mario 64. Instead we get the 
 Big Mushroom and the Small Mushroom. These don't have the same charm as the originals... but at 
 least the fire balls are there and you can retain a stock item in the lower screen. Presentation 
 of the title is flawless like usual. Very rarely does Nintendo have a game with any blatant graphical 
 or design flaws. This game is no different. The controls are very tight and easy to pick up. Truly 
 any age gamer can pick this game up and enjoy it. 
  
  P. S. Don't forget to hold down the L and R buttons when starting the game... You Luigi lovers will 
 need that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  
  After years of good and faithful services on many consoles, excelling as well in 2D as in 3D and 
 even in the most incongruous sports, Mario slips on again his plumbers overall to save the Mushroom 
 Kingdom (again) from Bowsers tyranny. Inspired from its very first adventures on NES, New Super 
 Mario Bros. is more than a simple remake. Its a whole new great game. Lets go Mario!
  Were pleased to learn that Princess Peach was kidnapped again. It made a long time that Nintendos 
 fans waited for an all new classical Mario Bros. game. The few Mario titles released on GBA, bad 
 made remakes, werent enough to them. Everyone wanted something new, and Nintendo made it! With 
 the release of Super Princess Peach and now New Super Mario Bros., Nintendo made a great move on 
 the little NintendoDS. 
  
  From the first to the last, all levels open up on similar stages from the original Super Mario 
 Bros. Of course, because of the DSs capacities, the graphics are a lot more developed. The used 
 techniques offer exceptional results. The characters (Mario, Bowser, Peach, Baby-Bowser etc.) and 
 the enemies (Piranha Plants, Goombas, Koopa Troopa, Banza Bill etc.) are made of 3D graphics and 
 move on classical stages from the original games decorated by superb backgrounds.
  
  The very detailed animations give life to the characters in an amazing way and we very like the 
 new nice moves add to the plumbers traditional set of abilities. We can see that some of them 
 come directly from the N64s game like the rebound or the triple jump which add more subtlety to 
 the games gameplay. The influence of the SNES games is strongly felt, for example, trough the 
 switches, the swivelling grids and the jumps on lianas and on grips. Developers used many ideas 
 from the first series titles and we can find most of the enemies and environments of the original 
 games.
  
  I insist again on the fact that, despite everything these references relating to the plumbers 
 universe, New Super Mario Bros. (why did they choose such a long name?) cant be played as a remake 
 of some old NES game. While playing, you quickly realize that New Super Mario Bros. is a whole 
 new game with all new great levels. You will see that developers used a lot of unexpected idea 
 to make the game as surprising as possible. But the game still looks like the original Super Mario 
 Bros. with its timed levels, its stages full of blocks and pipes and the awkward jump on the levels 
 ends flag. 
  
  The gameplay is very simple. It consists simply in the controller pad and 2 buttons used to jump 
 (A or B) and to run (X or Y) . By using combinations of these buttons, you can do many acrobatic 
 moves to reach inaccessible areas. Even if it looks like an easy and childish game, New Super Mario 
 Bros. need a lot of precision and training but the game is quite easy and you wont need a long 
 time to beat it. However, this lack of time is compensated by a few secrets like 2 hidden worlds 
 and some star pieces (3 per level) used to unlock new paths on the world map. You can return to 
 already visited worlds by using the Touch-Screen. Totally, there are 78 levels (45 normal, 12 specials, 
 4 haunted houses and 17 castles) . The game becomes more difficult only in the two last worlds so 
 some people would be disappointed by this lack of challenge.
  
  A very interesting thing in the game is that you can stock the power-ups you find in the game. 
 When Mario gets a Fire Flower or a Blue Shell, he cant be powered up anymore. But the next item 
 he will find will be stocked on a case on the Touch-Screen. If you want to use this stocked item, 
 you just have to touch it. In New Super Mario Bros., there are some new power-up items: the Mega 
 Champi makes Mario grow into a temporally destructive giant. The Mini Champi transforms Mario into 
 a Mini Mario who can jump higher, get in small places and run on water. 
  
  The games soundtrack is nice. We recognize many well made classical Super Mario Bros. Themes. 
 Some of them sound like if they were sang by chorals. Nice surprise!
  
  In the game, there are some pretty fun mini-games you can play alone or with up to 3 friends via 
 the wireless communication between the DSs. These mini-games are separated in 4 groups: action, 
 puzzle, table (card games) and variety. All the game use the DSs Touch-Screen.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a great game which reveals its true potential only when you beat the game. 
 By beating the game, you get the bonus to play as Luigi and to save the game anytime you want. 
 What to say more if it isnt that New Super Mario Bros. is a brilliant success and that it really 
 worth the waiting? This game is one of the best games on Nintendo DS now. So what are you waiting 
 for? Go buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it's amazing that after all of these years they FINALLY make a new Mario that lives up to 
 it's name. The Mario classics 1, 2, and 3 left you wanting more and the new DS version delivers. 
 Mixing old school style, with new-age graphics. Very impressive new moves, that make the game feel 
 completely new again. 
  The new 3-d style sidescrolling is definately a new way to play the game. Surprisingly similar 
 to the originals, but looks crisp and better. There's the new Giant Mario mushroom that doesn't 
 seem to be as usefull as it first seems! It rewards you with 1ups and after you play for a little 
 bit, you come to find that they aren't badly needed. My favorite is the new shell Mario. Allowing 
 you to "become" a turtle shell after a short run. Invincable to everything except for lava. 
  What is important to note to fans, is that the New Mario is much much easier than Mario 1, 2, or 
 3. Making the game somewhat of a walk in the park. The boss' tend to be overly simplistic and unchallenging! 
 When I completed the game..... in 1 day. I was left with saying, ummmmmm is that all folks? After 
 the credits roll it tells you how to play as Luigi and thats neat....... Also playing a second 
 time around lets you get new stuff that I won't spoil for you!
  The mini-games do give you a variety of "score-beating" games that are pretty fun. While it doesn't 
 seem to completely compensate for the short overall game.
  The game overall isn't all that challenging for novice Marios, but it does have great re-play value. 
 I reccomend this to anyone who beat Marios 1, 2, or 3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer25
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  How long has it been since our Italian plumber friend, Mario, has been in a 2-D game platformer- 
 the genre he practically created? Too long. But he returns to what he does best in New Super Mario 
 Bros.
  The game-play is just like the other Super Mario games. You know the routine: 1) the princess gets 
 kidnapped 2) beat the levels in each world to get to the castle 3) beat the castle and save the 
 princess! So what makes this game stand out from the other 2-D Mario games? Well, with the addition 
 of the touch screen, you are allowed to store an item in the bottom screen. So, when ever you get 
 hit by one of those annoying koopas, touch your mushroom in the bottom screen and first aid is 
 only a touch away. The world maps are also displayed on the bottom screen, so traveling is as easy 
 as touching your destination. 
  Some other new additions are the items: the tiny mushroom and the giant mushroom. With the tiny 
 mushroom, you can go to hard to reach spots and go through pipes that only tiny Mario can go through. 
 With the giant mushroom, prepare to cause mass destruction. Giant Mario is as tall as the screen, 
 he can crush blocks, enemies, and pipes. When you are Giant Mario, you get a meter on the top of 
 the screen. The more chaos you cause, the higher your meter goes up. When the mushroom wears off, 
 you get 1-up mushrooms corresponding to how many bars your meter went up. 
  The level design is fantastic. Every world has a different theme. For example, an ice themed world, 
 a jungle themed world, and a cloud-like world. 
  The replay value is also excellent. In every world there are three big coins you can collect. Some 
 are hidden and harder to find then others, but some are also right in front of your face. Every 
 time you get five of these special coins, you may unlock special houses located through out the 
 world map. These special houses can either give you more lives or items. They can help you on your 
 journey and give you a big boost, so it pays off to find the hidden coins, even after you'hv beaten 
 the game.
  The graphics and music is above average too.
  The controls fit the ds perfectly. Item selection on the bottom screen is perfectly done using 
 the stylus and a new dash command is good to. Dash is used to run away from enemies when you don't 
 feel like fighting and its used for doing a running jump to get you higher than a normal standing-jump. 
 
  The only disappointment is the inability to save where ever you want. Remember those special houses 
 I mentioned? Well, when ever you spend five big coins to unlock a house, then you are allowed to 
 save. Or when you defeat the bosses in the castles, you are allowed to save also. 
  Overall, this is a great homage to the classic Mario games. It is a great game for people who arn't 
 even into games because it is easy to pick up and play a couple levels, save, leave, and then pick 
 it back up later. So if you have a DS this is a must buy- a definite killer app for the Nintendo 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincerem
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of the classic games made popular again and again. I dont know how they did it but 
 they sure did a very good job. Nice graphics, impressive new styles and move. I am really a fan 
 of Super Mario, back in those early childhood days where Family Computer is the popular and leading 
 console, Super Mario is one of the most played and popular games in my neighborhood. And now that 
 it is in a new platform/console, Im still a fan and am pretty much hooked up to playing and finishing 
 the game. More power to you Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishlarky
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  "AMAZING" Worth the monyy and it just brings you back to the old days on the NES or SNES.
  
  Even though it's a 3D, 2D platformer unlike the NES or SNES mario games, it still just brings 
 you back. The boss fights in the game and a little to easy but makes up for it in the BIG Coin 
 collection to open other ways of to secret mushroom huts. Reminds me alot of Super Mario Bros 3
 
  
  The Graphics are superb for a hand-held and easy controls give you a learning curve of about 5 
 mins and after that it jumping on heads as many times as you like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunner2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  A Mario Bros Game That Will Make You Go Crazy To Get It If You Don't Have It. Best Game To Play 
 EveryDay If You Dont Have This Game You Hate Mario. All Mario Fans Get This Game. If You Dont Have 
 A Ds Get One. This Game Is Unstoppable. You Just Cant Stop Playing The Game. Well I Cant Stop Playing 
 The Game You Will Cry When You Get This Game. You Will Be So Happy That You Have That Game. You 
 WIll Have Tears Of Joy. You Will Play That Game For Over 5 Hours Cause It Will Be So Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentVendetta
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  There's a lot of classic on the NES. Some of them are Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3 and... 
 maybe the disappointing Super Mario Bros. 2. On New Super Mario Bros. for the DS, all the things 
 that make these games so extraordinary are here. But there are also new things in this version. 
 So, the dreams come to realities.
  
  When you play for the first time to New Super Mario Bros., you recognize a lot of moves from the 
 past. It makes the experience very good but there are also brand-new moves like the falling move, 
 wall jumping and others. The touch screen is not so much important after all. It's just for the 
 reserves power-ups and the evolution of your character on the level. But the greatest new thing 
 in New Super Mario Bros. is the new power-ups. Yeah we always have the flower, the normal mushroom 
 and the star, but we also have the mini mushroom that can let you pass in secret places, and the 
 mega mushroom who's better than the star. In fact, when your power-up is end, you got green mushrooms 
 that gives you life. You have also these Star Coins that can pay you some mushrooms places.
  
  The graphics of New Super Mario Bros. are not perfect, but it's enough to be impressive. Maybe, 
 you'll want to see closer to the screen and you'll see that Mario is not so much great. But, when 
 you just to see the screen normally, it's all right. The environments are also good and offer a 
 great experience in the world of Mario and Luigi.
  
  For the sound, New Super Mario Bros. give to us a soundtrack thats good like other game of the 
 series. It also put some annoying sound that maybe doesnt destroy the fun, but can let says "Man, 
 I don't like that sound". It's not so annoying, but sometimes, yes.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. have also bad points like the value. The one player adventure is just too 
 short. Nintendo tries to make the mode longer with the world #8, who's the longuest of all. But 
 that not save this. But the have minigames and 2 players mode. Those save this game, but not the 
 one player mode. The minigames are fun, simple, and good, but it doesnt save it.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. have also no bugs. It's great for a game like that, who's very addictive. 
 So it really saves a lot. Overall the game is the greatest Mario of all. The gameplay is awesome, 
 the graphics are great the sound also. The value is not so great but the tilt is amazing. Play 
 it today!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  This game like most Mario games is great! I bought this game and could not stop playing it. The 
 game play is like the first Mario brothers but the graphics and sound are great plus they added 
 a few new things that you can do like grow very large or shrink very small. You go from world to 
 world trying to get the princess because Yes.... She has been taken yet again. It really is much 
 like the first mario brothers just redone with a little flare! Buy it if you are a Mario fan and 
 really who isn't? One of the best for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyttyn
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  the FIRST mario all new sidescorler, in a decade! thats 10 years! a year after i was born fer god 
 sakes! throught the years, mario has proven to be an ace series of fun, a good gene, and one of a SELCET 
 FEW that i rate 10! the game has LOADS of repay pontatial and nice style! the music is EXELENT! the 
 game is an ALL time best of mario so its not that hard to see how HIGH a rank it gets all the time! sure 
 it can be HARD AS H***! but realey, mario is sopesd to NOT be easy! speed runs, chalnge mode speed 
 run, so many optians! well this is nick, signin off for now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin2d0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  If there is one thing I like, then it is a good 2D platformer for a handheld. Well, I've bought 
 New Super Mario Bros (NSMB) because I heard it's great and I like Mario games. A few days later 
 i beat it, and this is what I think of it.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are as good as they can get in a 2D adventure. Beautiful animations, well-designed 
 friends and foes, and the background looks great as well. The sounds are just what you can expect 
 from a Mario game, so with graphics and sounds its good.
  
  Gameplay
  Great gameplay, just great! It's fun to do all of the different tricky jump-and-run difficulties 
 with Mario. NSMB is the best 2D platformer ever if you look at gameplay. Do I need to say more?
 
  
  Value
  Well, I think this game's too easy, it gets hard in the last world. You'll likely beat this game 
 in a few days, but it's worth it, plus you can beat the game over and over again. This game is 
 really a game to beat several times.
  
  Multiplayer + extra's
  Funny, but gets boring after a while. Don't buy the game for it's multiplayer options. There are 
 also minigames, but there are 2 new minigames and the rest is copied from mario 64 ds, but not 
 all of those minigames are in NSMB.
  
  Conclusion
  NSMB is a great game, with good graphics, amazing gameplay, but it gets beaten quite easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Sith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  The is the best game out for the DS and the best game in the Mario series. You start the game as 
 Mario walking with Princess Peach. Mario sees smoke coming from the castle. Koopa Kid sets up this 
 trap and grabs Peach and runs off.... You know how the story goes. The new Mega Mushroom is awesome 
 and so is the minimushroom. The multiplayer mode has its benefits. You only need one New Super 
 Mario Bros. DS game card for multiplayer. You can play a race to collect star coins or the minigames 
 you can play in single player. Again Awesome game. Definite Buy for any Mario Fan. You can't say 
 anything bad about this game or else youre on something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  Ah, good times. Good times. Playing this game sure made me young again. As you can see, New Super 
 Mario Bros. is one of the sequels on the DS, and also has new power-ups too. The Mega Mushroom 
 makes Mario huge and lets you crash through blocks and pipes, the Mini Mushroom makes Mario tiny 
 and can go through small passageways Mario can't normally go through and the Blue Shell lets Mario 
 slide through enemies in a Koopa Shell. Like the original SMB, there is a 1 or 2 player game, but 
 the 2P mode has co-op mode and battle mode. Not only that, but there are also mini-games from Super 
 Mario 64 DS. It would be nice to have new ones instead of recycled ones, though. Plus, there is 
 an SMB3 style world map, because you can go to toad houses to get power-ups and extra lives. In 
 some stages, you can go through a red ring and collect eight red coins before time runs out. If 
 you collect them all, you get a power-up or a 1-Up. The controls are a little sloppy, but once 
 you get the hang of it, you'll master the game. And the game is highly addictive as well. For those 
 who want platforming goodness or for those who lived Mario back then, you must buy this game. Hands 
 down, it's the greatest DS sequel to SMB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slothboyadvance
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Mario's back in a brand new adventure (sort of) . The Princess has been captured and it's up to 
 our favorite plumber to save her once again. You must guide Mario through eight themed worlds, 
 including: An ice world, a jungle world, a cloud world, and more.
  
  The game plays great, just like classic Mario games. There's a dash button that can also be used 
 to pic up shells / items and throw fire balls. While the jump button can be used for a variety 
 of jumps, such as the classic triple jump and the wall kick.
  
  The art style is fantastic! The colorful 2-D backgrounds and 3-D characters give you a sense of 
 newness as though this is an all new adventure. Though the art style looks nice, Mario can look 
 a bit blocky (espicially mini-Mario) .
  
  NSMB combines classic sounds with the new. They go good with each other, but they sound loud and 
 rough at times which really stands out. But I was happy to hear familiar sounds such as the 1-up 
 chime and the fire ball "cluck."
  
  There is quite a bit to do after you beat the initial game. There are 3 star coins in each level 
 and looking for those can be th challenge within itself. There are also many paths to unlock, but 
 those are for the most part, obvious.
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is fun, but could have been approved on. There's a Versus mode 
 that allows you to go one on one with a friend. The objective is to collect large stars. The first 
 player to collect the required quota of stars, wins. There is also a minigame portion with both 
 single and multiplayer games. Most of them are rehashed from Mario 64 DS, although some of them 
 are new. Up to 4 players can play minigames on one card. Both multiplayer modes are fun, but can 
 get boring easily.
  
  Overall this game can be a pretty fun experience, albeit short and fairly easy. The new content 
 don't show up as much as I would hope and the lack of Wi-Fi support and a co-op mode saddens me. 
 But if you are a Mario fan or just looking for a fun game, then this game is right down your alley
 
  
  -Slothboyadvance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_paki
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  To start things off, I just want to say that I think this is a great game. Too bad the greatness 
 had to end so soon. New Super Mario Bros really is a true sequel to Super Mario Bros 3. In this 
 side scroller, you play as Mario and try to save Princess Peach from the deadly Bowser. There is 
 all the things you've come to love from previous Mario games, but that is where I think it missed 
 the mark; it missed out on some great opportunities to bring in new game-play elements to the series. 
 It should have incorporated some touch screen, for example: there is a platform that is kind of 
 like an elastic, when Mario stands on the platform, you pull back on it, then let go and watch 
 him go flying to a high and hard to reach area. But don't get me wrong, the standard controls are 
 amazing, but these new game-play elements would have made it feel more like a DS game. And I usually 
 like to see Nintendo expanding on their innovative history. 
  
  Other then the main game mode, there is a collection of simple and addictive mini-games, and a 
 fun little Mario vs. Luigi game where you play wirelessly against your friends to collect gold 
 stars. Over all, I think this is a great throw back to the old-school Mario games, I just wish 
 it expanded a bit more from it's predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + That good ol' Mario 2D platform gameplay
  + Magnificent hybrid of 2D and 3D graphics
  + Few mini games are pretty addictive
  + Music 
 is darn catchy
  + Easy fun
  
  Cons:
  - The single player is a tad short for my taste
  - Some sounds were a bit low quality
  
  Review:
  Coming from a guy who hasn't played a 2D 
 Mario game since the SNES Super Mario World from 1991-1993, I must say... this classical-like Mario 
 game still lives up in gameplay! It adds on a few things...
  
  1) Mario can jump off of walls (kind of like the Prince from Prince of Persia)
  2) Mega-mushroom 
 (turns Mario into Godzilla) , mini-mushroom (turns Mario into a Mini Cooper) , blue shell (Mario 
 can swim faster and take cover with this shell)
  3) Some levels has some new puzzle elements into it
  
  Aside from that, most of the game was 
 basically taken straight out from most of the older classic Super Mario Bros. games.
  
  This is a definite must-have for any DS owners out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  When you hear the nameNew Super Mario Bros." I found it kind of funny how they felt the need 
 to putNew" in the title. Yet after playing it I can see why. The game is basicly a completly 
 new game to the mario series with classic gameplay style that many love and have memories of with 
 a completly fresh and "New" gameplay and features. Don't expect to get this game and get the old 
 school style with new levels. This game has all the goods. With new power ups, moves, and graphics 
 you must help Mario against a whole new collection of enemies never before seen in other games 
 and many of your old favorite enemies including the classic goombas and koopas. The ghost houses 
 are still around with pretty confusing puzzles as always and levels have multiple exits with tricky 
 ways to get to them. Even though this seems like a lot to keep you entertained, old school mario 
 veterains might find this game far to easy yet collecting everything and getting 100% completion 
 will still tempt you far after you beat the game. Fun gameplay and semi tough gameplay makes you 
 want to come back and play more. The lack of length is faded out by the amount of things needed 
 to get 100% completion as for collecting 3 special hidden coins in each stage, usually hidden in 
 a tought corner to get to, and unlocking and beating every level by going through the hidden exits. 
 The mini games lack in reply value. Yet multiplayer is pretty rewarding but then again does not 
 stack up to a long time of fun. More like a few minutes of good times. So in the end the New Super 
 Mario Bros. is ... well... new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic1288
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is the next game of the Super Mario Bros series. It has cool new features 
 like Mario turning really humongous, collecting star coins, and rescuing the princess once again. 
 The cool thing about this game is everything. Simply everything is cool about this game. It is 
 a big hit to me. The levels are sinply designed to be medium difficulty, not to hard, not to easy. 
 Also, the top screen shows you how far you got in the level, while the bottom screen is the main 
 screen of the game. If you don't have the game now, buy it! It is well worth your $40 dollars. 
 You'll get addicted to it very easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  New super mario bros. is a really good game. Its got 3 modes : single player, mario vs luigi and 
 minigames. Single Player , as you would expect is the story mode in which you go throught the varios 
 worlds and different levels in them untill you get to the end to fight the boss. the new things 
 that just dont make it super mario bros game with some new levels ,are the new moves like the but 
 stomp or the wall jump. the new powerups are very interesting while one mega mushroom makes you 
 large and invincible and while you walk you destroy everything in you path , while another one 
 makes you small and able to go through small gaps to go to secret places. Another new power up 
 is the koopa shell which will let you behave as a koopa and being able to go in side the shell 
 and hit enemies with it. Mario vs Luigi mode is a multiplaer mode where you can face a friend in. 
 One of you is mario while the other one is luigi and you compete in a map collecting stars. you 
 can steel the oponent's star if you hit him. Minigames mode has a collection of minigames which 
 you can compete alone in or with up to 4 friends.
  
  Graphics:
  the character models and the rocks and things are in 3d while the bacground is a 2d picture. the 
 graphics are exelent and they are smooth.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is exelent. a good mix of the clasic themes to new ones. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The controlls 
 handle very well .you have the bottom buttons for jumping and the top for runing/throwin fire balls 
 or the left buttons for runing/throwing and right for jumping. you have an item part on the touch 
 screen which you can easily press with your finger. you also use the r and l buttons to move the 
 screen to view more of the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  EMERGENCY NEWS FLASH!!!
  
  Princess Peach has been kidnapped! While enjoying a nice walk with Mario, the beloved ruler of 
 the Mushroom Kingdom was whisked away by an unknown assailant. How could ths happen with Mario 
 around?
  
  According to eyewitnesses, the walk was going swimmingly when Mario and the Princess spotted smoke 
 billowing out of Peach's Castle. The mustachioed marvel immediately jumped into action and sped 
 off toward the fire. The moment he left her side, the princess vanished!
  
  Who's behind Princess Peach's disappearence?
  Who's behind the attack on on Peach's Castle?
 
  Are the two incidents related?
  Didn't Bowser Jr. once think Princess Peach might be his mother?
  
  Looks like Mario's going 
 to need all the Mega Mushrooms he can find to get to the botton of this mess!
  
  
  It's not the best story there is out there. I mean 
 it's the same old Peach getting captured and Mario chasing her down. But isn't that the same Mario 
 story we've all grown up to know and love. But the unoriginallity is a real hole in the story.
 
  
  Side Note: The first problem I have with the game is the name. I know it's been 16 years but I 
 would've liked it better if it was called Super Mario Bros. 4 even though there are a ton of games 
 that could've been considered that.
  
  
  Story - 7.9
  
  Gameplay
  
  An issue is the save feature. You can only save after you beat castles or open gates. if you wanna 
 take a break from the game you'll just have to put it in sleep mode, however, after you beat the 
 game you can save whenever you want.
  
  If you want to play Luigi all you have to do is hold down the L and R buttons while goin to the 
 file screen.
  
  One more flaw I have is with the characters. The have Mario, Luigi, Peach and all but the character 
 that doesn't feel right is koopa kid (baby bowser) . It just doesn't feel like the classic mario 
 games with him. I mean you only see the Big Bowser 3 times. It wouldn't be a true Mario Platformer 
 without him but at least he's in the game.
  
  The game is very fun. It can be a little easy but some levels are pretty challenging and unlocking 
 levels is what makes it more challenging.
  
  It's pretty short but to really beat the game you have to go back and collect all the star coins. 
 and unlock all the worlds (yes it does skip worlds if you beat the castles a certain way) .
  
  One last thing is that some of the mini-games are either the same or just rehashes of the mini-games 
 on Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  
  Gameplay - 8.0
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are ok but it would seem better if the game were in 2D which takes even more of the 
 classic feel out of the game. I mean the 3-D is nice but to me, it just looks kind of pencilly
 
  
  Everything looks good and is really focused on detail.
  The 3-D can really add a whole lot to a game because there is so much more you can put in and there's 
 so much more to focus on.
  
  The detail in the fire and lava is very well done and makes it seem like you are really there (sorta)
 
  The water, however, could use a little work. To me it just looks like Mario could be hanging from 
 an invisible wire and not moving anywhere while the whole background is moving to the left. While 
 that clearly isn't true it just could seem like it. The bubbles will make me think less of this 
 though.
  
  Again you have to go back to the classic feel that 2-D graphics would've impacted the game so much 
 but the graphics are still great.
  
  
  Graphics - 8.9
  
  Audio
  
  Note: If this part of the review is short to you that means I couldn't think of too much to say 
 about the audio
  
  Don't get me wrong I like the music but I just think it would be better if they had the old music. 
 It wouldve felt a lot more like a Super Mario Bros. with the old music. Another sound issue is 
 that I would've prefer the old Super Mario World sound effect when Mario dies (which i think sounds 
 better) .
  
  Voice Credit Error: In this game, Charles Martinet is doing all the voices, or so it is credited, 
 but his records show he has never done a Bowser Jr. voice and even Peach has a voice. Bowser Jr. 
 is usually done by Frank Welker or Dolores Rogers and Jen taylor does Peach. I just wanted to point 
 this out to you all because it is creditting error.
  
  Anyway, Despite most of Mario's same voice overs he finally has some new ones. I can't remember 
 exactly what they are but I know they are definitelly new.
  As I mentioned, there's not a whole lot to say about the Audio.
  
  
  Audio - 8.3
  
  Review 
 Summary
  
  Story - 7.9: Unoriginal story but it's the one we all know and love.
  Gameplay - 8.0: Rehashed mini-games, lack of Bowser, and being too short killed it's great
  Graphics 
 - 8.9: Great detail on a lot of stuff but 2-D graphics would've had a better classic feel
  Audio - 8.3: Great but not classic music, new voice overs, but a voice creditting errors but the 
 overall audio is great.
  
  Bottom Line: This game is great and definitelly worth a buy. There are a lot of problems but it's 
 still a great overall game.
  
  Averaged - 8.3
  My Overall - 8.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vide0freak13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Anyone who can call his or herself a gamer has to know about the Mario Bros. games. The original 
 game essentially saved gaming, especially in North America. Now Nintendo goes back to its roots 
 to create the first 2-D Mario game in about 15 years, and Nintendo does it right! This game is 
 pretty close to the original Super Mario Bros. with improved graphics, sound, etc to be on the 
 DS. All the classic Mario elements are there, including some new ones, like wall jumping (new to 
 a 2-D Mario game) , mega mushrooms, and the blue koopa shells. These new elements make the game 
 much better than just fine tuning the graphics and sound. The mini games are also extremely fun, 
 especially when played wirelessly with others. This is a must own game for anyone who owns a DS- 
 I honestly don't know anyone who claims to be a gamer that doesn't like the Super Mario Bros. games! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitz54
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I played for a little while and found it got repetitive. Buy then I 
 found the MEGA MUSHROOM!!!!!! This big mushroom is a highlight of the game with itsability to turn 
 people giant. The nintendo team has added some more power ups such as the ability to turn into 
 shells and mini mushrooms. But they missed some of the classic outfits like the tanooki suit or 
 that boot you can ride around in. But forget that stuff the gameplay, is wow, amazing. The enemies 
 are all here even with some new ones from gamecube mario games. Only problem is that you can't 
 play as Luigi. You need a code to play as him, so that sucks. But the sound the controls and its 
 use of the touch screen to show if your close to the end or far is really fun. And some levels 
 are just plain revoulutionary e. g. you can ride on a wiggler for one level which is really fun 
 or you can be swimming away from a maniacal eel. And the only major problem is not enough mini 
 games and no wi fi cause it would be cool to face people to get stars all over the world. Amazing 
 Game and its 30$ who dosent want this game a a hole in their soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  A long time ago i bought the original gameboy. It came with two games: tetris and mario bros. When 
 i played mario bros i was not very good at it. It took me a lot of practice and perseverance to 
 finish the game. Now, many years later nothing has changed. I am still not very good at mario bros. 
 This is not an easy platformer like the Donkey Kong games or Castlevania. With Mario i'm always 
 moving left, right , falling of the screen, bumping into koopa's and starting again. Fortunately 
 this time around you can save your game, so you don't have to start all over again. The game is 
 also much bigger and the levels are very diverse. The levels are divided in 8 different "worlds", 
 which is kinda like the lord of the rings trilogy; you start of in a hilly green homeworld and 
 venture through mountains, icy peaks, caves etc to end the journey in a volcanic scorched world 
 where you have to destroy evil, that being Bowser and rescue the princess. Also there are special 
 coins to collect in each level and bonuslevels to unlock, so there's a lot of replay value. The 
 game can save up to 3 files, so you can let other people play the game too. Anybody can enjoy this 
 game, maybe because it isn't easy, it's a challenge and a true videogame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikkedclown17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  new super mario bros is the sequel that never was. until now. with levels that feel like they were 
 taken straight from an abandoned sequel, this game is pure mario. on the not-so-light-side. NSMB 
 is a mario, and if you've ever played a side scrolling mario, you know what to expect. its not 
 that much different in that sense. and the storyline is the same as it always has been (save the 
 freakin' princess!) but if it comes to the DS, you better believe its gonna have some cool features. 
 and it does. apart from kick ass multiplayer (not online)
  NSMB delivers everything you'd expect from a DS side scroller (and more!)
  with three dimensional 
 side scrolling, enhanced levels, all new powerups and mini games; NSMB is a great addition to the 
 ever-growing mario family 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeGrill212
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm not even a Mario fan but I still love to play this game! When U play this game it gets addictive. 
 Even though this game is easy there still is alot of creative levels that makes the game fun to 
 play. U could see that alot of levels in this game have the same music and it could feel like ur 
 playing the same level over again. But I guess that's how all Mario games are like, well maybe 
 most of them are like that. It's surprising that this game is better than I thought it was after 
 when I watched the comercials before I bought this game. It sucks that u cant save game after almost 
 everytime when u beat a level. U have to always get five coins to save game after when u spend 
 it on a mushroom house. But it's actually okay that u cant save game all the time cuz this game 
 would be too easy if u could save game after everytime when u beat a level. What's stupid about 
 this game is that u have to beat certain bosses while ur turned into Mini Mario to unlock sum worlds. 
 Like for example, u would have to beat the world 2 boss with mini mario in order to unlock world 
 4. And U have to beat the World 5 boss with mini mario to unlock World 7. Atleast that this stuff 
 is still easy to do but it just doesn't make sense why u would have to do it. Over all of those 
 problems that this game has, This game is still really good and impressive. I would think that 
 some people are stupid if they dont enjoy this game. It still would be better if this game had 
 more worlds to play than just 8 worlds. The game should have atleast around 16 worlds to be worth 
 buying. Cuz u don't want to buy a game that takes like around 6 days to beat. That's why it would 
 be better for this game to have some challenges in it. And some more levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: French023
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is very easy to pick up and play for the simple fact that there has been so many previous 
 titles. There are great new add-ins such as being able to grow into a giant and smash everything 
 in your path. Or becoming very very small and being able to get to special places. The Only problem 
 with those are that it is very hard to get them and when you do the gaint only last 10 seconds 
 at most and the small mario is very easy to get killed with. Another thing is that you can only 
 save every 5 levels you BEAT. The key word is beat. Say you get tired and want to stop playing 
 you cannot save and if you turn the game off you have to restart to the last level that you had 
 a chance to save at which at times, is 4 levels back. I have been very critical of a very good 
 game though. This is still very fun and one of the top 3 games on ds. 
  
  1. Animal Crossing
  2. Mario Cart
  3. Super Mario Bros.
  
  This game has always been great 
 and has got even better in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The new super mario bros is basicly a redone version os the third game, but with all the levels 
 redone. It also has a bunch of new items.
  But it also depends if you really wanted it or got bored and decided to buy it.
  If you were 
 excited than you will go hardcore on the game you will get to the last castle and beat it in a 
 day. If your not excited you will still blow over it in about a day.
  
  The bosses are all different this time around in each world. And each world has a tower (mini boss) 
 and a castle (boss) . Each level is outfited with three coins that are hiden and some not. You use 
 those to open extra levels and mushroms houses. Some give lives some give items.
  
  There are new moves for mario and new Enemys! Mario can wall jump and triple jump ( Super mario 
 64) and ground pound. There are wiglers and extra big hamer bros ,they will stun you if they jump. 
 
  
  The game is simple and fun .
  But if you never played mario games before (whats wrong with you) you might, MIGHT have a tiny 
 bit of hard time geting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. No need to rent it first, I have this game and I love it. When I first 
 started playing it, it seemed to be familiar. Sure it is but with a whole lot of new twists and 
 turns. I feel like I am really in the game with Mario. The graphics a great and the game play is 
 a nice as well. The bosses start off easy and then get a little tricky, but don't give up. You 
 don't have to be a huge Mario fan to want to own this game. It is fun to play, fun for the kids, 
 fun for everyone. There are many different boards to choose from along with different worlds. You 
 will be kept busy for a good while. Give this game a go 'round and see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros is a side-scrolling game with 3D animations and characters. It goes back 
 to the roots of Nintendo gaming and comes out with shining colours. This is a must for any Nintendo 
 DS owner.
  
  It is a typical story, Peach gets kidnapped, but this time it has changed a little. Its Bowser 
 Jr, not Bowser who kidnaps Peach! You must play as Mario through a total of 8 worlds to save Peach. 
 Each different world provides a new environment, which in turn leads to new enemies and harder 
 challenges.
  
  The addition of the two new items, Mega Mushroom, Koopa Shell and Mini Mushroom, adds extra excitement 
 to the game. With each of these items, you can reach areas which with the standard Mario you would 
 not be able to. There are quite a few times where you can obtain these items and they are essential 
 to the completion of this game. The three Big Coins in each level also add up to open up shops 
 and add to the replay value as you can go back and try to collect them all.
  
  Multiplayer mode was a much necessary addition to the game. Being able to play against other friends 
 with a Nintendo DS allows for lengthy and fruitful competition. Even though nothing that happens 
 in multiplayer really effects the real game, it is a great addition which really adds to the replay 
 value of the game.
  
  The Minigames are another reason why this game can be played many hours after you have finished 
 the storyline. There are a number of both single-player and multi-player minigames which can potentially 
 add hours of replay ability. The minigames are so addictive and there is such a great variety you 
 could play each for hours on end to just try to get the high score.
  
  Graphically, there is no flaw to this game. Even though some will consider it a 2D side-scroller, 
 it is better know as a 3D side-scroller, as it provides 3 dimensional animations and characters. 
 You see extreme detail in large Mario, you see extreme detail in enemies and the environment is 
 outstanding for the DS.
  
  Music is back to the classics, which really suits this game. The music is addictive and catchy 
 and really has a great feel. It can also add to difficulty, as enemies jump to the music and this 
 can mistime an attack and lead to your death.
  
  Overall, a great Nintendo DS game which all should own!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game rocks so hard! What I really love about this game is that it is a 2-D sidescroller which 
 is challenging and fun at the same time. Some people will say it is repetitive, but I think there 
 were many things that made it stand out from previous Mario titles. The graphics are smooth, and 
 the gameplay is even better. It also took me back a few years and reminded me of the classic Super 
 Mario Bros. games.
  
  The plot may seem a bit overused. Bowser (or Bowser Jr. in this game) kidnaps Peach, and Mario 
 has to rescue her, but it is fun and I really enjoy playing the games.
  
  I found it to be a fun addition to the Mario collection and I'd definitely recommend it to a Mario 
 lover. It IS worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_cody000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This new Mario is one of the best games on the ds, but it had some upsets. Firrst of all it improved 
 by adding a handful of fun mini-games, the multiplayer mode was also a nice addition to it. But 
 what really upset me was that they didn't put in Yoshi. Yoshi was mario's sidekick and they excluded 
 him. Another thing was the addition of some lame powers. Who really wants to have a shell on their 
 back. They took out the flying power [which i liked] and put in usless shell. But they make up 
 for with the ability to get bigger or smaller. This is a great game and if you own a ds you should 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong evryone, I loved the game... at first, but really i started thinking about all 
 the older mario games and how they added only a few little perks and stuff. The Introduction to 
 Skelton bowser was cool (i wish i saw him more than once) and i liked the bosses but, a few new 
 items and bosses does not make a game Great
  
  The Gameplay was good, like any mario game should be. and like all mario games have been, in fact 
 it was like all mario games...... excatly life all mario games. which was annoying, but still good 
 old fashoned fun and easy gameplay
  
  Graphics were amazing. the 3D blend with the 2D background was awesome, I think nintendo ereally 
 steped up for this games grahpics, giant mario wasnt at all blocky, mini mario wasnt invisible, 
 and all other marios in between looked just fine
  
  Sound, I liked the sounds and music, it had the nintendo style and the mario style but not exactly 
 one or the other which i liked. it made me always have the music on loud, and there was always 
 the "woohoo" mario made and that also entertained me.
  
  You get enough game for your money, you can play minigames with yourself, with your friends, and 
 you can play story with your self, and quite a bit more. 
  
  This is a good game, especally for newcomers to the gaming world, and, it's easy to pass all the 
 levels, but when it comes to grabbing all the coins it gets a bit harder, i liked the game, but 
 didnt like how the "new" super mario bros. didnt seem that "new" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubertaffy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Mario 64 and future 3-D games were beautiful bridges into the additional dimension that came at 
 the perfect time. These completely open and realistic-world games should not stop their boundary-pushing, 
 eye-opening development, however at the same time it would be fantastic if the New Mario Brothers 
 is the first in a motion to continue the original platform genre that each of the original Mario 
 games on NES and SNES mastered so well.
  
  I have heard it said that the New Mario Brothers is what would (or should) have happened right 
 after Super Mario World, had the video game world not gone 3-D. If that means that players who 
 were so amazed at the improvements Mario World had made were looking for a similar feat, this is 
 certainly it. 2-D only in the fact that your movement is generally restricted to left, right, up 
 and down, the graphics of the characters and environment are beautifully rendered and animated 
 flawlessly. While the music has repetitive themes (what Mario game hasnt) it is the perfect addition 
 to this fun run-and-jump classic.
  
  Like all Mario games before it, there are many similar features such as the mushroom and fireflower, 
 as well as new additions such as the shell and the Super-Mushroom, which brings you to nearly the 
 full size of the DS screen and allows you to stomp nearly everything on the screen much like the 
 super-super sized bowser in the intermission levels of GameCubes PaperMario: Thousand Year Door. 
 Unlike the mini-mushroom which allows you places in the game you couldnt get to when normal-size, 
 the Mega Mushroom doesnt have to help reach any goals to simply be fun.
  
  For players who enjoy the purity of playing through games without help of guides, etc. this game 
 will be easily beaten, but not completed. There are whole worlds that are skipped under normal 
 playing through. Some levels have more than one exit and there are pipes and cannons to take you 
 to various parts of the map and even other worlds. Add into the mix the obligatory collecting 
 that makes Nintendo-Produced games so addicting in the long-haul and you have to find 3 special 
 coins in each level (though at least you dont need to get all 3 at the same time) .
  
  Multiplayer has gone to a new level with this version of Mario. Instead of taking turns as in the 
 NES and SNES versions, there is a 2-player version where Mario and luigi are on shortened versions 
 of the game-levels at the same time, fighting baddies and each other to find the stars.
  
  If this wasnt enough to justify the generally-lower priced DS games, there is a slew of mini-games 
 that players will find themselves completely addicted to. There are multiple categories of mini 
 games and they are 1-4 players even without each player having the game-pak. Various point-goals 
 and game-selection further broaden the appeal. The only downside is that there are no names or 
 initials attached to the high-score board for bragging rights (though the scores are kept themselves) .
 
  
  This is a beautifully game and extremely fun to play, for newbies (though honestly who doesnt 
 know Mario) and even more so for those of us who have played through each Mario game more times 
 than we would like to admit. Lets just hope that while Nintendo continues to break new ground in 
 other areas, they also keep these classics coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  This past week I have been playing the New Super Mario Bros. I must say it is rather superbly crafted, 
 but it seems a bit short overall. SOme of the stages seem too short, but there are plenty of stages. 
 An interesting game that is an excellent homage to most of the Marios in the series; not just a 
 rehash of been-there done-that gameplay, though. There were also some elements of exploration. 
 
  
  The game is beautiful overall, and not just from a graphical standpoint. The game uses 3D modeled 
 sprites in a 2D setting (So Mario and other characters are made of polygons, while the background 
 are standard, 2D backgrounds) . This makes for some very interesting effects, and I like how the 
 programmers actually incorporated the flexibility of the sprites when making gameplay (e. g. gigantic 
 mario, giant versions of some enemies, more flexibility in the way characters are modeled, making 
 logs roll, &c.) It's a rather interesting design, and it's not so much a gimmick as it is essential 
 to some of the gameplay. ALso included were some nods to the lighthearted nature of the Mario series: 
 enemies move in tune with the music that's playing, for example. 
  
  The gameplay, again, is very much a Mario game, and the difficulty is definitely there, especially 
 in the latter areas of the game. Finding all the coins in every level, as well as all the alternate 
 routes, is really what makes this game fun. Albeit, I found this not as fun at times because of 
 the way one could save at almost any point. While Mario has no abilities to fly (except grabbing 
 a Lakitu cloud) , the new powerups make for interesting effects. Shell Mario seems primarily a defensive 
 power-up, as he is impervious while crouched (in his shell) . Likewise, he can spin like a koopa 
 shell on the ground, but controlling him is difficult. Gigantic Mario is an interesting power-up 
 that's fun to play with in more closed areas: Mario plows through his surroundings without hindrance, 
 but the effect lasts temporarily; afterwards, Mario is awarded so many 1-Ups based on how much 
 he destroyed. Finally, Mini-Mario is an interesting form. I've found navigating stages much more 
 fun using Mini Mario, but he's super-vulnerable in this form, and attacking enemies requires a 
 correctly timed ground-pound. The fact that using mini mario for a few areas in the game is necessary 
 made the experience more interesting. 
  
  The biggest complaint I have with this game is length. It's way too short. Some levels are definitely 
 too short, and sometimes seem uninspired because of this. Though there are 80 stages, sometimes 
 it feels like you're only playing them JUST to play them. The existence of alternate routes made 
 getting to and beating the final boss a really easy feat (I did it in the first night of playing) . 
 After that, it was just beating levels. The fact that two of the Worlds in the game are optional 
 (found only by a certain trick) also makes playing through the levels seem a bit forced. Indeed, 
 the alternate routes seemed a bit linear to find, and really had too much of an exploration type 
 element to them. In Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World, I recall actually having to go out 
 of the way I was going to the exit to find an alternate route, and often this new route was more 
 difficult than the regular one. The lack of subtlety in finding most of the alternate routes (which, 
 too often, led only to Mushroom Houses) made me dislike the way they set this up. If they could 
 have made the game longer, with a greater level of difficulty, I would have enjoyed it more. There 
 was a decent amount of "themed" levels, but I think there could have been more of them, which would 
 help to distinguish levels from each other. Finally, it would be cooler if the player were rewarded 
 for completing the game enitrely, and indeed, I would have liked to see some challenging levels, 
 to the effect of SMW's Special World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonathanL
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  While Nintendo has released a Super Mario somewhat recently with 2002's Super Mario Sunshine, it's 
 been ages since they've made an original side-scrolling Mario game. After seeing remake after remake 
 of older Mario games on the Gameboy Advance, Nintendo has finally seen fit to bring the plumber 
 back to his roots with New Super Mario Bros., a fun, straightforward throwback to the two-dimensional 
 platformers of yesteryear.
  
  Removed are collecting quests, large zones that house a multitude of goals, and a massive array 
 of power-ups. There are no longer camera and depth issues to work out. New Super Mario Bros. is 
 all about the distilled essence of what platforming games are. The superfluous add-ons and convoluted 
 game design of the modern platform game are not here. The running, jumping, and bopping foes on 
 the head, from left to right and from bottom to top, is. It is this simplistic and nostalgic approach 
 the genre that makes New Super Mario Bros. so fun, and why its an easily recommendable game to 
 both fans of the genre and the character both.
  
  This is not to say that Mario lacks a decent array of moves to aid him on his quest. Mario's got 
 eight new worlds to conquer, and he's not going to be up to the challenge without some extra help. 
 Mario can now wall-jump, hopping back and forth between solid surfaces to get to secret items, 
 extra coins, and a hidden path here and there. With proper timing, he can also get greater height 
 on his normal jumps with successive presses of the jump button. Mario's also brought his butt-stomp 
 along, breaking through blocks beneath him, as well as providing an exclamation point on any attacks 
 he employs against his foes. The extra moves feel natural and do not detract from the straightforward 
 game approach. Mario now controls like a modern game character without the extra fluff that has 
 players staring at the buttons on their system, wondering which does what again.
  
  A new set of power-ups also arrive for Mario's latest adventure. In addition to the standard Super 
 Mushroom, Star, and Fire Flower, there are three brand-new changes our Italian hero will undergo. 
 The first is the Mega-Mushroom. A huge-headed version of the Super Mushroom, the Mega-shroom turns 
 Mario into a giant, taking up the entire height of the screen. While in this mode, it is up to 
 the player to smash through as many blocks, pipes, and enemies as they can. While doing this, a 
 meter on the top of the screen fills up. This meter is the true benefit of the power-up, as after 
 a short while the super-size effect leaves, Mario shrinks down, and 1-Ups drop down from the screen 
 the amount depending on how full the destruction bar was. The Mini-Mushroom turns Mario into a 
 miniscule version of himself, allowing him to run across the surface of water, float farther while 
 jumping, and gain access to areas the normal Mario never could. The final power-up is perhaps the 
 most unique, however. The Blue Shell, long a staple of the Mario Kart games, serves a different 
 purpose here. When Mario attains one of these, he not only takes on the amusing shell itself, complete 
 with ribbed underbelly, but he becomes a human wrecking shell, able to slide as Koopas are often 
 made to. While this makes for quite a fast and destructive method of transportation, it's also 
 a double-edged sword, as it is very easy to lose control or not react fast enough to onscreen events 
 and die, sliding right off the edge of a platform. The power-ups are all fairly straightforward, 
 and the new power-ups are employed sparingly, maintaining the core experience of the early Mario 
 games well.
  
  This seems to be the goal of New Super Mario Bros., to effectively pay homage to not only the old 
 Super Mario games, but Super Mario Bros. in particular. Themes from earlier games all show up, 
 but the most common cues are all from the original, from the underworld music to the dungeon level 
 designs to the fireworks at the end of most levels (though it requires certain circumstances to 
 achieve the pyrotechnics from Mario's early days) . This game is not about reinventing the wheel. 
 This game is about modernizing the core gameplay of a 20 year-old classic.
  
  The visuals show the most improvement in that span of time. While New Super Mario Bros. is strictly 
 two-dimensional in terms of gameplay, the graphics are all in the third dimension, employing polygons 
 for smooth movement and a feeling of greater control. The graphics are bright and sharp, with many 
 cute visual cues to maintain the safe and comforting feeling of the Mario universe. The frame rate 
 is silky-smooth, the design faithful to the original games, and the returning cast of characters 
 looks great. The DS may not present itself as a graphical powerhouse, but games like this prove 
 it's got it where it counts.
  
  The audio is strong as well. Much like the visuals, it's all about providing a new sound with a 
 wink to the old. Snippets of music from past 2D Mario games are scattered throughout, and the new 
 music is catchy as well, even employing synthesized voices at times. Mario and Luigi also speak 
 up. Thought Mario was a silent protagonist in his early days, it's good to have his voice now. 
 It wouldn't be a Mario game without the cheerful "Wahoo!" of Nintendo; s mascot.
  
  The controls and physics define a platformer's playability more than anything, however, and Mario's 
 do take some getting used to. Whether it's an original design point or yet another tip of the cap 
 to the original or not, the somewhat floaty controls do feel a bit peculiar at first. It shouldn't 
 take players too long to get used to it, but there is a bit of a learning curve at first. Outside 
 of this one quirk, the controls are spot-on. Players will rarely do anything they didn't intend 
 to do, and the moves are all intuitive and easy to recall.
  
  Even if the controls are in place, a game needs strong level design if it's going to be any fun. 
 New Super Mario Bros. excels in this department, offering many variations in terms of locale and 
 approach. Not only does each world have its own theme, but the levels within each world vary as 
 well. There are all sorts of different moving platforms that expand on the basics, including controllable 
 ones and ones that take serpentine paths while the player struggles to stay on them. New Super 
 Mario Bros. also has many vertically-oriented stages, which provide a nice spin on the standard 
 gameplay approach. The levels themselves generally arent as long as some of the classic levels, 
 but the pace in New Super Mario Bros. is a bit slower than the early games in the franchise, so 
 it balances out.
  
  Much in the same vein as Mario Kart DS, New Super Mario Bros. doesn't lean too heavily on the touchpad 
 for gimmicky use. Other than using it to check character status or drop down a saved power-up (a 
 la Super Mario World) , the only common use for the lower screen is when Mario goes down one of 
 the ubiquitous pipes, sending him below the surface. This element is so well-implemented, and so 
 naturally done, that the player will rarely even notice it happens. It's such a smooth transition 
 that makes so much logical sense with the system that it isnt even noticeable, a true testament 
 to the seamless integration of the dual-screen technology..
  
  The story mode in New Super Mario Bros. is a bit light on challenge, but the point of this title, 
 like the games before it in the Mario lineage, is not to provide a stiff challenge. Rather, the 
 joy in this game is in exploring the stages fully, uncovering the hidden secrets, finding all of 
 the golden coins (there are three per level) , and generally covering every last inch of the game 
 world. Mario is such a joy to control, the level design is so inspired, and the aesthetics are 
 so cheery and inviting that it's just enjoyable to partake in, even when dying at one of the few 
 tough parts.
  
  The game also includes some multiplayer modes, but they're mostly lackluster and don't really impact 
 the game's overall value or experience. At the end of the day, it's the single-player mode that 
 will keep the player coming back.. New Super Mario Bros. is a pretty basic platformer that gamers 
 of all ages can and will enjoy. It capitalizes on the core essence of what makes platform games 
 fun and adds a few spins without muddling the formula. Nintendo's track record of quality Mario 
 games continues on with New Super Mario Bros., a worthy edition both to the franchise and as a 
 flagship title for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixiedust35147
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. was great. It was just like playing the original classics but with better 
 than ever graphics. I think that its probably the best in the series of Mario games. They revolutionized 
 it with new graphics. There are eight worlds that you have to go through. And there are about seven 
 levels in each world. When playing the game it went by so fast. I couldnt believe it. And in this 
 new version you get the mushroom that makes you huge for a short period of time. You can also get 
 the mini mushroom that makes you really tiny to get to the tiny tunnels. 
  
  Overall I think this is a game worth buying. Its definately a classic that you can play over and 
 over and not get tired of it. Well at least not for a while lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumbervspirate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  With the release of the New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS you can now get that same tingly 
 feeling you got the other times you jumped into the pants of that short shroom using italian man 
 pants.... as horrible as that sounds its true. NSMB brings back the fun of the original three Mario 
 games without being to overwraught with age. The tride and true 2D formula still stays true and 
 amazingly it holds its own with a lot of the flashy 3D games out on the platforms. I reccomend 
 it to any fan of the original, producing a fun run down memory lane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS_MadDuck22
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was perfect. They took the old classic which is still fun to play today, added 
 better graphics, made it portable, and did all sorts of little tweaks on the old mario bros. and 
 after all that it's still the greatest mario game to date. There'; s not one more thing anyone could 
 do to make this classic even better. buy it and skip that renting BS. From the little "bloop blooop 
 bloop" to the "Itsa me'a mario" the sound was amazing. the graphcis were perfect for the underrated 
 DS. and this game could be played over and over again without you getting sick of it at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCubeN24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Take a take back in time in New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS. The game is a throw back 
 to the golden days of the NES Mario side scrolers. The point of the game is simple... Peach has 
 been kidnapped and its up to Mario (or Luigi if you have the code :P) to save her... again.
  
  Graphics: This really has to be one of the best-looking Nintendo DS games out there. From the 
 characters to the backgrounds, the whole package looks great. 
  
  Sound: Meh is the best way to describe this part of the game. Its nothing shocking but it does 
 the trick... I recommend putting on a pair of headphones while playing.
  
  Gameplay: This is the games strong point. The game is a picture perfect representation of the NES 
 version of this game. The point is simple, take Mario to the end of the level and hop on the flag 
 poll. Its pure blitz and is fun in every sense. It also has great multiplayer, which will have 
 you staying up late nights with a friend having the time of your life.
  
  Overall: You got 30 bucks............... BUY THIS GAME!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nighthawk89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. is a classic among gamers of all ages. Since the 1980s, Mario and Luigi have 
 been hopping through tubs and chomping on shrooms (Italian plumbers on an acid trip, how did they 
 get this past the censors in the first place?) , completing platform jumping worlds, all in the 
 name of a cute pink princess named Peach. While Mario has moved into the 3D platformer age, he 
 always likes to take a trip back to 2D jumping once in a while, and this latest evolution of the 
 series does not disappoint. It's not perfect, but it's worth picking up, and has the perfect feel 
 a Mario jumper should have.
  
  Gameplay
  As with all Mario platformers, you progress through a number of worlds, conquering levels and castles 
 to progress along until the final castle, where you take on numerous forms of the classic boss, 
 Bowser. This rendition is no different, sending you through 8 themed worlds (6 if you don't bother 
 unlocking two side worlds) on your quest to chase Baby Bowser, who has deviously tricked you and 
 captured Princess Peach. Most levels are easily conquerable, you'll rarely ever have trouble, except 
 with one or two instances. In fact, one of the most glaring problems I found with the game is that 
 when you're playing as fire Mario, you can kill nearly everything without trouble or strategy, 
 INCLUDING the bosses, and INCLUDING the final boss! I literally only had to smash baby bowser with 
 a few fireballs and he was down flat, and then it was only a matter of whittling down Big Bowser's 
 health to win. Each boss battle, when using the fire flower, lasts less than a minute, and on Bowser 
 levels, you can simply hit a switch to drop him in to lava and win (of course, you have to jump 
 over him to get there, oooooo, so hard) . It would've been nice to have a little more strategy involved, 
 but I guess after conquering the actual levels, the developers didn't want to kill you on the boss. 
 Still though, it would've been nice to actually have my heart racing on the final boss instead 
 of tapping the B button for 30 seconds.
  
  Graphics
  I only gave this an eight because of issues I had with some of the character sprites. Out of all 
 of the sprites in the game, I found the regular Mario and Luigi sprites absolutely horrid. The 
 Mega, Mini, and Regular Mushroom enhanced sprites were fine,, but the mushroomless sprites were 
 squished, and the colors were convoluted and just plain ugly. They looked like carnie midgets, 
 it's just not pretty. The developers need to work on how they create small sprites like those.
 
  Other than that, the rest of the graphics were fine and beautifully made. I like the Koopas' change 
 from 2D to 3D sprites, they were probably my favorite. Baby and Regular Bowser also looked awesome, 
 and Peach looked decent as well. If not for the issues with the mario and luigi sprites, this could've 
 gotten a 9 or 10.
  
  Sound
  This selection of music was very nice, it never got in the way of the game at all, and was rarely 
 repetitive. There's not much to say about it really, but it was perfect for the style of the game, 
 it fit in well with the levels. Nothing really detracts from it, but it wasn't extremely perfect, 
 so it gets a 9 from me.
  
  Total
  All in all, this is a very worthwhile game to pick up for all DS owners. I liked this better than 
 Super Mario 64, but Mario always seems to do better with 2D platforming than 3D, so that factors 
 in. If you're a first time Mario player, this is a great edition to get started on, and will attract 
 both new and old gamers rapidly. So if you're looking for something enjoyable to eat up your time, 
 New Super Mario Brothers is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Watch_Me_Xplode
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I find this site's reviews to be very trustworthy. They're not always right, but I definitely agree 
 with this game's score; thus, I give it the exact same one: a 9.0. GameSpot describes a score of 
 "9" as "superb", and New Super Mario Bros. is just that, in essentially every aspect.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  Just like the old Marios, but more refined, with new moves, like the wall jump, 
 double jump, slide, and butt stomp. And powerups like Shell Mario, Mega Mario, and Mini Mario are 
 cool additions as well. It's simple, but perfect, and highly addictive.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  N64 quality, one of DS's best looking games. Nothing else to say, except that New SMB is very pleasant 
 to look at.
  
  SOUND: 9
  Very catchy music. A lot of the sound effects and tunes are recycled from past games, which can 
 be good or bad. Some people will enjoy it as a cool homage, and others will find it repetitive. 
 Either way, it's excellent listening.
  
  VALUE: 9
  There are 8 diverse, huge worlds (2 of which are optional) . Each one has a ton of levels in them. 
 There a secret exits to find in order to get to secret pathways through the maps, warp zones, shops 
 and hidden levels. Each playable level also has three Star Coins that you can seek out and use 
 to spend later. So there's certainly a lot of things to do in the main game. Plus, the game also 
 holds a ton of fun, addictive minigames, and a multiplayer mode. As you can see, there's quite 
 a lot of replay value. 
  Experienced players can finish the single player mode quickly, but Mario is fun enough to play 
 multiple times. The game is worth a purchase.
  
  TILT: 9
  Yes, this game is exceptional on all levels. Every gamer knows about Mario, and if you like his 
 games at all, go out and purchase a Nintendo DS immediately, along with his awesome new game. You'd 
 be crazy not to. 
  There hasn't been a 2D Mario game in years, and if that doesn't excite you, consider the fact that 
 New Super Mario Bros. may perhaps be the Italian plumber's best game ever. It takes what was good 
 about every one of his past titles, and builds on it.
  
  It's a must-buy, that's all there is left to say. Anything more you need to understand can be found 
 out only by playing the game. You shan't be disappointed. Trust me: 5 minutes, and you're hooked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  For being one of the gamers that grew up alongside Commodore 64, Amiga500 and NES this must be 
 one of the finest releases in years.
  
  New Super Mario bros takes just the right amount of old school and brings it toghether with new 
 features.
  
  This has to be the best 2d-scrolling platform game up to date on any console, I can't see where 
 it should fail actually. The only letdown might be the fact that I would like to see it on a big 
 screen but that is something that the Wii might take on I guess.
  
  Graphics are sweet, sound is nostalgic and the fun is endless.
  
  If you only wanna take on 
 one game this year on your DS this should do the trick.
  If you are at home, on a train, in a car, at the beach New Super Mario Bros should let you have 
 your share of fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer_4_lyfe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty much nintendos best mario game to date-in my opinion- wall jumps, triple jumps, 
 its just so revolutionary, its like the 3d platformer, turned 2d. wipe out goombas with the shell, 
 or burn up the koopas with fireballs. there are a few things wrong with this game. Length. 8 worlds, 
 and about 7 lvls everyworld. It seems so short! remember mario for the super nintendo? that game 
 was crazy long, and with tons of secret levels. Boss Battles. They are so easy if u have the fireball. 
 just dodge them and keep shooting and theyll be dead. it kinda gets annoying the easiness. there 
 are quite a few secrets, with the canons, which just make it easier so u skip the whole level. 
 and i keep going back to get all the secrets. anyways, all in all, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spideytrac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best installments in the long history of Mario games that have come out 
 to date. The graphics look just like the old school Mario games with the exception of a few improvements. 
 Some of those improvements are graphical like snow falling on you. Other improvements are in the 
 way Mario moves. Mario can now jump on walls and turn into a turtle for one example. 
  
  The sound is kinda low for my taste and thats even with my DS Lite volume control put to max but 
 if you have a headset then the sound is much better. 
  
  Level design is amazing. There seems to be so many things to do in any given level that u always 
 feel like your missing something. this is great because it adds to the replay value of the game 
 just like all the previous installments in the Mario franchise have done. I especially loved how 
 each time you moved on to another world the world felt entirely different. Almost like you have 
 to learn everything over again for each level. 
  
  In short, if your a huge Mario fan then you will love this entry. If your new to the DS or DS Lite 
 and you want a great game for your system then you wont be disappointed with The New Super Mario 
 Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigdanm8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game if bery good. It is almost just like the original but with a few extra changes. Likese 
 u can get a super mushroom that makes u go really big and u just crush ueverything in your path. 
 Its is also good when u go against a boss and u use the super mushroom to go big and kill the boss 
 because u cant get hurt at all so its like a wsuper cheat. This game will be an instant clasic 
 and it is a masterpiece. U sont be sorry if u get this game. If u like the mario games then u will 
 defenitly love this game as much as the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is probably one of the best game to come out on the ds. It does everything 
 right in a side scroller game and adds alot of cool features that the old mario games never had.
 
  
  Gameplay: Over all the gameplay is fun and there is alot of variety in the worlds. Each world has 
 it's own theme and it's own platforming. There are ropes that you can walk across or use to hands 
 too. There are some cliff's that you have to shimi across. There are also new power ups that mario 
 gets. There is big mario which is one of my favorites, the shell which is really use full for taking 
 out enemy's. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good for a ds game. I just hoped that the quality of some of the areas 
 where better and when you get big mario that he would look better. 
  
  Sound: is pretty good. nothing special. It hads the origional mario music and has some different 
 versions of it in differnent areas. 
  
  Value: There are some other minigames that are fun for a while but get really boring and you get 
 how to cheat them really fast. There is also vs. mode which lets you play againts other people 
 that have a ds and are right next to you. You really just want to play the single player mode. 
 Thats the place where you will have the most fun and see where the game really shines.
  
  Overall: New Super Mario Bros. is a game for every one and is probably the best mario to date. 
 This game does not ruin the franchise. In fact, this game is a excellent edition to your mario 
 collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makaveli_89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I was excited as soon as i heard about this game coming for the DS. This game was the main reason 
 why i bought a DS. As soon as i started playing the game, it reminded my of all the times i used 
 to spend, playiing Super Mario World on my SNES. Those were the good ol' days... But this game isnt 
 any differnet than the past games. A graphical upgrade and a few extras, but that still doesn't 
 affect the value of the game.
  
  So the story starts out as Mario and Peach walking and lightning strikes upon a castle. Mario goes 
 to check it out, and then soon, Baby Bowser kidnaps Peach. And once again.... Mario is set out on 
 another adventure to save Peach. So the gameplay is basically the same as the classic Mario. It's 
 a 2-D side-scroller. The game is pretty simple as you move Mario with the D-Pad. You use the X 
 or Y to make Dash. To make Mario jump, you use the B or A button. Although you can change these 
 buttons in Options to your liking. There are also a few new items in New Super Mario Bros. There 
 is a Giant Mushroom which makes Mario huge and crush anything in his way. Theres another item which 
 makes Mario mini. This enables him to get into spots that aren't accessible when Mario is his normal 
 size. The last one is the Blue shell which Mario can use to his advantage by knocking his enemies 
 while he is in the shell. Also, in each level there are 3 special coins that can be collected in 
 each level to open bonus stages for extra lives and items. You can also buy a custom background 
 for the touchscreen area that displays your lives and etc. which is pretty cool. There are also 
 minigames that you can play which can get addicting. There is also the option to play a minigame 
 with someone else who has a DS. These are great extras for NSMB and just makes you want to go back 
 and play the game again. One complaint i had with the game was that it was too short. I finshed 
 this game in a couple days and wasnt really satisfied when i finshed it. Although it was a great 
 experience playing the game, it seemed to short. The boss battles were extremely easy and was especially 
 disappointed by the final boss. I think that this game should have been more similar to Super Mario 
 World as it was of great length and the final boss presented a bit more of a challenge. Considering 
 all of this, it's still a good gameand worth picking up.
  
  The graphics of the game are done quite well. Mario looks great and there weren't any graphic problems 
 with the game. The level design was done well and everything flowed in nicely. The sound was upto 
 par as well. As the music in the background was catchy. Everything flowed in nicely. NSMB has a 
 great replay value because of the minigames which are pretty good. Once you are done the game, 
 you can also go back and collect all the "special" coins in each level. 
  
  Overall NSMB is a great game that should not be missed. Every DS owner should have this game in 
 their collection as it is a great game and a good experience. Even though it may seem short, it 
 was a game i thoroughly enjoyed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadepin88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Game: Classic Mario at his best. Plenty of levels, enemies, and just enough items. Having said 
 that there are a few minor problems or inconveniences. First off, item houses are useless because 
 you get so many throughout the levels, you don't have to worry about storing any items. Also, since 
 you get to go the 1UP houses a lot, you'll get so many lives it doesn't matter how many times you 
 die, taking some of the intensity out of the levels. Also, bosses are all too easy, with little 
 strategy involved with the exception of a few. Also, attaining medals is kind of useless, unless 
 you use them to open pathways. They are pretty easy to get and so you often don't need to go hunting 
 for extra ones once you beat the game because either you opened all the pathways, or you can use 
 them to get to item houses, which I stated earlier are fairly useless. The mini games are very 
 fun, but they just simply ported them over from Super Mario 64 DS which feels pretty cheap. However, 
 if you didn't get that game, you'll enjoy the mini games. Finally, the mulit-player is very fun, 
 for a little bit. Basically, one person is Mario, the other Luigi and you both hunt for stars throughout 
 the level. Fun, but not enough options or different types of matches to make it incredible. It's 
 really just a simple side thing to keep you entertained a while longer. Finally, the story makes 
 it feel as though the developers have just given up on any hope of changing the tired plot of the 
 princess getting kidnapped. Having said all this the game is great fun. It's an easy pick up and 
 play and anyone can learn the simple controls and side scrolling action. Good Stuff. Graphics: 
 Great mix of 2D and 3D. Looks surprisingly great together. A definate step up from previous DS 
 games. Sound: Classic Mario jump noises and fireballs and music. Nothing great, nothing terrible. 
 Good enough!
  
  Value: Too short. However, collecting all the medals is a challenge, playing all the mini games 
 is fun, and the multiplayer make up for the short, fun ride. It doesn't matter though because you'll 
 want to play again for all the little secrets and great level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Famicomman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a time capsule of Mario platformers. It takes us back to the simple time of going 
 left to right to complete the level, gives us the Fire Flower, half way marks, the flag pole, the 
 Toad houses, the 3-D charecters, and Kid Bowser... I don't want to know how Bowser got a son... Anyway! 
 In addition to the old stuff Nintendo threw in a couple of new things such as a destruable enviornment, 
 new bosses, and new items. The new items are the Blue Kopa shell, The Micro Shroom, and the Mega 
 Shroom. The Blue Kopa Shell will give you the abilty to slide and take out enemies with a shell. 
 The Micro Shroom will turn you shink you to the size of half a gomba, and the Mega Shroom will 
 turn you into a Giant that will even make Bowser say "Uncle!!!!" The game play only requires the 
 D-pad, your choice of the A and X or B and Y buttons, and occasionally touching the touchscreen 
 to drop an item. The game play is fluid and natural even beginer gameres should be able to play 
 this game and do pretty well on it. This game like Super Mario 64 DS has a minigame mode which 
 you do can do simple and fun mini games such as mine sweaper, Texas hold'em Poker, that game with 
 the red and black bomb' oms, and more. This game also has multi-player this is where the game doesn't 
 do as well. There is a versus mode which works with ether down load or multi-pack link I don't 
 know why it seems the same no matter which you do. The only difference is that the loading time 
 takes longer on the download. The battle is only fun for about 30 min. or so then it starts to 
 get boring as only two people are able to play and there is only 5 levels to chose from. The mini 
 games are also come with a multi player mode which comes with a game were you have to surrond another 
 persons Bomb'oms with your own and a snow ball fight which is probably the best mini game on there. 
 But the point is that this game is really a single player game. Personly I think Nintendo should 
 have just cut the multi-player from it. Oh well any way I think this game is a good buy I had fun 
 the levels on single player kept me hooked and the castle theme is probably the best theme on a 
 Mario Platfromer. Plus it's just fun to crush everything in your site as Mega Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rev06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The main game is worth it. The levels are regrettably short, but the star coins make finding them 
 worthwhile. If you have a friend who is incredibly skilled with his DS, playing them in Mario Vs. 
 Luigi is really fun. My friend and I trade back and forth fireball all the time. It sometimes takes 
 us ten minutes to finish one round. Minigames are surprisingly fun. They thankfully carried some 
 of the good games over from Mario 64 DS, and they added some more very good ones. My favorite ones 
 being Whack-a-Monty, Wanted, and Picture Poker. Could have made the levels longer, but still really 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogirlgamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, you play as Mario and fight Baby Bowser. I have to say, I don't like how it's 
 a side-scroller, and thats what makes me think the graphics are bad. I mean, look at Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World, you can walk anywhere while in this game you can only walk left and right. I know this 
 is because it's Super Mario Brothers, but I think they could of done it that way anyways. But I 
 still love to play it! It's fun, and you will want to play it over and over. The controls are easy, 
 X and Y are dash, A and B are jump, and obviously the left-right-up-down thing is how you move. 
 R and L serve almost no purpose, because it just moves you camera slightly and when you let go 
 it goes back to regular camera. The music is good, I like Mario music and it's just perfect for 
 the scenes. I probably won't sell this game, so the value is good.
  
  Overall, I think you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have played any of the original Mario Bros. games then you pretty much know exactly what 
 to expect here. Well... Sort of.
  
  There are many, many familiarities from the original titles in this game: Koopas, Goombas, Mushrooms 
 that turn you big, The easiest boss fight known to man, Stars that make you invincible, End of 
 level flagpoles and so on. But that doesn't mean NSMB is just a collection of used parts.
  
  The world map can be considered unoriginal, but the only real similarity it can be compared 
 to is either SMB3 or SMB world. This time round though, you follow a much linear path.
  
  The levels are genius design, as you would expect. Not to mention that there are plenty of them. 
 A strange thing to have in the game that is similar to the original Mario Bros is the warp cannons 
 that transport you to worlds further on the game which can skip several hours of gameplay. Therefore 
 it is actually possible to defeat the last boss with only 50% of the levels completed (That's not 
 even including the secret levels) .
  
  Multiplayer has a lot to offer, but is still flawed and is certainly not the best multiplayer game 
 the DS has to offer.
  
  I think that calling the game "Over-rated" may be going overboard. But although the Gameplay has 
 the quality of every other Mario bros title (If not greater) , I'm afraid that it just doesn't last 
 as long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJarvis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. was the best thing that Mario had probably been in and now Nintendo have taken 
 Mario back to his roots with New Super Mario Bros.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is just as easy to get the hang of as the original and has 
 most of the same aspects including jumping on enemies to kill them and increasing in size when 
 you pick up a mushroom whilst trying to get to the end of the level. They have added new aspects 
 to the game though. One of these is a giant mushroom that turns Mario into colossal Mario, meaning 
 he can smash through pipes, enemies and break everything he touches, but this only lasts for a 
 short time. They also have added a mini-mushroom making Mario small enough to perform floating 
 jumps, enter little pipes and even run on water. And the final pickup is a blue shell which turns 
 you into a koopa and means you can do what they do best, bounce off surfaces. They also gave Mario 
 a few new moves including his wall jump, a rope swinging technique and a strafing against walls. This 
 games so easy to control and so much fun you'll cry.
  
  Graphics: the games graphics are the best Mario had been on a handheld so far and even though it 
 is a sidescrolling 2D game you get a sense on 3D from it and love it. When you see the amazing 
 3D bosses you will love Mario forever.
  
  Sound: The classic sound is back as well as some vamped up new tunes that are so good that if they 
 were in the original game it would make it even more legendary. The sounds when you pick up a mushroom, 
 when you get hit and shrink in size are amazing. Even if you die you will love to hear the classic 
 death music. Luckily I have never gotten game over but I trust Nintendo that this tune would be 
 brilliant aswell.
  
  Value: This game is worth whatever is paid for it. It has limitless replay value as it has fantastic 
 mini-games like Mario 64 DS. Nintendo also had a clever idea of not going through the worlds in 
 chronological order. You can go straight form 3 to 5 and still complete the game. This is where 
 replay value comes in as you will need to unlock every world and every level to complete the game 
 fully. Not only that but there are also 3 star coins in each level which either unlock other routes 
 or offer new backgrounds for the bottom screen. Getting all these is tough especially as you need 
 to find all the secret exits from every world to unlock all the levels. If you complete the game 
 once you also get a code so you can play through the game as Luigi. This doesn't really do anything 
 different, just that you a lanky green man instead of a fat red man.
  
  Overall: I think this is a must for DS owners and if you don't have a DS it is worth buying one 
 just for this game. It is just that good. The only way you'll know though is if you buy it for 
 yourself, or borrow a friends copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncommon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is an incredible Mario game. I can't say it any simpler. Not only does it have the classic 
 game play we all love but the graphics are great, the levels are well designed and the multi player 
 is dreamy. Not since Super Mario Bros. 3 have I been able to play this kind of multi player.
  
  The only element I personally missed was riding around on a Yoshi. I remember the old days 
 running through the levels on a red yoshi, throwing fire at my enemies.
  
  Not only was the multiplayer good but it was addictive. I was visiting my brother at the end of 
 his stay in basic training and we must have played the multiplayer for hours on end. 
  
  All that being said, I've beat all the levels and collected 75% percent of the coins. Since then 
 I have dramatically stopped playing. It's replay value is good but once your done... your done. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krylancello
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Completing the game takes just over an hour, while finding the Star Coins and secret levels can 
 add a considerable amount more to the game, it still feels too short. Finding all of the Star Coins 
 takes quite a bit of work, and the work is repaid with not much more than "Good Job, here's a wallpaper". 
 
  
  The game's high points are those in which the original Mario Bros. feel is kept intact, but new 
 extraordinary elements are added. New items such as the "Mini Mushroom", "Turtle Shell", and "Huge 
 Mario" add quite a bit of new flavor into the Mario game. The overworld map screen is bland and 
 lacking, especially compared to Super Mario World. The touch screen of the DS displays the Star 
 Coins found in the level and the "inventory" item, which can be called to use by a tap on the screen, 
 as well as progress in the current stage. One of the most exciting and disappointing features of 
 the game are the minigames. They are simply the minigames rehashed from Mario 64 DS.
  
  The multiplayer is a great add, but only a few small levels and a very boring format of play add 
 little to the game itself. A "race mode" through levels or some other format than "collect the 
 star" would have been a much better addition. The multiplayer that was included seemed to be an 
 afterthought to the game to simply have multiplayer capability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strawhat3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is such a classic. It is the best ds game in the world. yea. THE WORLD. Mario is back with 
 his classic and he's jumpin in ur ds! He's packed with awesome new moves you couldn't do on the 
 original super mario bros. He can wall jump and triple jump and stuff! U even get some cool new 
 items like the SUPER mushroom. You grow triple ur size so u fit the screen so u can get da bad 
 guys. The gameplay is just like the original which is EXCELLENT! NEW SUPER MARIO BROS IS THE BEST 
 GAME TO HAVE ON YOUR NINTENDO DS SO BUY IT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!! YEA GO RUN TO DA STORE AND PICK ONE 
 UP!!!! GO GO GOO!!!! THIS GAME PWNS ANY OTHER GAME FOR THE DS SO GET IT NOW AND I MEAN NOW!!!!!! 
 BABY BOWSER IS WAITING FOR YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gogetaex
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Its a wonderful game that brings you back to the old days of simple run right and jump. I really 
 enjoyed it. It could be a simple game of getting to the end of the game and beating the final boss 
 or a medium level game by completing all the levels or a challenge by beating the entire game and 
 finding all the star coins. No matter how good or bad of a gamer you are you can find a way to 
 make this game suit your liking. It could be a game for old schoolers or people just starting to 
 play nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatman1000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  The Mario franchise has always been great. From the original Super Mario Bros, to the graphically 
 astonishing Super Mario 64 DS. You may be asking yourself why you should get this game. I mean 
 it's just another mario game, right? Wrong, it's a mario game with new powerups, moves, and a whole 
 lot more. You may have read other player reviews saying that it's ok, but to the true mario fan, 
 it's astonishing. 
  
  Gameplay- New Super Mario Bros features over 80 different levels scattered in 8 worlds. Some worlds 
 have extra levels which you can unlock using star coins. For those of you who may be asking yourself 
 what a star coin is, it's a golden coin with a star on it. And you can find 3 star coins in each 
 level, even the extra ones. The difficulty in New Super Mario Bros is spot on. The levels in world 
 1 are easy. And the levels in world 8 are hard. The difficulty is slowly ramped up from one world 
 to the next. You can get such powerups as the MEGA Mushroom ( which makes mario fill the entire 
 screen. And lets him destroy anything in his way) , or the MINI Mushroom (which makes mario very 
 tiny, and allows him to enter mini pipes) . Also mario can get a koopa shell where he can get inside 
 his shell to avoid enemys. There's also your standard fire flower. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in New Super Mario Bros are amazing! Vibrant and Colorful backgrounds are 
 what you'll see. You'll also see 3D enemys and pipes. Trust me, you'll love how New Super Mario 
 Bros looks.
  
  Sound- The sound in New Super Mario Bros is classic. By that, I mean you'll hear the ping when 
 you collect a coin, and the great background music. And all the other classic sounds. Like when 
 you fight bowser, you hear him roar. 
  
  Value- Some people may say that New Super Mario Bros is a short game, but it isn't. Sure you may 
 beat all the levels and get every star coin, but you'll come back to replay levels you liked. And 
 you'll most likely play the game for at least 10 to 20 hours. I love it, and I have played it alot. 
 
  
  Overall- This game is awesome! I recommend you buy this game if you're considering getting a DS, 
 or looking for a great platformer. It's great to have on long trips or just play at home. It's 
 also good to show off to your friends. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xythos09
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  It's been nearly 26 years since the original Super Mario Bros. was released, a game that gave us 
 many good memories. With this classic follows a terrific 2D side-scroller, New Super Mario Bros. 
 Like the title says, it is a brand new Super Mario Bros. game, keeping the fun gameplay from its 
 predecessors while adding some new mechanics from more recent games, creating this game that is 
 simply fun, for both veterans and new comers alike.
  
  The story is exactly what you would expect from a Mario game. Bowser Jr. kidnaps Princess Peach 
 and Mario has to rescue her. Throughout the game, you'll make your way through up to eight worlds, 
 depending on how you play throughout the game. There are eighty levels in total, but whether you 
 get to play through all of them also depends on how you play. The levels can be completed quite 
 fast if you really try, allowing you to complete the game within a day or two, but you can always 
 go back and try to find some extras, making the game even longer.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll see a many different kinds of levels and worlds, such as an ice world, 
 rocky world, and more. The way the levels are made take complete advantage of Mario's moves to 
 get around. In this game, you have the basic run and jump. Depending on your control settings, 
 two of the buttons will allow you to jump, while the other to buttons will allow you to dash while 
 held down. When you are Fire Mario, the dash buttons will also allow you to shoot fireballs. One 
 of the game's features that makes it a brand new game are Mario's moves taken from the more recent 
 3D platformer, Super Mario 64. By pushing in the direction of the wall on the D pad, you'll be 
 able to slide down walls, thus allowing you to wall jump by pressing the jump button. While in 
 the air, pressing down on the D pad will allow you to ground pound, and while dashing, you can 
 time your jumps right to perform a double, and even a triple jump. Pressing down on the D pad normally 
 will let you crouch, and while going down a hill, you'll be able to slide down, knocking out your 
 enemies. By pressing left and right on the D pad while on poles or vines, you'll be able to swing 
 and then jump off to get across gaps. Knowing when and where to use these moves is the key to finding 
 the secrets in the levels, but they are also needed to get through the level itself.
  
  Not only are there new moves, but there are new power-ups as well. The mega mushroom allows Mario 
 to become extremely large to the point where he fills up the screen. During this period of time, 
 you'll become invincible, destroying everything in your path. The mini mushroom allows Mario to 
 become even smaller than normal, allowing you to access places that would be too small for Mario 
 to normally get to. The blue shell gives Mario a blue shell on his back, which allows you to tuck 
 inside and slide like a shell if you dash long enough. These power-ups aren't found too often, 
 but they are mostly needed for getting to certain areas for the secrets of the game. The classic 
 items are still in the game. You have the mushroom which makes you bigger, allowing you to break 
 bricks, the fire flower which allows you to shoot fireballs, and the starman, which makes you temporarily 
 invincible. The controls are simple enough, and with the moves and power-ups tied in, they make 
 the game simply fun to play.
  
  Many of the levels are easy, with a few harder ones here and there. They're short, but if you take 
 your time and search for some secrets, you can make your experience in the level longer, although 
 you probably won't be doing that unless you're trying to beat the game completely or if you're 
 trying to beat the game faster than you normally could. Along the way through your objective to 
 getting through the worlds, you'll come across towers and castles. They are just levels with a 
 castle setting more or less, but you'll encounter a boss at the end. In towers, you'll find Bowser 
 Jr. waiting for you, while castles hold bosses relative to the world's setting. The boss fights 
 really don't take much to become victorious. It's all about finding the right time to jump on top 
 of them, and once you do, you shouldn't have much trouble. With the exception of Bowser and Bowser 
 Jr., you won't encounter one boss again unless you go back to it. The boss fights are short themselves, 
 only taking you around thirty seconds to complete, or a minute at most. They're not really needed, 
 but it's a nice little addition to have.
  
  The game is brought from the 8 and 16-bit to updated polygon graphics, giving the game a newer 
 look and feel. The game makes Mario, the enemies, and levels looking better than ever and overall 
 looks really good. The music, while not exactly the same, has a more modern feel when compared 
 to the older songs. There are also some newer music thrown into the game. But by beating a level 
 with a time where the the last two digits are the same, with the exception of 00, you will be able 
 to hear the original level completion tune. The music and sounds effects undoubtedly sound great 
 and is one of the strong points of the game.
  
  If you're looking for more than just the single-player, there are two other modes for you to choose 
 from. There is a Mario versus Luigi mode, where you can verse another player as Mario or Luigi 
 in a competition to collect a certain amount of stars. There are a few levels to choose from, all 
 similar to levels you'll encounter through the single player, but they are sized down and just 
 loop around. You can use all the moves and power-ups in the single-player mode to your advantage 
 to cause your opponent to drop their own stars, giving you a chance to steal them. Like Super Mario 
 64 DS, there is the addition of touch screen minigames, taking advantage of the stylus and the 
 microphone in one particular minigame. You can play with up to three other players, and there are 
 a variety of games to choose from. Both modes can be played through having multiple game cards 
 or having others download the game from another player, and although they are fun, they are more 
 for just taking a break from the single-player or if you are with some friends who want to play 
 as well.
  
  Although the name can cause some confusion, New Super Mario Bros. is in fact a game in its own 
 right. It's a classic brought back with some new features, making it a terrific game. You could 
 say it's a new classic itself. This is one game that every DS owner add to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2shark
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is my first DS game, and it has contributed to get me to love the DS.
  
  Gameplay
  Nintendo understood that if it ain't broke, don't fix it, that's why Mario returns 
 with its top notch gameplay that made its way from the old days. Ultra-tight controls, intelligent 
 level designs and the fun-factor that pushed the mario bros. series sky-high. All these combined 
 makes it an instant classic, but you know what, its not just a remake, its a whole "New" game, 
 like the title promises! New moves (Wall jump, triple jump, etc...) New power-ups (Mega-Mario, 
 Mini-Mario, Koopa-Mario) and item collecting (3 of those big shiny coins per level help you unlock 
 new levels, bonus items mushroom houses and more) There are also a lot of cool minigames to play 
 if you don't have the time to do a couple levels (that's what it take to be able to save...) minigames 
 are simple but addictive pick n' play type, perfect for the DS!
  
  Graphics
  The Mario style never gets old, its quite unique and the 3D textures look really nice on this 2D 
 scrolling platformer. 2D is great for a handheld. Graphics are pretty good for the DS, this is 
 not a PSP game!
  
  Sound
  Some nice additions is that the level monsters (koopas and those brown "things") actually dance 
 to the beat of the music. Its not a perfect music selection but its OK for this type of game.
 
  
  Value
  Lots! You can actually get through the game pretty easily but there are two somewhat hard to reach 
 worlds: 4 and 7 (you will actually skip them if you play the game the strait way) You will have 
 to beat the bosses of level 3 and 6 as Mini-Mario, which is kinda hard, but completely doable! 
 There is also a lot of replay value due to "big coin" collecting, you will have to revisit levels 
 a lot to get them all, so much that it becomes an obsession. Multiplayer also adds great replay 
 value. Its also fun to replay levels with different power-ups, just to see if you could get in 
 a secret place you couldn't with the others.
  
  Finally, New Super Mario Bros. is now one of my favorite games, if not the best since Super Mario 
 World on SNES!
  Try it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Difficulty: This game is very, very easy at some parts, then at other times, so frustrating you 
 want to chuck your ds at the wall. It levels out to Just right.
  
  Time spent: I have spent 3, maybe four hours on it so far and I am about one third way through 
 just BEATING the game. But to COMPLETE the game it will take about 25+ hours probably.
  
  Learning Curve: Pick up and play. Y to run, B to jump, arrows to control. Not hard.
  
  Gameplay: 
 This is Mario, awesome, can't be beat. 10/10
  Graphics: Very crisp and nice for ds, excellent mix of 2d and 3d. 9/10
  Sound: Mario has the 
 best music. ever. 10/10
  Value: You just gotta beat Mario games at least 3 times before your done with it. 10/10
  Tilt: 
 It is Mario. It is new. Yay. 10/10
  Buy this game. It won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonenjumpfan12
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Once again its the same old same old story. This time the Mario in this game is more 
 like the Mario in Super Mario World 64 because he can do the 3 jumps, He can jump off walls, and 
 the graphics are in 3-D. keep in mind that this game is really short. like only 10 hours and the 
 bowser fights can be beat by even the most unexperenced players.
  
  GRAPHICS: There better than the other mario games with the 3-D type graphics. No slow down.
  
 
  SOUND: The music is like it just poped out of the Mario bros. universe but since its on the DS 
 its more polished off especally if you have headphones in.
  
  VALUE: Theres not much replay value in this mario game and the final fight can be beaten in about 
 five minutes along with the other fights involving bowser.
  
  TILT: I had fun playing this one and should be picked up for the younger players but if your a 
 fan of mario and really want to play this one just rent it or buy it used because your going to 
 beat it in about a week or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lurker22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Mario has been entertaining people for 26 years. In this 2D Platform for the DS. Mario must Save 
 peach from Bowser Jr. and Bowser. The controls are very easy to learn. the enemies are so easy 
 to kill it's not even worth a challenge to fight against. Transformations like the Mushrooms and 
 the Fire Flower are not the only ones there. There are more too. Mega Mushroom can turn you into 
 a gigantic person and smash through other objects. depending on how much you smashed. you can get 
 1 Ups (while in Mega Mushroom notice the big ling in the top. a green line will appear and grow 
 for everything you smash.) and the Blue Shell. one of the Most Permanently Powerful Transformation 
 in the game. it allows you to go in a shell and kill any enemy you strike. There are Mushroom houses 
 you can enter for a item or a surprise. Saving is kinda lame because you only save after you beat 
 a tower, beat a castle, or used star coins. This game is so easy to beat it takes you at least 
 7 hours to complete. Now let's say your in Fire Mario and you get hit by a enemy, you go into Super 
 Mario instead of Mini Mario. There are also Abilities you can use like Wall Jump, Ground Pound, Ect.
 
  
  Overall i give this a 9.2/10 because it is so good. you can play multi-player or mini-games and 
 the Adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a game that has been planned since practically the birth of the DS. We 
 all knew it was coming, and we waited an age. Its surprising that there hasn't been a new 2D style 
 Mario in over 10 years. We all loved the classic original, with Super Mario Bros 3 being the best 
 thing you could see on the NES at the time. Super Mario World took things to a new level, and Yoshi's 
 Island was just fantastic. So in 2006, we welcome Mario and Luigi back to their roots.
  
  The plot is a no brainer. In fact, like all Mario games, its totally predictable. Mario and Peach 
 are taking a walk around Mushroom Kingdom, when the castle is attacked. Mario runs off to investigate. 
 Its a diversion, as Bowser Jr. kidnaps her and runs off. Mario chases. Its a return to the usual 
 Mario fare really.
  
  The world is set out pretty much like Super Mario Bros 3. There are different Icons for different 
 areas. Normal worlds appear in steps, and have an environment around it, so you get the idea of 
 what sort of level it is. There are also Warp Pipes, Mushroom Houses, 1-Up houses and Super Mushroom 
 Houses. In each world, there is a castle and at least one tower. Towers contain a mini-boss, and 
 castles, big bosses. In the first world, players are treated to a semi-familiar miniboss, and a 
 VERY familiar boss!
  But as you explore the levels, you may come across some unusually large coins. What are they? Well, 
 in order to access some of the places around the worlds, you need Star Coins to pay. There are 
 3 in each level, and are quite accessible, though some are more hidden.
  
  Mario's reportoire of moves has increased. This is because of the N64 incarnations, and their influence 
 on the series. He can now ground pound and wall jump! He has the old Mushroom and Fire Flower at 
 his disposal, but he also has a Mini-Mushroom, which turns him tiny, to fit into small pipes and 
 holes. He also has a shell, which makes him act like a Koopa Troopa when he runs. Speaking of Koopa 
 Troopas, they're here! And Goombas! In fact all the familiar enemies are all here. There are one 
 or two new ones as well, but done in the same style. The levels themselves are a homage to the 
 original classics. There is even a level with the climbing frames from Super Mario World, and killing 
 the Koopa Troopas by punching the frame is still hilarious.
  
  The game isn't 100% linear though. To minimally complete the game, you need to complete 6 Worlds. 
 There are two secret worlds (well, knowing how to get there is a secret) that you can explore. 
 While this is a nice incentive to play the game more, it does slice up the game's lifespan greatly.
 
  
  Another thing is the bosses themselves. If you manage to have the Fire Flower, most will drop with 
 a barrage of fireballs. No skill involved. In fact, the only boss that proves semi-difficult is 
 the last boss (es) . However, having said that, the game's bosses do really weird, and sometimes 
 daft things, so the hilarity of Mario still goes strong.
  
  The game has its own quirks. When you put your DS on standby (closing the lid) , Mario will say 
 "Goodbye". When opened, he says "Its'a Me, Mario!". This just goes to show how well Nintendo know 
 their console, and it is a nice, and original feature.
  
  The game also features two other modes. One, totally multiplayer mode, named Mario Vs Luigi. This 
 is basically racing through stages. I personally love the idea, and the way they've done it resembles 
 their earlier attempt at link racing (Super Mario Bros DX for the GBC) . Eventually though, the 
 novelty of this wears off, but you can always do things to make it more interesting, such as have 
 a tournament, or bet... I dunno.
  
  When that wears off, there is a multi-player/single player mini-game mode. This also has been done 
 before, a little more recently, in Super Mario 64 DS. However, while some are the same, there are 
 some different ones. One of which involves you blowing into the microphone. I always thought though, 
 that the Microphone was a gimmick. The other games are carefully planned though, and can waste 
 a couple of hours, when with a friend.
  
  All I can say is, Mario is back to his original self. While the title isn't as long as Super Mario 
 World or Yoshi's Island, and certainly not as long as I wished, it does have an incredible amount 
 of charm, and if single player starts to grind on you, then the multiplayer facilities won't disappoint. 
 Like you would get bored of the Single Player options though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Over all New Super Mario Bros. is a very good game and when I bought it Id heard it was a very 
 short game and although it didnt look it didnt look it when I bought it, I ended up completing 
 it in a matter of hours but this is without playing all levels and getting all the star coins. 
 Looking at gameplay this is pretty much your average platform game but for those of you who will 
 of played the original Mario games this classic style of Mario will bring back memories. As with 
 a lot of games you will find frustrating areas but that makes it feel all the sweeter when you 
 clear them. Considering this is a handheld 2D and that the graphics cant be taken to an overwhelming 
 level New Super Mario Bros. Does very well for itself creating a nice looking cartoony background 
 and 3D-like characters. Even when you become Mega Mario there is still no loss of graphics quality. 
 As for sound the BGMs although fairly few are quite cool and although I would have liked to of 
 heard the original Mario theme used a bit more I found the music provided a pleasing backing to 
 the antics of the game. As for sound effects you will find this is another aspect of the game which 
 will take you back to the familiar coin and mushroom collecting sound effects of the NES. These 
 sounds really remind you, you are playing a classic Mario game. There is the usual amount of plot 
 in it for a Mario game. Lightning hits Peachs castle, Mario starts to run off towards it to see 
 what is going on and Peach is kidnapped by Bowser Jr. (remember Bowser Jr. saying one day he would 
 get Mario at the end of SMS) . The replayability is quite good as it is a platform game but you 
 will find some levels longer than others and over all it is a very good game, all the flashy publicity 
 wasnt for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaLoY21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. for the DS is a showcase of all the past 2d mario games all into one package 
 and a tribute by Nintendo to all the fans whom have been yearning for a new 2d sidescroller from 
 the red and blue plumber himself.
  If you've ever played a 2d sidescrolling mario game then you know what to expect here smooth and 
 tight controls, awesome level design, great soundtrack, lovable enemies to jump on, tons of hidden 
 secrets, and the list goes on and on.
  All of the moves from past mario games have been added here such as wall jump, butt stump, and triple 
 jump. These new moves add a lot of depth to the sidescrolling and it would be difficult to come 
 back to past Mario games without em. There are some new items too be found too but some tend to 
 feel tacked on such as the mushroom to become large because they don't add anything to the game 
 that much. Except for the tiny mushroom and the mushroom that turns you into a shell which are 
 necessary to find the secrets in the game.
  The story well you know the drill Princess Peach gets stolen and you Mario have to save her, but 
 that's not the reason we play these games in the first place. So overall New Super Mario Bros. is 
 highly polished game that doesn't deviate too far from past 2d Mario games and is a friendly reminder 
 to everyone why these games have been great all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, this game is a success. It's sold millions of copies already, which shows this game 
 has what it takes to sell well. Or perhaps it is because this is an eagerly awaited Mario game, 
 so people will just buy it anyway? Either way, it has shown strong success.
  
  If you own a DS, this is a great game to buy. It is also a great game to buy if you're thinking 
 about buying a DS. New Super Mario Bros. is fun, sometimes addictive and an offers a somewhat nostalgic 
 experience.
  
  So, why only a 7.5 if it's a great game to buy?
  
  Well, quite simply because this game has been done before. The only difference here is the new 
 powerups, moves and a unique look. The powerups aren't used an awful lot though, but they're pretty 
 fun to use.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  
  This game obviously follows Mario and his predictable search for Princess Peach, who has (yet again) 
 been kidnapped. This game follows the traditional Mario gameplay, with the classic 2D plane being 
 reborn. Mario will move from one side of the screen to the other in 8 worlds, with about 10 levels 
 in each world.
  
  The same Mario gameplay features exist in this game. Jumping, shooting fireballs etc etc. This 
 game has also got some new moves for Mario too, ones which were originally exclusive to the 3D 
 games, such as wall jumping and the ground pound. Mario can also grab onto ropes and do other cool 
 things which will help you rech certain places.
  
  Mario can now also use three new powerups which aren't all necessary to complete the game, but 
 provide you with more entertainment and methods of completing a level. The first of these powerups 
 is the Blue Shell, which will give Mario a blue koopa shell to wear. By wearing this, he can hide 
 isnide the shell and spin around, just like an ordinary koopa shell, except this time Mario is 
 inside it. At first I found this a little hard to control, but eventually it wasn't so bad.
  The second powerup will make Mario become tiny, allowing him to fit under small gaps and through 
 much smaller pipes than usual. he can also run across water and jump even higher than he can usually.
 
  The final powerup will make Mario a ridiculously large size, allowing him to destory anything 
 in his path. You can kick pipes away, destroy blocks and annihilate enemies using this powerup, 
 but will only last a certain period of time.
  
  This game also has a mini game section, but you won't spend as much time on this as the main game 
 most likely. Most of the mini games are the same as the ones from Mario 64 DS, with a few new ones 
 added in.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  
  Interestingly, this game has good graphics for DS standards. This game uses 3D characters, but 
 on a 2D plane. Overall the levels are beautifully presented, constantly looking vibrant and lively.
 
  
  -SOUNDS-
  
  Classic Mario sounds. This is possibly the cause of all the nostalgia in this game. This game has 
 the some of the older, famous Mario songs beefed up, so you know what to expect. Decent sounds.
 
  
  -VALUE-
  
  This game won't last a very long time, for me it didn't. I completed the main game in less than 
 a week and completed all the levels the week after. This was on my first playthrough ever too. 
 So although it sounds like it has a lot of levels, you'll end up at the last one before you know 
 it.
  
  This game is also too easy. The levels didnt get challenging until the very last world. Even then, 
 the levels weren't as difficult as I would've expected them to be, The bosses are also so easy, 
 they could be called pathetic. You go through a pretty challenging castle level only to find some 
 poor excuse for a monster which you kill by jumping on it's head three times with no effort.
  
  You could rent this one and complete it in a week if you tried hard enough. Only if you totally 
 enjoy Mario or you really want this game should you think about buying it. Otherwise, it could 
 be a lot of money spent on something that won't last too long. Try Mario Kart if you're unsure, 
 it's possibly the best game on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  The original "Mario Bros." was one of the most influential games of all time. 
  It not only gave birth to the most famous video games star of all time but it also defined the 
 genre that is platforming. Needless to say the game spawned masses of sequels, most of which were 
 equally brilliant.
  
  Now it's the DS's time to get some good ol' Mario action.
  
  The title is very misleading, by calling it "new" Super Mario Bros it makes you think of the original 
 but with nicer graphics etc. But this is actually a brand new game, just in the same vein of the 
 original Mario Bros games.
  
  Needless to say this is a side on platforming game where you take on the roll of Mario, the fearless 
 plumber. And once again Princess Peach has been kidnapped from under the plumbers nose.
  
  The game pans out a lot like "Mario Bros 3" in that there is an over world map you traverse. But 
 it also takes inspiration from "Super Mario World" from the SNES in that the over world map has 
 lots of secrets to uncover. Secondary exits open up new levels etc.
  
  So, it is kind of a mix between MB3 and SMW. Still, there are new features. 
  Mario has a few 
 new moves and three new items to use.
  
  The main game pans out like all Mario side scrollers. The aim is to get to the end of the level 
 without dying. This can mean avoiding enemies, not running out of time, evading rising lava levels 
 etc. But essentially you just have to get to the end of the level.
  A new coin system has been implemented to increase the life of the game, you can now collect 3 
 special coins per level which are used to buy your way to new levels.
  
  On your journey you cross 8 worlds. Most people will completely skip worlds 3 and 7 on their travels 
 because they are secret worlds you have to unlock. Again, this seems to be a tactic used to lengthen 
 the game.
  
  So, this is primarily a "New" Mario Bros. game, not a rehash but a sequel of sorts.
  
  Now, 
 while the game is great fun to play it does have a few shortcomings.
  
  Firstly is the length. If you are only interested in finding and killing the last boss you will 
 be disappointed, this tactic will get the game done in a weekend easily. If you are willing to 
 track down every level and every coin then there is a challenge to be had, but still it wont last 
 all that long.
  
  Secondly, are the new features. Most of the new moves and new items are barely used. Only two new 
 features are really implemented well, the wall jump and butt stomp, which are both very useful. 
 Apart from that it is a simple run 'n' jump game.
  
  Also, they have felt it necessary to put in a multiplayer mode. The standard addition is the side 
 scrolling adventure where you run round a continuous level trying to collect all the stars. The 
 second mode is a mini-game mode where you just compete in mini-games. Most of the mini-games are 
 taken from Mario 64 but are still quite fun.
  While the multiplayer mode is fun, it wont win any awards and will barely draw you away from the 
 single player.
  
  So, while the game does have short comings it is still brilliantly fun to play and the controls 
 are so spot on you can never blame anything but your own lack of skill when you die.
  
  Am essential for the Nintendo DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srikanth10
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Mario games to date. I like it because it's simple and there are no 
 super confusing maps or levels. It is very addictive and fun.
  This game's levels are sometimes easy, sometimes hard, sometimes,  
 Easy and sometimes  Hard. I would suggest getting it. The 
 only bad thing is saving, until you beat bowser's castle you can save when you beat a castle/tower, 
 or if you spend star coins. But that's how it takes advantage of the DS's sleep mode. Here's a warning, 
 DO NOT BUY A USED New Supe Mario Bros. I say that because they will have probably been beaten or 
 screwed with cheats. 2 player is hard and fun. I rate the game a 9.0 for all this stuff I said, Graphics 
 aren't that great though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MLCkimono2021
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  just by looking at the cover, it already looks amazing. Just by looking at the starting screen, 
 it's already addictive. when I started playing at this side-scrolling game, i will never regret 
 of buying this... this is just plain F-U-N!!! just when you thought that Mario Bros. couldn't get 
 any better, well you're wrong, since the ds was released, Mario has been a thumbs-up since he was 
 still a plumber trying to climb ladders while Donkey Kong was throwing barrels at him to save peach.. 
 for 14 years, they never let gamers out there put a thumbs-down to them... so for all gamers out 
 there... never regret of buying this, this game is plain COOL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  I have played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played the Super Mario World in the Super Nintendo then you will probably know 
 what this game is all about. If you didn't, you missed a lot. The storyline is the same as all 
 the Mario games where someone kidnappes the princess and now Mario has to go and save her. The 
 modes in this game are like this: There is Storymode, Multiplayer, Minigames and options. In Storymode, 
 you will have to go and save the princess (like I explained earlier) . You have eight worlds in 
 total, each of them has about 12-15 levels (including the hidden levels) . When you start a level, 
 you will be able to transform into normal Mario, Mario that shoots fire, Turtle Mario, Mini Mario 
 and Giant Mario. The normal and fire Mario are already known, but the others aren't. Turtle Mario 
 is when you have a shell on your back and when you press down, you can dodge anyone who tries to 
 hit you. Even when you run, you will go into your shell and spin and that way beat anyone you come 
 across. The mini Mario is exactly how it's sound. You turn small. Mini Mario doesn't do much, but 
 you will be able to come through small locations that normal Mario can't go through. And final, 
 you have the Giant Mario which is really cool because when you turn Giant, you basiclly just walk 
 through the level and destroy pumps, enemies and other things and nothing can stop you. When you 
 start a level, a screen will pop in the bottom screen and you will have to collect three special 
 coins (including the regular ones) . When you collect these coins, you can open hidden levels in 
 the world map and then in the hidden levels, you get a bonus like earning a mushroom or something 
 like that. In the world map, you have normal levels, mini boss levels and boss levels. The mini 
 boss levels are different in the design, but the boss in that level is always the same (mini dragon) . 
 The Boss levels are cool and challenging. You have bosses that fly in the air, shoot things at 
 you and other stuff. The first three bosses are really easy (in one boss you have to go behind 
 him, press a button and that's it) but as you progress, you will have more difficulty. The controlls 
 in the game are really responsive. The controlls are really responsive and you will have no problem 
 playing the game with these controlls. One thing I do want to mention is that you have the upper 
 screen which all the action is in it and you have the bottom screen. You have no Stylus gameplay 
 in this game, which could have been nice and make the game even more fun and challenging. Graphics: 
 The graphics in this game are really well done. The characters' models are really good, the menues 
 look nice and the environments are really big and full of veriaty. The best thing about the graphics 
 are the special effects of the mushrooms powers. When you turn into a giant, it is really cool 
 looking at that and see that you destroy anything in your path.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is the same sound as you hear in the all the latest Mario entries 
 to the series. The background sound is good and the music is the same music we all know and love. 
 In the game, you also have an unlockable which when you unlock it, you can put the old classic 
 Mario music which is kind of nice.
  
  Value: You can play this game for hours and hours trying to finish the game. Even though the storymode 
 is a little short, it is really satisfying and you can go back and play the game as Luigi or come 
 back and collect all the special coins that you didn't collect in certain levels. Now I will explain 
 about the other modes. Options mode is options mode. Multiplayer mode is when you and your friend 
 can play together wirelessly (Mario and Luigi) and battle each other to decide which one is the 
 best. You can play one on one in designed levels or play with up to four players in tons of minigames. 
 The other mode is Minigames which is what it is. You have a lot of minigames to play in (action, 
 table, one on one, puzzle, etc...) and each of them are really good and taking time to finish them 
 off.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall, New Super Mario Bros ends up to be one of the best Mario games of all 
 time. It brings the same great elements from the Super Mario World game and adds some new features 
 including new mushrooms, multiplayer and minigames. If you are a Mario fan or just want a good 
 Nintendo DS game, you should go buy this game now. Even if you not, you still want to check this 
 one out because this game is one of those games that makes you want a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnesNinja
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I was a bit skeptical to say the least when I heard they were going to be calling the latest 
 Mario Bros installment, "NEW" Super Mario Bros, but I guess when there are so many ports and re-releases 
 of many classic Mario Games you need a pretty straight forward marketing strategy.
  
  Lets get straight too it this game is ADDICTIVE. It was a breath of fresh air to once again take 
 control of Mario in is most loved form and by that I mean the Nes style mushroom eatin, fire ball 
 shootin, goo-mba stomping lovable plumber.
  
  Right off the bat you are introduced to a new power up item that allows Mario to increase his size 
 and thus become somewhat indestructible and from then on you are introduced to a gameplay environment 
 that meshes together many of our favorite past generation Mario games.
  
  Gameplay: Very well thought out, the game is though somewhat easier than most Mario games, but 
 it has its moments. The style of play is more closely related to Mario 3 but without the benefits 
 of flying and other favorable items, but elements of all the series can be found.
  
  Control: very easy, "Mario-esk" type contols.
  
  Graphics: Very smooth, well done.
  
  Sound: 
 Nothing special, not really worth turing the sound up or putting on headphones to enjoy.
  
  Replay Value: High
  
  Overall: A definate must have for any Mario fan of any DS owner. So far 
 in my opinion this is up there with the best new titles for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just can't belive how much I enjoy this game it is absolutely fantastic, it brings back 
 the old mario gameplay and adds the visuals, and with a nice additon of mini games and multiplayer.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY-Very easy to pick up and play gameplay, the controlls are simple and they are great, all 
 different types of worlds, tropical, desert, etc. Then there all the mario power ups, mushrooms, 
 big mushrooms, shells, etc. The gameplay is just superb, everything about it is perfect, this has 
 to be my favorite DS game that I own!
  
  GRAPHICS-The graphics are great as well, like I said earlier, they took all the old mario gameplay 
 and re did the graphics and they look beautifull, the worlds the levels, maro and luigi, everything 
 looks great.
  
  SOUND-Great sound effects, all the noises from getting coins and stomping goombas and other badies 
 are great!
  
  VALUE-Pretty good value for 35$, I guess you could say it's a little on the short side, but mini 
 games and multiplayer will keep you occupied as well.
  
  MULTIPLAYER-You can play up to 4 people on minigames, 2 on mario vs. luigi, which is a mode where 
 you select a course, and the two players battle to get stars, the person who wins is the person 
 who collects the number of stars chose at the begining, I have a blast playing it with my friends.
 
  
  MINIGAMES-The type of mini-games you find in the game are: action, puzzle, table and variety. There 
 are games from super mario 64 DS, as well as some new ones, and pretty much all of them are great.
 
  
  Overall-This game is absolutely amazing, if you have a DS, it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0li
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well, i can reveal that, not to anyone's surprise and to put it simply, this game is brilliant. 
 Nintendo have yet again made a Platformer that sets the bar for all subsequent games of its genre.
 
  
  I can't honestly say much. I'm just going to surmise it, because the great stuff would take 2 hours 
 that i haven't got to get it all down.
  
  To put it bluntly, this game is essential. If you own a DS, buy it. If you don't own a DS, buy 
 one and play this game. Its that simple, everyone should play this.
  
  If you own or have played the game, you should know what i'm talking about. If you haven't played 
 it and don't know what I'm on about, go and play it. If you STILL don't know what I'm on about, 
 you deserved to be slapped in the face with a large wet fish.
  
  Gameplay: Its Mario in classic form. What more could you ask for?
  
  Graphics: The visuals 
 push the limit on the DS.
  
  Sound: Tunes that stick in your head for weeks on end.
  
  Value: Main game can be completed on a weekend, but there are plenty of secrets to find. The learning 
 curve is perfect. By the time you have beaten the last boss, you will have picked up most of the 
 star coins, only to have to go find all the alternate exits and the rest of these elusive coins.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: This is pure Mario from start to finish. If you own a DS, this is the game you 
 should own. One of the true modern classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  For the first time since Mario Land 2, Nintendo have made an original 2D Mario for the gameboy, 
 which is a shame because New Super Mario Bros shows that 2D plat formers are much better then 3D 
 plat formers. The game is every bit as good as Mario Bros on the Nes and stays true to that Mario 
 game then any others in the collection, for example fire plants and big up mushrooms are back but 
 the flying cape and metal Mario are not. There are also some original ideas like Mega mushrooms 
 which turn you into a gaint, and there is also a mini mushrooms which shrinks you to a mini Mario 
 which is needed to unlock worlds 3 and 5.
  All the characters are 3D and the levels are 2D the same as Sonic Rush, the backgrounds are colourful 
 and suit the levels very well, the character movement is excellent and responds well.
  The music is a bit of a let down, with tunes that sound off key and badly put together but they 
 dont prove any problem when playing the game. 
  But sadly the game is let down by its silly Saving. The only way the game can be saved is by finishing 
 a castle or opening a secret route. Sometimes there is 3 or 4 levels before each castle which make 
 playing this game for a few minutes impossible.
  But overall it is a fantastic game that is fun to play and easy to learn how to play, and I hope 
 they make a second.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Do you all remember playing the first and third one back in the day. I sure do. This new game brought 
 back so many good memories that even after beating the game I still hold on to it. Though there 
 is only 8 or 9 "worlds" that you can go through, just like in Super Mario 3. This game is awesome 
 though, by far the one of the best Mario games lately. There was very little I did not like about 
 this game but one was the wall jump that never seemed to work for me. Other major thing is difficulty. 
 It was a pretty easy game minus finding all the things to get to those two worlds that you can't 
 get to. You really can't go wrong with this one. New Super Mario Bros. is Super Mario Bros. mixed 
 with Super Mario 64 all jammed into one game. Just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgm007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  The first time I picked up this game, I was getting the feeling of "Oh great, this isn't going 
 to be another rehash of what's been done before, is it?" However, as I started playing, that feeling 
 went away quickly as I progressed through World 1. Sure, the stage types may be the same old kind 
 of worlds we're used to seeing in the Mario universe (grassland, desert, ocean, etc.) , but the 
 introduction of new items more than makes up for that. Plus, we get to see a new spin on things 
 in which Bowser Jr. is the one who kidnaps Peach, not the big Koopa King himself (even though he 
 does show up multiple times) . The graphics are all 3D models in 2D landscapes, giving the game 
 a distinctive feel that seems like a mix of every previous Mario platformer. The music is top-notch, 
 as usual, with a fair share of voice acting from our lovable Charles Martinet and others. Oh yeah, 
 and who can forget the ecstasy of destroying everything in sight with the Mega Mushroom? Not me, 
 that's for sure. This game should appeal to anyone, whether or not they have ever played a Mario 
 game (but who hasn't in this day of age?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  New super mario bros is finally here! Ive been waiting for this game to come out for ages , And 
 it's even better than i thought !!!
  
  The gameplay is great ! It takes you back to when super mario first came out ! Brilliant control 
 , brilliant levels , brilliant enemys and i could go on for another 30 mins ! The gameplay is almost 
 perfect ! But there only 1 little problem and thats saving. you cannot save were ever you want, 
 but the gameplay is still great. Oh i almost forgot, the minigames are great fun aswell!
  
  Who said that 2d graphics ain't as good as 3d ? Well i can prove you wrong with the new super mario 
 bros, the graphics are just amazing . So much detail added into it ! Its 2d but it has a sort of 
 3d mixed with it aswell. Fantastic.
  
  The soundtracks are also good. Theres all the old tunes but with more wizz this time. Very good 
 sound.
  
  The game is still new so you still have to pay quite a bit of money for it. But hell yeh its worth 
 every penny ! ( or dollar if your american ) .
  
  If you have a ds well all i can say  BUY THIS GAME 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard of this game, the first thing that came into my head were" oh, another mario 
 game" but boy was i wrong. mario comes back with an excellent side scrolling game that won't let 
 you put it down till you bet it at least 3 times. the controls are great, the graphics are pretty 
 sweet, and the gameplay is nonstop! the bad thing is it is a little short and the minigames are 
 from super mario 64 ( except for maybe one or two) and you can't save it on the spot but even if 
 you do want to stop playing and you do end up saving it you will just play it even more. overall, 
 it is a must buy for any ds owner and even though its a little short you will still wan't to find 
 every secret and get every star coin and possible find the infinite 1-ups trick. And hopefully 
 my review was helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gin_Tama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Now New Super Mario Brothers, indeed has excelled in the fun factor, the levels get a little tedious 
 here or there, but the levels are not as big as the ones in the classic Mario side scrollers. 
 
  
  Some may think the items make up for the short levels, it really dosn't, what Nintendo did here, 
 was added a blue turtle shell, and a mega mushroom, and a mini mushroom. The shell is basically 
 just for mowing down Goombas and swimming slightly faster.
  Mini Mushroom, You basically use this to access the two worlds you can reach and get star coins 
 for Mushroom Houses for items and 1up mini-games.
  Mega Musroom increases your size to blast through Blocks and Pipes, too bad the only level you 
 get one is on the first stage, other then that, you may get lucky when you hit the red ? block 
 and one will pop out although, you also have the chance of getting a fire flower, or a blue turtle 
 shell, or a mushroom, and a mini mushroom, and even having the Mega Mushroom 
  may not help, seeing how you may might be right in the middle of a dessert, or in a pipe maze, 
 leaving you to little smashable space, now the megamushrooms capabilities on gaining one ups help, 
 so while you smash things you gain an amount on the scale above Mario or Luigi, it fills up with 
 green meter, now when the mega Mario/Luigi segment ends, the meter will drop one ups, the more 
 stuff you smash, the more the meter fills
  the more one ups fall, now this is only limited to 5 one ups per meter, and say you had a fire 
 flower equipted before you had that Mega Mushroom, you won't be getting that back in your reserve 
 slot.
  The fire flower, Marios trusty trademark next to the Mushroom, now, this STILL LIMITS MARIO TO 
 2 FIRE BALL SHOTS AT THE SAME TIME, THIS MEANS YOU ONLY GET TO SHOOT 2 UNTIL THEY KILL SOMETHING 
 OR HIT A WALL OR LEAVE THE SCREEN. This was disapointing, although in boss battles when you hit 
 baby bowser or the worlds boss , you can shoot them really fast due too the small plat form and 
 the arena is soo small.
  
  Now, the story can be easily solved, Baby Bowser continues his pathetic journey trying to get Peach 
 as his mom, and Bowser and Her as a couple. Anyways, Mario runs off trying to rescue peach, as 
 Baby Bowser runs off with her to another castle.
  
  Now star coins, 3 for each level, what are these for? These can be used to enter toad houses and 
 one up huts and to explore secret areas on the world map. Now each tim you spend star coins, you 
 get a chance to save, saving is another issue, you can only save after you pass a mini castle (the 
 one half way across the map) and the last castle where the big boss is located, after you pass 
 it, you get a chance to save, now say you passed 4 levels and cannot seem to get passed the Castle 
 boss, that means you have to cough up some star coins and enter a toad house and get an item you 
 may not even need, then you get to save.
  
  Now for the grading.
  
  Gameplay- Pretty standard, saving Peach, kind of a recycled idea but, still fun. 10
  
  Graphics- 
 Great, colorful, more work could have been done in the back ground but pretty good over all. 9
 
  
  Sound- CLASSIC Super Mario music, the classic beats made from geniuses.
  
  Value- Bah, I don't think 40 bucks is worth it, maybe $25 is more worth it then its current price.
 
  
  Overall 7.5 Good
  
  Now if your into Mario games (like me) wait till a new Mario DS side scroller comes out, this one, 
 is not worth it. So much will be improved in the next one which Nintendo will release, why am I 
 so sure? Because Its sold half a million, no idiot would'nt make a sequel.
  
  Have fun with this side scroller, it truley is a great light game for a car ride or a plane ride, 
 but don't expect one big huge adventure, its passable in three days. 
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up New Super Mario Bros for the Nintendo DS, I wasn't expecting a killer title because 
 its a portable game. Probably because the whole time GBA was around there was no new Mario game 
 for it.
  
  The GOOD: Excellent level design, extremely well used platform development ensures you don't feel 
 like each level is just like the rest, world themes stay true to the Mario expecting fan, mini 
 games are fun to play with friends. Outstanding graphics with better animated enemies.
  
  The BAD: Some levels are way too short. Could of had more levels. Not enough Good power ups. New 
 power ups don't fit the games formula.
  
  The UGLY: Not all mini games available for single player, its a portable game why do I have to 
 unlock save anywhere?
  
  The above tells you the quarks with the game. Let me try to address common questions anyone would 
 ask who is considering the purchase of this game.
  
  WHAT MAKES IT DIFFERENT FROM OTHER GAMES IN THE SERIES?
  
  This game has very well thought 
 out level design. All the levels are new in the game, there are no returning levels. Also the levels 
 are designed to not punish the player. By being able to go back at will and skip the hardest challenges 
 in each level if you choose to, the game makes it easy for anyone of any skill level to pick up 
 and play. The difficulty is gradually increasing per level and per world and it seems that you 
 are rewarded with easier more fun driven levels after completing some really hard levels which 
 really adds to the fun.
  
  BUT ITS ON A LITTLE PORTABLE?
  
  The screen size is well realized in this version of the game, it might not be as big as on a TV 
 but you aren't sacrificing anything here. The levels do a good job of presenting themselves on 
 the screen, they are colorful and vibrant (especially on the DS Lite) . The bottom screen displays 
 information that you normally would see on the top screen or not at all, so this allows more real 
 estate on the top. The controls are easy and don't really require stylus control. There are button 
 configurations to allow you to map buttons to more comfortable positions. The sound is great and 
 has clarity. The dual screens are used nicely and creatively when using warp pipes. This is a on 
 the Go game and it is one that you will be glad you have with you.
  
  IS THE PRICE REALLY JUSTIFIED FOR A PORTABLE GAME?
  
  From what I have seen across different 
 portable platforms, gamers expectations seem to be lower when it comes to portable games and developers 
 tend to put less into portable games as game scores tend to be lower in review. This game doesn't 
 do any of that. In many ways, which include fun factor, re-playability, presentation, value. NSMB 
 by far rivals best selling console games today. I think its a steal at its price.
  
  HOW CHALLENGING IS IT?
  
  If you aren't very good at obstacle games, I have good news for you 
 the challenge bar raises slowly in the beginning allowing you to get your feet wet without having 
 to jump right in. Although the game gets much harder than it starts out as, you won't really notice 
 a huge change as you progress. The game also uses a Star Coin system, which every level in the 
 game has three coins. For those who want a challenge in the game I have good news for you, getting 
 these coins in every level isn't going to be easy and you will be satisfied after you have collected 
 them all. This key feature ensures returning veterans of the series will have something to shoot 
 for and test their Mario skills on, but because its not a requirement to finish the game, less 
 skilled players can ignore this challenge if they wish too.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  New Super Mario Bros, is a must have for any DS owner and requires no previous experience with 
 other Mario titles to enjoy. Its non violent approach to games has always been a great pleaser 
 to parents and hardcore gamers can expect many fun hours here. There isn't really anything bad 
 to say about the game, other than I wish there was 1000 more levels. Don't rent this game, don't 
 ignore this game, don't buy it used, go and purchase a new copy of New Super Mario Bros if you 
 don't already have it. When a developer makes a game this good they deserve our support.
  
  Because of the game play, level design, value, re-playability, controls and presentation, I give 
 New Super Mario Bros a Solid and much deserved 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leick3
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game right after it came out, believing all the great reviews. I was greatly dissapointed. 
 It was just another mario game with new levels. I beat the entire game in 6 hours and that was 
 it. The minigames were just ripoffs from super mario 64 DS ( a very good game by the way) . Don't 
 let all the hype fool you, you might as well just stick to your old mario games. It is enteraining 
 for a short while and you might enjoy the minigames, but overall I would not reccomend anyone to 
 spend 35$ on it. I am hoping mario can pull out his slump and remind us why he is one of the most 
 popular game series ever. He just couldn't show me anything fresh. sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcarrington
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  Believe the hype, the New Super Mario Bros. delivers a neo-retro experience for the Nintendo DS. 
 In a gaming age where Mario is in every type of game possible and the release charts are flooded 
 with movie tie-ins, it is nice to play a game that honors classic games and isnt afraid to kick 
 it old school. New SMB does very little to entice new gamers and rests on the expectation and 
 nostalgia of vintage Mario titles for the NES.
  
  New SMB, Nintendos latest Mario darling, provides a fair challenge for a seasoned mario veteran. 
 The touch-screen use is light but forgivable, since there is no reasonable way to include a lot 
 of touch-screen action within the old Mario formula. For the less experienced Mario player, New 
 Super Mario Bros. can be a hellish foray into platforming madness. The difficulty of many of the 
 levels along with a particularly punishing initial game saving system might push novice Mario fans 
 over the edge. Like the Mario games of yore, you can expect to see your character get singed, squished, 
 and wiped out constantly, along with the highly dreaded game over menu. The game also packs a 
 fair amount of gameplay into the package, with a total of 8 worlds (two of which require extra 
 work to unlock) , this game may be over a bit too quickly for Mario veterans. Luckily, with fast 
 gameplay, superb graphics, and solid level design, New Super Mario Bros. quickly becomes an addiction. 
 Expect to find yourself hunched over the DS for hours, clearly locked in a state of Mario-zen.
 
  
  Nintendo has managed to really capture the essence of the vintage Mario titles, along with a few 
 nods to more recent entries in the series. Bright colors, cartoonish graphics, quirky enemies, 
 comical animations; there is no mistaking the Mario-ness in this DS game. The textures are incredibly 
 sharp and the animations are perfect. The scaling effects from power-up items like the Mega Mushroom 
 are also great; Mario-zilla looks just as you would imagine him, with requisite stomping goodness. 
 In the course of play, I experienced little or no slowdown, so it is clear that the Nintendo DS 
 hardware is up to the challenge.
  
  The sound of the New Super Mario Bros. oozes Mario. All of your favorite sound effects are present 
 in the game, along with new speech clips for Mario and Luigi. The music of New SMB is also pretty 
 good, there are some slightly original tracks, along with remixes of older Mario tunes. The new 
 tunes and old tunes blend seamlessly and help further propel the Mario feel of the game. The overall 
 quality of the sound of the game is what a player comes to expect from any Mario game; high quality 
 sound effects with memorable music.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a decent value for any platforming fan and an absolute steal for a Mario 
 fan. The core game and worlds are not particularly long but even seasoned veterans will find themselves 
 struggling to finish some of the later levels. There are also multiple paths and exits for each 
 level, so the completest has plenty to keep them occupied as well. The multiplayer and related 
 mini-games are also incredibly fun, assuming you have an aspiring Luigi or Toad to face-off against. 
 Nintendo would have been well-off to include some kind of online playable mode, but this is a minor 
 gripe considering the package already offered in New Super Mario Bros. For a game with such fine-tuned 
 gameplay, $35 or so is a small price to pay.
  
  Despite a few minor gameplay and difficulty issues, New Super Mario Bros. is a must-have for platforming 
 and Mario fans. As is clearly displayed in the game title, this is a modern interpretation of the 
 vintage 2D Mario games. The graphics, sound, and gameplay deliver the Mario experience perfectly. 
 In many respects, this mario title plays just like the old mario games, with a few minor changes. 
 For the gamers who have little or no interest in Mario, dont expect to be blown away by the gameplay 
 or graphics. On the other hand, if you grooved to the original Mario games back in the day, you 
 owe it to yourself to play this game. Despite a few modern inclusions into the old Mario formula, 
 you will find yourself enjoying this game at least as much as the originals. So kick back with 
 your hammer pants, teased hair, and Members Only jacket and get ready to groove like its 1987. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyb628
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Itsa me! Mario!
  
  That's right folks, Mario is back and better than ever! This time he makes his first appearance 
 in sidescroller form on the ds. 
  
  Story - Mario and Princess Peach are taking a nice stroll through the neighborhood when Mario notices 
 the Castle is being attacked. He runs to the castles assistant, but in the process Princess Peach 
 is kidnapped! Now you have to save the Princess and defeat the enemy Bowser Jr.
  
  Graphics - This game, simply put, is beautiful. Vibrant colorful lands with a lot of nice little 
 touches, for instace when you are walking, the land behind you moves to add to the effect of you 
 walking, I thought it was a nice touch. Although it is a 2D sidescroller there are 3D elements 
 mixed in. Mario himself is the 3D mario we saw in Mario 64 DS, along with all of the other characters 
 and enemies in the game.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very nicely done with nothing missing from its snes brother. It feels 
 very natural while you are controlling mario and with the added triple jump and wall jump it just 
 makes it all that much better. The wall jump comes in handy if you ever find yourself falling into 
 a whole, believe me.
  
  Sound - Overall the sound of the game is nice. Some remixed original tunes are in the game with 
 some new ones thrown in there for some added flavor. Not as memorable as the original Mario games, 
 but they still have the Mario feel.
  
  Length - This is one of the few reasons why this game could have been a bit better. The game is 
 over before you know it. If you wanted to you could easily finish the game in 5 hours. However 
 if you take your time and try to find all the star coins/hidden areas, then the game will take 
 you about 8-10 hours.
  
  Replay Value - If you blow through the game and you don'y get all the star coins, than the replay 
 value is higher since you could go back and try to get all of the star coins. There are also 2 
 hidden worlds that you need to unlock, so the replay value is there. Plus, it's Super Mario, who 
 doesnt want to go back and play it over and over? There are some mini games in the game too which 
 are fun to go play after you beat the game.
  
  Overall - Overall I found this game to be a complete and total joy to play, It brought me back 
 to the days of old skool Mario on the snes and n64. With great visuals, classic sound, and that 
 terrific Mario touch, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  25 years ago Mario was released. And for the past 25 years it has been the biggest gaming franchise 
 ever! The game that sold millions was the original. Now hes back. This time its the game that 
 sold millions, updated. The New Super Mario is the first one but its updated, but could this Mario 
 beat the original Mario?
  
  Mario is the most recognised character in gaming history. Hes appeared in over hundred games; 
 many of these games are best sellers from Super Mario to Mario 64. Mario first appeared in Donkey 
 Kong, where he had to save a princess from the King Kong spoof Donkey Kong. Then he appeared in 
 an arcade spoof-off Super Mario Bros. When the SNES came into our homes Super Mario was there, 
 alone it sold 40 million copies and back then they were expensive. This means its the best selling 
 game off all time. There was a problem all the new gamers couldnt play it. So they re-created 
 it onto the DS
  
  They still have the same cheats in the original and off course theyve got the two player co-op 
 which works pretty well. To add affect they made the characters look 3D, but its a side scrolling 
 2D game, so its 2.5D game. Basically Bowsers son kidnaps Princess Peach, and takes her through 
 seven worlds. You have to go through and defeat him once in the seven worlds; half way through 
 you meet him. He runs off to a castle thats always at the end of the world and in that castle 
 Bowser is there, and you have to defeat him once in seven worlds. So 14 times you have to defeat 
 the Bowser family. Sounds easy but the game is long and fun, also with all the extra bonuses youll 
 be hooked.
  
  The gameplay for the game is fast. It has the same 
  that the original has. It actually feels like youre playing Mario 64, that sort off hype. It does 
 get pretty annoying when you dash through the whole game. The thing that made Super Mario from 
 being perfect was the enemy system. If you were in your normal form and you touch an enemy youll 
 die which does get troublesome if youre trying to get to the other side of the level. This is 
 backed up by the half system. If you go half way through the game theres a flag, so if you die 
 and have enough lives to go back youll be there. 
  
  There is the original mushroom and the flower. Mushroom increasing your size and flower giving 
 you fire power. First its the mushroom then the flower. If you get hit while youve got the flower 
 you go to mushroom stage and if you get hit while you got the mushroom youre in your normal stage. 
 There are underwater levels as well. The music and sound for this game is perfect and it will keep 
 you entertained for hours. If youve seen the screen shots then youd have seen a giant Mario. 
 This is the yellow mushroom; it automatically makes you big and indestructible. Over all New Super 
 Mario Bros is probably the game of June and had sold 100 thousand copies in its first day. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspowner5789
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I used to play the old one with my older brother, and i thought there would never be another game 
 like it......... but there is. This game has all the same elements of the first one, and more. I 
 especially love the koopa shell that lets you smash through all of the bricks and enemies. Also 
 i love playing this game sooo much that i have beaten it about 4 times and i still like to go back 
 and play some of the levels, they are just plain fun. Also the multiplayer is very fun where you 
 race luigi to get all the stars. This game is also packed with a lot of fun minigames ( they are 
 the exact same ones from one of the launch titles of the ds, Super Mario DS, they are still fun 
 to play though. So i would say definitly, if you have a DS or DS lite, you need to pick up this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_lorden
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  I was very happy about a new super mario bros and i rushed out to buy it. I was instantly happy 
 to relive the countless hours i spent playing smb13 and smw as a kid. But i soon reolised that 
 it was WAAYY to easy its like nintendo thinks they need to dumb it down so smaller kids can enjoy 
 it ummm as a kid if you like something you will play it over and over untill you beat it unless 
 you get frustrated and ask your dad to do it. TO MANY 1ups and the stages are to small. you can 
 get through some stages really quick which i can live with but they all feel so small because of 
 the biggest problem.... no flying item. this was one of the best gameplay mechanics in old smb 
 and now its gone and the levles feel so small without getting to fly around looking for serets 
 stuff like star road keys or 1ups but those arnt thrilling at all to get anymore...... and its 
 replaced with a bunch of usless upgrades mega mush used 1nce ot 2ce it takes the fun out of it. 
 shell is uncontrolable and makes you die. mini much has potential. so alot of the best things about 
 old super mario bros are gone but there are some great stages (tilting mush expanding contracting 
 and lava rocks falling) and is undeniably fin all the way through but then you can go back to find 
 the coins and other worlds. i cannot say if it has the replayability of other mario games yet. 
 
  pleas nintendo just look at super mario world and make your overworld like that and add SECRET 
 stuff add some hard stages that you dont hav to do but can like star world. make the fish jumping 
 out of the water eat you that thing from smb3 still makes me jump when i run from it :P. o and 
 add a 2 player tun mode cuz that is what we all emember doing whatching you brother/buddier playing 
 and secretly wishing he would die so you could get a crack at it. lol well thats the stuff i think 
 is wrong with it i probobly spent over 200 h playing other marios so i am complaining about things 
 they got wrong and i still think it is unbaleavably fun but they need to work on a really GREAT 
 1 for a few years. they need to fire whoever made that music and take a good long listen of the 
 catchy toons form older 1nce that i could still find poping into my head to this date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros is easily the best DS game out to date. It has everything all old super 
 mario fans love and everything new super mario fans love. It is one of the most solid games of 
 the year and has a lot of gameplay. The graphics are very good in this game and the sound is good 
 too mixing in some old classic sounds from the older games and some newer sounds from the newer 
 super mario games. This is the best Mario game since Mario 64 and is a must have for any DS owners. 
 If you dont have a DS buy a DS for this game it is absolutly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeinzKatchup
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Just like the title says I found the game to be very easy until the final bowser's castle where 
 it like got not rely impossible but, i can't beat it yet. I like being Luigi sum times (4 those 
 of u who dint know when ur picking a file hold down L and R and press A to be luigi) . 
  I got to the final castle in less then 2 days and i had school so i only played 4 like 2 hours 
 a day because i also have a life. But it was a great game if it wasn't so short. The mini games 
 are amazing in this 1. and the multi player mode with them is even better. Mario Vs. Luigi I wa 
 sn't to crazy 4 but it was a good idea.
  But yeah id recommend it if u love 2-D Plat formers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_ds_06
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  mario and luigi are back in New super mario bros.
  
  you must own this game if you dont get out there now and get it because i promice you wont be dissapointed 
 but the only problem is that it is a little to short. but still packed with fun and you can play 
 it over and over and not really get bored. this is an instant classic and a must have ds game, 
 if you dont buy this you are missing out on the best ds game to date.
  
  good:
  captures all classic mario and more
  you wont get bored of it
  it is the best ds game out there
 
  
  bad:
  it is a little to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_bad_byron
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  Sound: Good Samples for Mario Kingdom Enemies/Hero. Nice catchy music. Same tunes over-used to 
 some extent
  
  Graphics: This is about as good as i can see 2d mario looking. lol.
  
  Design: Decent-Good design. Hampered by underwelming (not challening enough) levels.
  
  Value: 
 Far too short to contitute a purchase, and far too easy. 20-40mins a day, for aweek is all you'll 
 need to beat+collect more than half of game's "coins".
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: WTF is this supposed to mean?
  
  Gameplay: THe mechanics are there in full-force, 
 but not taken advantage of to the extent that would warrent a 2d game worthy buying (paying a RRP 
 price for or close to) .
  
  New Super Mario Bros. Is is decent 2D platformer, but lacks any real challenge to make it overly 
 appealing. Rent Only!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero10999
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game, you will immediately recognize the classic Mario Bros. 
 gameplay from the original NES title. You have plenty of new moves and the game is just fun. In 
 terms of the gameplay there isn't much more that can be said other than that it's just fun. Graphics 
 are very nice in that they are a mix of 3-D character models and great-looking 2-D environments. 
 They threw in the minigames from Super Mario 64 DS as well as a few new ones and a (shallow) multiplayer 
 mode. These additions are fun... for about four minutes. The minigames are mostly the same ones 
 from 64 DS and the multiplayer gets boring after a bit. These, however, are very small complaints. 
 My main problem with the game is that it is MUCH too short. I beat the final boss in one day. One 
 single day of about 6-7 hours of play. But wait; theres lots of stuff to collect right?! Not so 
 much. There are the three coins per-level that you have to find but they (usually) aren't that 
 hard to find. The only real challenging thing to find is ofter the secret exit that leads to another 
 path. Another path that is useless and doesn't actually help you in any way, but a path you must 
 open before being able to claim having beaten the game 100%. Even though this seems like it would 
 be alot, it really isn't and took me about 7-8 days to fully complete. Also, you don't get anything 
 for completing the game this way. Sure you get the three stars next to your file name but you get 
 no reward, no secret ending, nothing. Basically, when I first got this game, I was extremely please 
 with it and played it often. However, since beating it (that was, like, 3 weeks ago) I have not 
 touched it. This game is fun and is worth playing but just doesn't last anywhere near long enough 
 to warrant 35 bucks. Give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashbastard
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  new super mario bros is a 3-d to 2-d game for the nintendo ds. now you get a 1st glance and you 
 can see that it plays out just like the nes classic. but to keep things fresh they added a few 
 new ideas like the butt stomp and wall jump that was seen in super mario 64 and the triple jump 
 which makes good if you want to get by a level real fast or if you want collect special coins that 
 you can use to get power ups and extra men. the gameplay is old school you got your mushroom flower 
 power etc etc but now you got a super mushroom which if touched then you grow really big and you 
 can do alot of damage and based on how much you do you get a certain amount of extra men. and then 
 there is the blue turtle shell now you can give those koopas a taste of their own shell. the sound's 
 are ripped right out of the nes version from the coin to the the stomping of a goomba you will 
 feel like a kid again. new super mario bros is a instant classic and should never be passed up 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chain_saw
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  As a young boy I was a Sega kid. I would openly mock my friend with a NES for loving his rather 
 plain looking Mario games. Yes, I was a dumb kid.
  
  Once I had the chance to play Super Mario All-Stars, I was awakened to the world in a big way, 
 and while I still prefer the early Sonic games (Sega roots are buried deep) it is understandable 
 to see why many Mario fans were dissappointed with the recent slew of 'spin-off' games and Sunshine. 
 Why, even Mario Galaxy looks too pretty.
  
  With New Super Mario Brothers we are treated to a family reunion. Everyone from back in the day 
 is pretty much accounted for, and while acknowledging the storylines of the more recent games, 
 and adding Mario 64 era moves to the side-scrolling format, this never feels like a huge jump from 
 the classic days of old.
  
  Now of course the visuals are superb, but 'realism' seems to have been rightly surpressed in favour 
 of a suitably fantastic Mushroom Kingdom. The step down from 3D to 2.5D workds VERY well, with 
 more definition of where the goal lies in a level more time can be spent enjoying the skillful 
 gaming. Improving times, finding hidden warps and trying to a series of cameo boss battles.
  
  Sure, the addition of a 'Super' Mushroom may seem to make the game too easy, but look closer 
 and realise that the large Mario can easily destroy a bonus warp pipe while stomping his way through 
 the level like King Kong on a banana bender. Whereas the 'mini' Mario is suitably vulnerable, but 
 also given super jumping abilities that make som leels more trecherous.
  
  Nintendo took a bold move with this 'step back' but it is a step back that needed to be made. Old 
 school gamers will recognise aspects of levels, and get all warm and fuzzy while remembering what 
 good old gaming was all about, and new gamers are being treated to a tantalising glimpse into the 
 world of retro gaming, without having to commit to buying a clunky old machine.
  
  Highly recommended, unless you are the sort of person who has no thumbs. If you have no thumbs, 
 may I recommend boxing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. is a perfect addition to the most famous franchise in the history of 
 video games. It stays true to its 2D roots while adding new gameplay aspects and is a must have 
 for any DS owner.
  This title is simply all-around brilliant. Those of us who grew up with the original Super Mario 
 Brothers will be transported back to those days by the addictive gameplay. The 2D Mario games made 
 an impressive progression from the NES to the SNES, and this game keeps that tradition going. The 
 New Super Mario Bros. keeps all of the things that worked from each of the previous titles, and 
 offers additional bonuses.
  The platforming in this title is the best of any of the 2D offerings. The newly designed levels 
 feature all sorts of platforming challenges that will awe gamers who havent played a Mario game 
 in awhile. There are too many new devices and obstacles that perfectly demonstrate the familiar 
 Mario Physics that most gamers have grown up with to list.
  The gameplay is accessible and addictive for anyone. Long time fans will find new challenges and 
 2D newcomers will be enthralled with the simplistic fun offered by the genre. The game is challenging, 
 but not too difficult for most gamers to complete. Gamers have the ability to revisit levels they 
 have already beaten in order to earn more lives or obtain special items, and can backtrack as much 
 as necessary without punishment. 
  The graphics are the best of the 2D offerings, and give everyones favorite plumber a visual facelift. 
 The music and sound effects are perfect and immediately transport gamers into a Mario world.
  The game is essentially as long or as short as each individual gamer wants it to be. Players can 
 run through a level as quickly as possible, or find the time to locate every collectible and unlockable 
 item. Many gamers will play through the game multiple times in order to unlock everything, but 
 most gamers will want to revisit this title just for the fun of it. 
  Nintendo has done a great job of making this title perfect for the DS. Most gameplay takes place 
 on the top screen, but all subterranean tunnel and underwater levels take place on the lower screen. 
 Players keep one extra item (mushroom, flower, shell, etc) in their inventory and can access it 
 any time by using the touch screen. Levels are designed to be completed quickly and are perfect 
 for short bursts of gaming on the go.
  With rock solid controls and the highest quality production value put into any game in recent memory, 
 The New Super Mario Bros. is a must own for any Nintendo fan. Any fan of the Mario series owes 
 it to themselves to play this game, even if it means buying a DS. 
  In all reality, Nintendo couldve put half as much effort into this title as they did and it still 
 wouldve sold a million copies. This game is what all throwback, prequel, and tribute titles should 
 be, and Nintendo has all my respect for making a game with this much sales potential as well as 
 they did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakeorrdeath
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I had great hope for New Super Mario and for the the first 2 hours I beleived my hopes had been 
 fulfilled. That was untill I noticed I was on the last of 8 worlds (admitidly with 2 worlds to 
 unlock) . To my dispair within 6 hours I had completed the game and unlocked most of the secrets 
 (all of the important ones) . This game is to short and easy, it has clever and great levels but 
 it all seems to be over before you start. 30 for a 6 hour game! Needless to say I took advantage 
 of Game's 9 days no quibbles return policy. New Super Mario, to me turned into an excellent value 
 game rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jir11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is the best installment for the DS/DSLite by far. It is a game that is pure fun 
 and adventure that's full of detail and colour. Mario has been one of my favorites back in the 
 NES days and it was great to play as him on the DSLite as it brought back so many good times that 
 I had playing his series. 
  
  The New Super Mario Bros. is a simple and short game yet it does not fail to impress. With it's 
 colourful worlds, and a variety of monsters and obstacles it provides hours of quick fun that leaves 
 you feeling satisfied after each game play. Mario has his usual power ups (the mushroom to make 
 him big, the flower to make him shoot fireballs, and of course the star to make him invincible) 
 as well as new ones (small mushroom that reduces his size, a super-sized mushroom that makes him 
 gigantic and invincible, and a blue turtle shell that allows him to perform the "shell dash") . 
 Among his basing dash and jump moves Mario also can jump of walls, swim, swing off ropes, climb 
 fences, and jump off spin blocks that allows him to spin up in the air and float or spin back down 
 fast.
  
  With 8 worlds to go through to reach Bowser, Mario faces many different environments with Bowser's 
 minions trying to slow or stop him from advancing. As I mentioned earlier NSMB is a short game 
 with relatively easy bosses to conquer, however it is so much fun that it's re-playability factor 
 is high. After beating the game you can go back to the worlds and just explore them thoroughly 
 and enjoy the scenery as they are great to look at. For old school fans of Mario don't miss this 
 installment as it will bring back those glory days. NSMB is an adventure ride that will satisfy 
 even those that are not familiar with the little Italian adventurer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr-Poque
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  When you think of Mario, you think of stomping on Goombas, collecting mushrooms and coins, and 
 reaching the flagpole at the end of each level. Lately, however, most Mario games have been 3-D 
 sports or adventure games that dont seem anything like what Mario was back in mid 80s and 90s. 
 Until now. New Super Mario Bros. is quite possibly the greatest platformer to have come out since 
 Marios debut in 1985.
  
  The game's story is the same as every other Mario platformer, but with some added detail. Princess 
 Peach and Mario are walking along when trouble strikes at the castle. Mario heads off to the castle 
 while Peach is left alone. Bowser Jr. takes Peach, Mario chases after him, and the game begins. 
 Just as in Super Mario Bros. 3, there are eight worlds, with an overhead map for each one. In addition, 
 each world has a unique theme, such as desert or ice. Finding secrets in the game can alternate 
 the way you progress through the worlds. It is only necessary to complete six worlds to beat the 
 game, without ever setting foot in the other two worlds. As for the game's individual levels, they 
 are for the most part well-designed and very fun. However, some of the levels are far too easy, 
 and some aren't long enough.
  
  There is not much to say about the basic gameplay of New Super Mario Bros., assuming you've played 
 its classic predecessors. For the most part, you simply run through each level, jumping and stomping 
 on enemies, gathering items, and collecting coins as you go. However, Mario has some new moves 
 in this adventure. He can now wall jump, and his trademark ground-pound is also included.
  
  Nintendo has also added some new items to the mix, joining the mushroom and flower (fireballs) . 
 The key new item is the mega mushroom, which enlarges Mario to the height of the entire screen 
 and allows him to obliterate everything in his path, including enemies, blocks, pipes, and any 
 other obstacles that might be in his way. The mega mushroom's counterpart is the mini mushroom, 
 which shrinks Mario down to fit into small pipes and passages and gives him the ability to run 
 on water! The third and final new item, the blue Koopa shell, allows Mario to dash and duck into 
 his shell, knocking enemies out of his path. While these new items are very powerful, they don't 
 have a huge impact on the game because they are fairly uncommon. As in Super Mario World, you can 
 store a backup item to use at any time during a level.
  
  The graphics of New Super Mario Bros. are incredible. Using a combination of 2-D and 3-D graphics, 
 Mario looks better than ever but is still able to pull off the old school look that is reminiscent 
 of the Mario franchise. There are very few glitches in the game, and you wont experience these 
 glitches until you enter the haunted mansion levels involving the stairs. All of the other levels 
 are beautifully crafted and run perfectly. Along with great graphics, the game also has a great 
 soundtrack, which is to be expected from a Mario game. Many classic Mario tunes are back, adding 
 to the game's classic feel and presentation. While much of the music has been remixed, however, 
 many of the sound effects have not. The effects for grabbing a coin, breaking a brick, getting 
 a mushroom, or being killed by an enemy are all identical to the sounds from the original Super 
 Mario Bros. of 1985. New Super Mario Bros. is also the first 2-D Mario platformer to include Mario's 
 voice, and the hero's catchphrases certainly benefit the game experience even further.
  
  If you're not in the mood to play the main single-player mode, you can play the included mini-games, 
 which are actually identical to the mini-games in Super Mario 64 DS, or you can play with friends. 
 Some of the mini-games support single-card wireless play for 2-4 players. Of course, there is also 
 a main multiplayer mode, playable for two players with either one or two game cards. In the "Mario 
 vs. Luigi" multiplayer mode, players collect as many stars as possible while trying to steal your 
 opponent's. While the multiplayer and mini-game modes are fun, you'll definitely be spending the 
 majority of your time playing the main game.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is outstanding in every way possible. The game's great visuals, audio, and 
 gameplay make it feel like a true Mario game. Sure, the new 3-D Mario games are pretty cool, but 
 there's just nothing that can compete with a true 2-D Mario platformer. Although the mini-games 
 lack creativity and the game isnt very challenging, it is still a great accomplishment and a must-have 
 title for any DS owner.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is like all the Super Mario Bros. games put together but since that it's 
 NEW, you're going to find some new stuff with the old stuff.
  
  The gameplay is great as you'd think that the DS would have to be 3D. Well you're wrong. Some games 
 were 2D and this one plays like one, You'd go through amazing 2D levels finding all these secrets 
 from the older Mario Bros. games.
  
  When you look at the cover or the banner on GameSpot, you'll see the creases in Mario's clothes, 
 which are getting ready for the Wii. Even though it's a 2D sidescroller, you would need a new look 
 so Nintendo have thought of making most of the graphics 3D. Prove their word, they have and made 
 it look better than ever as you can see 3D Mario in all these shapes.
  
  The sound is great with the stereo sound speakers, you can hear where all the Koopa shells are 
 and also hear voicing. There are also great old sounds from the 1983 like Mario jumping and coins.
 
  
  This game is also Mario's 20th game that is a Super Mario Bros. so with the game comes this little 
 code which will win you something.
  
  Some new items are the Mega Mushroom where you grow really large and you can destroy all these 
 enimies and pipes to get some 1-UPS. There's also a Mini Mushroom. This can get you through some 
 very small gaps and also jump a little higher. There's also a Koopa shell, it's blue and this will 
 turn you into a Koopa Troopa and you can spin in it to destroy while ducking.
  
  This game is perfect to anyone who likes Mario and will be an 11 if you know all the older games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since the last truly great 2D Mario platformer graced our screens and this 
 game is definetly worth it, but not quite perfect.
  First of all the title sucks. They should have called it Super Mario Bros 4 or a completely new 
 title. 
  This makes them sound lazy and lowers the impact and hype of the game a tad. Nonetheless, it is 
 a fantastic addition to the series.
  The visual presentation is great; crisp cartoony graphics in weird and wacky worlds, combining 
 2D backgrounds with 3D characters and bright colours. The power-ups are tremendous fun, with the 
 Mega Mario and Mini Mario mushrooms allowing for some replay value later on. 
  The map screens look cool but not as spectacular as Super Mario World. It all feels a bit linear, 
 like Super Mario Bros 3 and I felt they could have made it seem like a world of different terrains 
 like in Mario World.
  Some things have taken a step back also; for example, you can't kick shells upwards, Mario only 
 throws them forward now.
  However, to compensate for this, Nintendo have created ingeniously designed levels which make full 
 use of Mario's new abilities like wall jumping. 
  The first thing that struck me was how Mario felt when first moving. The controls are a lot more 
 "loose" than they used to be, Mario feels heavier and it takes him longer to sprint and turn etc. 
 After playing the orginal Bros, this can be disorienting, especially wen your used to Mario stopping 
 immediatly when you tell him to, but now he takes longer to slow down and you may slide off an 
 edge or into an enemy.
  Once you've mastered this though, it all becomes second nature and you'll find yourself playing 
 like a ninja/plumber hybrid.
  The audio is great, a few remixed classic tracks along with new ones are included as well as classic 
 sound effects like coins and fireballs. The game also uses surround sound really well. 
  The levels are amazingly designed but a few boss fights are repetetive and some harder levels will 
 get frustrating. The game is so addictive that you'll inexorably keep trying to finish that stage 
 or get the secret route.
  All in all, a great package deal, a nicely rounded single player mode complimented with minigames 
 and multiplayer modes. The classic gameplay of yore is a treat to relive and the new additions 
 are great. However, there isn't enough innovation and some things they cut out will be missed (such 
 as raccoon or cape powerups) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoguejp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First, this game is basically a required buy for you new DS Lite. It's probably catered more for 
 the general audience, hence the easier difficulty. Anyone should be able to beat this game with 
 some practice. I dont know if that can be said for SMB3. The depth comes from going back and collecting 
 all of the stars and finding the secret exits and stages. Getting all of the starts will challenge 
 you. If someone says they got everything in under 5-8 hours without some guide help their more 
 than likely stretching the truth. I still think that Mario 64 is better myself ( I didnt have a 
 problem with the controls) , but this is right their with it. 
  If your the type to buy a DS, then I would have to assume this game is for you. If you dont like 
 these types of games, then you may have made a mistake getting the DS cause their the flagship 
 games for what it has to offer. Simply, you get more than what your going to pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, personally I have never been that good at the past 2D mario games but I've had 
 fun playing them anyway so I guess thats the whole point of gaming. So when I got my copy of New 
 Super Mario Bros I expected to enjoy this as I did with the past games. Nintendo have done a great 
 job keeping the games roots in tacked yet provides gamers with a fresh batch of cool new small 
 graphical updates and new monsters to kill and run away from! 
  
  First off, Nintendo could have just released NSMB with nearly nothing changed and it still would 
 have sold well. That's because as we all know Mario and friends as such a massive following! I 
 have never been a big fan (I'm more of a Sonic fan) but I still know what the Mario games bought 
 to the world of gaming. So I respect the series of games for that. One of the great things about 
 NSMB is the fact how easy it is to get in and play! anyone who as at least looked at the past Super 
 Mario Bros will find it simple to get in and play! but some of the new moves avaliable in the game 
 keep players challenged. One of my favourite new moves is the wall jump which can be used in a 
 number of area in all the worlds! theres also the butt stomb which originally came from the Super 
 Mario 64 game but fits well into the world of NSMB! 
  
  Graphically the game looks great! especially on my Nintendo DS Lite as the colours are much more 
 vibrant and stand out well. One of my favourite upgrades in the graphics is the fact that Mario 
 is now 3D! yep and he looks great. Especially when he gets a massive mushroom that makes him a 
 giant in the world! it looks great and doesn't look out of place. Water is also a small but nice 
 touch! I used a fireball in the water and it caused a ripple. Small but cool looking upgrades in 
 the graphics in the game. The world also look nice and different even when you have the wider view 
 when you go from one section to the other. All in all nice!
  
  Well, the game also comes with some Mini Games but for those that have played Super Mario 64 DS 
 they will nearly all be noticable. Some are new but not amazing. Basically they are used in the 
 same way as they were in SM64DS to entertain you for short periods of time.
  
  FINAL 
  
 
  All in all NSMB should be played by all, doesn't matter if you own a DS or not. Borrow your mates! 
 because it's a game that is great fun to play and challenging at the same time. Just like the original 
 was! Graphically the game is a nice looking game. In fact it's got some great Graphical changes! 
 So I think everyone should buy this game! (I don't work for Nintendo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apwc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a return to the classic 2D gameplay of the NES days with updated graphics 
 and a few new moves. So, if it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, it must be a duck right?... well 
 yes, but New Super Mario Bros. may look and play like a rehash of the old school NES games but 
 it is far from it.
  
  Then again, to say this game wont feel familiar would be a lie. The same sounds, mechanics and 
 plot (come on Nintendo, either put a leash on the princess or give the girl some mace) youve come 
 to know and love are at work here, Nintendo even simplified the controls to two buttons. Fortunately, 
 theres enough new content to keep this game from feeling like a cash-in on a popular franchise.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. borrows a lot from different games in its history, probably the most from 
 Super Mario Bros. 3. Youll move from level to level on a world map, visit Toad in bonus mushrooms 
 and have the option to hold on to a power-up to use at another time (sadly, this game only lets 
 you keep one on reserve) . 
  
  The similarities to the old games are inevitable, and at times, you may feel youve played certain 
 levels before, but those times are far outweighed by the fresh experiences. Rope swings, falling 
 volcanic rocks, and launch pipes are just a few of the new obstacles youll encounter, not to mention 
 three new power-ups, including the giant mushroom, mini mushroom and turtle shell. You wont be 
 using the new items as much as the fire flower, but theyre welcome additions.
  
  Speaking of the fire flower, much like the previous Mario installments, if you can manage to hold 
 on to it, the boss fights will be a breeze. The genius level design is thrown off by the relative 
 ease of the boss fights, but hopping on Koopa three times has never really been the allure of the 
 Mario games. The star of NSMB is the fantastic level design. There are plenty of hidden coins, 
 secret warps and alternate routes to keep you playing long after you beat the final boss.
  
  Those that have played Super Mario 64 DS will recognize most of the mini games thrown in and 
 while it might have been nice to see a few more, those provided are a fun diversion. Theres also 
 a multiplayer mode available thats fun for a little while but ends up in the same category as 
 the mini games: fun diversion.
  
  Overall
  New Super Mario Bros is an expertly crafted platformer. The graphics are gorgeous, the music, though 
 familiar is still great, and the gameplay is top notch. It should come as no surprise that the 
 red and green duo responsible for so many years of gaming goodness still have it.
  
  Purchase?
  Who doesnt love a good Mario game? Its entertaining, challenging, nostalgic fun. 
 A must have, and a great addition to any DS collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  this is a really good game and is really good fun but i dont know why nintendo made it so short 
 and easy.
  
  there are 8 worlds and for a strange reason you can skip world 4 and 7.
  
  1 or 2 levels and bosses can be a bit challenging but nothing that will take long to complete.
 
  
  the new items are cool {mega mushroom, mini mushroom and koopa shell} . 
  
  one of the worst things about this game are the cannons.
  you find cannons by finding secret 
 ways out of levels and if you find one you can skip 3 or 4 worlds.
  
  this game is really, really great fun but too short and easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  We all remeber the original, if you don't shame on you, and this successfully emulates that well 
 except in 3D. It has a different layout to keep the modern gamer amused and unlockable levels to 
 do after you've done the initial missions. But if you're looking for something new and original 
 don't even bother considering this. This is a cash in on the original success of the first Mario 
 games. The mini games can also be useful to waste away the hours but if you have 'Supre Mario 64 
 DS' many of these mini games are exactly the same. It should keep you playing for a while with 
 all the levels within the worlds & the simple button mashing is no challenge to master what so 
 ever. The story line sucks but lets face it, It's a side scroller based on something made back 
 way back when video games were hard to come by and if you buy games for the storylines you clearly 
 haven't heard of this great invention called 'the book'. Its a shame though because they could 
 have done so much more with the story and improved on the game with those ideas. But all in all 
 this is 100% retro, button mashing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanDamian12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is just great! The last time I've played Super Mario Bros. games was about eight years 
 ago. It made me very excited to hear about the release of this new, improved version of the Mario 
 Bros. series, and I wasn't disappointed when I got my copy. I have to admit that I bought a DS 
 system just and only because of this game. the N. S. M. B. has both the old school feeling with the 
 new overhauled look, which makes the gameplay even more enjoyable than ever. The graphics - you 
 couldn't wish for more; clear, crisp, and vibrant colors, together with a great sound make the 
 game a sweet journey in search of Mario's beloved princess. I gave it a 10 score, and quite frankly 
 I don't understand why GameSpot gave it only 9.0, because the game is nothing short of perfect 
 for the Bros.' fan who is looking for a classic platformer with a modern touch to it. It's a must-have 
 for any DS owner and if you don't have a DS, run and buy it because it's definitely worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alelric
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say about this game other than buy it. It is a good time to play and feels 
 like the 90's. It is definately not a remake or anything okay. This game is such a time killer. 
 I have already spent a lot of time just trying to beat every level in every world, even the optional 
 ones. If you are a fan of The Super Mario Bros. Franchise, of the Platformer genre, or just games 
 in general, you have to give this game a try. If you have a DS, you must get this game. Just do 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffstaJones
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Not since the SNES have we seen a Mario side scroller, until now.
  
  Gameplay - A few additions to the formula (butt stomp, wall jump) makes it feel new, but still 
 has the good old feel.
  
  Graphics - Graphics are good for 2D, but not exeptional.
  
  Sound - Good sound effects, but some things are annoying.
  
  Value - Very replayable. You could 
 beat the game several times until you get bored. Also there are star coins to collect once you 
 have finished the game for a first time.
  
  Tilt - I absolutly loved this game.
  
  This a must have for anyone with a DS unless you did not like previous mario side scrollers. Great 
 fun no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  This is the second be st DS game to date (the first best is Mario Kart DS) . This game is a very 
 fun platformer.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty easy just the A, B, D-pad combination.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics 
 look fantastic because the mix of the 3D foreground and the 2D background looks fantastic.
  
  Sound : The sound is not the orignal Super Mario Bros. Soundtrack but it is still okay. Also 
 after a while the sound gets pretty annoying especially the sound of Mario's jumps and when Mario 
 dies.
  
  Value: The game is pretty valueble and that's all I have to say on that.
  
  Tilt: The tilt is amazing because you can find a lot of alternate exits that let you skip worlds 
 and take you to Mushroom houses. The coolest part is that you can accidently find an alternate 
 exit.
  
  So the game basically deserves what it got and it is the must own game of the summer. Also its 
 multiplayer is horrible and its minigames rule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  At last we are finally able to get our hands on the New Super Mario Bros. game exclusive for the 
 Nintendo DS. It's been a very long time since we had a Super Mario Bros. game. Worry no more - 
 it's back with new enemies, new environments and new tricks. Mario and Luigi are out yet again 
 to save our dearest Princess Peach in this extraordinary new title to the Super Mario Bros. series.
 
  
  There are eight worlds for you to go through in New Super Mario Bros. You can either choose Mario 
 or Luigi to play through these levels (hence the title) in the worlds. There are several new elements 
 that you may notice in the game. The most obvious one is when you play through the very first level. 
 Playing as Mario or Luigi you will probably pick up a gigantic mushroom which will make you very 
 big. Being this big can make you walk right through enemies, knock over pipes and destroy some 
 parts of the environment. This feature was also in Super Mario 64 DS. Another new feature is the 
 complete opposite to the one I have just explained. There is a really tiny mushroom that (you guessed 
 it) makes you small (I mean really, really small) . You get a few advantages if you are the tiny 
 Mario. Some levels have small pipes that only tiny Mario can fit into and you can breeze through 
 the level because he jumps much further from platform to platform. One disadvantage of this is 
 that you cannot destroy your enemies. Some moves you may learn across levels are the power bomb 
 (used in Super Mario 64 DS) and one where you can slide under ledges. This can be useful if you 
 have just eaten a red mushroom.
  
  Many of the enemies from the previous games have been featured in New Super Mario Bros. In addition 
 to these we have a few new enemies which may take you a bit of time to work out what they do and 
 how to destroy them. So, be careful in later levels because of these new enemies. In the water 
 levels you should notice different types of fish. Being careful here is important as one of them 
 may indeed follow you and try to eat you. If you remember the eel from Super Mario 64 DS then he 
 makes a return to. This time there are loads of small eels but in the level where they are featured, 
 there is one gigantic eel ready to follow you until you reach the end of the level. He will eat 
 anything that gets in his way.
  
  Some levels are will have stuff coming down from the sky (such as molten) so you will need to be 
 patient and avoid these. There is also one level where fire starts to follow you upwards and you 
 need to walk off the screen onto the other side of the screen. This is a new feature which I think 
 is okay but it has been done before. Remember the castles in the previous games? Well, this time 
 you will get a castle with Baby Bowser (usually half way through a world) and another castle in 
 the same world with a unique enemy. If you can't wait to melt Bowser then gladly you can do this 
 in the early castles. It's hilarious when you defeat him as he becomes rather angry (as always) . 
 It's quite hard in some spots but does not live up to the challenging levels of the previous games. 
 Defeating Baby Bowser is easy as all you need to do is throw a few fireballs at him and boom, his 
 gone. I don't feel as challenged as I would in the other games. I think Super Mario 64 DS is possibly 
 harder than this.
  
  Many of the minigames are back from Super Mario 64 DS along with a few new ones. It's pretty much 
 the same so it's unlikely you will be hanging around there for too long (unless you have not played 
 Super Mario 64 DS) . If you have a friend nearby you can go against them in the minigames which 
 wasn't available in Super Mario 64 DS though. The main multiplayer though is by far the best...
 
  
  You need not worry about the other person owning the game or not. New Super Mario Bros. can be 
 played with another player who owns or does not own the game. One player is Mario and the other 
 is Luigi. You set out on a level of your choice and try to grab as many stars. The level does not 
 end like in single player - it is continuous and once you get to the end you are brought back to 
 the front in a continuous cycle. Whoever gets the set amount of stars wins. If the other player 
 has the missing star all you go is jump on them or just throw a shell at them - just as you would 
 with the enemies.
  
  It's a beautiful side-scrolling game. Even though it's a side-scroller Nintendo have managed to 
 make it look 3D. Mario and Luigi look very much like they did in Super Mario 64 and Bowser looks 
 more vicious than ever. The lively colours and awesome environments will most likely catch your 
 eye. This game's graphics are definitely up-to-date and are in no way dull or boring.
  
  The sound has taken advantage of the Nintendo DS's stereo speakers here. Like Super Mario 64 you 
 can change the sound settings to suit you. So, if you are using headphones you can change to the 
 sound option for headphones or if you want a surround experience you can choose that option. With 
 the surround option you will know where your enemies are coming from. You can hear them coming 
 from the left and the right. I think it's a great way of working out what's behind you and in front 
 of you. Best of all - on surround mode it just sounds terrific!
  
  As a player of previous Super Mario Bros. games I have to say it is worth getting just because 
 it is a title in the series. If this is your first Super Mario Bros. game then you shall not be 
 disappointed. You'll be getting used to bashing Baby Bowser and Bowser (along with all their enemies 
 set out to prevent you from getting your princess back) in no time. It's worth it for just being 
 a title in the series and also for the sometimes tricky but fun levels. Having played through most 
 of the worlds I feel like I have gone through this game so quick but being New Super Mario Bros. 
 it aims to trick you in certain levels and prevent you from defeating Bowser at the end. So, you 
 are looking at quite a few hours of gameplay here as you are likely to die in some levels and start 
 over. Of course there are some hidden extras for you to find as well just like the other games. 
 In comparison to previous games this is not as long as those though.
  
  Anyone who owns a Nintendo DS system needs to have this as Nintendo have done a very good job at 
 creating yet another brilliant game in the Super Mario Bros. series. This game will sure be remembered 
 in years to come just like its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_homestar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  if you dont remember the old school mario side scrollers then you have been living under a dumpster 
 for the last 10 years. but if you just found your way out you can still get a piece of the hype. 
 
  The new super mario bros is the latest mario side scroller and it is one of the best.
  first the gameplay is old school. you will feel your heart pump at every squashed goomba or bounced 
 koopa shell. this game has made an old game new without making just a remake.
  
  the graphics are something out of this planet. the game perfectly blends side scrolling graphics 
 with new 3-d characters. the resault. perfect.
  
  the sounds in this game will blow you away . this game rarely uses old music but insteadhas brand 
 new music that just fits. enmemys will bob hop or even turn around at the beat of some songs which 
 makes for some exciteing gameplay gimmics.
  
  unfortuneately this game is like a squashed goomba. short. hard core mario gamers will blast through 
 it in the short time of 4-5 days but the game also features 3 golden coins hidden in levels for 
 you to get which adds some replay value to it.
  
  the game also features brand new items and multiplayer. the new items are the blue koopa shell 
 which you spin in knocking enmemys away, the micro shroom which make mario tiny and gives him the 
 ability to walk on water, and the mega mushroom which makes mario huge to just walk through enmemys.
 
  also the multiplayer is great . while others say meh i say whatever rhymes with meh but is good.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yami888
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people like mario, but i know people of all sorts were wondering, "where is luigi?" at 
 the start screen, if you hold down L+R, you will become luigi in gameplay. The game will get annoying 
 after a while and would make you wonder what your ds would look like after hitting the wall 20ft 
 away. (you get the point) , the levels are all different, and they make you think strategically, 
 how do i get past the turtle? the learning curve is about 15 min, and you could probably get done 
 with the game in a few hours if you are serious about it. over all its a pretty good game if you 
 want to wind down from halo or metroid, i think it could have costed less, because the game was 
 easy so the 40 dollars should have been 30. but i would still buy it. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverOut
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty much as the old Super Mario Bros.
  
  Graphics: Neat. Nothing to complain about really. The simple old-school nature of the game somewhat 
 applies to the graphics too.
  
  Sound: Feels like there's to few musictracks. Especially one particular melody seems to return 
 in every other level. A great melody but not great enough for such extensive reuse.
  Some soundeffects are a bit to beepy.
  
  Value: If you have played ie Super Mario Bros 1, 2, 
 3 then this game won't give you much replay value appart from perhaps backtracking and clearing 
 levels you've skipped.
  
  My main thoughs: Some moves that were not in the old Super Mario Bros has been put into this game 
 with great result, however if you've played games like Yoshi's Island or Super Mario Land 2 then 
 you will feel that this game is too simple, too much back to old roots.
  
  Great game viewed as a remake but if you have played all or most of the Mario games then you will 
 most likely feel a bit bored.
  
  Minigames: Have not tried Multiplayer. In single player most of these offer little or no more fun 
 than 1-5 testruns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most have games for your DS it will keep you playing it even when you beat it, 
 this game is one of the many that you can play with your whole family and actually have fun but 
 there are a few bad things about this game 1 is that its 'WAY' to short compared to the 1st one, 
 and can start to get repetitive late in the game. Even thought there are bad things there are some 
 good to go with it and some are great graphics for a DS game, fun multiplayer and mini games, can 
 have fun untill you get board (which might take awhile) .
  
  To complete this game of coarse all that you have to do is just get to the flag but now there are 
 3 Star Coins that can unlock sertain areas in the map/area which you are in. Overall this is a 
 must have game for your DS and you will have tuns of fun for days and days to come, so if you dont 
 have this game yet either rent or buy it, its worth the $40 and you will still play it when you 
 beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementfx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games ever made for a handheld. Although it's a 2D scrolling game, 
 it still leaves many other games in the dust with it's simplicity of gameplay and controls. I recommend 
 anyone who has a DS to go out and buy this game. I also recommend anyone who does not have a DS 
 to go out and get a DS and get this game along with it. Yes it's that good.
  One of the strongest points for me was that they kept a lot of the original gameplay features from 
 the original game for the NES. While adding new ones also, like wall jump, ground pound, triple 
 jump, and others that you have to figure out on your own.
  Another addition to the game are some mini-games that let you play with the touch screen. They 
 include card games, drawing type games, 
  Sorry if you were expecting a longer review, but this is one of the best games ever and I just 
 wanted to let everyone know that. What I didn't want to let everyone know is how it ends, and begins, 
 which isn't hard to figure out since it's a mario game. So I hope if you buy one that you enjoy 
 it as much as I am right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglefan831
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  the game super mario bros has been taken to the next level to make new super mario bros and its 
 awsome.
  
  gameplay-how can this get less than a 10 it has you jumping on goombas on koopas and many other 
 classic mario enimies. and of the course there are a few power ups like the mushroom it makes you 
 big and lets you live twice before you die and if you get a fire flower you live three times and 
 you get the power to shoot fire balls. then there is the mini mushroom snag a mini mushroom to shirink 
 mario down to micro size. in this teeny tiny form, mario can go into small pipes and travel down 
 tiny paths. plus he's so light that he perform floating jumps and run on water, if he gets hit by 
 an enemy though he's done for. when mario picks up a special blue koopa shell, he'll transform into 
 shell mario. press left or right on the controll pad while holding the dash button to perform a 
 shell dash and go crashing into enimies. if mario gets hit by an enemy when he's not shell dashing, he'll 
 lose his shell and become super mario. and then there is the mega mushroom you can find them in 
 ? blocks. you can also get them from certain toad houses. grab a mega mushroom to make mario grow 
 to colossal size for a short time. mega mario can smash enimies, blocks, and even pipes simply by 
 running into them. there is also a 2 player mode for when 2 people play against each other one is 
 mario and the other is luigi. then there is mini games which most are off of super mario ds. there 
 are 8 worlds thats you must beat to save peach can you do it.
  
  graphics-in my eyes the graphics are good especially for a hand hels it has nice bright colors 
 also and is nicely detailed and the enimies look really good so why do i give them a 7 well they 
 are good but not great or super or perfect .
  
  sound-not much to say here it ain't as good as the originals game music but it is still pretty 
 good thats all i have to say about sound its a 8.
  
  value-this game is definitly worth it only $30 now in my eyes thats worth it for being a good remake 
 of the classic game so its value is good.
  
  tilt-over all this game was super good remake of the classic so if your a mario fan pick this up 
 even if your not you will still enjoy this game so i highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McDonaldsGuy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I automatically mark 2 points down with a DS game doesn't use the DS touch screen. The 
 gameplay is like the older Mario Bros. and is actually quite lame (jump on enemy, jump over cliff) 
 but for some reason is a little addicting: 6.
  
  Graphics: They are ok but nothing special: 7.
  
  Sound: I hate the music, no variety and it 
 always says "Ba ba ba" very annoying. Stupid voice acting (as always) : 5.
  
  Value: Game is very short and very easy, a little kid can beat it real quickly. The levels are 
 way too short and pose little challenge, and you'll finish the game like that: 6.
  
  6.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game is like going back in time with futuristic Mario, I love the game becausu I was a Mario 
 fan since the first Nintendo Console came out. It's entertaining and super fun if you like Mario 
 this is a game you really need to have in your collection. The game si all about:
  
  New Super Mario Bros. features the classic 2D Mario gameplay style, while using vamped up 3D graphics.
 
  
  Game Storyline: Bowser and Bowser Jr. have kidnapped Princess Peach again, and only Mario can save 
 her. Characters: Mario, Luigi, a ton of Mushroom Kingdom enemies, both new and old, Peach, Bowser 
 and Bowser Jr. How to progress through the game: Run, jump and battle enemies through multiple 
 levels in each world. Every time players finish one world, they can move onto the next, but each 
 level features impediments in the forms of fortresses, Hammer Bros. and bosses. After defeating 
 the boss of each world, players can move on to the next, culminating in the final fight in the 
 last world.
  
  Special powers/weapons/moves/features: Mario and Luigi can do all kinds of jump maneuvers: increasingly 
 high triple jumps, wall jumps and high bounces off enemies.
  
  Mario also can use power-ups like Mushrooms (grow big) , Fire Flowers (throw fireballs) , Starmen 
 (become invincible) , Blue Shells (turn into a speedy, blue Koopa shell) and other mushrooms that 
 make him tiny or huge.
  
  In addition to the main game and the wireless two-player mode, players also can use the touch screen 
 to play tons of minigames (either by themselves or over DS Local Area Network with 1 to 4 players 
 via DS Download Play) . These include card games, target-bopping-type games and much more.
  
  Twenty years after Nintendo's biggest franchise was born, the Mario Bros. return in a dazzling, 
 all-new platformer sure to set players' fingers twitching. Fans from Mario's classic days will 
 see their dreams answered in this return to the Mushroom Kingdom, while a new generation of Mario 
 players will learn what true platforming greatness means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govindh3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  What you're pretty getting is a renewed version of SMB, (hence the name: New Super Mario Bros.) 
 but it still has some of the same gimmicks and touches which made the old SMB a classic. Of course, 
 the story just involves Peach getting kidnapped, but by Baby Bowser instead. Each world in the 
 game has at least two castles to complete, a smaller and easier one in the middle, and a larger 
 and harder one at the end of a world. Though sometimes you'll get stuck on a level sometimes, this 
 game maybe too easy to beat for some people.
  
  If you've heard any news about this game, you might have heard of some of the new items in the 
 game. One of the new items is a Super Mushroom, just oversized, resulting in a giant-sized Mario. 
 Even though this sounds like a new item that sounds like it will be fun to use, this may also make 
 the game too easy, because this item isn't always hard to come by, making you breeze through the 
 level sometimes.
  
  The fact there are little houses shaped like mushrooms you can get to during your adventure also 
 makes the game too easy, since some of the houses gives you chances to earn items or lives, in 
 which you won't have to worry about getting gameover that much because you'll have a large amount 
 of lives which are fairly easy to get. 
  
  The controls to the game are pretty easy to learn and get used to, especially if you've ever played 
 SMB before. It's pretty much the old running and jumping around on to evil walking mushrooms, but 
 this doesn't make the game less fun in any way.
  
  Of course the graphics are updated too, but it's colorful visuals from backgrounds to Mario himself 
 on land, underwater, or underground usually make it one of the best games based on looks on a DS 
 Lite or regular DS, but more preferably DS Lite.
  
  You still might beat New Super Mario Bros without too much trouble, but the fun doesn't stop there. 
 This game also contains some of the minigames from Super Mario 64 DS, as well as some new ones. 
 The multiplayer is also something that will keep you from being bored. The multiplayer is also 
 one of the best features to the game, which doesn't require two DS's that have to have New Super 
 Mario Bros.
  
  If you need an easy, fun-filled DS game that you want on the go, this game is greatly recommended, 
 even if you don't like games that are platformers or are to easy to beat. This game may take hours 
 away from your free-time, so be very cautious if your a very busy person.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars0000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game was a bit surprising to me. It's pretty easy. I blew through it in a couple of hours 
 but I still play it a lot. Okay, lets get to buisiness. This game is awesome. The new power-ups 
 are awesome, but the mega mushroom is overrrated. You can destroy things that are supposed to help 
 you in your mission and then you lose. But everything else is cool. I love the koopa shell though, 
 since you slide around as a koopa. But the new power-ups are a rare treat. Multiplayer to me is 
 awesome, stomping Luigi with Mega Mario. The new acrobatics like wall jumping and the butt-stomp 
 are back from Super Mario 64 too. This game is pure awesome and go buy it now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  this is definitely a instant classic i love this game with its awesome side scrolling game play 
 very good graphics this is really cool because you can get mushrooms tht make you mega sized and 
 you can get mushrooms that shrink you so much witch makes the game play better you know funner 
 and makes the game cool and interesting it has some awesome levels that i really loved i couldnt 
 wait until i got this game and finished it this ario game lives up to its name as a classic. Its 
 also a long game but not like some other s games that i won 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesony
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  this game has the grapqics the game play the sound. And its got a lot of good game play. But the 
 multiplayer is a one v. one battle either its fight against the star battle or a mini game fight. 
 How ever gets the high score .But any way the game play is something you could play day night long 
 . Or at least for me it was but boses werent that hard. To beat because all you needed was a mega 
 mushroom and koopa blue shell. And the realy cool part is that after you have beaten the game. You 
 realy havent beat it because you have to beat world 4-7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karasz87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros delievers the awesome gameplay. Yes, the plot is about Peach gets kidnapped 
 by Bowser Jr. to bring her to her dad, and Mario must save her. (or Luigi if you want) New Super 
 Mario Bros is a 2d sidescrolling platform game that brings back the good old days since NES classic, 
 Super Mario Bros.
  This game features good ol' Mushrooms, Fire Flowers, and Starman. But with new power ups such as 
 the Blue Koopa Shell, it gets better. And make Mario create carnage when he gets the Mega Mushroom. 
 Or go mini-mini Mario to get through tight spaces.
  Old familiar foes, and new foes. Need I say more?
  It also got Multiplayer where you play as 
 Mario or Luigi to get the most stars than your opponment. 
  There is some familiar mini-games, but with new ones and new multiplayer mini-games too.
  So 
 if you can't wait to get that game, save the money, and start buying it before it solds out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome. for a while i had MKDS stuck in my ds... i would get a new game, play it 
 once, then go back to Mario Kart. Well, when i got this game, MK went back into its case. I've 
 been playing NSMB non stop since i got it. ITS AWESOME! with 80 stages (i think) this game goes 
 on for a LONG TIME! its awesome!
  
  HIGHLY RECCOMENDED TO ALL PLAYERS!
  
  NSMB RULES!!!!
  
  LA LAL AL AL A
  
  100 words is a lot! la la la la ala lalalala alla laal 
 lala lal lal llal la 
  100 words!!! one hundred and zero words
  A+
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hipno_Toad
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  I loved Mario games, loved them, they had a ton of levels and lots of variation in power ups, but 
 not here. They had 8 worlds and insanely easy stages so the younger age group can easily make it 
 to the end. (In my opinion) It took me about 2-3 hours to finish the game and about a day to find 
 all the star coins without having to refer to a stratagy guide. 
  Good things about the game:
  I've begged for a mario game thats finally 2D and doesn't have some 
 strange ass gimick on it, I finally got it and loved every second of the gameplay even if it was 
 for a short while. I really liked that I can be Luigi instead of Mario seeing how I despise the 
 fat ass meatball compared to his lean bro. They had the overworld from old old old mario games 
 and overworld events like if a hammer bro entered the same lvl as you you'd meet him right away 
 and fight for a power up, same with red boxes (locate and hit for a sometimes useless/sometimes 
 helpful power up)
  +Awsome world map
  +Fun levels
  +Luigi
  +Graphics
  +Multi Player is amazing.
  
  Bad things:
  Okay the new power ups fall short of... um... everything. 
 You can go godzilla and smash things but that only makes the lvl's easier then they already are. 
 You can go tiny which is only used to get about...2-3 star coins in the game, and the koopa shell... 
 you get it and think it's going awsome, then the bad stuff happens. You can't control it when your 
 bro ducks inside of it and the only way you can turnaround is by hitting something, you can't speed 
 up/decelerate so you're always worried about something making you fall in the games ample pits, 
 shells are the leading cause of death in this game. Then the worst power up of them all... The 
 fire flower. It's way to powerfull and bosses only need a few fireballs to die, every enemy that 
 can be killed is a one hit and you can be unstopable with them. Another gripe I have is the 1-up 
 houses, houses that will make sure you never see a game over. These houses where not needed, I 
 honestly haven't done the math but they give you around 12 1-ups if you're victorious. At the end 
 of the game using them I had 99 lives and without using the houses... still 99 lives. Another gripe 
 I have is some of the star coins where never meant to be found like the 3rd one in bowsers castle, 
 the last jumprope in the middle keep hoping up and down while holding up, a ceiling pipe is there 
 and you get to tips or anything to tell you it's there, just random guessing. And the soundtrack 
 is just earblistering bad, composed of random noises and annoying sounds.
  -99 lives is easily hit
  -Randomly placed star coins
  -Insanely short game
  -Insanely easy 
 
  -Fire Flowers require no skill at all.
  -Koopa shells kill you instead of help (even with invinso-duck)
  -Mini mushrooms makes you a 
 pansy and is only needed a few times
  -Mega makes levels duller seeing how you smash through everything and nothing can stop you for 
 about 2 minutes. (Which by the way you can earn up to 5 lives with it...) 
  -Mega mushroom at a boss for a instant win (gotta hop on them though "OOOOOOOH NOOOOOOO")
  -Music 
 composed by Satan himself
  
  I'd rate this game a 6/10 but that's just my opinion and that's just it. Nintendo tried and made 
 a fun game, but it's way to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Mario needs no introduction I'm sure. I am very satisfied to note that this most popular game icon 
 is of the same ancestry as me; Italian.
  
  Here in this newest reiteration of an old favourite, you'll find all the old Goomba stomping fireball 
 spitting fun of the old game, with some nice additions. Levels are seperated into world Maps a 
 la Super Mario Bros 3. Unlocking different levels and bonuses causes them to appear on the level 
 map and on the bottom screen's world map. Many new items like the Super Mushroom and the Mini Mushroom 
 give this game some extra punch.
  
  I'm only dissappointed that the Koopa Kids did not make it into this game. But overall the boss 
 battles are a proper challenge for average players, all the levels are graphically beautiful, without 
 needing polygons.
  
  Great job Nintendo! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadbrian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  new super mario Bros. is a amazing mario game it is like the old super mario Bros. wich is good 
 i also believe that new super mario Bros. is the best 2d mario it also has great graphics and solid 
 gameplay it has some cool minigames as well i like how you can go back and replay a level i also 
 like the new power ups this is a must play mario game if you have a nintendo ds this is a great 
 game to buy it will keep you playing with its addictive gameplay it is just fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is a nostalgic masterpiece that is more than cabable of standing on its own two feet. 
 Burrowing aspects of the past mario games, and encasing a little bit of its own. It has all the 
 basic mario themes and levels, as well as some new fresh and original designs.
  
  The enemy's are all to be expected, the platforming is superb and the overall mood and fun is the 
 shining point of this game, and on your DS it will run smoothly and play great.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Mario's formula is legendary for reason, and the tweaks and combination of past 
 ideas all add to the experience. The replay value is also very high, searching for secrets and 
 simply replaying and enjoying the levels
  
  Graphics - 9
  Its looks pretty good, its simple but delivers. It runs great and the environments are all vibrant 
 and beautiful.
  
  Sound - 10
  Partly old tracks, and partly new tracks. Both sound great. And the sound effects are solid.
 
  
  Overall - 9.6
  A classic from start to finish, its main flaw is its underwhelming difficulty. It may leave you 
 feeling somewhat angry or disappointed. But it grows on your incredibly quick and is a solid buy 
 without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IH8H8H8ers
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Mario through the years has, like the rest of the world, went through alot of changes. While Mario 
 was always the same guy, his abilities varied from game to game. Now after more than 15 years, 
 Mario has finally returned back to the very place he was originated from, with a few new powers 
 and an amazing new appearance. 
  Let's start with the good. The New Super Mario Brothers, is a great game that takes a few things 
 from the old and mixes them with the new. For instance now you have a but smash and you can jump 
 off sides of walls. Some new power ups include the ooooooooooober big mario that is nearly invincible, 
 and the weeeeeeeee tiny Mario which is nice for getting in the areas too tiny for regular sized 
 Mario. Another nice feature this game has is the ability to carry an extra power, just in case 
 you lost your other, although at times this makes the game really simple. Not only does it have 
 all of these new features, but it also has a really nice brand new look that nicely showed off 
 the DS's capabilities. FInally, there are a fair amount of mini games, similar to that present 
 in Mario 64 DS.
  Now for the bad (for a lack of a better term) . There really isn't a whole lot other than some nit 
 picky things. The only real bad thing is the fact that the game is too short. I noticed that without 
 even trying I was able to only have to play 6 of the 8 worlds to succesfully beat the game. A few 
 of the nit picky things I mentioned above would include, Mario cannot fly in this one, which for 
 me is really dissappointing I would have liked to see that return, and also the game at times was 
 just a tad too easy. Other than that though there really isn't anything bad.
  Overall, great game for fans of the series, at times easy and is a little short, but hey you can 
 always replay it. I recommend this game to any one just looking for a few solid hours of fun.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  What could be better than making a new Mario game to wet people's appetites so they can wait for 
 Super Mario Galaxies on the Wii. This game is the best Mario game i've played and I love it.
  
  The main game is the same as always, SAVE THE PRINCESS. The main game is a lot of fun. You 
 can see a lot of enemies and level designs from Mario games stretching back to the gameboy color.
 
  
  You go through 7 worlds or more to save the princess, with many bosses. The bosses aren't too hard 
 to beat but can prove a challenge when you don't have the fire ball powers.
  
  The multiplayer options are varied. You have touch screen wireless connection mini games or you 
 can do the main game with a friend or someon in the world. You can jump on them or do anything 
 to try and do better. Main game mutiplayer is alo wireless.
  
  The only downside to this game is that some levels are rather short. But the game does have a high 
 replay value and is definately worth checking out to any fans, even if you aren't a fan to the 
 Mario series.
  
  A 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bskalla
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I just cant seem to put this game down. It takes me back to Christmas 1986 when I received my 
 NES with SMB packed in, I played that game for years and Im sure I will be playing this one for 
 years to come. I havent finished the game yet but find myself going back to some of the first 
 levels and playing through them again. There really isnt anything fantastic with the touch screen 
 on this one but that really doesnt matter at all. Do yourself a favor and go out and pick this 
 up, this is a definite buy for anyone who loves Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clangeddinn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game i was playing it with my friends when one of them first got it we 
 were playing poker which was one of the most fun and creative ideas on the New super Mario bros. 
 mini games. Later on after my birth day i went and bought it played it for about 3 hours then the 
 next day was nonstop playing but i still didn't complete it yet 2 worlds left........ Me and my 
 friends enjoy this game whether its throwing snowballs at each other or racing to get the stars. 
 Either way if your a DS owner i suggest you make this part of your collection. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Like any mario game NSMB is great fun for all ages and Its always easy to pick up and play. Yet 
 there a problem with NSMB its that its to short, most people could beat the main story mode in 2-5 
 hours. I think thats marios a great game with great muti-player download play modes that I have 
 spends hours playing. All in all go buy NSMB if you like this type of game but if you dont I dont 
 think NSMB is gona sway you into becoming a mario fan-boy.
  You could buy a much better game for 30.00$ then NSMB like mario kart or C ; DOS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Mario is quite possibly the most popular videogame character in history. Mario started the 2-D 
 platforming genre and expanded every day a new game arrived with titles like super Mario bros., 
 Super Mario World, Super Mario Bros 3 and many others. Most of them became memorable masterpieces 
 that gamers still remember and know about. Yet, not only Mario started 2-D platforming it also 
 evolved in 3-D platforming on the Nintendo 64 with the release of Super Mario 64. In 3-D Mario 
 you get the chance to explore every area has many times you liked and now you could explore more 
 about the mushroom kingdom. Of course, 3-D platforming brought entirely new puzzles ideas for our 
 little plumber including abilities to do high jumps and fly around the area and just enjoy the 
 view. Later on came on the Gamecube Super Mario Sunshine that keeps the same great 3-D Mario engine 
 we had on Super Mario 64 only this time with new ideas of platforming including FLUDD that lets 
 you shoot water. This helped to keep it fresh while having the same gameplay engine, but with expanded 
 new ideas. 
  
  Then came the new handheld system the Nintendo DS that offered has a launch title remake that was 
 Super Mario 64 DS. The game had the same gameplay and same world we explored on Super Mario 64 
 only this time new characters joined the group and new powers were added. Yet when at first everyone 
 thought 2-D Mario gameplay will not come back, they were wrong. Nintendo announces at E3 2005 New 
 Super Mario Bros. that is a whole new 2-D platforming Mario that is similar to Super Mario Bros., 
 but entirely new levels and other very interesting additions. But is it worth the wait? Continue 
 reading to find out.
  
  The story is what you came to expect from Mario when it comes to 2-D. Mario and Peach were together 
 outside of the castle taking a nice walk, suddenly lightning starts attacking the castle so Mario 
 goes to the castle to see whats going on. Sadly when he left for a moment koopa kid arrived and 
 kidnapped Peach. So now Mario goes to find her and chase through the whole game koopa kid until 
 Mario gets Peach back.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. being despite a new adventure still offers some of the classic old gameplay 
 and enemies before. You will still battle goombas, koopas, creepy fishes, collect coins around 
 the levels, etc. Plus you will still enter castles to battle the boss, get mushrooms and fire flowers 
 and climb on flagpoles to progress to the next level. All those who played the Super Mario Bros. 
 NES game will eventually remember all of these moments.
  
  Yet the game offers quite a lot of new features into the mix. This time you have 2 new mushrooms: 
 The giant mushroom lets you make Mario be big literally has the Nintendo DS screen and get the 
 ability to destroy everything on your path by just running by and not even jumping needed to destroy 
 enemies or blocks. The other one is a mini mushroom where our plumber turns in a very small form 
 that can go through small pipes to go inside secret areas that most of the times have lots of coins 
 to collect and the special new added star coins. They are 3 star coins on every level to collect 
 that let you open new routes on your world map for new levels or the mushroom houses in which Toadsworth 
 has a special mushroom for you or makes you play a mini-game to earn 1ups.
  
  With the ability of having 3-D characters on the game while being a 2-D platformer it allows Mario 
 to perform new moves and feel more responsive then before. He can now jump higher, climb on a swinging 
 rope to the next, ground-pound, fly in the air beautifully, do wall jumping, and other stuff. But 
 what makes New Super Mario Bros. so good is that every level feels new and unique. Sadly the game 
 is pretty short that it can be beaten easily on 5 hours or less because even tough it has his tricky 
 levels, they are still not so challenging like you come to expect.
  
  Graphically this is certainly the best looking 2-D Mario platforming out there. The characters 
 are done just right and Mario in 3-D gives him the opportunity to do a lot of moves that he never 
 done before in 2-D platforming. The backgrounds are colorful and nice views even if they are pretty 
 much 2-D backgrounds. Since this is a 2-D game there is certainly no camera issue on the game and 
 the game runs fine without any framerates problems. The special effects are pretty such as the 
 water effects. The overall design in graphics is clean and fresh, no problems here.
  
  The Audio here has a nice Mario soundtrack like you come to expect and even tough not one to remember 
 it still fits nicely with the game and sounds like a Mario game should. No voices on the game just 
 Mario saying a few words here and there but barely a sentence with meaning. Bowser again with his 
 creepy talking and koopa kids annoying voice is also there, but he is still annoying with voice 
 or without voice. Sound effects are very classic and really nice to hear like when you shoot fireballs 
 or hit a koopa with another enemy. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. despite being short offers a lot of features that give it a nice replay value. 
 If you beat the game by just going through every flagpole and every boss then you still have a 
 lot to unlock. First when you return you will notice you never went through 2 of the worlds. This 
 means you will have to figure out every secret area and special routes the game gives you when 
 you pay 5 star coins, which is also another challenge of collecting all of the 3 coins in every 
 level and at the same time finish that level to keep them. The game also features a one on one 
 wireless multiplayer. One player is Mario and the other is Luigi in which will race in 1 of 5 areas 
 that the objective is to grab 5 stars before the other player does. Plus most of the minigames 
 on Super Mario 64 DS make a return on the game only this time there is multiplayer for these minigames.
 
  
  Overall New Super Mario Bros. is certainly one of the best DS games out there and one of the best 
 Mario games of all time. If you love Marios classic 2-D gameplay specially Super Mario Bros. you 
 should definitely pick it up. If you never play before Mario in 2-D or a Mario game this one is 
 still a great start that will give you curiosity to play Marios old 2-D adventures. Mario definitely 
 does it again and hopefully he will make more sequels on this for the DS and in 3-D he will continue 
 being fresh, unique, simple but really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gforce85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  What a great intro game for folks (like myself) getting into the Nintendo DS market thanks to the 
 release of the DS Lite.
  One of my favorite features of the New Super Mario Bros is the use of classic Mario characters, 
 items, bosses, gameplay and more. It incorporates stuff from almost every regular Mario adventure 
 game, and it's really cool how the gameplay focuses largely on the oringinal Mario Bros for the 
 NES - the majority use of fire power is simple and useful. I also liked the Mario 64 elements which 
 includes the use of wall jumps and triple jumps.
  There is no flying element to the game, which is both too bad but also not really necessary. The 
 feather from Super Mario World would have been too cheap, allowing you to fly across the entore 
 level in seconds. The Mario Bros 3 raccoon tail would have worked maybe, but it's just not as fun 
 in my opinion. I think the rabbit ears from Mario Land 2 for the Game Boy would have worked nicely 
 in the game.
  The name New Super Mario Bros is pretty lame, although I suppose it's less discriminate that way 
 as to which Mario Bros series they're continuing off of specifically. Still, they could've called 
 it Super Mario Bros 4 and you wouldn't hear too many complaints. Or they should've been honest 
 and just called it Super Mario Sunshine 2: Put a Smile on a Star.
  
  In Conclusion: Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jab7604
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  I have recently picked up my DS lite and what better way to break ina nintendo system than with 
 a mario game. New Super Mario Bros plays like the old NES SNES days it just running through the 
 worlds brings back thos child hood memories some 16 years ago. Most gamers grew up with the mario 
 franchise and when you talk video games you will more than likely mention Mario.
  
  Any way lets get back to this game. The story is like, well all mario games, Bowser kidnaps the 
 princess and you chase him throughout all the worlds till you take him down. This game is very 
 well put together eventhough the graphics are up there with later era SNES game but thats not a 
 bad thing at all graphics is not what makes this game its the little details that make it such 
 a must own for the DS. For example the goombas and turtles look very good and the backgrounds are 
 very colorful and bright. the use of the dual screen are also used very well. when going down a 
 tunnel you will play on the touch screen and when porting back up ur on top. Plus you can store 
 a power up and just touch the screen when you need to use it. The sound in the game is very well 
 put together and the appearance of Bowsers minions will bring back memories of the good ol days 
 of gameing. This is a great game for Nintendo DS and this is a sure reason to pick one up. So if 
 your not playing. than slap urself and pick one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashbroz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best game on the ds, tied with animal crossing wild world. it is very fun 
 just like all the other mario games but this is better than a lot of the mario games. the gameplay 
 is just as perfect as all the other mario games. the sound is classic and the graphics are incredibly 
 good. any one with a ds should get this game because it is one of the best. it is not very long 
 but for the time you do get to play it you will have a good time. i give this game a 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skellingtonjr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Yah, the good old days are back. The classic has a new face and new game play feature that make 
 it feel fresh. The sound was quality was actually very good and I appreciated the new sound for 
 the old tune. 
  I found the main quest is a little short and the mini boss is repetiitve. I have spent a lot of 
 good quality fun unlocking everything. I beat the main game then beat all the level and lastly 
 all the boards. I am currently working on getting all the coins and I am only three away. 
  The mini-games are great to hang with some lady friends and chill (The only people I know besides 
 me that owns a DS) . Some run from really simple as a single player but can become more complex 
 when playing multi-player i. e. Bomber man Drop and Mario Trampoline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanielWu632
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all i should buy it because or the graphics also i think you can jump higher and this 
 game has alot more levels than the original mario bros. And you can play against each others in 
 Wifi althrough they shouldve put more characters, but it is called the new mario bros so i understand. 
 It pertty much brings classic gaming to the next level since it did get the top rated DS Game for 
 now there might be much more beter games in the future. jugding by the graphics, ratings and extra 
 levels i feel that this game will be a excelent choice of a Ds Game althrough it might have its 
 ups and downs i pretty much played one level on a friend of mine so i pretty much know it will 
 be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rileyhaj21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  We have all played a Mario game at some point in time. If you haven't and call yourself a true 
 gamer then you are missing a couple screws. Nintendo has been releasing the older Mario titles 
 for the past couple of years now to the handheld market but have never really sat down and tried 
 to bring the fans a brand new 2-D experience, until now. If you like Mario in the least bit and 
 have a DS then you are doing yourself a disservice by not having this game. If you like 2-d games 
 then you wil love this one. The grapshics are outstanding and I love the animations that Mario 
 goes through. The worlds are varied and plentiful with lots of colors and enemies on screen to 
 keep those looking for a little turtle revenge happy. If there is one thing that I do not like 
 about this game is the save options. It is a handheld game so I think there should have been a 
 save anywhere feature. But since you can put the game in sleep mode then that is not really a problem. 
 So to sum it all up BUY THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is The Best Mario Game out for the DS right now! I love the fact that you 
 can get the BIG Mushroom head transform into the HUGE Mario and crash through anything in your 
 way. I like playing as Luigi more ... I don't know I like Luigi more. If you don't know how to 
 play as Luigi press A+L+R when you accept to use the file. 
  
  Anyway back to the game. The gameplay in this game is Amazing! I like the Blue shell ... But the 
 Micro Mario is stupid. Graphics to me are perfect! Sound in this game is original and perfect! 
 I think everyone should own this game because its Awesome. Plus the Mini-Games! I love to play 
 the Poker! Its so fun and If you beat the game you just play the Mini-Games! Multi-player on this 
 game is Amazing too .. I't awesome .. especially the Mini-Games! I love this game so much ... It's 
 Amazing and an Instant Classical and Remake of the other Super Mario's! Great Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnGamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is simply amazing ! When you start a new file, it is easy, but when you are 
 at the mid-point it becomes hard :wink: There are eight Worlds and approximately sixty stages ! 
 There are a variety of mini-games (WANTED is my favorite :wink: ) . And there is the multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  For a DS game, the graphics a superb ! It is almost a 3D game. It's better than the other Super 
 Mario :)
  
  I love the songs in New Super Mario Bros. They are cool.
  
  I suggest this game for everybody. For the fans of Mario or for... everybody lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the most famous videogame icon -- Mario, is back, and he's back to his roots as well. 
 The new game, New Super Mario Bros. is exactly what it sounds like, a New Super Mario Bros. game, 
 so as you might guess this is 2D sidescroller platform game, and with a few new tweaks and features, 
 this game will feel new to gamers who have played the classics and obviously newer gamers alike.
 
  
  The game starts off like 99% of all other Mario games start off -- with Princess Peach being captured, 
 but wait! Theres a twist! Well, not really. This time she's captured by Bowser Junior instead 
 of Bowser. That little scamp takes the Princess through a number of different worlds, and Mario, 
 being the heroic fat plumber that he is (as well as being obligated to) goes out on a mission to 
 rescue the princess.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. features 8 worlds, each of which have around 6 - 10 levels in them. You only 
 need to play through 6 of them to complete the game (or rather beat the final boss) , but if you 
 want to complete the game 100% you'll need to play through all 8 worlds, but because of how fun 
 the game is, you'll probably want to anyway. A lot of the levels have alternate ways to finish 
 them, plus there are a lot of secrets within the levels.
  
  As you might have guest, each world has a different environment to it. The first world contains 
 a fairly standard environment, but as you unlock new worlds you'll find an ice, desert and forest 
 ect. worlds. Each world has specific enemies or objects that you'll have to overcome. However, 
 each world also contains a Tower and Castle stage in them, at the end of which you'll face off 
 with Bowser Junior (for the tower levels) or a world boss (for the Castle levels) . There are some 
 new upgrades to be found in this game as well. As well as the red mushroom which turns Mario into 
 Super Mario and the flame flower which lets Mario shoot fire balls out of his hands. First off 
 theres a mega mushroom that will turn Mario into Mega Mario (I guess you could call him that) , 
 which basically means he's much, much bigger and invincible. Additionally, you'll earn a number 
 of green mushrooms (which give you more lives) depending on how much stuff you smash. Mario will 
 also be able to turn into mini Mario using mini Mushrooms, which make him a lot smaller. This means 
 he can get higher physics on him jumps and fit in places and go through smaller pipes that normal 
 or Super Mario could get into. The last new upgrade for Mario is a blue shell, which pretty much 
 gives you the same abilities as a Kooper Trooper which can be very useful. If you dash for a few 
 seconds you'll retract into the shell and roll on the ground until you decide to let go of the 
 dash button. This can let you wipe out a great deal of enemies, as well as let you speed through 
 a level, but you'll often lose control and fall through a gap, and jumping can be kind of tricky. 
 Unfortunately though, none of the new upgrades appear very much in the levels. Its actually quite 
 rare to see them (especially the blue shell) . The mega mushroom and mini mushroom may get in the 
 way sometimes rather than help, but it definitely would have been nice to of seen more of the blue 
 shell. Additionally, Mario will be able to perform a couple of new moves. First of, and possibly 
 more importantly, Mario can now wall jump to gain access to higher places which would generally 
 be unreachable other wise. In these normally unreachable places you may find a number of different 
 things, like star coins or some upgrades. In addition to wall jumping, you can now butt-stomp, 
 which is traditionally a 3D game element. Youll butt-stomp your way through a number of bricks 
 to also gain access to new areas. Aside there the single player though, there are a few modes that 
 may hold your interest, for a bit though. I didn't get the chance to play the multiplayer, but 
 the mini games did manage to keep me entertained for a number of hours though. Most of the mini 
 games featured in New Super Mario Bros. could be found in Super Mario 64 DS, but they weren't all 
 available from the start of the game, but they are now. Some of the mini games are quite fun. Theres 
 one particular one where you have to slingshot cannon balls into bomb-ombs (with the touch screen 
 of coarse) before they touched the ground, which was my favorite of the group, but there is something 
 there for everyone, though as i said, that something will probably only hold your interest for 
 a few hours.
  
  Graphically, New Super Mario Bros. is solid. The backgrounds are 2D, and the character and enemy 
 models are 3D. Some of the 3D models however, are questionable. Just normal Mario sort of looks 
 like he's just been squashed by something and is about to pop back to normal size. Though the Super 
 Mario character models look much better, there still not terrific. The backgrounds however, look 
 quite impressive, especially the underwater levels. New Super Mario Bros. features some great audio, 
 from the small he hee' 's and Ya hoo! 's from Mario to the remixed Mario music, which still maintains 
 the classical sound, the audio is certainly a highlight of the game. As previously mentioned, the 
 game has 8 worlds, 6 of which you only really need to complete. The replay value of this game is 
 really good. Although theres really no reason for you to play through the game again, its still 
 a blast to play it all over again. If you do get into New Super Mario Bros. (and you likely will) 
 youre going to be entertained for quite a while.
  
  Mario has been around for a bit over 20 years now, but he's still managing to give us some really 
 great games (and age really well too) and New Super Mario Bros. is no exception. If your a fan 
 of the classic Mario games, New Super Mario Bros. is a must own game, but DS owners just looking 
 for a quality, great looking and sounding, and overall fun game, New Super Mario Bros. is one of 
 the best choices you can make at the moment. New Super Mario Bros. lives up to the Mario game standard, 
 and that certainly means a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoFreak01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is truly a superb game, and is arguably the best game on the Nintendo DS. 
 It has that same feel of the past Mario side scrollers, but with all new levels, music, and a few 
 new power-ups.
  Unsuprisingly, the goal of the game is to rescue Princess Peach from (Baby) Bowser. The game consists 
 of 8 worlds, but to beat the final boss, you only have to play through 6 of them. Like in Super 
 Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World, you have an over-world where you can see all the levels in 
 the world. Each world has 1 to 2 small castles, and then 1 big castle at the end. In each small 
 castle you fight Baby Bowser, but each big castle has a different boss to suit the level. For example, 
 world 3 is an island/water level, so in that castle the boss is a giant fish. These boss fights 
 are very simple, and if you have fire-power, they become basicly effortless.
  The levels in NSMB are fresh and fun. They are what keeps the game exiting. Each level has three 
 big coins. If you get these coins, you can use them to move gates blocking alternant paths in the 
 world, or to get to mushroom houses.
  There are 3 brand new power-ups as well. One of these is a giant mushroom that lets you grow to 
 fill almost the entire screen for a short period of time. You kick everthing out of they way, and 
 are basicly invincible. Another new power-up is the mini mushroom that makes you, well... mini. 
 When you are mini, you have a higher jump, and you sort of float in the air more. Also, you can 
 acsess small pipes that lead to alternant level endings or big coins. The sound in NSMB is great. 
 All the sounds from past games are here, but the music is brand new. The music is catchy and just 
 as awesome as music in past games.
  The graphics really won me over in NSMB. It is one of the best looking games on the DS. The graphics 
 help this game flow smoothly and add incredible depth to the game.
  Unfortunantly, most Mario veterans will most likely blow through the game in 2 days (like I did) ... although 
 I have yet to complete EVERY level. It is a very easy game, and it is too short in comparison to 
 past Mario side scrollers.
  There is also a multiplayer fighting game included. This is actually really fun if you have a friend 
 with a DS (you can play with only 1 copy of the game) . One person is Mario and the other is Luigi, 
 and you try to collect 5 stars before your opponent.
  In addtion to the Mario Vs. Luigi, there are mini-games, like the ones seen in Super Mario 64 DS. 
 Theyre ok, but what youll really will want to do is play the single player adventure.
  All in all, New Super Mario Bros. is a fantastic game and despite it being a bit too short, it 
 is a must have game for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Bright, colorful visuals. Classic Mario Bros. style. Great for quick bursts.
  
  THE BAD: Short adventure. No worthwhile multiplayer. Virtually no dialogue or story. Terrible name.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. really is just a new Super Mario Bros.
  
  GAMEPLAY is great. The game captures the classic look and feel of the original Super Mario Bros. 
 but with some new mechanics. After Bowser Jr. captures Princess Peach, Mario sets off to the 8 
 different worlds to save the day. 
  
  Mario moves exactly how he did before which won't take long to get used to. However, what's new 
 are a few different items never before seen (The Giant Mushroom and the Blue Shell) . These new 
 items are interesting but they seldom appear and when they do they aren't necessarily the best 
 items to use. Many levels hinder the use of the Giant Mushroom and the Blue Shell isn't as good 
 as the old trusty Flower Power.
  
  Mario also has new abilities (the butt slam, wall jump, and the dash and jump) which at first don't 
 seem that useful; but, once mastered become Mario's greatest weapons.
  
  GRAPHICS are fantastic. New Super Mario Bros. is one of the few games that show the Nintendo DS's 
 full potential. The game may appear to be nothing special from pictures or video clips, but it 
 is quite impressive in person. The game has full 3D characters on 2D environments and the bright 
 colors and Mario Bros. style are just nice to look at.
  
  SOUND is great. The game sports a remixed score from previous titles, but the classic Mario Bros. 
 sound effects are all intact. As usual the game has character voice samples and everything works 
 well together to make the game very enjoyable.
  
  VALUE is good. It won't take long to beat the game the first run through (5-10 hours) , but the 
 game does have replay value. Each level has 3 collectible stars which are used to save the game, 
 travel to hidden levels, and purchase items. So there is an incentive to return to beaten levels. 
 Luigi is also a playable character and there is a multiplayer vs mode that isn't too interesting, 
 but it does only require 1 game cartridge to play.
  
  OVERALL New Super Mario Bros. successfully captures the essence of the classic Super Mario Bros. 
 while adding new compelling elements to the series. The game may be a little too easy and short 
 for its own good, but it's a lot of fun nevertheless and is highly recommendable to any Nintendo 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_59
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. speak for itself just by reading the title alone, and the key word up there 
 is NEW. Its everything from the original game completely revamped into something for the new generation 
 to learn to love and appreciate, although it can never take the place of the old one the NEW gives 
 the OLD a run for it's money. Once again Nintendo has found another way for princess peach to be 
 kidnapped for the billionth time, and it once again leaves us in awe on how addicting and fun a 
 2D/3D side scrolling plat-former can be. With a few little new things added and modified here and 
 there to enhance the quality of the game, Nintendo manages to sweep us off our feet with another 
 timeless classic. I myself haven't played the multi-player mode yet but I'm sure it'll deliver 
 the KO punch. While we still get the sudden regeneration of the monster we just killed and not 
 to mention constantly dying (speaking for myself) this is a pretty good spin off of an unforgettable 
 precursor if you would from the long running Mario series; you could almost say that this was 20 
 years in the making. The storyline may be very similar to... well... almost every Mario game out 
 there you still but that aside and get lost in the incredible levels that seem to go on without 
 end and the sounds that we grew up with resonating in our ears (maybe this is the happy place that 
 my therapist was talking about.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamboy131
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is insanely awsome, I like how nintendo took from the mario series over the past ever 
 since the first super mario brothers came out and just made a new super mario brothers, and if 
 you are thinking about getting a Lite, then you should consider making this your first video game 
 on the lite. Because you can't get the full effect of the game unless u do get one. I just traded 
 my old ds in for the new one and it's way better, and super mario brother s is by far the best 
 game I've ever played, If your thinkin weather or not you should get it, its worth the money $$. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaster200x
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. has always held a soft spot in my heart, starting with the NES, the guilty pleasure 
 of watching the koopa shell take out a row of goombas after you stomped on its back.. To crushing 
 a gigantic bowser in Super Mario 64.. Mario is and always will be an instant classic in whichever 
 genre or platform he finds himself on, and New SMB is no different, from it's bright colorful worlds, 
 to its maddening pipe mazes, new enemies, and old favorites such as the standard goomba to my personal 
 fav Bullet Bill. New SMB has something for everyone.. The game has fantastic 3D sprites, and beyond 
 easy controls (a and b) to run and jump and throw fireballs... The addition of new powerups such 
 as minish mario, and mega mario which takes stomping baddies to a whole new level.. It's hard, 
 but it keeps you coming back for a beating everytime.. The only downside to the whole thing is 
 that if you don't do two certain levels properly you'll never be able to completely beat the game.. 
 Which is a shame really, but what can you do.. All in all NSMB is well worth the cash, and here's 
 hoping they bring out a sequel real soon.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petewrigley
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, as most people have said, New Super Mario Bros. lives up to its given reputation. However, 
 The whole story seems kinda weak, though I guess its understood that there's only so much that 
 Mario and Luigi can do before it starts getting monotonous.
  
  For new or old gamer alike, it takes a little time to get used to the controls. I'd say that after 
 you die once, you've got the hang of it. Anyways, one thing that makes this game interesting is 
 its new power ups (Mini and Mega Mushroom, Koopa Shell Outfit, and of course your basic Mushroom 
 and Fire Flower) . However, I was extremely disappointed that Nintendo dropped the idea of flight 
 from this game, as I found the flying capabilities in Mario World and Mario Bros. 3 the only thing 
 that kept me coming back to re-play some levels. What was it replaced by? The Mega Mushroom, which 
 makes Mario (or Luigi) big enough to stomp through the level unharmed, while wrecking anything 
 in his path. And although the amount of carnage you parform equals more 1ups, the Mega Mushroom 
 just doesn't seem to fill the void of the Tanooki Suit, or the Cape Feather. And for you Mario 
 World freaks, I'm sorry to say that Yoshi is nowhere to be seen in the story mode!
  
  If your primary goal is to just beat the final boss, then your journey will be somewhat short, 
 especially if you perform some sneakiness to gain access to the Warp Cannons. However, for you 
 hard core players that want to finish as much stuff as you can before being forced to look up a 
 wlkthrough... well honestly, that will only hold you back maybe one whole day. With just the standard 
 8 worlds, I was able to beat the entire game along with its secrets unlocked in a mere five days. 
 But that doesn't mean the journey itself isn't that interesting. I mean, you do have those new 
 power ups to experiment with, right?
  
  And speaking of power ups, you'll soon learn to loathe the Mini-Mushroom, as you're forced to use 
 it in order to reach hidden worlds 4 and 7. But once again, that really won't put you back that 
 many hours.
  
  Outside of the game are some mini games that you can play, consisting of card games, puzzles, etc. 
 Nothing special, since these are practically the same ones as in Mario 64 DS, but I guess you can 
 play them in between trying to beat ghost House level or something...
  
  Now, let's get to the technical stuff. The graphics are pretty good, as it's a DS game. The only 
 thing that kinda flusters me is that you can't see your character's eye, since he's made so small 
 (but not too small!) . The touch screen is only used to navigat through the menu and replenish yourself 
 with a power-up in reserve. The only place that the touch screen truly shines is in the mini-games. 
 And for the controls, I found it strange to have two buttons to jump and dash, but I guess it makes 
 sense if you want to be comfortable playing. Finally, the sound has the option of Stereo, Surround, 
 and Headphones, which I found somewhat interesting.
  
  So, to sum it up, New Super mario Bros. is a cinch once you get the hang of it, but I'm still kinda 
 pissed that you can't fly outside of hijacking a passerby cloud in world 2... That, and you can't 
 get access to that whole opening animation aside from seeing it play through the first time. : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be the easiest mario game ever. It is very like the first mario game but with 
 some new moves. The game is also very short i managed to beat the main game (without unlocking everything) 
 in 3 days. And i unlocked everything in 1 week. At 35$ this game is not cheap and the fun only 
 lasts for awile. you should rent this rather then buying it.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  I really like this game because of its old school appeal and cause it is side scrolling. There 
 are 8 worlds that are all very diverse and unique.
  Graphics 9/10
  I do not know if this game can be called graphically impressive because it is a side scroller. 
 Side scrollers often dont show and eye catching graphics. They are fast paced..
  Sound 9/10
  The sounds are resemble the original Mario games. Especially when you jump. It reminds 
 me when i was little and i used to play Mario. The music is also catchy and motivating.
  Value 1/10 
  Like i said this game is not cheap and it is very short which offers very little 
 Value.
  Reviewer's Tilt 8/10
  Many people like me are die hard Mario fans or nintendo fans. This game is like any other mario 
 side scroller. It also improves in some ways by making secret levels and 26 mini games which are 
 all diverse and fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. revives the classic Super Mario Bros. but the new one is better. In the new 
 one, Mario and Luigi can grow really tall and demolish anything by walking into them or stepping 
 on them. The graphics are better. Way better. Compare New Super Mario Bros. to the classic one 
 and you will see which one is better. We all know the classic was the one of the best games, but 
 you have to admit that the new version is way better. No wonder this game is one of the best DS 
 games out there. I serious recommend this game to everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Ever since Super Mario Land 2 for the Game Boy, Mario has not appeared in another side scroller 
 since. And I'm not talking about the Game Boy Advance remakes of the old games. Im talking about 
 new side scrolling adventures. Dont get me wrong, most of his 3D work is great, but every once 
 in a while its good to travel down the road you first walked on.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. for the Nintendo DS shows that Mario has no end to what he can do. Once again, 
 Princess Peach Toadstool has been captured, this time by Bowser Jr. Its a race against the clock 
 as you have to go leaps over bounds across eight worlds to save her. Actually, I thought that since 
 Super Princess Peach, she would be able to defend herself. Oh well.
  
  What makes this New Super Mario Bros. new is the fact that the game is almost entirely composed 
 with three dimensional rendering, which allows you to use some of Marios more recent moves from 
 his 3D days, such as the triple jump, wall jump, and ground pound, for youll need most of these 
 to get through the levels. Gameplay is about as simple as it gets; one button for dashing or throwing 
 fireballs, one button to jump.
  
  And whats a Mario game without power ups? Oh there is a bunch of power ups for you to use, if 
 that is you can find them. The Super Mushroom and Fire Flowers are back in the game, but it seems 
 that almost every time you find a block containing an item, you get a Fire Flower. Marios flight 
 abilities are not in the game this time, but instead is an interesting power up, a Blue Koopa Shell. 
 Thats right, when you dawn this shell not only can you swim faster in water, but if you run fast 
 you turn into a spinning shell breaking blocks, mowing down enemies, and thats about it. Theres 
 also the mini and mega mushrooms. As Mini Mario you can perform miracles by running on water and 
 entering small pipes. As Mega Mario you can trash through blocks, pipes, and enemies, destroying 
 the entire level. The time is short, but the more you destroy, the more a meter at the top fills 
 up. At the end, depending on how full it gets depends on how many 1up Mushrooms fall from the sky. 
 However, Mega Mario isnt as useful as you think. Yeah, you can go tearing through blocks, pipes, 
 and enemies, but sometimes youll find yourself in a place you can continue since he cant tear 
 up the landscape.
  
  As for the levels themselves, some of them are challenging and will make you frustrated from time 
 to time. At other times, its just not as challenging as levels from Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super 
 Mario World. But then again, its a Mario game. Once youve completed a level, when you go back 
 to play it again, you should know what youre doing.
  
  The sounds and music feel right at home in this one. The sound effects are practically the same 
 from previous Mario games. The music might not be the catchiest when it comes to a Mario game. 
 However the interesting thing to note is that enemies and roaming power ups will jump at specific 
 times in the music. 
  
  When you get right down to it, its a Mario side scroller. Fans of the series will love this game 
 as well as anyone who has a DS and has never played a Mario game. Its easy to pick up and easy 
 to play. Its nice to see Mario returning to where he started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  When it comes to story, there's not much to tell, which is pretty typical for a Mario game. Princess 
 Peach gets captured yet again, this time by Baby Bowser. The rest of the flow is like Super Mario 
 Bros., go to a castle, see peach, but then is already taken to a different castle, and so on.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, this is an old-school gamer's cup of tea. The 2D gameplay and level design is just 
 like the 2D Mario games from the NES and SNES. The Goombas, the Koopas, the pipes, and the flag 
 at the end of the level... its like revisiting the classics, except this is a new game. Mario does 
 what he always does in his 2D adventures. He runs through the levels jumping on enemies, using 
 Koopa shells to throw them and other enemies or other objects. Just like the classics, there are 
 secret areas to find if you go through pipes or hit mysterious blocks. When it comes to level design, 
 you get all the themes you get in a Mario game. A green grassy world, a desert world, a snowy world, 
 a forest world, ect. There's a fair amount of secrets in each of the worlds, including extra paths 
 for new levels or more secrets. Similar to Super Mario World, there are 3 different coins you need 
 to find in each level (5 in SMW) . These coins will be needed to pay the toll way towards new paths 
 for new levels or places to power up. Similar to Super Mario Bros. 3, there are mushroom houses 
 to get items to use during level play, or houses to get extra lives. One of the castle bosses is 
 also a rehash of the Bowser battles in Super Mario Bros. All this is just a hint of all the classic 
 elements added in the experience.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. also introduces new elements as well. In addition to the mushroom and fire 
 flower to aid in Mario's abilities, there's now a mini-mushroom and mega-mushroom to add new twists 
 during the gameplay. The mega-mushroom is of course used to get Mario huge. Once in this stage, 
 you run across the level destroying everything in your path. The more you destroy, the more you 
 extra life meter increases. After the time limit is up, you will receive a certain number of lives 
 depending on how much you destroy. When you use the mini-mushroom, it feels more risky since Mario 
 has a one-hit kill if he gets touched. But using this mushroom, you can get access to secret places 
 that are too small for being in normal size. There's also a power up that makes Mario wear a shell. 
 This can be useful, because when Mario's at full speed, he will control like a kicked Koopa shell, 
 knocking most enemies in his path, but could also hit object to go backwards. Mario also acquired 
 some moves that were introduced in other games after Super Mario World. Mario uses the ground-pound 
 by pressing down on the D-pad twice so he hits the ground with his butt. Then, there's his wall 
 jump where he jumps from wall to wall to move upwards. These new additions make the whole experience 
 feel like a sequel to the 2D games (which it is) rather then a remake.
  
  If you get tired of Mario's big adventure, there's always mini-games to keep you company. But some 
 Mario players will notice that all the mini-games came from Super Mario 64 DS as extras. It's no 
 matter though, because these mini-games, which require you to use the touch screen on your DS, 
 are still pretty fun. You can also use the mini-games to play against other players. You can also 
 co-op on Mario's big adventure by using Mario and Luigi. So the gameplay is a lot to offer it's 
 one no old-school Mario fan should miss out on.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The 3D graphics used on the objects and some of the enemies are cleverly designed and well detailed. 
 The backgrounds suit the theme of each level quite well too. The frame rate never drops at all 
 as far as I noticed. Though not a spectacular looking game, the game does feature colorful designs 
 to act as eye-candy. So all the graphical presentation is rock-solid.
  
  Sound:
  
  Would you have a great Mario game if the music was lousy? I don't think so. The music is very important 
 in Mario games, and the songs here never disappoint. All the songs are what you expect in Mario 
 games, which are happy and catchy, and can even be atmospheric. A couple songs are also remixed 
 versions of other classic songs. The sound effects even sound old-school, which is fine by me. 
 Though unneeded, the voice acting does get the job done, which mostly consists of Mario's one-liners 
 during the levels. A satisfying audio presentation overall.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  After beating the game, you'll want to play some of the levels again. While the game has no extras 
 aside from mini-games, it's still nice to play through the levels to relive the old-days. There 
 are many secrets in each of the worlds you visit, which include secret exits. You'll finish the 
 game quickly because it's not too long is it's pretty easy for the most part if you played the 
 classics. New-generation gamers have a chance to experience what makes 2D Mario games so great. 
 So any DS owner would do well to try this game out, if not buy it.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Amazing, classic 2D Mario gameplay still works well here.
  -Good visuals and audio
  -Mini-games 
 are still fun
  -The new elements make the experience a new and fresh one.
  
  Cons:
  
  -There could've been some more extras outside of the main adventure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is pretty much a classic side-scrolling Mario, but with great graphics, and 
 more items. The game is short, it only takes about ten hours to finish, but it's still worth every 
 penny. 
  
  There are more items in this game then in other Side-Scrolling games. Obviously the Mushroom, and 
 the Flower are returning, but along with those is the new Mega Mushroom, which turns you into a 
 giant, and allows you to break everything in sight, and give you 1-ups. The Mini-Mushroom makes 
 you tiny. You can get to places you never could before, and run on water. The new koopa Suit is 
 my favorite new item. You pretty much have all of a koopas abilities. You can run into enemies 
 with the shell, and defend yourself by pressing the down button The only disapointment here is 
 that there is no feather that turns mario into Super Mario, or no leaf that transforms Mario into 
 a racoon. It's not that big a deal, but still, those were my favorite items.
  
  The save feature is a huge minus. No saving until you clear a tower, or use five star coins to 
 go through a different path. After you beat the game you can save any time you want, but the first 
 time around is the only time that really matters. 
  
  Mini-games are great. You have to use the stylus, or microphone in every one. There are games where 
 you have to blow into the mic to send Yoshi up, and a mini-game where you draw trampalines to save 
 Mario from falling down. 
  
  Every one owning a DS should get this game right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenslave
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  The old days have left us long ago. People have already beaten the older Marios in a matter of 
 minutes. Even Mario 64 has been slain within one sitting, or more accurately, one moment. The way 
 we see Mario in the modern day is far from what we used to love, and sadly we drift even further.
 
  
  The New Super Mario Bros. really shines well deserved, and much needed, light on the Mario series. 
 This game has suited anyone from children to adults. By adding newer elements, and resurrecting 
 many old aspects of the series, Nintendo has successfully made another masterpiece.
  
  The game feels natural. None of it looks fabricated, other than the 3-D touch. Which, by the way, 
 really fits in, and does not look or play weird at all. They actually use their new 3-D ability 
 to add nice touches, such as large and small Marios, or stronger enemies that are triple their 
 natural size. The images are all very clear, and and the graphics are beautiful.
  
  They have some old items such as Fire Flower and good ole mushroom have returned. Now, the game 
 contains new additions such as Mini Mario, and Mega Mario. Both have advantages, and disadvantages. 
 You also have the SNES style of holding one item in your pocket, which really comes in hand. And 
 the much appreciated return of the flagpole was a decent surprise. 
  
  All-in-all, this game is worth it. I'd say every DS owner should own this game. With many levels, 
 including tons of secret levels, and many paths this game will keep you going. It's a once in a 
 long-while game, and I give it two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenderBox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Need a break from the current MMO your playing? Buy this game. 
  
  Its just flat out a fun game to play. Nice, colorful, and relaxing. What more can you ask for? 
 Its like going to a old movie only to find out it got better with age.
  
  The gameplay as with the old SMB is outstanding. The graphics are eye catching and sound... well 
 you already know what SMB sounds like or you've been living under a rock for the past 25 years. 
 
  
  But you should give the direction book a once over because Mario has a few new moves you can perform. 
 Other then that it flows like a fine wine. 
  
  This game is pure magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. revives the classic Super Mario Bros. but the new one is better. In the new 
 one, Mario and Luigi can grow really tall and demolish anything by walking into them or stepping 
 on them. The graphics are better. Way better. Compare New Super Mario Bros. to the classic one 
 and you will see which one is better. We all know the classic was the one of the best games, but 
 you have to admit that the new version is way better. No wonder this game is one of the best DS 
 games out there. I serious recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BostonMario
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is an instant classic in the mario genre up there with super mario bros. 
 3 and super mario world. The game combines Super Mario 1, 3 Super Mario World, Super Mario 64 and 
 Mario Party all wrapped up with a few new moves.
  The main game has Bowser Jr. distracting mario and stealing peach, sending you on one hell of an 
 adventure. There are 8 worlds just like the original Mario Bros., and the Mushroom and Fire Flowers 
 are finally back, which gives all die hard mario fans like myself a warm fuzzy feeling. It also 
 takes after super mario bros three, following the same level set up (examples being level one is 
 normal, 2 is desert, the final level is a hellish wasteland etc.) And its on a map like in mario 
 3 and world, and like Mario World, you can play each world as much as you want. You are 3-D which 
 gives you the ability to do wall jumps and triple spin jumps like in Super Mario 64 and sunshine, 
 and then a few new original features. There are three new abilities, Mega mushroom, which makes 
 mario huge and allows him to destroy anything and everything in his path, mini mario, for those 
 hard to reach places, and shell mario, which gives you a quick way to get around and take out enemies. 
 Also every level has three hidden gigantic coins, when you get five, you can open a toad house. 
 And the levels and maps are riddled with alternate routes and secret passages. Not to mention the 
 variety of the levels. Each world has roughly ten levels, and each one has something unique to 
 it.
  Along with all the there is a minigame room where you can play 18 minigames, much like in the mario 
 party series. There are a wide variety from having mario bounce on fly guys via the stylus, to 
 playing a game of poker with luigi.
  There are only three bad things. One, there is no racoon/cape abillity so mario will have to stay 
 grounded. Two, The game can be annoyingly difficult every once in a while. And Three, In 20 years 
 kids will be like, what the hell, why is an old school mario game called new super mario bros?\
 
  anyways, when you add it all up with its great graphics and sounds you get nothing less than a 
 great game thats just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klist390
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I have loved Mario ever since the first game came out for the NES. This one is no different . However, 
 I feel the game was a bit short. I completed every level in one evening. I also wish they would 
 of added additional abilities such as the frog and shoe suits from Mario 3. However, the graphics 
 for this version are spectacular. Gone are the sprites of yesteryear and now we have full 3d characters 
 in a 2d world. One of the coolest abilities is when Mario turns into "Super Mega Mario" and takes 
 up the entire top screen. Overall, the game was definitely satisfying. I just was left definitely 
 wanting a whole lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audyboi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a whole new Mario game with a new story, new powers, and most important, 
 new graphics. The whole game is in 3d. You could actually say it's 2D and 3D since it is a side-scrolling 
 game. In this new adventure, Mario is walking with Peach, when Baby Bowser jumps out and nabs her... 
 again. You'll fight him and many other monsters and bosses in order to save Peach. He even summons 
 the big Bowser to fight you. There are new powers, too, such as, Mini and Mega Mario. In this Mario, 
 you can also play against your friends for stars. This is a great game, and would be a great addition 
 to your Nintendo DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zkeptik
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  In the years since the release of Super Mario Bros. 64 I have not been as excited as I was when 
 I drove home from the store with my DS-Lite and New Super Mario Bros. in tow.
  
  It brings back the classic but doesn't really add anything new. Some of the moves Mario learned 
 in subsequent games are included but don't really do much to change the gameplay. The touchscreen 
 functionality is really tacked on since it seems more of a gimmick than a necessity for the main 
 game. It's a completely different story for the fun but short mini-games.
  
  You use the touch screen to enable the stored powerup. There are six buttons on the DS, one of 
 which could've been used for the same task preventing from having to take out the stylus or mashing 
 the touch screen with your thumb.
  
  3D Mario. Is it really necessary? I know the DS is capable of handling it and it adds for some 
 interesting, and rarely used, zoom effects. But I could've done without it. How impressive looking 
 would a 2D Mario have been. It might have actually looked a bit cleaner around the edges.
  
  This game is definitely harder than I remember the series to be. There are plenty of extra 
 lives thrown at you. Occasionally 14 or 15 at a time but you will need them. Quick deaths and death 
 defying jumps are the norm.
  
  The music is not memorable at all. I can hum almost every tune from Super Mario Bros. to Yoshi's 
 Island but after spending nearly 10 hours on this game already.... I can't remember a single tune. 
 The classic sounds are all included but through the speakers they sound a little hissy as is expected 
 from such small speakers. Earphones resolve this problem quickly.
  
  I don't know if I had just forgotten the way Mario felt but the control just seems a little "slippery." 
 When I want to stop and turn around it doesn't seem to respond as quickly as I'd like to but it's 
 nothing you can't learn to work with.
  
  The multiplayer is short and suite. Makes for some quick play and laughable moments. The mini-games 
 are equally satisfying though I would've like to see more of them and a larger variety of difficulty 
 levels. I absolutely love Nintendo's support of non-cart multiplayer. They really seem to supporting 
 this feature in many games unlike the manufacturers of my other rather large screened portable 
 system. ; )
  
  $35 for a portable game is not my cup of tea..... Especially one so short and as necessary as this. 
 Hopefully it will reach the Player's Choice list soon or come packaged with the system.
  
  All in all this was a satisfying romp through the Mushroom Kingdom. Not what I would've expected 
 from Super Mario Bros. 4 but I guess that's why they're not calling it that.
  
  Let's see if they get all floaty and abstract in New Super Mario Bros. 2 like they did last time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARKJEDI88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  i think this might be the shortest review i've done......
  
  new super mario bros. + nintendo DS = ecstasy
  
  even though i have quite a few games for the 
 DS, i haven't been playing my DS since mario came out!! love everything about the game, from trying 
 to find the coins, the hidden paths and everything else.. 
  they did a great job on this game all around, and i have no complaints about it
  all the classic 
 sounds are there, and going from the top screen to the bottom screen and vice versa, just brilliant!!!! 
 
  i haven't had a chance to go for the two player mode, but the mini games, although some just like 
 mario 64 on the DS are the same.. I still had fun playing them just the same!!! 
  if you have a DS and love MARIO, and you don't have this game yet, do yourself a favor and go get 
 it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashbolt
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Mario's back from the past of the original new super mario bros. of the nintendo system. Now it's 
 made for the nintendo DS. Play through several different worlds, with several different levels 
 in each of them. Play as mario in ds download play. You can use regular mario, mini mario, super 
 mario, and even giant mario! Nothing can stop you from getting to each flag, getting to each castle, 
 and stopping baby bowser to retrieve the princess.
  
  In this game, you can do a load of things. Swim under water, float on floating logs, climbing and 
 sliding, and destroying things! You can also obtain stuff to help you in the game like the fire 
 flower: lets you to shoot fireballs, the blue koopa shell: can protect you from given damage, the 
 mega mushroom: Makes you a giant, and the star: which can make you invincible. Also the green spotted 
 mushrooms give you 1 extra life.
  
  In this game, you can also play mini games by yourself, and with friends. There are several different 
 mini games that you can play, and you can get high scores for each of them. My favorite one is 
 the one where you use your stylus and guide your bob omb through all of the fireballs and dodge 
 bowsers "death breath." That game is really fun. Plus, during the game, in each level, you might 
 happen to see giant golden coins. Collect them, there are three in each level. If you happen to 
 collect a total of five giant golden coins, then you can unlock a little mushroom hut. There are 
 several ones in each world. Inside them, you get to play a little game, and at the end, you get 
 something special that will help you throughout the game.
  
  I love this game, it is great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermario2800
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is the greatest 2-D game i have played! i love when mario turns huge with the mega mushroom. 
 he causes all sorts of mayhem. crush everyone ,mario! crush them! it took me about a month to beat 
 it. that may sound weird but it's true. the game is all around good. i like when you v. s. bowser in 
 the world 8 final castle. it's kinda hard but it's fun. the game is kinda long but soon it gets 
 mad easy. in this game, there are something called star coins. collect the star coins to unlock 1-up 
 houses, item houses, and mega mushroom houses. after you beat bowser in the world 8 final castle, you 
 unlock a blue mushroom house in world 1. inside are skins for the screen on the nintendo ds. also 
 you unlock the ability to save the game anytime and anywhere. get this game. it's really fun. please 
 get it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor19990
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  MArio is by far one of the funnest DS games to date, occasionally there are some annoying parts 
 that can be fustrating, but after a try or two u easily get over it. This game is superb, just 
 it seems to be over to qickly, but oh well Also from what i played the gamehas not gotten repetitive, 
 it seems to mix it up, with new bosses (u r not always versing baby bowser/bowser)
  Ialso dont see anything wrong with the music it has the classic mario touch that many gamers have 
 come to know and loveits replayability is great, currebtly im regoing thru with luigi (hold L+R+A) . 
 So ya its a superb game and every DS owner should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerplaya7585
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is one of the best games that pulls off a simultaneous merge of old-school 
 game play with present day graphics, sound and innovation. Ever.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Beautiful and Bright Graphics. Taking advantage of the new DS Lite's brighter screen, NSMB's 
 boasts a brilliant set of graphics. They really make Mushroom Kingdom stand out in a new way.
 
  - Tight Handling and Control. Despite being played on a handheld, this Mario game gives you superior 
 control over Mario throughout his adventures. No running off of ledges unless you want to.
  - Good Old Mario Tunes. Nothing less than you would expect from Nintendo.
  - Reminders of the 
 Past. Throughout the eight different worlds you will play in you will find levels that closely 
 resemble scenes from the NES, SNES, N64 and GCN.
  - Minigames and Multiplayer. While either of these isn't anywhere close to as rewarding as the 
 one-player campaign is, they both offer an enjoyable, if not short-lived, distraction from the 
 main story.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Short Storyline. Although it's very fun while it's happening, by the time you beat the game you'll 
 be surprised how fast it went.
  - No Replay Value. Once you collect all the Coin Stars and find all the alternate exits it's hard 
 to run through New Super Mario Bros. again. It's utterly boring, in fact.
  
  Overall, this was my first DS game and it really got me into my new handheld. The great graphics, 
 game play and in-depth worlds make up for the short game and poor replay value and I highly recommend 
 this to anyone who hasn't yet played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keize
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mario is an okay guy, and his games are usually fun. I liked the game for a while till I got to 
 world 8 then it just went on forEVER!!!!! It got tiring and annoying. I would get the game any 
 way, just because it has pretty good multiplayer, but even that was.... ok. The graphics are better, 
 the music sounds better and not annoying, the game play is fun and not too hard. There's not much 
 you can put down on this game. Its fun, entertaining, and worth while. So if your thinking about 
 getting it, then go ahead. Its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. Stands as a testament to Miyamoto-San, and as a gaming marvel. This game 
 truly shows that Nintendo hit the jackpot with the original Mario Bros. This game has twenty years 
 of polish behind it, and BOY does it show!
  
  Intermission: RAWR!!!! (taking a break to play some more ^ ^)
  
  From the inventive new power-ups 
 (the Super size mushroom is brilliant!) , to the remixed level design, New Super Mario Bros. is 
 by far the most fun I have ever had with a video game, and I hope you'll agree. New Super Mario 
 Bros is pure, unabashed enjoyment, and BY FAR the most addictive game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboy2177
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a side scrolling game that stays true to the old Mario Bros. formula while 
 adding just enough innovation to keep it fresh and new. In the game you are once again in charge 
 of rescuing Princess Peach from the vile clutches of Baby Bowser (seriously she needs to get some 
 better body guards) .
  Gameplay- New Super Mario Bros. stays true to the classic 2D formula that you know in love, but 
 with a few improvements. On top of the usual upgrades like the fire flower and mushroom you get 
 brand new ones like the Mega Mushroom which transforms you to a giant sized Mario while you run 
 through enemies, blocks and pipes knocking them over and leaving behind a trail of destruction. 
 You also have Mini-Mushrooms that transforms you to a micro Mario and a Kopa shell upgrade that 
 allows you to fly across a level in a blue turtle shell breaking blocks and taking out enemies. 
 On top of the various upgrades that you recieve, Mario also has a slew of new moves such a the 
 butt-stomp , the triple jump and, my personal favorite, the wall jump. These moves allow for many 
 different gameplay possibilities which keeps it from being the same-old, same-old. Levels are cleverly 
 designed and have a lot of depth to take advantage of these new moves and upgrades. The levels 
 also have many secret exits, similar to that in previous Mario games, which lead to new levels 
 or shortcuts. There is also the ability to save an item on the touchscreen so that when you're 
 in a pinch you can summon this power-up to save you just in the knick of time. Gameplay is great 
 and the difficulty is just right for a quick pick up and play session nothing to complicated. This 
 formula is highly addicting and once you start playing it's hard to put down. 
  Graphics- The Graphics in this game really look nice for a DS game. The classic 2D graphics are 
 given a N64-ish upgrade that makes the game look great while still bringing back that nostalgic 
 factor that previous Mario games have. The game also runs like silk. There was never any issues 
 with uneven frame-rate or slow-downs. Mario moves fluidly and reacts great with the enviorment. 
 It may not be to the level of Metroid Prime Hunters, but that's okay because that's not what the 
 game is trying to obtain. At the same time though if you're looking for a mind-blowing graphically 
 astonishing experience you won't find it here.
  Sound- The sound is classic Mario, you'll here the classic tunes the old school beeps and bops 
 of coins and enemies, the underground levels sound the same and bomping a Koopa on the head sounds 
 just as satisfying now as it did twenty years ago on you NES. It's nothing innovative, but why 
 fix something when it isn't broken.
  Value- Overall the value of this game is fair. The game can be passed in literally one sitting 
 and the boss battles leave a lot to be desire. Of course everyone knows that the real value in 
 Mario Bros. is it's re-playability. You'll always want to go back to find new worlds, new exits 
 and collect every gold coin. There are also a slew of mini-games that work with your touch screen 
 and stylus, but it's there mearly as a little gimmick to occupy players for short amounts of time. 
 However the multi-player is definitely fun and can be played with only one cartridge for up to 
 four people. So there are definitely reasons to play it again after you're finish with the single 
 player.
  Tilt- Overall it's a Mario game filled with everything you know and love about the franchise that 
 got you into playing video games in the first place. It's a perfect fit for the DS and has a lot 
 of great times in store for the player. If you just bought the DS lite (like I did) this is a great 
 game to buy along with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryjames
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I have purchase the Nintendo DS Lite and this game the morning of the day it was release and man 
 was I impress with this game. It like a original mario game but made for mainstream of today. Old-school, 
 new-school, who ever you are I dare you to try out this game because if you do you will be glad 
 of the wonderful game playing on your own shiny Nintendo DS Lite. As for other who already have 
 original DS, let just say it will not be complete in term of collection games without instant legendary 
 classic game like "NEW" Super Mario Bros.
  
  P. S. Can I say, I told you so. I even got my brother, who hated playing nintendo games, got addictive 
 playing this game even though he was suppose to pick up his Mom from work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capouel123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This recently released remake of the classic 2-D plat-former "Super Mario Brothers" is a fantastic 
 game to play which creates a very usual vibe of any great Super Mario game when it is in your hands. 
 
  
  Story: The intro of the game is very new to most Super Mario fans : it begins with Mario and Peach 
 strolling down Mushroom Kingdom. But then all of a sudden, a dark cloud lurks upon the castle and 
 strikes it with lightning. Will Peach admires this spectacle, Mario runs down to the castle to 
 see if everything is ok. But will Peach is alone without her mustached hero at her side, the young 
 offspring of the infamous Bowser creeps behind her and snatches her with agility but not fast enough 
 for Peach to scream out with all her strength to Mario which comes running back to her leaving 
 the castle behind because as we all know : nothing is more important to this little Sicilian plumber 
 than his dear Princess Peach. So as we can all see, this is a much different story line than any 
 other Mario game (YAH RIGHT!!!!!) . So this incident leaves Mario determined to go and risk his 
 life trough 8 worlds only to rescue his dear Peach.
  
  The rest is up to you to find out!
  
  Review: The game-play is absolutely fantastic except 
 for one minor problem, if your going threw the game and trying to finish it at 100%, it can become 
 very stressful (but hey, maybe ts just me!) . Another thing that I think is great about this game 
 is that they get kept the famous bowser boss with the switch which the floor that crumbles when 
 you hit it, but they have also added 6 new bosses. The only thing that disappoints me is that the 
 game is much to easy : you can finish the whole game in about three hours. But they have added 
 something to even out that point : After you have finished the game, you have this kind of side-quest 
 which makes you win different background on the touch by getting all of the Star Coins in the game.
 
  
  So over all this is a pretty great game and if you are a person who like easy stuff.
  
  Nicholas Craven 21/06/06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prozack28
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. It plays just like any other side-scrolling mario classic, with a few new 
 twists such as power-ups and moves for our favorite plumber. It just feels like an instant classic 
 but the "new" aspect fits in perfectly. The 3-D models give the franchise a fresh new look whille 
 keeping in touch with the original. With over 80 new levels and more secrets than ever, this game 
 is a great success. The fits with the ds perfectly, using the touch screen to navigate through 
 the map, store a power-up, look at your position in the level, and keep track of youtr score and 
 lives. Its been ten years since the last side-scrolling mario, and this new edition feels great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is perhaps the first Mario sidescroller since the SNES. You navigate in a 
 2-D perspective, but with 3-D models. The gameplay very similar to that of Super Mario World. You 
 can run, jump, throw fireballs, and swim. There are also added gameplay elements from Super Mario 
 64. These include triple jumps and ground pounds. The graphics are very nice and detailed, and 
 the sounds are perfect. It almost feels like I'm listening to a past Mario sidescroller. Beating 
 the actual game will not take long, however there is the added challenge of collecting coins which 
 will keep you busy for days to come. Also, to get that 100 percent completion, you'll have to open 
 up every pathway in the game. Classic Mario veterans, along with current day Mario fans will enjoy 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamekeed101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  This most genius idea for this Mario game, should become the top game of the sequel. This is a 
 reformed-retro game which absolutely everybody liked, with even more capabilities. Anyone who gives 
 this game less than a 8 must be... out of their minds, mentally challenged, retarded, and just completely 
 insane. Anywho, the new gameplay strategy incredible, with some Super Mario world type of level 
 selection, and super mario brothers game play ,along with some things and new ways to get around. Everything 
 about it is great, but there is one issue people complain about. The game... is too... short. For 
 example:"It did". The end. It was somewhat like that, and chances are most people go to World 1,2,3,5,6, 
 and 8. In order to get to the rest, you need to beat the bosses of each castle between the forks 
 in the paths as Mini Mario. Also, Luigi is very easy to unleash, and lives are easier to get than 
 ever, along with megamushroom and mushroom houses. Only if there was a bit more difficulty-let's 
 say as hard as Super Mario Bros. 3, but with 3d features and the upside down level like the last 
 castle: D. Well, this is my opinion people! Don't hate.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfkunrendered
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  From world one all the way to world eight, it was like a flash back of Super Mario Brothers on 
 the NES. Now thats not a bad thing because it was really good. The only problem with this game 
 I had was that it was to short. It`s great fun, especially if you like the Mario series, and the 
 new items, like the mini mushroom, and the giant mushroom made the game fell a little "cooler" 
 than the NES Mario. The map that you are on kind of looks like a game board, which took me a while 
 to get used to, and i`m not sure why either. There are alot of challenging things on the game, 
 like finding all of the star coins and unlocking alternate paths. Those two things really kept 
 me going at the game until I finally got everything complete. Most of the mini games on here are 
 the exact same ones on the Super Mario DS game, but there are a few new ones. I never have played 
 the multiplayer on this game, so I cant tell you how that is. If you`re someone who really likes 
 the Mario series then this games is definently for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyxp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  although, not the beset game available for the nintendo DS the new super mario brothers is definantly 
 on the TOP 10 list.
  
  the game might be too easy for some of you gamers out there, but as for me i think that the dificulty 
 is just right.
  
  so if your still in love with the first mario.. get this now.
  
  the game should have been $29 though, seeing as this isnt a completly NEW game. even though its 
 very enjoyable for all gamers alike.
  
  if you have a DS...
  
  ... you pretty much HAVE to buy this game.
  
  Good Work Nintendo.
  
  and playing the game 
 on the new nintendo ds lite is even better... you can actually see mario lol
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymitch321
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros is an alright game for those who would like to play another Mario game 
 with hardly enough to hold it together. The graphics are nice, the multiplayer is fun and the mini-games 
 just top it all off...... well, sort of. 
  
  Any Super Mario fan will certainly enjoy this game. The single player game offers many new moves, 
 mushrooms and enemies. It brings back a classic game to a much more modern approach. 
  
  On the other hand, the game is not what it is cracked up to be. The levels seem more frustrating 
 than fun at times. Some levels seem too short and it is more of a been-there-played-that sort of 
 game. The slight changes from the older games arent enough to make this such a great game as everyone 
 makes it seem. 
  
  The mini-games are also very repetitive because some of the games are already on the Super Mario 
 64 DS game. Although they are not exactly the same, some are just slightly changed. 
  
  Multiplayer is fun when it comes to mini-games. But the Mario vs. Luigi mode, which lets players 
 run through levels to collect stars and battle each other for the stars, needs much help. Sure, 
 the concept of the Mario vs Luigi mode is nice, but the levels need much help considering that 
 they are so ridiculously small. 
  
  Overall, the game itself is good for those who really enjoy the mario game. Others who just want 
 to buy the game because of the good reviews, save your money for a game that will last longer than 
 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Nintendo has outdone themselves yet again. Just like the first Mario games 
 but with more extras. First of all you can get a tiny blue mushroom and when you get it you become 
 REALLY TINY. When you are that tiny you can go through really tiny warp pipes that lead to extra 
 coins. Also you can jump high enough so you can get to higher star coins which you spend on doors 
 so you can get to places that give you free items. The only downside to being tiny is that you 
 can't kill enemies you only bounce of of them. The other extra is a gigantic mushroom that makes 
 you the size of Godzilla. When you are that big every time you hit an enemy it automatically dies. 
 In that size you can also destroy un-destroyable bricks. Also in that size you can destroy warp 
 pipes when you touch them. Altogether it is a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crithon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to really introduce a game like New Super Mario Bros, in fact there is no nariaton, 
 story, or tutorial that really explains to you everything about the game. It just starts simple 
 animated into showing the princess getting kidnapped and mario has to rescue her from Bowser Jr. 
 One your thrusted into the game your under the assumption that this is a remake of the original 
 NES Super Mario Bros.... and that's the best way Nintendo can bring in a new audience into the 
 game, because the game is different from the original. 
  
  As much as the game emulates the original game, linary direction of going from one end of the level 
 hoping, puching bricks, shooting fireballs, collecting coins, finding power ups and finally jumping 
 onto the flag pol. The biggest change is there are so many new power ups, moves, enemies and obstacls 
 that they seem to come out of the blue with no explanation and tutorial. Which is what makes the 
 game such a breath of fresh air. This feels overwhelming when these events happen, pay attention 
 to first time players faces. You will remember at least what made the seires so popular with their 
 goofy grin on their faces. The linear gameplay is a lot like SMB1, the length of the levels more 
 along the lines of SMB3, the hidden exits of SMW and even the inertia of the movements of the original 
 Mario Bros so the gameplay takes a bit of time to get used even if your played the pervious games. 
 There is a great deal of complexity added to these rather simple levels that it's easy to just 
 run through the game and beat it but if your stop to experiment you are going to be greatly rewarded. 
 
  
  Visually, New Super Mario is takes a lot of hints from SMB1 then the colorful and imaginative world 
 of SMW or Yoshi's Island. Although it's not a bad thing since it's a linear gameplay pushing you 
 forward to really want to take a while to admire what you see. Still it feels like a lush imaginative 
 and well animated game compared to static 2D Mario games. In fact the small touches like the water 
 splash or the glow of lava under Mario's face and the first appearance of a Giant Bullet Bill's 
 cannon are all beautiful touches that help you enjoy the game's visuals. While the Music on the 
 other hand is pretty much all original, and there is very few remakes of Mario musical themes. 
 Although the Audio has a lot of original sound effects which is that one aspect that sells you 
 into believing this is a true Mario game. 
  
  Multiplayer is actually a remake of the original Mario Bros, but with level settings of the game. 
 The point is you have a small looped level for the Mario and Luigi to run around and combat one 
 another. It basic jump on top, below, fireball, turtle shell or just demolish everything with a 
 Megamushroom. The multiplayer is wild and very overwhelming, but it's very brief with only 5 stages. 
 Aside from that the game has about 40 mini-games directly from the Super Mario 64 DS remake. I've 
 found the mini-games have more longevity here in New Super Mario Bros then in Super Mario 64 DS 
 since Mario 64 wasn't the game that really sold me on the DS as much as New Super Mario does. The 
 mini-games are more casual and a beautiful addition to New Super Mario's frantic and energetic 
 gameplay. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros isn't just trying to re-invent Super Mario Bros, instead it's embracing all 
 it's qualities and nuances and making a solid game in the spirit of the series. What makes it such 
 a traditional mario game is that it's easy to jump into and it's really rewarding to understand 
 the complexity of the game. I've had flashbacks of Christmas of 1987 while playing this game, so 
 if your just interested on the nostalgia value then it's worth it for that, and there is a lot 
 more to love out of this game. This is probably the best Mario game in a long time, and you hope 
 they will make a sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the main reasons why I like the Nintendo DS Lite. I was originally motivated 
 to by mine because of this game alone already.
  
  This game is you classic Super Mario World Layout with multiple exits for some stages and of course 
 the classic warps from the original super Mario bros. The game makes a great attempt to mix both 
 old and new characteristics of the Super Mario series and tried very hard to make them all work 
 together. Of course, all your classic enemies are present as well as some new ones which I thought 
 were kind of weird lol like the sand snake boss lol. 
  
  The game plays great and offers many different ways of playing including a versus mode over where 
 2-8 players can duke it out as well as a nice bevy of mini games. These games however, can get 
 boring really fast because they do look kind of like they were simply just slapped together as 
 an added bonus. Kind of like extra features on a DVD you really do not want. 
  
  Also, I found that the introduction to the mega Mario mushroom was cool but I would still much 
 rather have some sort of power up that helps me fly because there were tons of stages where I really 
 just wanted to fly over the enemies and just plain avoid them.
  
  Besides this, the game plays awesome! There is lots of puzzles and secrets to find as well different 
 mushroom houses your can visit for massive power ups. This game was definitely worth my money and 
 I have recommended it to many people. This one is definitely a buy!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JorgeCarrillo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the most addicting games i have ever played, the graphics were awesome, 
 and it has something most of new games have, and that is the fun factor.
  The controllers are amazingly easy to learn (even my friends that arent in videogames could play 
 it really nice in 10 minutes) , i learned them because i played the old Mario games and the Mario 
 games on the Gameboy SP.
  Almost all of the minigames are really addictive.
  I could have called it the best in series, but nothing could beat Super Mario World.
  I think 
 the only thing this game missed is that u can mount on Yoshi.
  For the replay value, well... im actually trying to find all the coins, and it is fun, but sometimes 
 frustrating because i can find them all.
  As for sound, what can i say, i got nostalgic when i heard the background song when i was in cave 
 :D
  I give this game a 9.5\10
  Its a really good game that i can recommend to evryone i know.
  Thank you for reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over, Mario has returned to his roots with New Super Mario Bros which to no 
 great surprise is the next installment of the popular Super Mario Bros series. Fans have been crying 
 out for a sequel for close to 15 years and this is Nintendos offering after a long vacation; nobody 
 would deny that Marios 3D platformers have been integral to not only the franchise but to the 
 entire platform genre but it certainly is welcoming to see it return home. The story will come 
 as no great surprise to anyone relatively familiar with past games; thats of course if you can 
 class it as a story to begin with. The princess has yet again been kidnapped and its your job 
 as super plumber to save her from almost certain peril. Along your journey you will play through 
 a series of levels, each as varied and as well thought out as the next; eventually leading up to 
 various castles where you come face to face with Bowser Jnr, the devilish son of the big bad Bowser 
 himself. You navigate through each of the 8 worlds using your trusty overhead map which is not 
 too dissimilar to the one found in Super Mario Bros 3; complete with secret passages to previously 
 inaccessible areas. Theres no doubt that Nintendo see the Super Mario Bros series as their crowning 
 jewel so I had very high hopes for this game, surely they would not even consider releasing a below 
 par game with a name as bold as this, well I can reassuringly say they dont. What did cross my 
 mind upon playing this game was how they would enhance their control system whilst keeping the 
 same run and jump formula that made the games work in the first place. This comes in the form of 
 some new moves allocated to simple button combinations; these are incorporated so carefully that 
 each one now feels necessary. Theres the wall jump which gets you out of jail in quite a few situations 
 by allowing you to escape from chasms or from deviously placed spikes. The butt stomp and triple 
 jump combos also make their 2D debuts and allow Mario to access secret areas that would have been 
 previously impossible to implement in past editions. So why did Nintendo wait until now to finally 
 continue this beloved series? Well I believe it is down to two reasons. The first being the lack 
 of appeal for side-scrolling games on modern consoles, I guess with the capabilities consoles have 
 to offer it would leave gamers feeling rather under-whelmed. That would leave handhelds and perhaps 
 Nintendo finally felt the DS had the power to achieve what they actually set out to accomplish. 
 With New Super Mario Bros platforms now shrink and grow, stretch and bend in ways the Game Boy 
 Advance could only dream of. Water-based levels are now filled with frothy bubbles, swirling whirl 
 pools and rippling water; perhaps the biggest thing about all this is the fact that none of it 
 looks out of place in the retro 2D world. This game incorporates aspects from all 3 of the classic 
 Super Mario Bros adventures; perhaps one of the biggest is the flag poles located at the end of 
 each level. Getting certain points scores or finishing in a certain time will trigger a different 
 selection of fire works for your amusement; you will also get alternative level endings for finishing 
 with various power-ups still in play. One thing that has gone is the ability to collect cards at 
 the end of each level which was a popular feature of Super Mario Bros 3. What they have replaced 
 it with is a coin system that is shockingly similar to that found in Kirbys Canvas Curse of the 
 same system. This sees you collecting a total of 3 coins from each level to unlock new areas on 
 the map and new features to enhance your gaming experience. This was the replay value the game 
 needed as you will find yourself breezing through the main mode in a few short hours. While replaying 
 every level to obtain every coin does sound tedious it is actually one of the best parts the of 
 the single-player experience.
  
  This wouldnt be a Super Mario Bros game without some great power-ups thrown into the mix and this 
 game delivers accordingly. You have the standard mushrooms, fire flowers and stars but there is 
 also the addition of a blue shell that should be recognizable to the Mario Kart fans amongst us. 
 This makes enemy attacks relatively ineffective, with a quick tap of the down button you will tuck 
 neatly into your shell and come crashing to a halt. Perhaps the biggest additions are the mega 
 and mini mushrooms most commonly found in Mario Party outings. The mega mushroom will turn you 
 into a huge Mario that takes up the majority of the screen, now nothing will stand in your way 
 as you proceed to destroy just about anything that happens to in your way including walls and even 
 pipes. The mini mushroom does the opposite, using this will turn you into a minute sprite thus 
 becoming vulnerable to enemy attacks. The small guy does however have his benefits; you can now 
 fit down the tiniest of pipes, run across the surface of water and jump unnaturally high to reach 
 previously inaccessible areas. Both of these mushrooms add massive variety to the gameplay and 
 again create more possibilities in how you approach any given level, for example you could store 
 your mega mushroom and instead use it on one of the games many boss fights; now as oppose to a 
 close battle you can crush them with your huge boot. There are disappointments in the power-up 
 department though, the first one being the lack of such classics as the Frog Suit and the Raccoon 
 suit which were overwhelming favourites amongst fans. The only reasons I can think for dropping 
 them is either a case of cartridge capacity or intentionally restricting the gamer to lessen the 
 chance of confusion. Once you have exhausted every last ounce of value from the main mode there 
 is always the multiplayer mode to fall back on. This consists of a wireless one on one versus mode, 
 pitting Mario against Luigi in an array of nifty looking arenas. The challenge is to scoop up 5 
 power stars before your opponent and this makes for some pretty maniacal gameplay. In addition 
 to this you will also find the mini-games from Super Mario 64 DS which I personally think is utterly 
 lazy on Nintendos part. It feels like they have been tacked on last minute in an attempt to extend 
 the game that little bit father, I suppose the saving grace is the ability to now play these wirelessly 
 with friends. Mario has definitely been given an upgrade from the pixel-powered character we were 
 used to, this time around he is a full living, breathing 3D model not too dissimilar to the one 
 found in Super Mario 64. Perhaps the most impressive thing is the games ability to integrate both 
 2D and 3D graphics to make for a very unique looking game; never losing that Super Mario feel for 
 even a second. The audio isnt half bad either; you may be disappointed if you were expecting the 
 return of all the classic tracks, instead you get a soundtrack which takes these retro tunes and 
 remixes them to create a more modern sound. I think they should have stuck the old saying if its 
 dont broke dont fix it in this case but no game is perfect, so without dwelling too much on 
 past games the audio does a superb job. All-in-all New Super Mario Bros makes for a welcoming addition 
 to the series with fresh gameplay innovations and quirky extras littered here and there. This truly 
 is an instant classic in every sense of the word with the added bonus of a modern makeover, while 
 others have tried and failed Nintendo recaptures the greatness of games past with devastating results. 
 Gameplay  So many games have tried to emulate the successful Super Mario Bros formula and failed, 
 who needs to beat it when this is it.
  
  Graphics  Mario is given new life on his retro playground, everything is bright as youd expect 
 and the game incorporates near perfect balance between its 2D and 3D aspects.
  
  Sound  Many classic tunes remixed although this isnt necessarily what we wanted.
  
  Value 
  You will breeze through the main mode in a matter of hours but the collectable coins are its 
 savior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekid23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game is sick. Buy it. If you love the original marios or if you just like good games. This 
 game is perfect. I bought a DS Lite just to try it, and it was completely worth it. If you are 
 looking for a reason to buy a DS Lite, this os it. SICK!
  Even my girlfriend loves it. She is on the same world as me right now, and she hasnt played a game 
 since Super Nintendo.
  Get it!
  My only beef is the music... sometimes its perfect, other times its annoying. Sometimes its classic 
 mario music other times its some new track, infused with an old one and it doenst lways work. Would 
 have been happier wit just the classic music, redone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burning_Shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  In my opinion it defintley is one of the best DS titles yet. It is a lot like the original mario 
 games but brings it own things to. Theres enough levels to last for weeks (as long as you dont 
 play strait) and theres so many new creative items. The bose battles are awesome. The graphics 
 for a DS game are really good. My favorite part thought is the minigames which you play with just 
 using the stylus. I think the only problem with the game is the fact you need to unlock world 4 
 and world 5. Although Its a must get game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Super Mario games in a long while. It's like they took a bunch of the previous 
 games and mashed them together. There's some boss battles like in the original. But, there's a 
 lot of elements from other games. This is the first 2-D Mario where Mario can do a wall jump. The 
 best new feature in this game is the new mushroom that makes you grow huge, you can crush and enemy 
 and any obstacle temporarily. This game is a little short though. A Mario veteran can get through 
 it in a matter of days. But, it has a lot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supafroman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start off i bought this two days after it came out. I loved it but after only playing two 
 days i was already half way finished. At total completion of the game it only took about 3 hours. 
 On to regular review. 
  
  Gameplay is solid having you jump around as mario to get to the Flag, or boss at the end. Its spiced 
 up with new enemies, and different obstacles. There are a few secret passages like in Original 
 SMB. You can also play as luigi which doesnt change the game but your LUIGI. So i give gameplay 
 a 10 for Nostalgic memories, and solid Level Desighn.
  
  Graphics is a 9 because it looks incredible and the best ive currently seen a DS game.
  
  Over 
 all it gets a 9.1 because for $30 There is no better DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trollop_scat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  You heard me. This game is fun... real frickin fun! Superb time killer no matter where you are 
 :)
  
  I play it on the crapper
  I play it on the go
  I play it playing poker
  Just thought you should :P
  
  Even when I'm not playing it, one of my friends usually picks 
 it up and refuses to put it down. Even friends who laugh at video games. Its just fun...
  
  Gameplay - 10
  The control is a little sloppy, which makes easy-looking accomplishments a task! 
 Playing it in front of others and making a silly mistake is always fun for everyone to point and 
 laugh at, and with these sloppy controls, that happens a lot.
  
  Graphics - 10
  You heard me. The art is fun and fresh, bright and crisp. Maybe the best side-scrolling graphics 
 I've seen?
  
  Sound - 10
  They're all catchy and old-school by nature: short tracks on loop. There are a few I really like, 
 and the rest aren't annoying unless someone else is playing it while you're trying to concentrate 
 on something :P
  
  Value - 8
  This is my only complaint about the game - its length. I wish it was twice as long without repeating 
 any ideas.
  
  Tilt - 10
  FUN FUN FUN! I actually finished this game, a rare feat for me. I always seem to get the newest 
 games and stop playing them shortly thereafter. Not this one. This one is almost perfect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of the top games for the ds, its as fun if not funner than the original. This is a 
 great move by nintendo to release this game all revamped and more lively than the original. The 
 graphics have been revamped and have a nice look to them. The levels are all new with the same 
 classic style the original game had, which is a plus. I would suggest this to anyone who owns a 
 DS and to anyone that likes Mario games. All and all this game is a must buy for anyone looking 
 for a great Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I find this game to be just as fun as the original games for the consoles. This game is definitely 
 a great addition to the series and anyone's collection.
  
  The game isn't very simple or easy at all the difficulty factor still stands up to the original 
 pretty well. The layout is pretty simple, there are still only eight worlds that you can explore 
 with many many different levels.
  
  You play as Mario, but you can play as Luigi with the proper cheat code entered. 
  
  There 
 are mini games that one can play as well when the hectic hustle and bustle of the main storyline 
 gets to you. The mini games are one in the same from Super Mario 64 DS, with a few new additions.
 
  
  If you haven't played this game or own it I suggest you do both, it is a must have to anyone's 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Although New Super Mario Bros. is entertaining overall, there are multiple reasons why this game 
 doesn't live up to its expectations.
  
  I might be a bit bi-est because I am a major Mario fan, and I am used to the classics like Super 
 Mario Bros. 3, but even so, most people would agree with me that the original Super Mario Bros. 
 games blows away this one.
  
  The game is very straight forward. Baby Bowser steals Princess Peach (again) and literally drags 
 her from castle to castle. You (Mario) must save her from the evil Bowser (again) no suprise. 
 
  
  There are a multiple amount of power-ups like fireflowers, mushrooms, and a new blue shell power-up 
 that allows mario to turn into a koopa kind of thing. However, I was upset not to see my favorite 
 power-up in the game (the leaf) which turns mario into a squirrel. There are not a lot of power-ups 
 in the game, which completely dissapointed me... i was expecting the game to feel a little less 
 limited.
  
  Even though there are these small issues, overall the game plays very well. Mario moves like normal, 
 and he even has a few new moves and tricks up his sleeve. For example, you can now bounce off walls 
 and do the famous butt stomp. 
  
  The game felt fairly short. I was upset that you could skip through two worlds in the game. It 
 would have been better if you had to play through every world. 
  
  The game delivers a fairly enjoyable package overall. It would have been great to see a few changes 
 in the here and there, but maybe next time around.
  
  Pros- Super Mario Bros. is back, plays like the original versions, some new power-ups, nice 3d 
 effects
  
  Cons- A little short, where are all the power-ups?, story isn't all that interesting, doesn't compare 
 to original Super Mario Bros. games
  
  Graphics- 3d effects are done well; colorful
  Sound- classic tunes with some more style (it was fun to see the enemies dance to the music)
 
  Value- doesn't last that long, mostly because you can sip through two levels of the game
  Gameplay- Plays like the originals
  Tilt- an enjoyable experience, but didn't rise up to expectations 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is a rebirth of the classic Mario with a modern videogaming flair to it.
  
  Mario, Nintendo's most successful franchise, keeps it simple in this game. The basic premise... 
 Save Princess Peach. The challenge? Good old fashion goomba's and koopa troopa's to stand in your 
 way.
  
  You will run through the regular side scrolling levels as usual with some added new obstacles and 
 objects to use. The sound effects are great, everything from the coins pinging to fireball throwing, 
 all borrowed from the previous games.
  
  The music is remixed to be a bit more peppier, I would have preferred to have all the old school 
 beats but then again they sound great anyways. The music is remixed and you can hear the added 
 Mario style that is found in other Mario games today, which in turn does a good job.
  
  All in all this game is great. If you are Mario fan, or just a Nintendo fan and you have a DS. 
 Well this is a MUST HAVE game in your collection.
  
  Go out and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a very inventive and risk taking game ( from Nintendo ) simply because 
 hardly anything like this has ever been made graphic wise.
  Here's the breakdown:
  Gameplay-very much just like the old Super Mario Bros. in that you just (have) to use 2 buttons 
 and the control pad in playing, but a lot of moves can be pulled off with those buttons, also it 
 is very addicting (which can be a bad thing because this game is sort of short)
  Graphics-the graphics are intuitive that they have the polygonal design where all enemys and Mario 
 and Luigi are 3-D, but the backgrounds and level obstacles are limited 2-D.
  Sound-interesting sound since the game has all the sound effects from previous games (i. e. Starman-the 
 music from Mario 64 when you get wings on Mario's head, when you shoot out a fireball-same from 
 Super Mario Bros. Deluxe)
  which is very neat, but after a while it gets kind of wierd.
  Value-this game is worth the 35 smakaroos you have to give to get this game, in that it is one 
 of a kind, but not, and it has pretty good replay value. I recommend this game to anyone and it 
 should be one of the reasons to get a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  My expectations for NSMB weren't that high.. I expected it be like all the other ones.. Nothing 
 that special/different. (Dont get me wrong, I loves the other ones.) But I was pleasantly surprised 
 with NSMB. Its Main Mode (Mario Game) is probably the best of all the other Mario bros. The level 
 designs are brilliant and refreshing. YOU will spend so much time playing this game. It takes a 
 little while to get used to the new controls though. I literally can not keep my hands off this 
 game. Not to mention how great the multiplayer is for Mario vs. Luigi. VS. Minigame mode is a bit 
 disapointing because of the use of Super Mario 64 minigames. (There are about 5 new minigames.)
 
  
  -Positives-
  
  -Great gameplay and graphics
  - Fun Multiplayer MOdes
  - Tons of replayability
  -Lives up to its name
  
  -Negetives-
  
  -rehashed minigames
 
  - Horribe Bare Storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Now before you go thinking that this is a remake of the very first Super Mario Bros, you would 
 be wrong. Think of it as the return to the Mushroom Kingdom, and if we were keeping track of the 
 Mario starring, side scrolling, powerup using, Princess saving games, this would be technically 
 number 5. (If you don't believe me, Super Mario Bros, Super Mario Bros. 2, Super Mario Bros. 3, 
 Super Mario World) . Regardless, it is a brand new game but with the same old Mario, but new mechanics.
 
  
  Gameplay: Here is my major fault with the side scrolling Mario games other than Mario 2, it is 
 SO EASY TO DIE. So many platform jumping steps to die instantly in a lot of the levels. No gamer 
 ever could say this is not the biggest fault with the Mario Bros games. I do have to admit half 
 of the time it isn't nearly as bad as in the very first Super Mario Bros game, yet it still rears 
 its ugly head.
  Second, the controls on the DS systems are close together, and unfortunately it is hard to run 
 and jump at the same time, as my thumbs are too larger to sucessfully hold the dash while hitting 
 the jump. Maybe if I were younger again. Oh well.
  
  On the other hand, you have your run and jump like I said, the fire flowers and super mushrooms 
 are back to power Mario up as in any other Super Mario. In addition to the traditional move list, 
 you can now do the butt stomp as it were from Mario 64, you can jump off walls as well. Other mechanics 
 like carrying shells instead of just kicking them have worked well too. You also can go in pipes 
 facing up now, rather than just down, which is tricky at times.
  
  There are quite a few other powerups to mention. The Blue Turtle shell, which Mario wears and looks 
 like a Koopa Troopa, and when he runs fast enough he turns into a shell and smashes through things. 
 There is also a blue tiny mushroom that shrinks Mario down. Here you can run on water and jump 
 extremely high and float, however you cannot actually stomp and kill anything, and you also die 
 in one hit. There are also really tiny warp pipes that can only be accessed this way. But most 
 interesting of all is the Mega Mushroom as you may have seen on the commercial or in advertisements 
 outside of Gamestop or EB. Mario grows to a size that essentially takes up half of the screen, 
 literally. Here he just smashes through things like an unstoppable juggernaut. The little gauge 
 on top of the screen measures how well you are doing, and should you fill up any of the bars, you 
 get a 1up for each one you fill. I love that feeling, it just says, Mario is back and badder than 
 ever (insert evil laugh) .
  
  Also there are random flying power up boxes that give you powerups, usually blue shells or better 
 (even if you are small) . Also there are the mushroom huts for either 1ups, or for powerups. To 
 access these you need to have enough bonus coins found in each level. Some are hard to find, others 
 are easy. Also after beating a tower or castle, you can save your progress, other random save spots 
 can be purchased as well. 
  
  Additionally, the game comes with many other Mario themed minigames on par with WarioWare using 
 the stylus. Things would have you shoot a sling shot to shoot down bob-ombs, or play a hand of 
 Mario Poker, or play an ancient tile turning game where Yoshi statues shoot into space. Yea, they 
 are quirky in the Nintendo fashion, but man are they fun. They aren't just an added bonus, they 
 are really a great part of the game.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are what I would call... hmm... a side scrolling, less jagged altogether 
 cleaner version of Mario 64 in the Mushroom Kingdom. They are quite impressive, with vivid colors 
 and varying levels, each of the 8 levels has its own charms, or is outright distinct from others. 
 The mini games have decent graphics as well, I particularly like the casino games where Luigi is 
 the dealer and he tosses the cards at you while a Toad Waiter carries drinks around in the background. 
 Although they aren't absolutely stellar and perfect, they are certainly more than adequate, and 
 are more on the order of great. 
  Nifty little things that the DS does like when you go underground, the gameplay switches from the 
 top screen to the bottom screen.
  
  We sure have come a long way from a greenish brown two tone gameboy over 20 years ago, haven't 
 we.
  
  Sound: I can't name a person who can't name what that tune is if someone hums it. You know what 
 I am talking about, the Mario Bros theme. All of the familiar Mario sounds are here back in full 
 force, and many of the tunes have been remixed. The biggest problem is that without headphones, 
 or an absolute quiet place, handhelds cannot produce the auditory power needed to appreciate all 
 there is for sound in a game.
  
  Value: Heck the Mario Game alone is worth the price of admission. The Minigames in my opinion are 
 also worth the price of admission alone. Add the two together and you have value galore. Stick 
 in WiFi play in Mario vs. Luigi then you get even more value. Great deal at the full 35 dollars.
 
  
  Tilt: What more can I say, Mario is the biggest gaming icon, and one of the biggest entertainment 
 icons in the world. If anyone or anything can sell a system, Mario can. There is just something 
 inexplicably cool about growing super huge and smashing the ever loving daylights out of a level 
 all while humming along to the Mario theme song. It can make you forget that irritating jump that 
 cost you 10 lives just 1 minute ago like nothing happened. Get a DS, get the New Super Mario Bros. 
 It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingJord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  
  I have fond memories of playing Super Mario Bros. on NES when I was six. It was the first console 
 game I ever played Mario has had a spot in my heart ever since.
  
  This latest installment is my favorite in a long while. I am a huge fan of 3d gaming, but I've 
 never really warmed up to 3d Mario. Mario 64 was okay, but I was very turned off my Sunshine (repeating 
 the same few levels eight times each with difficulty going from medium to stupid, I can't imagine 
 a 6-year old trying to make their way through Sunshine and getting very far) .
  
  On to New Super Mario Bros.
  
  The first thing that I liked about this game was the graphics. 
 While the game is a side scroller, the graphics are 3d rendered and look fresh. It looks better 
 than Super Mario World. 
  
  The sound is well done. From the pleasant and not-too-repetitive musical score to the new sound 
 effects (like the plants making a chomping sound) , NSMB is very pleasant on the ears. The simulated 
 surround sound is a nice touch, too.
  
  Nintendo did well in adding new moves and power-ups. The mini-mario powerup is fun to play around 
 with, but a bit annoying when you realize that it is the same as being small - one hit and you're 
 dead. You often have to give up fire-power to pick up a mini-mushroom, so in my opinion you should 
 revert to big-mario when you are hit. The Mega-mario is fun, but if you get it on a level where 
 it's not intended to be gotten (when the red flying [?] is over your level) you end up destroying 
 things and getting extra lives, but having to do the level over again to get large coins and other 
 various items that you missed when you were just thrashing through destroying everything. Nevertheless, 
 both powerups are a lot of fun and add a new dimension to game play. 
  
  The other change to gameplay is that you can now jump off walls just like in the 3d Mario games.
 
  
  The only thing I did not like was the control. Being a very experienced Mario player, I found that 
 the control was slower than I'm used to. I wouldn't call it "lag," but Mario speeds up slower (with 
 B running) and jump distances seem to vary more than they used to. I quickly got used to the new 
 control feel, but I still find myself wishing that it felt more like the old-school Mario games.
 
  
  Having played through the mini games, I can't say I was all that impressed. I would have prefered 
 less games with slightly more depth. Nevertheless, as a free bonus, they are nice distractions 
 and nothing to complain about.
  
  Finally, it loses a mark in value because, like most games, it can be completed in less than 12 
 hours from world 1 to the end. 
  
  It also scores a bonus mark in my book because it is good fun for all ages. I believe credit is 
 due when you can create a game that is as fun and appropriate for a 6 year old as it is for a 66 
 year old ...
  
  Overall I give this game a 8.8 out of 10 -- Excellent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: f16sunny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Brothers is a classic side scroller with my familiar elements from previous 
 Super Mario titles. The game retains this familar look and feel and also throws in some new items 
 which add a little spice to this game. The levels are challenging, but still fast paced. This game 
 is something that you may complete fairly fast (within 1-2 weeks) but it will take much longer 
 to unlock everything and find all those challenging gold coins. 
  
  The multiplayer mini games are exceptional. Nintendo did a great job implementing the DS's multiplayer 
 capabilities into The New Super Mario Brothers. Although you cannot connect through Nintendos Wifi 
 network , you can still play your friends in some fast-paced, exhilarating games. 
  
  THe New Super Mario Brothers is really a must own title for people with the Nintendo DS. Definetly 
 a stable game in this handheld consoles arsenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  Look Im a nintendo fan as much as anyone else, but I feel mario has just been re-hashed over and 
 over again.... Until now. This game is a truly unique game. It keeps all of the old school class 
 and adds new age Flash! I bought it just because my girlfriend wanted it. Then I got my hands on 
 it my self and WOW! The graphics are absolutley awsome, The gameplay is just plain ol fantastic, 
 this game isnt just another rehash it is truly a work of art. I cant put my finger on it but there 
 is just something about this game that just makes me completley addicted to the super mario brothers 
 all over again. I would highly recomend this game to anyone looking for a truly truly fun game... I 
 actually quit playing oblivion because of this game... that is truly a feat for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGradient
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The gampeplay in New Super Mario Bros. revolves around the concept of traveling through eight themed 
 worlds - each of which contains numerous stages within them - and toppling the challenges they 
 present to the player. Each of these worlds are set up just like previous Marios in that each stage 
 is one space and branches off to one or more other stages. Some stages have secret exits that open 
 up hidden paths, however there are only a handful which are actually hard to locate. Most of the 
 stages see Mario travelling from the far left "entrance" to the flagpole at the very end to progress 
 further along the next stage. Some of them, such as the stages that utilize swimming and many of 
 the "castle stages", have Mario running around up and down as well as left and right to reach his 
 goal. Unfortunately, a lot of the stages feel to short and design with a bit too much simplicity. 
 The stages that prove to be hard are the ones that really define this game for me, and I suppose 
 the easier stages would appeal to players who don't have as much experience as longtime Mario fans 
 do. There's a definite balance in the difficulty; but it sometimes becomes a little too apparent 
 when, after completing what felt like the easiest stage in the game, you are suddenly thrust into 
 a frustratingly hard one.
  
  There are some brand new gameplay elements beyond the traditional start-to-finish concept. In each 
 of the stages are three larger coins that you can collect and spend to open up mushroom themed 
 stages in each level (green ones let you play a 1-up minigame, red ones let you hit a block to 
 get a random power-up, and the orange colored ones give you a Mega Mushroom) . Some of these coins 
 are especially hard to get, so expect a challenge from them occasionally. If you've played Super 
 Mario 64 (N64 or DS) you'll recognize the Red Coins that are present in New Super Mario Bros. Whenever 
 Mario passes through a red ring, eight Red Coins will appear nearby for a limited amount of time. 
 If you manage to collect all eight before they disappear, you'll get a random power-up.
  
  The multiplay modes available in New Super Mario Bros. are very entertaining. Mario vs. Luigi is 
 my personal favorite (two players) . In it, you play as either Mario or Luigi as you try to be the 
 first to collect five stars. Each of the themed stages available (snowy, pipes, etc.) are full 
 of items and coins that you can use to disrupt your opponent and make him drop stars. The multiplayer 
 minigames (two to four players) are a nice touch as well. There are a lot of them ranging from 
 action to playing cards; and all of them have stylus functionality. You may recognize quite a few 
 of them if you've played the minigames available in Super Mario 64DS, though.
  
  Controlling Mario (or Luigi if you hold L and R while selecting Main Game) is an instinctual feeling 
 which is nearly identical to Super Mario World for the Super Nintendo. A and B will cause him to 
 jump, and X and Y cause dash while he's running. Mario also has two new moves he can use: jumping 
 up into the air and pressing down the directional pad makes Mario perform his famous ground-pound 
 move; and pressing against a wall will cause him to slide down the surface allowing him to wall-kick 
 off to higher areas. Adding some depth to Mario's skillset are the various power-ups he can pick 
 up along his adventure. While some of them are returning favorites (the Super Mario mushroom, the 
 Power Flower, and the Star Power that makes Mario invincible for a short while) , there are a few 
 all-new items. The Mega Mushroom will make Mario grow in size and allow him to destroy a lot of 
 common objects found throughout the stages like blocks, enemies, pipes, and more. As you run about 
 destroying things, a meter along the top of the screen will fill up. For every section of the meter 
 you fill, you will gain an extra life when Mario returns to normal size. The Mini Mushroom has 
 the exact opposite effect as the Mega Mushroom - Mario becomes tiny in size and capable of entering 
 small pipes, running along the surface of water, jumping higher, floating through the air, and 
 running in small openings through which a normal-sized Mario could not. The other new item is the 
 blue Koopa shell which lets Mario glide around like a kicked Koopa shell for as long as you hold 
 X/Y while he is dashing. Just as with Super Mario Bros. 3 (NES) and Super Mario World (SNES) , Mario 
 can hold one item in reserve that can be used whenever it is needed by touching the item's icon 
 on the bottom screen. The blue Koopa shell felt more like a gimmick item than the other two, which 
 have convenient uses. For example, the only time I really found myself needing to use the shell 
 item is when I found one of the very rare blocks that couldn't otherwise be destroyed. Despite 
 my personal distaste for the blue Koopa shell it's still an interesting addition to the formula 
 and does have its own affect on the resulting smooth and enjoyable gameplay that the game offers 
 players.
  
  All of this takes place in a sideview style within two-dimensional environments. There are various 
 three-dimensional elements involved - such as all of the character models, rotating fence pieces, 
 and spinning platforms - but, for the most part, they only appear to be two-dimensional objects 
 unless closely inspected. There really isn't much to say about the graphics that the screenshots 
 don't already tell you other than, in motion, they run smoothly and give a blurred effect. The 
 underwater segments are especially impressive to see in action because of everything going on around 
 Mario as he's swimming along.
  
  The audio is more of what you would come to expect from a Mario game. If you've never played a 
 Mario game before, you'll be amused with some of the tunes and annoyed with others. The classic 
 beats make an updated comeback - the theme, the underground exploration tune, and the stage-completion 
 track are available for your listening pleasure. The new tracks aren't as classic in feel as the 
 series' trademark songs, but provide nice ambience as you run around stages. The sound effects 
 is where the sound aspect truly shines. Every sound effect is spot-on accurate, and fans of the 
 series will instantly recognize almost all of them.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. will feel instantly familiar to anyone who has played Super Mario Bros. or 
 Super Mario World. The gameplay is nearly identical with some innovative new ideas that I can easily 
 see being implemented in future installments. Without having to read a word from the manual, I 
 was able to start playing and progress through the entire game. The controls are so intuitive that 
 you don't even have to pause for second to think about how you're going to manage your button presses 
 for a long string of moves. In fact, you can actually play this game like the Sonic the Hedgehog 
 games from the Sega Genesis days - from the beginning of a stage, you can just run right and quickly 
 adapt to what you see ahead of you until you reach the end. It will be interesting to some of the 
 speed runs people perform in the future in their inevitable race to be the fastest person to beat 
 the game. With so many shortcuts tucked away, it's sure to be long race. New Super Mario Bros. 
 deserves to be in any DS owner's collection. It does have its faults - particularly the newer audio 
 tracks and the fact that the game feels too small and easy compared to Super Mario World - but 
 there are many more positives that make this game one of the best on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcloudestine
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Royalty at is worst, Robinhood from grass to grace, it is worth fighting for, the salvation of 
 the one you love the most at your life ends to your teeth end. It is an invitational gesture, gesture 
 of love to you for loving gesture of appearance.
  
  Hesitation, yet can't stay there to be pinned down and out. Action, movement to kill and kill and 
 kill like a bulldozer with crushing bones effect. With seemly impossible journey through out of 
 the game, across its lenght and breath, there is always a dead end and a possible way out of every 
 turn, slippery gathers of no return in case of a fall in.
  
  Lots of give away points to win and tokens of life to spare, with silencers at every possible gain 
 of lenght, you are sure to wade through the encounters with cheeky ease, only you loose your gun 
 at wind breath to the encounters, be sure to give the encounters lots of space to avoid loosing 
 your gun or silencer.
  
  The Encounters!
  Still coming to defend what is their's from your encroachment, the encounters, flying or wingless, 
 stationary needles on seat, killers by touch of wind breath, yet also very easy to be eliminated, 
 keep out of their way or kill to make points for a possible sum up to life or 1UP. Take as many 
 gold points as you can but remember the clock is ticking, be sure to collect the gold points at 
 every turn as of when it become available to you and at your convenience and patience be patient 
 and watchful because there are lots of hidden treasures of points to collect for a sum up to life 
 or 1UP.
  
  With the princes in sight, keep calm and maintain your composure as you pass the Bridge of Dragons 
 to save her, but the war is still on so kiss up and feel up to move ahead to the next level or 
 quit if you are bored of success, a game for the hungry to play for the riches of course, just 
 like politics, here you are the party and if you feel bored, quit.
  
  To beat the clock up to collect gold points, you can use the stairs of the lifts as and where and 
 when they become available to you. Just like construction work of a sky scraper, the floors are 
 the levels and the rooms of each floor are the stages of each level and the encounters are the 
 workers.
  
  Play super mario cart if you don't like the idea of war in super mario, but ultimately it is still 
 mario the super hero for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I only briefly got to play the original super mario bros. and i hated it. SO i didnt plan on buying 
 this until i read all the great reviews so i bought it. I was absolutley blown away. It is so much 
 fun. For me the game is really challenging because im completely new to the game. Usually after 
 a few tries at a level I can get it. The saves are set up so that you only get 2 saves per world 
 so you do do a lot of levels over. The controls are really simple. The sound is awesome. The graphics 
 are top notch very smooth not rough and jagged. The mini games are pretty fun but not nearly as 
 good as the main game. With all the secrets this game has an enormous amount of value. I highly 
 reccomend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sireegio
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since the first Super Mario Bros. In fact, the series has been around longer 
 than I have. There are many positive things to say about this game. It is easily learnable, and 
 isn't too demanding of your time, as a portable game shouldn't. Also, it has many new power-ups, 
 such as the mushrooms that either make you either REALLY huge or REALLY small. However, the use 
 of these new power-ups isn't fully utilized in the later levels, as you'll find you get stuck alot 
 as big Mario, or killed alot as mini Mario. Also, the save points are rather far apart, and you 
 can only use them once. They also only appear only when you either complete a fortress or spend 
 your coins. Another fault of the game is that the game can get a little frustrating as that annoying 
 koopa kills you for the fifth time in a row. Lastly, many of the levels feel repetitive and you 
 wonder why you shouldn't just go buy the original. All in all, it's enjoyable, but it's no Super 
 Mario Galaxy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taggerung66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is a really beautifully done game. It may not be as good and lengthy as the older games but 
 it is still a classic. The 3-D to 2-D graphics are really impressive and makes the game feel like 
 the old ones with a feel of a new game. If you're a super mario bros. fan you won't be disapointed 
 in the graphics department. The major complaint of this game is the length and difficulty. You 
 can easily beat the game in a short amount of time . There is, however, a lot of replay value in 
 unlocking all the hidden warps and collecting all the star coins. Another complaint I have is the 
 variety of new powerups are lacking. Yes there are several new powerups that are cool but the mega 
 mushroom only appears in the first level naturally making it feel more like a gimick than anything. 
 The koopa shell also feels like it doesnt really have a purpose in the game where the fire flower 
 feels like it is very overused because it appears almost everywhere. Overally a good game for the 
 DS with beautiful graphics and solid controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Gameplay has never been a problem with Mario games and thats not changing with New Super 
 Mario bros. They are still intuitive and very simple. The same powerups are here as well, like 
 fire flower, super mushroom, and such, but there are also new ones as well. Like the Mega Mushroom 
 which turns Mario into a hugely Mario which can pretty much ram through anything and the blue shell 
 which then you can do a shell dash and kill enemies. You move around on a gameboard type thing 
 like in Super Mario Bros. 3 and to get to certain spots on the voard you have to collect star coins 
 which are coins that you can collect in courses, and they arent always easy to get. Yep really awesome 
 controls as you will always find in a Mario game ( except Partners in Time, you can read that review 
 to if you want)
  
  Graphics- Theres nothing like the excellent fusion between 3D and 2D and I think Mario was the 
 bestr idea to do it on. Awesome graphics, very pleasing to the eye. Mario and the other characters 
 in the game are polygonal and the backgrounds and block and stuff are 2D, believe me its really 
 cool.
  
  Sound- While all the familiar tunes are back, there is also a vast variety of new music as well 
 which gives the levels atmosphere and there pretty fun to listen to. All the familiar sound effects 
 are here like the usual ching noise when you grab a coin and the boing noise when Mario jumps. 
 It all makes it seem very much the same as any other Mario but this game is very good for old fans 
 and newcomers alike.
  
  Value- You will get plenty out of this cartridge. With a lengthy single player and tons of fun 
 mini games, you cant go wrong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJCNUT
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Where to start this is one of the greatest games ever made. Its not to hard and not to easy. This 
 game brings you back to the old days of the nes and snes and it doesnt feel like the same damn 
 mario game which is amazing considering that peach gets captured in every mario game, but yet even 
 though she is so stupid to get captured every time shes with mario you never get tired of helping 
 mario find her, cause its like your helping mario get laid. Put it like this Mario gives you something 
 and you give mario something if you know whati mean. This is a game that any DS owner should buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  After alot of thought of playing this game I realized that this game can be a bit of a nuisance 
 as most games are but one reason is that you can't save anywhere only when you beat the game. That 
 is one of the biggest faults of this game but that does not mean it can't be enjoyed! 
  
  Gameplay -
  The gameplay is what everyone was expecting and has made it possible to find new 
 things to enjoy. It has some new items and some old ones and the best things come later as you 
 progress farther and farther into the game. Old power ups include the fire flower, mushroom, and 
 the star. The new power ups include things such as the MEGA mushroom and the mini mushroom. Using 
 these new items can help you advance and UNLOCK new worlds. 
  10/10
  
  Graphics - 
  The graphics are plain and good to a DS title but could have been better if everything was 3D. 
 I like it how they combine 2D and 3D but it could have been better with all 3D including the background. 
 The only thing it lacks in the graphics is that there isn't much life in the game. The models looks 
 plain and don't seem to show so much characteristics as Super Mario 64. Besides all that the graphics 
 are OKAY compared to regular DS titles. 
  8/10
  
  Sound - 
  The sound is most likely to sound exactly the same as it should be in all Mario games and that 
 is why it is neither to bad or to good but slightly in the middle of it. If you like closing your 
 DS with your sound on you can here Mario talk. It is exactly the same thing as Super Mario 64 DS 
 when you open and close the game. The sounds are quite compelling and that is why it deserves a 
 9/10.
  
  Value -
  The value of the game is really good as you can always keep playing this game over and over. The 
 thing is that it is short and easy to get through and you can always beat it in about 6 - 10 hours. 
 If your a beginner to the franchise then it might take more than 10 hours depending on what you 
 do. You can go collect star coins and make it last an extra hour or go play minigames with friends 
 or by yourself. You can also play with a friend in a battle sort of mode even if they don't have 
 the game. All and all the game can get boring if you play it over and over and over and over. 
 
  9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt -
  This game is really good and interesting that makes me wanna play it more. I love the fact is that 
 it's a 2D side scroller and that it's an old school mario game with a NEW name. Thanks for reading 
 my review and I hope you enjoyed my ranking score.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunatic321
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. in my opinion is an instant classic and will be loved by both new and veteran 
 gamers. Nintendo did an awsome job at taking all the best features from the past Mario games and 
 mixing them together in the classic side scrolling genre. You have everything from the Super Mario 
 64 butt stomp to the classic NES Mario tunes. The game play is simple to learn (2 buttons) I had 
 to configure the buttons to match the classic NES button layout but after that it was Mario madness!!. 
 The music is awsome. Anyone who is a Mario fan cannot miss this game. Pick it up it's well worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconCA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Anyone with a new DS Lite and a second original DS will have fun with anyone and the numerous mini-games. 
 Multi-player games test speed and hand eye coordination as usual, with multiplayer capabilities 
 that multiply the fun! Mario vs Luigi is the perfect update to the original Mario Bros. Nothing 
 funner than spitting fire balls at your buddies. If you haven't picked up the new DS Lite, do it 
 asap, and get this game. The sheer randomness is capable of entertaining for hours. Gameplay is 
 classic, new powerups aren't too different, and all is familiar. Mario fans can't go wrong with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmhockey9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Thats right, Mario is back again but this time with a new 3D look as he side scrolls across your 
 DS. But don't be deceived by it, Mario is all he has been and then some. This time your chasing 
 Bowser Jr. around all the levels trying to rescue Princess Peach, but do not fret Bowser fans, 
 he makes an appearance in Boss Battles, too.
  Right off the bat I was able to pick up the controls and even if I had never played a Mario before 
 it would have been easy to pick up and play. The touch screen implements a nice new feature to the 
 game where if you pick up a second power up and cannot use it at that time you can save it there 
 and when you need to use it just tap it on the screen and poof there is your powerup.
  While I must say I enjoyed the game very much, I am a little disappointed that the game itself 
 was short. I wanted a little bit more time and effort to have been put into this one much like 
 all the other Mario games. Still, let's face it this game is just plain fun and has plenty of replay 
 hours through the levels you have beaten and in the Mario vs. Luigi mode where you battle your 
 friends over a Local Area Connection 1v 1 in 5 different levels and in the many mini games games 
 where you can play against 4 of your friends. O ya, and this game has its own different music that 
 fits perfect into the genre, keeping its Mario feel.
  I say buy it and don't let the fact that the story mode was short deter you because this game has 
 many extra hours of game play in its other modes and even in the main story if you would like to 
 travel back and play some of your favorite levels in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers takes place where the Super Mario side scrolling series left off. The 
 same old story with the princess being taken and Mario going to save the day still feels new with 
 this game and helps make the game all the more fun.
  
  The game itself is basically exactly the same as the first NES Super Mario Brothers game. There 
 are flags, castles, and numbered worlds, but there are new features thrown into the mix as well. 
 Being able to do ground pounds and jumping off of walls in a two dimensional world almost makes 
 perfect sense, and fits the game nicely. There has also been the addition of the mega mushroom 
 where Mario can become Mega Mario and take out anything in his path for a short period of time. 
 These additions help keep the game fresh, but hardcore Super Mario Brothers fans will be unhappy 
 to hear that you cannot get a leaf power up and fly around.
  
  The saving system up until you beat the game is flawed. Before you beat the game you have to beat 
 a tower, beat a castle or use star coins to unlock a special area. However, once you beat the game 
 you can save whenever you want to. This usually leads to trying to beat the game as fast as you 
 can so that you can enjoy being able to save whenever you want to. Without being able to save whenever 
 it is not really possible to just sit down with the game for a few minutes to progress a little 
 bit and then shut off the system. This requires you to spend more time and takes away from the 
 fun.
  
  The graphics on this game are sound. Some of the levels do feel a little bit like they were disassembled 
 and then put together into a different order for another level, but for the most part everything 
 feels relatively new. Many of the levels feel like their retro counterparts and make the game all 
 the more enjoyable.
  
  The dual screen layout really works to an advantage for this game. The menus are laid out well 
 on the bottom screen and the score, location and star coin menus are easy to see while playing. 
 A great feature in the game is when Mario goes down a pipe in a level the screen switch and you 
 end up on the bottom screen while the menus appear on the top screen. This addition really adds 
 to the game and makes it much more enjoyable.
  
  Point junkies will love the star coins available to be collected in the game. Every level has a 
 total of three star coins to be collected. Many of these coins are relatively straight forward 
 to find, but later on it becomes harder and harder to find these treasures. The coin collecting 
 can become extremely addictive and adds to the replay value of this game. Star coins can be used 
 to unlock different items in the game, such as new menu backgrounds and item huts.
  
  In addition to the games normal mode, there is also a mini game mode which can be played by either 
 one player or online. All of the mini games featured in New Super Mario Brothers are stylus based. 
 Some of the games are relatively simple while others are more complex. These games do a number 
 on the lower screen so when playing these mini games make sure that your stylus is clean so that 
 it does not scratch your DS up too bad. 
  
  Most all of the music is new to this game. Some of the tunes are very well done, while others are 
 played in almost every single level and take away from the overall experience. The game would most 
 likely have benefited from using more music from the older games so that the game would still have 
 that Super Mario Brothers feel.
  
  New Super Mario Brothers is a solid game that reminds us why the NES was so much fun. This has 
 excellent game play and great structure that really brings that Super Mario Brothers feel to the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzoku
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This time Baby Bowser has kidnapped the princess and you got to travel through somewhat linear 
 8 worlds, everyone themed in classic elements like a desert, a beach or an iceland.
  
  In every level there are hidden 3 big golden coins, and even some worlds have two exits that lead 
 to hidden mushroom-shaped shacks, giving a boost to the replay value found here.
  
  The difficulty of the game is normal, and low sometimes (come on, I remember losing several lifes 
 before beating a castle!) , But I think the difficulty of the game is compensated with it's length.
 
  
  The graphics are what you can expect from a DS game (read: If you played Mario Kart DD you've seen 
 it) , but the animations and detail level are extremely nice and well done, considering this is 
 a 3d game trapped in 2 dimensions.
  
  For the music, is just ok, but It's s shame that Nintendo didnt use the classic themes more often, 
 remixed or re-sampled. The music fits ok, but none of the tunes are memorable. On the other side, 
 the voices and SFX are really vivid and give a lot of personality to the game, even if some of 
 them are recycled from previous games, like Super Mario 64.
  
  Value: To be honest, I bought this game with confidence on what Gamespot said, but I think that 
 there are so many games that used the jump and run formula present here, but certainly, It's been 
 a while since we played a platformer with this kind quality.
  
  Overall, I find this game splendid, because Nintendo used an old formula, but they gave the appropiate 
 touches to make a game that fits the actual standards of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelfer320
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the most addictive game in the world. I already passed world 1 and got to world 
 two. It wasn't easy but not long. Some of the levels are kinda short but its so much fun to get 
 through them over and over again no matter how many times I died. Mini games mode is also amazingly 
 fun. I realized that all the mini games are the same mini games from Super Mario 64X4. So those 
 who currently own Super Mario 64X4 will only be amazed by the main game. One thing I actually was 
 a little disappointed about was that you can't save your game manually. It saves automatically 
 on certain times like after clearing a world. Overall, this is the must have game for any DS owner. 
 Its instant fun and very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazedperson630
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Remember when you just got your new gameboy and remember that red figure that use to jump everywhere 
 on those brown creatures and remember that huge turtle with the spikes? Well, they are Back!! New 
 and Improved!
  
  Mario is back with all new graphics and with an all new system.
  
  Okay, enough commercial talking, now lets talk about the game. New super Mario bros brings you 
 back but , in modern day time. The graphics looks beautiful just beautiful. The sound is terrific 
 (if you like hearing bounce noises and stuff) . The gameplay is just right, not too hard or not 
 too tough. 
  
  The only bad thing about the game is that its a very short game, I beat it in a day but, thats 
 probably because I was so addicted to it and never put it down. I still play it today and if you 
 like any Mario game, this should be on your wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timpysan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, from the previews I had read of this game, I expected the old Super Mario World 
 game with a couple of new levels and some new abilities. I was very pleasantly surprised to discover 
 that New Super Mario Bros. is an all-new game. And it rocks.
  
  This game has everything we love about the Mario games and still manages to add more. In my opinion, 
 it ranks in the top 3 among all Mario games. I really didn't expect it to look and sound so good 
 or be so darned addictive. The dual-screen and touch aspects work very well. Really, my only complaint 
 is that the bosses are extremely easy. If you have the fireball powerup, every boss battle is over 
 within 5 seconds. The levels are challenging however, so that makes up for the the bosses quite 
 a bit.
  
  Not to be overlooked are the mini-games. GameSpot might not think much of them, but there are a 
 few that are very good in their own right. I defy anybody to play the game under the variety category 
 where you use a slingshot to shoot down parachuting bombs and not get hooked.
  
  I highly recommend this game. If you are a DS owner, you should not be without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Well it looks as though our Classic Plubber bros are back once again
  in a brand new grand spanking edition to the Super Mario collection....
  THE NEW SUPER MARIO 
 BROS... what else!
  SO lets sum up the plot line of this game.... Well as you may know from
  several Mario games.. theres always seem to be a baddies messing with Mario's leisure time. And 
 in this one surprisingly its Bowser and his little Bowser jr. and they have captured Princess Toadstool, 
 or Peach or whatever! How im i not surprised. So its up to them Mario Bros to suit up and save 
 the princess!!! ... once again
  So the real question is whats great about The New Super Mario Bros?
  
  Well there are plently 
 of features to your enjoyment!
  The gameplay is much like playing the old Mario games on Nes or SNES.. more specifically in 2d gameplay. 
 It does bring back the old feeling of the Classic games
  There are new power ups.. and old classic ones.. Theres the good old mushroom.. the fire flower.. and 
 the new Mega mushroom that makes you.. well very huge! This will allow you to run across the screem 
 practically destroying everything!... brick walls.. enemies and even PIPES! WOOT!!
  and there also the mini Mushroom.. and it makes you tiny like a bug.. but it allows you to crawl 
 throught small crack and holes.
  There also the baddies! You fight them Koopas, the Goombas!, The hamerbros, Boo buddies and many 
 many many more annoying baddies!
  And there are ocassional bosses, some are very easy and some truely a pain!
  There are 8 worlds, 
 each with a certain theme. Ice land, jungle, water, volcano and etc. 
  
  The overall impression of New Super Mario Bros is quite impressive!
  -The graphics are good and 
 very colourful
  -the sound/music is great, and there also a touch of classic sounds!
  -the gameplay is very easy
  - and the games is very fun!
  
  And if you loss interest in the 
 games.. there also the mini game option.
  This feature in the New Super Mario Bros. is excellent!
  there are more than a dozen games to 
 play.. some of which require you to use your DS gamestick to interact.
  -theres memory game, whack a mole, racing, black jack, poker ( my favorite!)
  and many other great 
 mini games.
  
  So if you are a huge Super Mario Bros. fan, just like me, then this game is an absolute must buy 
 for your DS.. but you not the huge fanatic fan, still give this game a try.. IT NEW AND IMPROVED.. and 
 also IT MARIO!!!!!!
  
  Pros: Classic gameplay, great graphics, memorable music/sounds, great usage of the DS feature, 
 terrifice Mini Games, quite a fun game
  
  Cons: Game is a little to easy, some levels are too short, 
  may not appeal to some players ( 
 depending)
  AND WHY CANT YOU PLAY LUIGI IN THE GAME ITSELF!??!?
  (the bad thing is you can only play luigi in 2 player mode!! BOOOH!!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is exactly what it says, it's a new Super Mario Bros. It's a sidescroller 
 with new graphics and Mario has some of his newer tricks as do the worlds. 
  
  The gameplay is exactly what you would expect from a side-scroller Mario. Lots of platforming, 
 pipes and mushrooms. This game adds all kinds of new tricks though. First off is Mario's moves. 
 This sidescroller has incorporated two of his most famous moves he learned when he entered 3D gaming. 
 I'm referring to the ground pound and wall kicks. 
  
  Although these new tricks aren't really neccessary to "beating" the game except for in a handful 
 of situations, they will be required to get 90% of the extra items in the game. Either way they 
 are fun. I do wish they would have thrown in that sweet little flip Mario can do when you run for 
 a bit then do a 180 turn and jump at the same time; that would have been fun. 
  
  There are some new mushrooms to experiment with as well. Big ones and small ones. As a result of 
 making a meal of these Mario will become either huge or tiny (depending on which mushroom you eat) . 
 Big Mario can just stomp through everything in his path and tiny Mario can go through tiny pipes 
 and other tiny areas. Neither of these are key to the game either, but for extra items they are 
 a must. 
  
  The only problem I found with huge Mario is that certain areas of the game you actually cannot 
 go through when big. So, when I used one of the big mushrooms I had obtained I would just get stuck 
 and have to stand there and wait it out which was a waste of the big mushroom and fairly frustrating. 
 It's a pretty neat trick though. 
  
  The environments have learned some new tricks as well to add to the platforming frenzy. Not to 
 mention some new enemies have made their way into the game. There's some new spring loaded platforms 
 that will send you twirling, some pipe-cannons (look like pipes, but launch mario like cannons) , 
 some springy shrooms and more! You'll definitly have to keep on your toes to get through this adventure. 
 
  
  Your goal is obviously to save Princess Peach (it's just not Super Mario Bros. if you don't do 
 this) , but this time it's from Baby Bowser along with Bowser. 
  
  Each of the 8 worlds will put you up against the baby halfway through and then main man himself 
 at the end. You'll also get a chance to save after defeating each of these stages. These are your 
 only save points (besides opening optional paths) throughout the game until you've beaten the whole 
 thing. Once the whole game has been completed saving is added as an option to your menu so that 
 you can do it whenever you want. 
  
  Due to this saving factor you'll probably want to truck your way through the game before trying 
 to gather all the big coins (of which there are three in each level) . Some are a bit tricky to 
 get and it can be easy to die during the process. You'll need these to open up all the optional 
 paths so that you can play every single level and enter the toad houses. 
  
  This isn't an extremely long adventure just going through the mandatory, especially if you are 
 capable of finding the few warp pipes. But it packs in so much that's there's no way it could be 
 considered unworthy. It's nice to see some side-scrolling platformers coming back and especially 
 one of this quality. No DS owner should miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDR_Junky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  this is a fun game i recommend it to any1 who has played a mario game and liked it it is pretty 
 damn short but o well at least there is minigames which are pretty cool just like the game nice 
 graphics for a side scroller no glitches (that i no of) still there are some better mario games 
 but this one is very kool and fun to play and any1 who likes side scrollers should buy it ohj and 
 the only bad thing about this game is u need 2 beat a castle or buy something 2 save which kinda 
 sux but the levels arents dat hard (well some kinda r) so ull probably be able 2 get bak 2 were 
 u were after a gameover i dont no if any of u like dat but i think dats good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is an outstanding Mario game. It definitely feels Mario, and you'll notice 
 that right away. It is a side-scrolling game much like the first Mario games released in the past, 
 but it brings with it a lot of elements from the 3D platformers.
  
  Mario Bros. has fresh, clean, colorful graphics. All the worlds are beautifully designed, and the 
 enemies look great. The music is simple, but enjoyable. And the sounds are a combination of both 
 old and new Mario sound effects.
  
  There are a total of eight worlds, each with a number of levels that indulge you to the fullest. 
 You can speed through this game, or search out three special Star coins in each level. Either way 
 you choose to play, this game delivers.
  
  There's even a multiplayer feature which puts you against a friend to see who can collect the most 
 Stars. Although fun, this is still not the game's main attraction. Neither are the bonus mini-games. 
 They'll keep you entertained, but only for a while. And, since most of the mini-games are the exact 
 same ones from Super Mario 64 DS, owners of that game won't find much in the extras department.
 
  
  The extras aren't that strong, but the single-player story is great and you're sure to enjoy it. 
 New Super Mario Bros. is, without a shadow of a doubt, a worthy title that any DS owner, Mario 
 fan, or both, should definitely pick up and play without delay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerCookies
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  new super mario brothers is a 2D side scroller which is like the old 2D mario games. the story 
 is the same old thing peach get kid napped and u have to save her. The game play is good it is 
 like the old games but you have got acouple of new moves Eg Triple jump wall jump and ground pound. 
 The game will take you up to 6 or 7 hrs to pass but if you plan on collecting all the big coins 
 it may take you up 2 10 hrs. Over all New Super Mario Brothers is a good game and i would recommend 
 it to any mario fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg8131
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It really brings back that old-school Mario feel. The game has alot of new 
 features that have never been seen before in the Mario series but also has some things that have 
 been taken out. I'll start with the new features. The game contains a couple of new power-ups. 
 My favorite is the Mega Mario power-up which makes Mario grow to takeup the entire screen so you 
 can plow through enemies and obstacles. Another power up is the Mini-Mario power-up. This makes 
 Mario become really tiny so he can fit into cracks and pipes that he normally coudnt fit in. He 
 also jumps higher while in Mini-Mode. You can also get a koopa shell which allows you to perform 
 a shell-dash that sends you crashing into enemies. 
  A couple of new moves have also been added. You can now do a ground pound or "butt-stomp". Mario 
 can now wall-jump in order to get to certain areas. Now to the features that have been taken out. 
 Yoshi is not in this game but the extra features makes you forget about it. You cant get a cape 
 power-up either which is kind of dissapointing. You still have the Super Mario power-up and the 
 Fire Mario power-up but you still might find yourelf wishing for the old power-ups. Well, I guess 
 thats why its called "New" Super Mario Bros. The game is fairly easy but can get kind of irritating 
 in certain parts. But its no really that bad. The game has a couple of multiplayer modes in which 
 I have yet to play so I wont even touch on that. If you own a Nintendo DS, I strongly suggest getting 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  First let me say WOW! Not for a long time have I ever been this excited about a platformer, let 
 alone a Mario Bros game. This game shows the gaming world a couple of things. Why you can't count 
 Nintendo out, Why the Mario Bros. have staying power, Why the DS and handheld market in general 
 had been ruled by nintendo. In short New Super Mario Bros put to bed the old term you can't teach 
 an old dog new tricks. 
  
  Let's examine a few things about this game. It is one the small DS. It uses two screens. It is 
 a game based on a character almost as old as its audience. Yet still it prevails. For some time 
 I was against Nintendo I had lost so much faith in their kiddie game like regime that it seemed 
 I would never be a fan again, but in the world of gaming it is faslty becoming true that you can 
 never say never. With New super Mario we can see why.
  
  It takes a game that could have been cookie cutter and makes it great. This game is so good it 
 could have been on a regular home system. Enough praise though let me move to why. 
  
  The old story is still here princess gets kidnapped (for no apparent reason) Its up to you as mario 
 to save her kid napped prone butt. With a new slew of moves slick graphics (especially for the DS) 
 and a ton of innovation Mario can get down with the best of them. He and Luigi ( my fav of the 
 Bros) have moves like butt stomps, wall hops, rope scalling and for the first time ever can change 
 to super small or super tall and when either happens its a rare treat. To see mario take up the 
 whole screen and just charge through things give you a smile and sense of satisfaction. The stages 
 are so well laid out and they never seem to long. Yet everything is so simple everyone can play 
 and enjoy. 
  
  The music is classic catchy mario. You'll soon be humming the tunes, mocking the trutle sounds 
 when shells colide, or copying mario as he yells in success after reaching a flag at the end of 
 a stage. In a lot of ways this game is better that Mario 64. The enemies are old and new. Something 
 about seeing the Hammer Bros again but in a new light brings back good memories. 
  
  The replay is high too cause as with many mario games as of late there is a plethora of mini games 
 on the side which puts to good use the dual screen. Test your reflexes too, and the co op slash 
 head to head online play is a great thing too. Like I said in the begining WOW. I use to think 
 at the begining of the new handheld war that "Man the DS is going to go down" Yet I have been proven 
 wrong and am a first had witness as to how brilliant some of these games are. New Super Mario Bros 
 is better than anything I can think of on the PSP even Grand theft auto and Thats saying a lot. 
 There are no load times, There are no muttered sounds, There is only great gameplay and good nostalgic 
 feeling as you play this game from begining to end. With every koopa stomped, every goomba smushed, 
 and every fireball thrown you can see why Mario is still at the top of the platform mountain and 
 why he can still be new while doing some old tricks. BUY this GAME!!! PEACE!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenPDP7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I am so incredibly glad that Nintendo finally made a classic-style Mario game again! The graphics 
 are vibrant, the music is perfectly appropriate and well-done, blah, blah, blah.... this is just 
 an extremely great game! Get it!
  
  Now, with that said, there are some more details, and even complaints, that I have to report. This 
 game is clearly a remake of Nintendo's first Mario megahit, Mario Bros, right down to the flagpole 
 and castle at the end of each level. True to the original game, Mario won't be flying around in 
 New Super Mario Bros. however, he does get to try out a set of totally new items: the mini-mushroom, 
 the mega-mushroom, and the blue shell (I don't know the official names for these items- I coined 
 these terms myself) . When Mario gets a mini-mushroom, he will become extremely small, but will 
 be less affected by gravity, giving the gameplay a particularly lunar feel. When Mario gets a mega-mushroom, 
 he'll grow so enormous that he takes up the entire screen, and will be invincible and able to completely 
 destroy anything in his path just by touching it (including pipes!) . Like an invincibility-star, 
 this powerup's effect dissipates after a given time. When Mario gets a blue shell, he actually 
 wears the shell like a Koopa, and when you press down on the D-pad he retracts into the shell and 
 becomes invulnerable to most enemies. While running, blue shell Mario will retract into his shell 
 and slide along the ground, killing all enemies in his path. However, these new items are fairly 
 rare- Mario will spend most of his time with either normal mushrooms or as Fire Mario. 
  
  The game is fairly easy most of the time, and disappointingly short- I was able to make it to world 
 8 in what seemed like no time at all. This is partially due to a very quirky map layout- two of 
 the worlds are actually "hidden", and can only be accessed after discovering the secret entrances. 
 This seems strange, as there is apparently no reason whatsoever outside of curiosity to even go 
 to those worlds. I would have preferred the developers to make it difficult _to_ skip levels, not 
 the other way around. 
  
  And now for my last complaint: Baby Bowser. Baby Bowser will be, like in all other recent Mario 
 games, taking the place of the Koopa Kids as the boss in all the fortresses. I hate all "baby" 
 Mario characters- they're stupid! I want the Koopa Kids back! 
  
  This game is a step in the right direction for Nintendo, and makes me optimistic about the future 
 of Mario gaming. Get this game if you want a refreshing return to old-school greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is Nintendo's answer to all the old school Mario fans who wanted a new side 
 scroller with everyone's favorite plumber. They answered it with the bang with great controls as 
 well as great music (some old and mostly new remixes) . The story is as simple as reading a kindergarten 
 level book with Bowser kidnapping Princess Peach and it is up to Mario to save her and the Mushroom 
 Kingdom from Bowser all over again. The new power-ups, the mega and mini mushrooms offer some freshness 
 to the Mario craziness that can be useful on some situations. There are eight worlds in the game 
 but not all of them can be accessed directly, which gives it some special something to make it 
 happen. Don't expect Super Mario Bros 3 power-ups like the Raccoon Suit and the Frog Suit as this 
 new one is only Fire Flower and plain mushroom, but the shell power-up has its influences from 
 SMB3. Multiplayer is pretty straightforward, but that's not the reason to play this great Mario 
 game. Hopefully, this game on the DS will start more rehashes of Nintendo franchises like Metroid 
 and Zelda like the way New Super Mario Bros. did. This is highly recommended for Nintendo fanboys 
 and those who just bought the DS Lite like me for games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great! The game has many great elements of what the orginal was supposed to be. 
 Though, the game gets very repetitive, and gets very boring after the third world. Regarding the 
 price of the game, it's not a long game. The game could last you a good six hours, but the game 
 is so boring that it will stretch into weeks without beating it. There is no wifi in this game, 
 so it makes my life rather more dull. The game will just make you want to play another great round 
 of Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  The graphics are just at the peak for great. It doesn't really show how the DS can handle like 
 Mario Kart DS. You be surprise how the game looks, but the only thing that isn't in 2D is maybe 
 the character models. You may go asleep looking the graphics, because they are just alittle average 
 and very, very boring. It's like puking out the same old pixels you used to play with! Yeah, it's 
 cool that the game has the water move, but that may get you going for good second for a 2D game. 
 It's like looking at your grandma when she was sixty.
  
  The gameplay is just superb. Mario will move like a butterfly, and and somehow sting like a bee. 
 You got the same old moves from the orginally, like the fire blaster (I really don't know what 
 it is called nor where it comes from) and the jump attack. You got some new ones too, like the 
 Big Mushroom and the Turtle Shell. Sometimes you may want to realize that the Big Mushroom has 
 a time limit, and there is some places that will get you stuck... for some time. The blue shell 
 will make you have some fun with it's attack, though, it's rather like making you be like sonic 
 for awhile... maybe that is what their plan is... 
  
  The sound, well I don't think we might have to asked that question. You got the same old Mario 
 twist music, and the sound from his jumping. The 1-up noise still live on today, but rather gets 
 annoying when you collect 50 life mushrooms! The music is sorta like listening to what the composer 
 really wanted, and the sound is just dated. Just don't remind how Bowser died in the lava pool... 
 or did he?
  
  The story will get you snoring, and will get you very snoring. I think I am snoring right now because 
 I am writing a review about a boring game. Well, the story will get you for abotu 1/4 of the game, 
 so you might want to play other games when you are playing this hunk of a hunk. The story is rather 
 simple, though, it's not Bowser stealing Princess Peach... it's his son! I guess he really wants 
 a mommy since Super Mario Sunshine. Bowser, get on some eharmony. com, you might get a sexy lizard 
 b@tch!
  
  In conculsion, I have to say that this game is boring, dull, and very repetitve! And no, I don't 
 go to any love sites... or do I??????????????????????????
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wan_Flan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Remember all the hours that you spent play Super Mario Boros on the Super NES? oh year you do, 
 and now it's back... IN PORTABLE FORM! it's mario just the way that you you remembered it... well 
 almost. there are all new levels, worlds and bosses, a few new power ups, and some mini games, 
 cause who doesn't love mini games? The new power ups are: Giant Mushroom (Makes you giant for a 
 little while) , the mini mushroom (make you mini) and the turtle shell (turns you into a turtle) . 
 the game is short, like Lindsay lohan's driving career shot. but it's fun while it lasts. there 
 is also a two player mode in which you and a friend can battle it out (with only one copy of the 
 game) for stars, or you and three other friend can enjoy some mini games togethor., so yeah the 
 game is good, pick it up if you are a fan of mairo. I give it 8.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; The actually took a 3D modeled Mario and threw him into a 2D side-scroller. If anything, 
 the game is one of the best looking side-scrollers ever made. On top of that, all the 3D animations 
 are smooth, crisp, and it doesn't look like Nintendo was just throwing a quick game together to 
 make a quick buck.
  &middot; They brought back Koopa Kids into the story. That's what I'm talking about. Alongside my 
 New Super Mario Bros., I have my old favorite Mario game, Super Mario Bros. 3.
  &middot; The level designs are top-notch with tons of secrets to be had.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; Although 
 the game isn't a couple hours long, it is kind of short but then again, what side-scroller isn't?
 
  &middot; Back when Super Mario World came out, there was so many secrets and paths that it drove 
 you insane if you didn't find them all. That seems to be missing in ways in NSMB.
  &middot; Managing to die as giant Mario... d'oh!
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; New Super Mario Bros. 
 will have you addicted for a very long time. In fact, it's a good reason alone to go buy a Nintendo 
 DS. That's what I did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  The good: Reminiscent of the original Super Mario Bros.; Beautiful 3D visuals; Handles well, and 
 with good physics too; 78 levels; Tough bosses throughout the game; finally a new multiplayer mode; 
 Lots of mini games; cool new elements which improves upon the original formula
  
  The bad: No Yoshi, nor cape from the game which revolutionised the Super Mario name almost for 
 good; some levels can be over in less than thirty seconds; no real secret world considering theres 
 unlockable worlds from the beggining, and even then the unlockable worlds arent very exciting.
 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is just that. Its Super Mario Bros. and its brand spanking new, for most 
 the part atleast. It is, yes, classic Super Mario Bros. design and control with the whole idea 
 of rescuing the lovely Princess Peach after being captured by bowser. It does feature our favourite 
 italian fat man plumber running through levels stomping goombas flat. It does feature upgrades 
 like mushrooms, and fire balls. And yes it features 'new' Mario elements which in reality arent 
 all that exciting, and which sadly couldve been.
  
  The game hits off with a brief cinematic of Mario and Princess Peach walking back to the Castle. 
 A mysterious grey cloud strikes a thunderbolt directly onto the caslte so mario takes some initiative 
 and runs up to it to check it out as Princess Peach awaits, just incase its trouble. Unaware as 
 they were, the thunderbold was just a distraction so that the notorious Baby Bowser can swipe the 
 Princess off her feet, and take her to his ominous castle.
  
  The first level on the game is pretty straight foreward.... Literately. Its classic mario, run, 
 jump, stomp, find a couple of secret tunnels and passages via secret blocks which have giant flower 
 vines coming out of it. The very first thing you'll notice that is 'new' in the first level, are 
 of course the beautiful graphics. They suit the 2D Mario world as well as they did the 3D Mario 
 world. You may also notice that it feels almost exactly like the first level from the original 
 Super Mario Bros. just layed out differently, and takes less time due to the pace of the game. 
 Immediately you will notice there are 3 star coins in each level to give you the Mario feel of 
 finding lots of secrets, and finding all three star coins in each level is just the tip of the 
 ice berg.
  
  After the first few levels, the game gets, harder, and the levels are longer, and you will deffinitely 
 want to have your whits about you for whats up ahead. Once you get into the games you will have 
 discovered some of Marios moves old and new, plus you will have seen the new items you will be 
 able to attain. The most prominent item is the super mushroom, where mario grows to as big as the 
 screen and are impervious to everything for a short amount of time. There are also a couple of 
 other items that can show up on the rare occasion you may need to unlock something or can be attained 
 in the Toad houses that are spead out through the game.
  
  Unfortunately the coolest things that were in any Mario game and have been in almost all of them 
 sinse (Yoshi, and the cape) show an absense in this game, which is a major let down because those 
 two simple abilities add many more possibilities to the game, alone than the new items which two 
 of them are just blended in the game from Super Mario 64 DS. These disappointingly absent things 
 mixed with the nifty features like wall jump and ground pound wouldve made this quite the best 
 mario game ever created.
  
  As you plow through the game in about 6 hours and see only six of the eight worlds. Or you take 
 your time to find all the secrets in about 12 hours and beat all 78 levels in all the 8 worlds, 
 either way you'll come across very fermilliar looking worlds from the grassy fields, to the classic 
 glaciers of the ice world, to something that remarkebly resembles chocolate island from Super Mario 
 World and finally to Bowsers Den of lava.
  
  The levels in the game have really well done puzzles, and obsticles that will expect you to be 
 swift on your feet, and clever. Annoyingly enough there will be some tough sequences in levels 
 which will either make you break your DS or keep screwing you up so many times that you'll just 
 get game over. A bit of trial and error involved but nowhere near as much as last years Sonic Rush.
 
  
  On top of the impressivly lengthy main platforming game, there are a ton of mini games, most of 
 which are from Super Mario 64 DS, like alot of the new features in the main game, and some new. 
 The real appealing thing about the mini games is they have LAN multiplayer functionality which 
 can be up to hours of fun, that is if your friend, or friends have a copy of the game. Speaking 
 of multiplayer, FOR ONCE theyve made a new version of the arcade Super Mario Bros. versus mode, 
 but once again, its just like the multiplayer from Super Mario 64 DS, just 2D.... The only difference 
 is this one is fairer and a hell of alot more fun.
  
  In conclusion New Super Mario Bros. is a really great game that couldve been perfect with some 
 nice touches from games later in the old school series. But Overall this game is fun enough to 
 satisfy almost any gamer, new to gaming or longtime hardcore. 
  
  Hopefully this game opens up a new series for mario and we'll see a New Super Mario Bros. 2 3 and 
 a New Super Mario World..... if god were real that is. Please be on Nintendos side if you are *crosses 
 fingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  If you are a true Mario fan, and got a DS, you gotta get this game. If you are not a really HUGE 
 Mario fan, don't bother picking this up. Anyways, for the Mario fans, you are up to a great and 
 addicting game. And its name is New Super Mario Bros. Of course you play as Mario, and the story 
 takes off in the Mushroom Kingdom. It's all wonderful and stuff, Mario and Princess Peach are walking 
 together, then all of a sudden, Bowser Jr. comes out of nowhere and kidnaps Peach! Now it's up 
 to Mario to save her. You basically play like the original NES version of Super Mario Bros, but 
 with better graphics, new powers, and much more. I just bought it, and I got to tell you it's fantastic! 
 :) But since this is my first time actually playing this game, dude........... I suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDaJuicex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so I hope you find it useful.
  
  Wow, this game left me with mixed emotions. On one hand, it was a total nostalgia trip and pretty 
 fun while it lasted (not very long) . On the other hand, the game just came off as way too easy 
 and over WAY too fast. 
  
  The Good:
  
  It's a trip down memory lane as you're stomping goombas, kicking koopa troopas, ducking down pipes, 
 and hopping across mushrooms. Each level is beautifully made, with multi-layered backgrounds and 
 smoothly animated characters. The music is cute and catchy, and you'll notice the power-ups and 
 enemies bouncing along with the beat during certain parts. It's most definitely a Mario platformer 
 in every way imagineable. It's also just plain fun.
  
  The Bad: 
  
  Too short, too short, too SHORT! I bought it last Saturday. I finished it on Wednesday after a 
 few short sessions. By Thursday night, I had only the 8th world left to collect all 3 big coins 
 in every level. Aside from a few slightly frustrating levels, it's also just plain easy. I don't 
 know if I just sucked at video games back when Super Mario Bros. 3 came out, or what, but I remember 
 that game being long and hard the first time through. After I finish collecting the last big coins, 
 I'll most likely never play it again. It's sad, but the game has no real incentive for replay. 
 If I replay an old Mario platformer, it'll be Super Mario World, because of... YOSHI, who is sadly 
 absent from New SMB.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  If you're a collector -- Buy it
  If you're a hard core gamer as I consider myself to be -- Rent it, borrow it, or play through the 
 whole thing at a Gamestop or something. Just don't disappoint yourself the way I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsalltheway712
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  New super Mario bros. is the best Mario game you can get. For some reason, other Mario games have 
 a lot of frustration included, even if they are very fun. But New Super Mario Bros. has a perfect 
 difficulty setting and has a huge amount of content. It may not seem like it, (you may even begin 
 to think that it is smaller than other Mario games) but once you collect everything you will feel 
 very satisfied. It provides a good challenge and beautifully constructed levels with simple, yet 
 beautiful, 3D graphics. 
  
  Game play: New super Mario bros. has wonderful game play that continues the Mario tradition of 
 running, jumping, killing enemies, and collecting coins. But new super Mario bros. adds in new 
 moves, new enemies, new level design, new power ups, and all together perfects the side scroller. 
 
  
  NEW FEATURES: Powerups: New super Mario bros. includes the mushroom (makes you grow taller) the 
 fire flower (makes you shoot out fireballs) the mini-mushroom (makes you get smaller) the mega-mushroom 
 (makes you HUMONGOUS) and the blue shell (makes you into a koopa shell when you dash) . All these 
 new powerups improve the game play and allow more puzzles and secrets in the game, therefore adding 
 new content. 
  
  Level design: New super Mario bros. adds flags, which are pretty much a halfway point, so if you 
 die, you can be respawned in that halfway point, so you don't have to start the level all over 
 again. When you get a game over or beat the level the flag goes away. 
  
  Other features: There is also a new way of unlocking alternate routes and toads houses; sometimes 
 it is unlocked by finding an alternate route, but most of the time, it is by spending star coins. 
 You can find three star coins in a level, and these can unlock alternate levels or toad houses, 
 both which are needed to completely beat the game. Also, there is a place on the touch screen where 
 you can reserve a power up, and just by tapping on it, it falls from the top of the screen. I know, 
 I know, it also was included in Super Mario World, but the combination of these elements with the 
 elements that made SMB 3 such a good game makes a great combination.
  
  Since New Super Mario Bros. is based off of the original super Mario bros, the flag pole is re 
 introduced here. There also are minigames, which are a fun diversion at the most, though there 
 is the new feature of multiplayer, which really makes it a lot more fun to play (poker IS the best) . 
 The only bad thing I can say about the game play is that. Uh um nope, cant think of anything. 
 But what I can say is AMAZING!!
  10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty basic. Most of the characters are simple polygonal figures, and 
 when Mario/luigi gets a Mega- Mushroom, you can see the edgy polygons making up their body. But 
 when you look at them at their normal size, you really dont need high quality models, because 
 they look just fine. The backgrounds stay to their 2D roots, but they still look beautiful
  9/10
  
  Sound: instead of trying to remake old Mario music, or add in voice clips, this game 
 has completely new (and very good) music, and the only time youll here old music is when you get 
 a certain time at the end of a level. The sound quality is very good, and it works wonderfully 
 with the surround and stereo sound capabilities on the DS.
  10/10
  
  Value: An amazing game, a must buy for any DS gamer.
  9/10
  
  Altogether, New super Mario 
 bros. is a must buy, with very little flaws, and a large amount of FUN. Any one with a DS MUST 
 go out and buy it NOW. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  So it's finally here... New Super Mario Bros. Nothing entirely new, but still that classic Mario 
 fun.
  
  Gameplay is a little floaty, but very easy to get used to, and after that, you'll love it. A or 
 B to jump, X or Y to dash, D-pad to move, and that's all there is to it. Simple yet refined.
  
  Graphics are great. It's a 3-D game on a 2-D plane, much like the Smash Bros. and Viewtiful 
 Joe series. Takes full advantage of the DS's graphics capabilities.
  
  Sound is down right fun. Basically a bunch of remixes of the classic Super Mario Bros. themes that 
 we all know and love.
  
  Overall, you'll be playing this game for quite a long time. With tons of new power-ups, a multiplayer 
 mode, and the ability to play as Luigi, what's not to like here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tycerion
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  So as of right now, I'm playing through it again, it's nothing too terribly long, but that doesn't 
 take away from the sheer enjoyability of the game.
  
  I love it. I was playing the original when I was three, and having it brought back to life with 
 a new fresh feel to it was just brilliant!
  
  The gameplay is as smooth as anyone could have wanted, and yes the plot is exactly the same as 
 it's been in the past, but who cares really? It's a classic good and evil battle that will rage 
 on until I'm dead and long after my children are playing video games.
  
  I can't stress enough how much fun this game is!
  
  Played it once and didn't really beat it 
 thoroughly, and now I'm taking it on one more time and I'm not leaving any stone unturned or any 
 pipe unchecked!
  
  One more great game on the DS and one more winning game for Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthPark_Fan13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  first off the game has a grapghic engine equal to mario kart! the gameplay is totally straightforward 
 and will take 3 seconds to get used to. the game is just like the orginal except there are a few 
 more secrets and every 5th mission of each world you battle bowser jr. this is a fantastic game, 
 but people who enjoy games w/ massive amounts of gameplay will not want to pick this up because 
 you could beat the game in 1-3 days it's so easy. there is 8 worlds and each world takes anywhere 
 from 30min to an hour. i'd borrow this from a friend or wait until the price drops because it's 
 not worth $35. still this is a great game, but if you want a mario game that will have a lot more 
 gameplay then check out Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  We all know the story of Mario, how he is always on his quest to save princess peach, so i dont 
 need to go over that. But this time Peach is taken by Bowser Jr, yep, scary eh? so you got to go 
 around lots of different areas, fight numerous bosses until you eventually save Princess Peach.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same as many mario's before this, you go onto a circle and thats 
 starts the map, after you beat that map you move onto the next one, and so on. this time with little 
 mushroom houses which give you power ups if you have enough star coins to get in. after a few maps 
 you go into castles to fight bowser jr or a boss
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good, i was impressed when i first started playing! they are 
 full of colour and very well done.
  
  Sound: This version of mario introduces new music for mario, as well as some of the older music. 
 the sound effects in the game are ok, but its mario, you dont need many....
  
  Value: This game is quite easy (it was/is for me anyway) it is very easy to get past maps etc. 
 but when you do beat the game you have another 2 save files so you can play the adventure all over 
 again. The game also has about 15 or so minigames. This are quite random, yet fun little games...
 
  
  All in all the game is good quality, but dont pick it up unless you are looking for a quick game 
 to beat, you just want to re-live the mario adventure, or you want a game with fun little minigames 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the best new classic game around, and the best description in one word would 
 be FUN. What does that mean? Anyone that has learned the ancient art of blowing on cartridges or 
 had their Zelda game erased from the rapid resetting of an unruly system knows what old-skool feels 
 like. That's not to say that those not growing up in those times cannot experience that classic 
 feel (especially with the Wii's downloadable content to come) . That being said, New Super Mario 
 Bros. can create it here and now. 
  
  This game has many new and improved gaming mechanics while staying true to old roots -- but not "Too 
 True". While walking the line between nostalgia and annoying can be fine, this title plays jump-rope 
 with it, staying ahead with every pounce. From the side-scrolling wonder, to the old castles and 
 flags at the end of stages, with a toss of new moves and a super-sizing mushroom -- they did it right. 
 The sound flows with things and keeps you interested in this plain old FUN game. 
  
  Of course, I could criticize. The world 1 music is deffinately not to my taste at least, and the 
 touchscreen is ill used (this could be for better or worse, depending on your own feelings) . It's 
 not overly difficult overall, but keeps you interested. It would have been nice to play as Luigi 
 in single player as well.
  
  Overall this is a great buy for a DS owner, especially if you have a feel for the old without being 
 drowned by it. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingofunrealuk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Can you remember the first time you played Mario Brothers on your NES? Or on Mario All Stars if 
 you're a little younger? All those Goombas, Troopas and Paratroopas. That music! That incredibly 
 frustrating game play! So many suicides and running into that first enemy you saw. Yes, we've all 
 done that. Ahh, the nostalgia sets in. Didn't you wish there were more levels though, or more secrets 
 for you to find? 
  
  Jump to 2004 a 2D Mario game was unveiled and now finally, 2 years later, it is released. NEW 
 Super Mario Bros is one of Nintendos ways of getting so called 'old school' gamers back into games 
 and also who wish to relive the past. And guess what... It delivers, it really does.
  
  Before I start dishing out the metaphorical bucket load of compliments though, let me get one thing 
 out of the way. I'll be honest; I really don't like the name. I know it may seem like such a small 
 detail (and yes, I know it is) but why isn't this game called "Super Mario Bros. 4" or just "Super 
 Mario Bros DS"? Okay, Ill stop moaning now. Lets get down to the real meat of this game. NEW 
 Super Mario Bros plays exactly like youd expect a Mario game to play lots of running, jumping 
 and Goomba stomping!
  
  As for the story of NEW Super Mario Bros, expect the predictable. Bowser (or baby Bowser in this 
 case) has stolen Peach once again whilst Mario's back was turned to other matters. Of course, what 
 else is Mario going to do but to save her? Okay, so its not going to win any awards for originality 
 but it really doesn't matter in a game like this anyway. As you see Baby Bowser running across 
 the first map into a tower (and every subsequent tower/castle on each map) youll get a nice over 
 view of where you have to go next. The over world is reminiscing of Mario Bros 3 and Super Mario 
 World.
  
  To help Mario in his quest this time he has a variety of new moves and items. Mario can now do 
 several moves from his first 3D outing on the N64, such as the famed tripple jumps, ground pounds 
 and wall jumps. Although you hardly ever need to triple jump, it feels nice for it to be included. 
 The wall jumping and ground pounding however, are very useful to get into hard to reach areas or 
 to kill enemies. As for new items, Mario now has access to a blue shell, allowing him to swim much 
 faster under water and do a spin attack like Troopa's do when jumped on by Mario. His other two 
 items come in the forms of mega mushrooms and mini mushrooms. You may notice these from other games 
 such as Mario Party and Paper Mario. A mega mushroom turns Mario into a screen sized colossus as 
 he runs through the level. Everything can be destroyed, even warp pipes, and to fuel your crushing 
 ambitions, a gauge bar is filled with everything you trample and rewards you with extra lives. 
 Mini mushrooms make Mario vulnerable to attacks and he can only kill enemies through ground pounds. 
 It also makes him super light so his movements are very floaty. However, using mini Mario you can 
 access some secret places. 
  
  As well as these new items, Mario's good old favourites are back; the standard mushroom and the 
 fire flower. Although there are 3 new items, they dont really pop up much so you'll be relying 
 on your normal ones more often. Also, there is a lack of a flying ability in this game which may 
 disappoint some. 
  
  NEW Super Mario Bros has great and intelligent level design; its one of the core things that Nintendo 
 just know how to do right which has always made Mario games such a joy. Although some of the levels 
 are short, theres never one that wouldn't give you a challenge or provide a few minutes of total 
 uninterrupted fun. Some levels also have secret exits to new levels or warp cannons to blast around 
 the world. 
  
  As for boss fights, baby Bowser pops up a lot as well as previous Nintendo bosses. I wouldn't want 
 to ruin it for you but youll be seeing some familiar faces which are pretty cool. Don't expect 
 much of a challenge though, especially if you have a fire flower at your disposal. 
  
  NEW Super Mario Bros proves that such an old game formula still works but only with the spot on 
 controls that Nintendo can offer. This game also offers many mini games, even if they do come in 
 the form of the rather tired Super Mario 64 DS ones. Although some of them are new, they don't 
 really have that much appeal, and did we really need to see the return of the boring Luigi card 
 games?! Each to their own I guess.
  
  As for multiplayer aspects, this game offers two modes: mini game and Mario Bros modes. Mini game 
 mode allows you to play with up to 4 people and compete in the mini games, whilst the other mode 
 allows you and a buddy to fight it out for stars across repeating levels. Neither of which are 
 all that good, but its a nice addition. Both game modes can be played over multi or single pack, 
 the difference is that single pack takes longer to load.
  
  Providing more proof that the DS really is at its best in 2D, NEW Super Mario Bros boasts some 
 lovely little effects. Mario's animations are ripped straight from his 3D adventures, super fluid 
 and still very cool looking. Goombas, Paratroopas and Dry Bones are freed from their simplistic 
 four frame animations of the past and are given intelligent moving patterns and full colour pallets... 
 until they walk into a bottomless pit that is! The locations are all very reminiscent of previous 
 Mario adventures. World 1 generically takes place in a grassy environment world; later on you'll 
 see a sand world and a snow world etc. Although the themes of the game worlds aren't new, they 
 look fantastic on the DS' little screen and you wont be disappointed by them. NEW Super Mario Bros 
 uses a mixture of polygon textures and sprites to a great effect that gives you a mix of the old 
 and the new. 
  
  As for the sound, NEW Super Mario Bros is fantastic. It has a great mix of tunes. That being said, 
 only a few of them will have you humming them. Also cool to note though, one is a remix of the 
 Mario 1 first level music! As for sound effects, Mario's "Hoo!", "Haa!" and "Wah-Haa!" have been 
 kept to the minimum to keep up with the retro feel that the game is shooting for. Another cool 
 feature is that on a couple of the tracks the enemies dance to the music, a great little touch.
 
  
  Overall, NEW Super Mario Bros takes the place of Kirby as the top plat former on the DS, but man 
 did it have to fight. This game does excel 2D Mario games in a new and exciting direction and with 
 800,000 copies sold in the first week in Japan alone, I think a sequel is fairly certain (we can 
 hope) . The bottom line is you must own this. Its your duty as a DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  People were having a tough time accepting the fact that Nintendo was going to make another entry 
 in the ever popular and outstanding Super Mario Bros. series, and why shouldn't they? Super Mario 
 Bros. was nothing short of a fantastic and truely innovative series, so people were worried that 
 Nintendo would try to slap a now household name on a crappy game so they could try to cash in on 
 it. But alas, these people were proven wrong, and New Super Mario Bros. couldn't be more fantastic 
 in this generation of gaming.
  
  If you have played the previous iterations in the classic series (who hasn't, really?) , then you'll 
 quickly know what to expect from NSMB. It still retains the simple-but-addicting gameplay that 
 made it so awesome in the first place: Running through a 2-D world, jumping on foes, collecting 
 coins, and the most important of all, rescuing Princess Peach ONCE AGAIN, from Bowser........ jr. 
 That's right, it seems that Bowser's son is really THAT stupid enough to mistake Peach for his 
 mother once again. So now you have to drag Mario through 8 brand new worlds to save her from whatever 
 fate is in store for here.
  
  While it is more of the same gameplay-wise, there are a few new additions to NSMB to make it an 
 even more enjoyable experience. First off, you have a few new mushroom power-ups at your disposal, 
 which are the following:
  
  The Mega Mushroom:
  
  The name pretty much says it all, more or less. You grab this monster of a power-up, and you transform 
 into a Mega Mario, having the ability to smash almost anything that you come across, while also 
 being invincible. If you cause enough destruction, the bar at the top of your screen will fill 
 up depending on the damage you did, awarding you with 1ups. Then when you run out of time, you 
 are transformed back to Super Mario.
  
  The Mini Mushroom:
  Again, title says it all. Grab this 'shroom, and you'll be shrunk down to miniture size, and are 
 able to gain access to areas you weren't able to get to in your previous form, such as traveling 
 through a mini-pipe, or jumping higher and even running across water. There is no time limit on 
 this specific power, though, so be careful around enemies.
  
  The Turtle Shell:
  
  If you ever hated those damn turtles for taking away plenty of lives, here's your chance to get 
 revenge. When accessed, you can now retreat into your shell when in dash mode, knocking over enemies 
 and blocks. That's pretty much it, but it is worth getting. And like the Mini Mushroom, there's 
 no time limit on this power-up.
  
  Wall Jump:
  
  Ever wanted to get to that one place you couldn't reach? Try wall jumping! Simply jump towards 
 a wall, and point Mario in the direction of the wall and jump towards it. It's that simple.
  
  The Butt Stomp:
  
  Yes, the Butt stomp. If you have to get to an area blocked by bricks, 
 or if there's a pesky enemy giving you a hard time, just jump and press down t have your problem 
 solved quickly.
  
  As for the sound, it sounds pretty much like the originals, with some new touches of course. It 
 still has some of that same old score that you heard in the old games, but the new soundtrack almost 
 sounds better than the original, believe it or not. But when you think about it, there's not really 
 much to say a lot about the sound, since there's nothing really exciting about it, other than the 
 fact that it still sounds like you're playing the oldies. Let's move on, then.
  
  Graphics-wise, it certainly received an update during it's production. It may be a 2-D side-scroller, 
 but that doesn't mean that everything in the game is 2-D as well. Mario and everybody has had a 
 little 3-D makeover since the last entry, making everything look sharp and awesome. And if that 
 isn't sweet enough, the map in which you selected what world or level you would travel to next 
 is, well, a 3-D overhead, so you can get somewhat of a better view on what a particular level will 
 look like.
  
  But overall, New Super Mario Bros. is nothing like a cash-in attempt in the slightest, but more 
 of an update in an already outstanding series. So if you're looking for a great game for your DS, 
 or are thinking of getting one, NSMB is reason enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReggieWhite2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  It really has been a long while since Mario stared in fresh platformer. Mario's resume covers many 
 different fields such as cart racing, golf, tennis, soccer, and even referee. However, many would 
 agree that Mario is most adept at platforming games. New Super Mario Bros. returns Mario to his 
 2D roots, paying homage to nearly every single 2D Mario game on the NES and SNES, while feeling 
 like a brand new adventure at the same time. This is one of those games that everyone must play.
 
  
  Nobody plays a Mario game becaus they are intrigued by the plot. The story behind Mario's adventures 
 have been more or less the same everytime, and things remain unchanged in NSMB. Princess Peach 
 has been abducted (again) and only Mario (or Luigi) can save her. Simple, recycled stories have 
 never hurt the Mario games and because Peach is always getting captured, gamers have been able 
 to partake in some of the greatest quests of all-time. NSMB Does not disappoint. Just like the 
 Mario days of old, you move to the right of the screen, grabbing fire flowers, collecting coins, 
 stomping goombas, and busting bricks all in an effort to reach the flag goal before time expires. 
 Nothing revolutionary but NSMB executes a blend of classic platforming gameplay with new material 
 without feeling like a "been there, done that" experience. 
  
  Special caps and being able to ride on Yoshi are nice but NSMB shuns those in favor for what fans 
 really want: power-ups that stay with Mario until he's hit or finds something better. Returning 
 power-ups that pop out of "?" blocks inlcude the super mushroom (yes, Mario actually starts out 
 his journey being small) , the fire flower, and the famous starman. Seeing the aforementioned power-ups 
 return will bring a nostalgic smile to the faces of long time fans but anyone looking for Goomba's 
 shoe, the super leaf, or the Hammer Bros. suit will be sorely dissappointed. NSMB's levels really 
 weren't designed for flight and most enemies can be killed by the old fashioned head stomp, a fireball, 
 or two of Mario's new powers. The mega mushroom increases Mario's size tremendously, giving him 
 the ability to smash through solid pipes, brick walls and any regular enemy that comes in contact 
 with him is instantly defeated. The effects of the mega mushroom are only temporary but it is one 
 of the more common power-ups you'll come acorss. A mini-mushroom will shrink Mario to that of a 
 size even smaller than what Mario would be without the aid of a super mushroom. While in his shrunken 
 state, Mario can jump higher, father and can run on water. Mini-Mario can also reach places that 
 would otherwise be inaccessible to him in any other form. However, just is the case with regular 
 Mario, if mini-Mario takes a hit from a foe, he's done for. Rounding out the new items is the blue 
 turtle shell. When picked up, Mario becomes Shell Mario. After running a short distance, Mario 
 will tuck himself inside the shell and can kill enemies, richochet off walls, and break bricks. 
 Like Super Mario Bros. 3, NSMB's worlds are covered with Toad Houses. You can hold one power-up 
 at a time and access it via, the touch screen.
  
  Mario also brings some moves from Super Mario 64 into this 2D adventure. The ground pound, double/tripple 
 jump and wall kick are all at Mario's disposal. Mario can use the ground pound to break bricks 
 as long as he isn't regular (small) or mini-Mario. The wall kick in particular is extremly useful 
 because now you can actually avoid some annoying pit deaths.
  
  NSMB's eight worlds pay homage to nearly all of Mario's past adventures in many different ways. 
 World 2 is filled with levels that will remind players of Desert Land from SMB3. World 4 resembles 
 the Forest of Illusion from Super Mario World. You can even expect to see your typical ice/snow 
 levels (Ice Land, anyone?) It isn't just the levels that will make players feel like they've gone 
 back in time. Old foes like Wigglers, Bullet Bills, Bloopers, Lakitu, and even those bothersome, 
 tool-chucking Hammer Bros. make a comeback. Again, even with all the throwbacks, the game still 
 feels like a totally new adventure. Boss fights mostly call upon your standard head-stomping tactics. 
 Of course if you have the fire flower, many of the bosses can be quickly disposed of. Despite the 
 short boss encounters, they are still enjoyable and they don't bring the game down, even the slightest.
 
  
  Anyone that has played a Mario game knows that this series is known for catchy songs that get stuck 
 in your head. NSMB is no different. Players get treatred to remixed tracks like the Underground 
 theme from the original SMB, the Fortress theme from SMB3 and the boss theme from SMB3. There's 
 also a good amount of new music that stacks up pretty well against the remixed tunes. The Castle 
 theme in particular is quite good and makes you wish the game had a music player option. Players 
 that hit the flagploe at the end of a stage at just the right time are treated to the original 
 end level SMB music, complete with fireworks. Sound effects in the game are also of interest. If 
 you know your Mario games you'll easily be able to distinguish which sounds are from SMB, SMB3, 
 and SMW. The "thud" sound from a turtle shell bouncing off a wall is enough to make any old-schooler 
 swoon. The DS hardware probably isn't working up a serious sweat for NSMB's visuals but the game 
 still looks impressive. Polygons are the order of the day for most of the graphics but you'll also 
 see a lot of sprites in the form of enemeies and some power-ups. The mountains, caves, and pyramids 
 that make of the stage's backgrounds look quite nice.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is one of the best platforming games to come out in a very long while, measuring 
 up to some of the finest games in genre. This is one of the few titles that is worthy of rubbing 
 shoulders alongside Super Mario Bros. 3 and Yoshi's Island. Hardcore gamer or 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroit_rules
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! I like that its easier that the other mario bros games. I really like the new 
 mushroom you can get that makes you gigantic and invincible. It makes the game alot easier . (if 
 your stuck at a certain point in a level you can use it to easily get past it) But its also not 
 that easy because you can die in lava. Another new thing you can get is a shell which you can duck 
 in and will not be hurt by other enemies. Also in the other supermario games you can get a tail 
 which can make turn into a raccoon but in this game the only items that are the same are the fire 
 flower and the mushroom. Another thing I liked is that there are a variety of bosses that you face. 
 In some of the other mario bros games there all just 1 boss that just gets new moves. Also they 
 make you keep playing to beat all the worlds after you beat the game by making world 4 and world 
 7 special to unlock. You get them by beating the boss of world 2 with the smallest mario you can 
 get which is pretty small. You unlock world 7 the same way exept by beating the world 5 boss. Also 
 the mini games are fun too! If you have played super mario 64 DS then you played most of the mini 
 games but there are still some really fun new ones too! If you havent played super mario 64 DS 
 then you should definetly play these mini games One other cool thing about this game is at the 
 end of the level there will be a castle and a flag. The higher you jump the more points you'll 
 get. And if you get the very top youll get a 1 up. 1 other good thing is that there are green mushroom 
 houses that you can unlock by spending 5 big gold coins. (same with all the houses and when you 
 go in one it will ask you if you want to save) I think you have DS this is the best game you can 
 buy for it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caesar105
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect like the original release it has new power-ups I especially like the 
 super mushroom the only flaw is that when you use it on some level you can't break through some 
 stuff so you use it for nothing this game my mom loves almost as much as me. If your new and haven't 
 played the original heres a tip look in places where you wouldn't normally look to find all the 
 goodies. The final level I say was the hardest taking out Bowser and Bowser Jr. It's suicide if you 
 try opening the new worlds by beating the bosses with mini Mario/mini Luigi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnewbold
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I really love the SMB series, as most people do. I was looking forward 
 to this game and traded in a few games to pick this one up. I paid $35 for this game.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a mix of SMB 1, 3, and Super Mario World with some new stuff thrown in. 
 Each world (there are 8) has about 10 levels in each one. Most worlds have different exits that 
 lead to different worlds, warps, or bonuses. Each world also has 3 star coins, which you use to 
 get access to Toad Houses that you can visit once to get 1-ups or items. The new items here are 
 the mini mushroom (which makes Mario tiny) , the mega mushroom (which makes Mario huge for a short 
 time) , and the blue Koopa shell which gives Mario the ability to smash through blocks, provided 
 he has enough room to run.
  
  This is a fun game.... for a few days. The star coins in each world aren't really too difficult 
 to find. But once you find them, you use them to access a Toad House, but just once, which doesn't 
 really make the hunt worth it, and yes, the hunt is pretty easy. After you beat the game, there's 
 another use for the star coins, but that's not really worth it either. Sometimes you need to be 
 mini or blue Koopa to access a star coin or an alternate exit, but since you can only visit each 
 Toad House once, you end up running all over trying to find the right power up, which is really 
 annoying.
  
  You rarely get a mini mushroom, mega mushroom, or blue Koopa shell anyway, and they're rarely used 
 or needed, which also makes them pretty useless.
  
  This is a fun game for a few days... but after all the wait, and paying full price, this game is 
 just not worth the money. It's a fun diversion, but there's just not enough game there. Buy it 
 used, or wait a few months and hopefully the price will go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BDragon17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  The new super mario bros. is finally here and ready to take you back to the glory days of side 
 scrolling. Taking some of the old formulas and putting some new stuff, this game gives you everything 
 you ever loved back to this great icon. After the release of the super mario world for the super 
 nintendo, it's been quite some time since the last side scrolling of mario has appeared. Now that 
 new game has come out, you can finally enjoy it. The story is pretty simple baby bowser has stolen 
 Princess Peach and it's up to you to save her. You will travel from one world to another world, 
 beating one level and on to the next level. You get the basic power-up such as the mushroom, which 
 makes you grow into normal size, the flower, which makes you throw fireballs, and the star, which 
 makes you invincible for a limited time. But now there are three new power ups to help you on your 
 journey, you got the mega mushroom to grow into a giant which covers the DS screen and makes you 
 run over things, and if you create enough mayhem, you get lives. Then you get the mini mushrooms 
 which makes you become small and able to fit into very small places. And finally you get the blue 
 shell, which you can run over your enemies. So instead of just beating the levels and that's it, 
 they added these three coins in each level which you can use to go into these houses and get stuff. 
 But these coins actually add a little replay value into the game because these babies aren't easy 
 to grab and will test your gaming skills to get your hands on one of them. The only bad thing about 
 this game is the fact that it's over to quick and that the coins you collect aren't useful to spend 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Can you believe how long ago it was since you first played the original Super Mario Bros.? The 
 mother of all platformers. And now, nearly 20 years later, we return to those roots, to see what 
 we have learned since then, and see if it still works. It does. New Super Mario Bros is exactly 
 that. New. It may use the original as a template, but that's when things look a little different. 
 
  
  First off, the look. NSMB mixes all those familar things you saw in the original and thanks to 
 the power of the DS, gives them its modern feel. Mario, Goombas, and Koopas all have a nice new 
 3D look to them. We can finally see what the Mushroom Kingdom was suppose to look back then. At 
 the same time all those familiar things like mushrooms, fire flowers, and just a simple brick block 
 all bring back that nostalgic feeling.
  
  The music as well is also updated. While you won't find the original themes here (a big disappointment 
 honestly) , the new music keeps the game more upbeat and fun. All the sounds match their environments 
 well, and characters all make their trademark noises.
  
  Playing this trip thru Mushroom Kingdom is just as easy as the first time. If you remember how 
 to do it then, you won't have a problem now. Mario and Luigi did bring with them more moves they've 
 learned over the years such as wall jumps, and butt-stomps. The new moves help as all the levels 
 are totally new and all with their own mix of challenges. 
  
  With new challenges do come new power ups. A Mega-Mushroom will turn Mario into a much bigger Mario 
 that can pretty much walk over anythign in its path. Pipes included. Think of it as a new age Star 
 Power. Then there's the Mini-Mushroom that will shrink Mario to fit in small gaps, run on water, 
 and get to more secret areas. And lastly, a Hammer Bros suit. by wearing the shell on his back, 
 Mario can take a running dash running over enemies in his path.
  
  Getting around is more like SMB3 or Super Mario World. You see the area in a map all with different 
 levels scattered about. From standard areas, to mini-towers, from ghost houses, to underwater levels. 
 Even the toad houses make their return offering power ups, or extra lives on the way. Each level 
 does offer multiple paths, and objectives. Beating a stage once isnt enough. The game will produce 
 a lot of replay just trying to get them all.
  
  New also are boss battles for each world. The bosses themselves all look great, and do offer quite 
 a challenge. The final boss is a bit of a pushover. But still has that nice memory for some.
  
  All in all, a nice remix of a formula that cant get old. It shouldnt since Mario practically 
 invented this genre. So it's only fitting that Mario and Luigi rewrite it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokillerps205
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  There is no question, this is the best Mario game in, oh, about 20 years or so. Think about it, 
 they took a classic that changed the world of video gaming (Super Mario Bros) and mixed it with 
 SNES' Super Mario World and added some new features. Though the game may not take you too long 
 to plow through... Hey, neither did the first couple. The graphics are back from the glory days 
 of the SNES, and the levels look and sound like Super Mario World, while it plays like Super Mario 
 Bro's, from NES. And after you have found all the secrets, (I accidently skipped World 4 my first 
 time through) and beaten the game the Mini game collection will surely keep you busy for hours 
 to come. Like I said this is an Instant Classic and a must own for not only Nintendo fans, but 
 fans of video games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklepik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  As years pass, and better games are made we think how did the people back in the day think of games. 
 Sure we got realistic graphics, hard-core action, and a full tummy of satisfaction, but were games 
 today like the ones in the past. No, but New Super Mario Bros. is one of the few games that bring 
 back the old feeling and a new one as well. NSMB features a story mode where the classic tale of 
 Princess Peach being kidnapped and our Italian plumber hero must go and save her. Plus it shares 
 more fun in the Mario vs. Luigi game, when you play as one of the the brothers and race to the 
 pole at the finish. It also shares many minigames which can appeal to most, except that a few are 
 very short and don't get much fun. But so what! The game is very fulfilling and should be played 
 for any Nintendo gamer. So whether you're or were playing it, or are getting ready to go pick it 
 up, I hope that you have a wonderful time playing it old-school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan396
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. If you like Mario then you will probably be happy to see this new title. 
 Basically its Super Mario Bros. but with 3-D graphics in a 2-D level. Oh, and you can be Luigi, 
 get a mega mushroom and there are all new levels. What's better than one of the first ever video 
 games embracing the twenty-first century? Come on, tell me. Well, I can't think of anything. This 
 is pretty much what Super Mario Bros. would be like if they made it in the twenty-century. So if 
 you like old-school gaming but can't get your hands on a NES or SNES just get this. Heck, get it 
 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  The longest running videogame flagship character, Mario, returns in his first new adventure for 
 the DS. After 3D games for N64 and GameCube, the game goes back to its 2D roots, and proves that 
 when there's enough variety and fun, losing a dimension isn't really a loss at all.
  
  The game is based on a predictable, but dependable, Mario premise: Princess Peach is kidnapped 
 by Bowser, and it's up to the lovable plumber to rescue her. Across 8 worlds (each with a theme 
 like desert, clouds, and wintertime) , he'll face off against both Bowser and a boss to advance 
 and eventually rescue the princess from the final palace. Along the way he'll collect numerous 
 power-ups to aid in his quest, from old stand-bys like the ability to toss fireballs, to the new 
 mega mushroom that turns him into a near screen-filling behemoth. Special coins (3 are on each 
 level) can be collected to open bonus huts allowing him to acquire power-up mushrooms prior to 
 entering a level, and as usual, there are warps available to allow the clever to bypass large swaths 
 of the game, should they choose.
  
  The most positive thing the game has going for it is that it's simply very fun. It's easy to play, 
 with few complicated moves, but is still a good test of both reflexes and ingenuity, as many special 
 coins are tough to find, while some that are tantalizingly within sight require a bit of brainpower 
 to figure just how to obtain them, adding a level of thought not in all Mario games. The new Mega 
 Mario is a blast to use, as he smashes through nearly everything on the level, and is rewarded 
 with extra life mushrooms based on how much havoc is wrought. The nostalgia factor is also a real 
 treat, as familiar backgrounds and sounds permeate the game, overlayed with new enemies and screen 
 elements.
  
  Recycling is a bit of an issue in the game. The mini-games presented to give replay value to the 
 game are sadly the same as in Super Mario 64 DS, and even at that some of the more fun ones are 
 absent. Additionally, the mid-level confrontations against Bowser are too similar, so you're generally 
 in no more danger the 7th time you face him than you were the first time. The touch portion of 
 the touch screen goes nearly unused, only really coming into play to access a stored power-up when 
 Mario collects a power when already under the influence of a mushroom. Saving could have been friendlier, 
 as Mario must either spend the special coins he finds to open bonus huts, or complete a castle/palace, 
 to save his progress.
  
  The classic gameplay is in tact from previous 2D Mario titles, though occasionally pulling off 
 a wall-jump just the way you'd like to is tough. The graphics are the same as always, look crisp, 
 and the simple color palette works well. The sounds are also dependably similar, though the musical 
 transition from one part of a level to another is not always smooth. It's a quick play if you just 
 try to win, but you can get a few hours more time questing to get every special coin. In the end, 
 it's the perfect sequel: a blast for fans of the series to play, but completely accessible to someone 
 who's somehow never played a Super Mario Bros. title before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is the new 2-D platformer on the DS, and it's made itself at home, this is 
 without a doubt the Best Mario game I've played since Mario 3, and the best game on the DS so far.
 
  The story is usual here. Mario is just doing his thing in the Mushroom Kingdom, and surprise! 
 Princess Peach has been kidnapped by Bowser Jr. (once again!) and you have to go through a series 
 of worlds to save her. thats pretty much it, but it works for Mario.
  The gameplay is solid, it resurrects the classic way of the Mario universe with a few new twists, 
 like the butt stomp to break blocks, and the koopa shell, the cool thing about this is if you run 
 for a certain amount of time, you burrow into your shell and start spinning around breaking blocks 
 and killing enimies. but the coolest new feature is the mega-mushroom making you grow to about 
 the size of the screen, making you invincible and letting you destroy everything you walk past. 
 the level system is very intricate kind of like super mario world and mario 3.
  the only negative parts to this game is that the coolest powerups don't show up too often. but 
 this is a great game nonetheless, I would definitely recommend this to any Mario fan, or any gamer 
 for that matter. If you don't have a DS, now has never been a better time to get one especially 
 now that the DS lite is coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorrogue
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  It has been a very long time since a truly new Mario Bros. platformer hit a Nintendo portable system. 
 How long exactly? Around 14 years from the time when Super Mario Land 2: Six Golden Coins landed 
 on the Gameboy in '92! All of the Mario platformers on the handhelds, in-between that time, have 
 been remakes of some type or another. So needless to say, this title is long overdue. In fact, 
 considering how great of a game this is (not to much surprise there) , this should have been the 
 launch title of the Nintendo DS without question. Oddly enough, this game was released right after 
 E3 - dooming the game to being over-shadowed by all the hype about your Halo's, Metal Gear's, and 
 Smash Bros Brawl's.
  
  As expected from a Mario game, the Princess Peach has been kidnapped. However, like Mario Sunshine, 
 it isn't just Browser involved, it's also that Koopa Kid's reject of a son, Browser Jr. That's 
 pretty much it for a story. -But it's all the story you need to start this portable adventure. 
 As the name states, it's the NEW Super Mario Bros, insofar as meaning, it retains much of what 
 made the classic games so great and revises the rest with new moves, levels, music, and even a 
 whole new look. Don't be mislead by the 3-D Mario and crew, this is a 2-D platformer through and 
 through. It's somewhat like the Mega Man remakes released on the PSP... psuedo-3-D, you could say. 
 Still, the 3-D Mario does bring many of his 64-bit moves to enhance the now rare 2-D platforming 
 genre.
  
  Honestly, I was a bit skeptical about the game after playing Mario 64 on the DS. To my relief, 
 it plays like a Mario 2-D platformer should, and not like a N64 game missing an analog stick. To 
 simply put it, the gameplay is rock solid. The game actually feels like the original Mario Bros 
 at its core, but brings along a few new moves that really refines the Mario 2-D platformer. For 
 example, you can now "butt-stomp" to break blocks below you and kick off the wall to reach higher 
 ground or even recover yourself from a fall. The regular mushroom, fire-flower, and super star 
 from the original are the same as always, but there are a few new fun powers ups. There are two 
 new mushrooms - one that turns you into a gigantic Mario where you get to basically demolish the 
 level, and the other that makes Mario super tiny. Finally, there is my personal favorite: the Koopa 
 shell, which essentially turns you into a Koopa Trooper. That's just cool. However, it's still 
 not as awesome as the Hammer Bros costume or Kuribo's Shoe from Super Mario Bros. 3. While all 
 the new powers are a lot fun, they unfortunately don't show up enough in the levels.
  
  Speaking of levels, the design in New Super Mario Bros is absolutely fantastic. All of the levels 
 are brand new -- making this game particularly refreshing from all of those remakes on the Gameboy 
 Advance. Although deep down the levels are not exactly as memorable as the classic games, they 
 make great use of Mario's abilities and completely retain the excitement and fun of the past. Disappointingly, 
 there are a few levels that seem way to short, but it's not like you can just rush throw the levels 
 without thinking. Just like in past games, that's the best way to die. You still have to pace yourself 
 in areas. While the last few level can be a little tough, the game is a lot more forgiving than 
 the older Mario platformers. Less challenge or not, there's as much fun to be had as ever.
  
  The levels are divided up by a board-like over world similar to the one in Super Mario World. 
 So, there are plenty of "fun to find" hidden routes off of the beaten path. Each world - there 
 are eight in total - contains a bunch of levels divided mid-way by a tower, and capped off with 
 a big castle. There is a boss fight in every tower and castle. All of the tower boss fights are 
 basically a square off with Bowser Jr., which almost always come off as way too easy -especially 
 if you have a fire flower. The castle bosses are a little more varied, but are about the same in 
 difficulty. Since all of the boss fights are over before you know it, they're not really that big 
 of a deal.
  
  For the most part, the game looks great. New Super Mario Bros out of the ordinary mix of 2-D and 
 3-D really makes the game a refreshing Mario adventure. Sound wise, its excellent, and sounds 
 crisp playing through the DS's speakers. Also, a fair bit of the great music that is new. Remixes 
 and updates of older tunes are scatted throughout, all sounding terrific. The game preserves the 
 charm of the Mario games with it's audio and visual presentation - from enemies occasionally reacting 
 to the beat of the music to Mario saying a friendly goodbye as you put the system into stand-by 
 mode.
  
  Aside from using the extra horsepower of the DS for a graphics and sound boost, the game does not 
 really take advantage of all of the Nintendo DS's features in the main adventure. If you have played 
 Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow, you know this is not exactly a bad thing -- as more features (specially 
 touch screen) would more than likely interrupt gameplay, rather than enhance it. The top screen 
 is where most all of the action happens. The bottom is merely to show additional stats, your progress 
 in a level, and a selection in the corner you can touch to drop a stored power-up. This division 
 works pretty well to keep the top screen uncluttered.
  
  Experienced Mario veterans can blow through this game in around five hours or less, but there is 
 still a fair bit to do afterwards. As mentioned, there are plenty of hidden routes to discover. 
 Some of these are unlocked by special star coins you find in the levels, so there is plenty of 
 incentive and fun to keep you coming back to complete the game. The game also includes a bunch 
 of the DS feature-enabled mini-games found in Mario 64 DS. This is a fun tack-on if you did not 
 pick up Mario 64 DS. As an aside, I foresee this being a trend in Mario DS games; seeing how all 
 of the Mario remakes and Superstar Saga contained the Mario Bros arcade game. In addition, there 
 is also a two-player mode, which can be a fun little distraction.
  
  Nintendo still has the touch, folks. This is the polished and well-made kind of game we have come 
 to expect from Nintendo. If you're a fan of Mario platformers, do yourself a favor and pick this 
 up. As for the rest who are looking for a great game to help you survive the summer-game-drought, 
 you really can't go wrong with the New Super Mario Bros.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan785768
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  A great game, with great mini-games. A great multi-player to. needs no more stuff. Some levels 
 are easy, some are hard. Thats why I say the level is just right. Its very cool when you get the 
 mega mushroom. A dumb person would give this game a rating to 6.8 or less. I know this has to be 
 a game with high ratings. Soon maybe in a few months, it might even have 500 reviews. Levels just 
 keep getting and harder. Harder is more fun. Easy can be okay. Its not boring at all still.
  
  Gameplay: Great levels
  
  Graphics: Great 3D 
  
  Sound: Not noisy, Not loud
  
  
 Value: Great
  
  Tilt: Great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kman219
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros basically creates the same awesome atmosphere as the original and has a few 
 refinements to it such as the Wall Kick, and the Ground Pound like in Super Mario 64. In addition 
 to new moves, they are new power ups including the Mega Mushroom that turns you huge and destroys 
 anything in sight and the Koopa Shell that makes you turn into a shell and manuver your way through 
 a level inside a shell! They also refined the graphics making it looks like 3D character models 
 and 2D environment. The levels itself are great to. Each level has something unique in it that 
 makes it different from every other level in the game. 
  
  The only downside to this game I guess is the same minigames found in Super Mario 64 DS, you can't 
 save when you want to (only when you unlock new paths with Star Coins and beat castles) and some 
 of the levels are too short. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acecombat154
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a imperfect (near perfect) re-make of the classic. The story is the same... u know bowser 
 or baby bowser kid naps Princess Peach then takes her 2 there little hideout and mario has 2 find 
 her. Also you can control Luigi to but u will have 2 find all that out for yourself =D. Anyway 
 the Graphics are of course well done updated so the same with the effects. The sound is really 
 good and nice 2 hear the classic main there (du du du.. du du du du de du du du dee du du du du 
 du) . The upgraded map is well done touch screen in the main story lacks attention. There are mini-games 
 also, some are very frustrating but fun. PICK UP THIS TITLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo took the classic super mario bros and put it on the DS format and created a really good 
 game. Taking some unique quality from the classic version like the enimes and level formats and 
 adding a more present day look along hence the 3-D and the ground pound makes this game interesting 
 and fun..... its not only good for the people who liked the classics. As far as i know Luigi in 
 the story mode iz a new turn. This also has new items. Giant Mushroom: Demolish everything on screen. 
 Mini mushroom: shrink to fit in small and un-reachable places. I really dont get why people thought 
 Yoshi would be in this game.... super mario bros didnt have it. Instead of going to anothe world 
 you now use the birdz eye view map. There are plenty inovative mini-games from super mario 64 DS. 
 This game iz fairly short. A good thing is in multi-player you only need one DS card so your friend 
 without this can play. When your opponent has a star in mult-player you can attack them and make 
 them drop there star. This is one of the best 2-D side scrollers. i recommend this to mario fans 
 and 2-D side scrolling fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  It started to look like Mario might never shelve the sporting goods and party favors, but his lovely 
 princess friend has gotten herself stolen away yet again. Finally! And what more reason does Mario 
 need to make a valiant return? For that matter, what more reason do any of us need to be excited 
 about it? After all, it was a Mario game of similar premise that sparked video games' proverbial 
 rise from the ashes after the crash of '83, and it's a Mario game today that rekindles the flame 
 of that bygone era. This is a welcome return to form for Nintendos lead mascot, and a sensational 
 2D platformer.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. plays like the original NES adventure, but has much of the exploration and 
 backtracking priority of Super Mario World. There are eight worlds to play in, though two of them 
 can be skipped entirely on the way to the end. That said, it's entirely possible to breeze through 
 and save the princess over the course of a weekend if you want to, but opening up all the hidden 
 levels and secrets -- the real reason to play the game -- requires considerably more time and devotion.
 
  
  Three giant gold coins lie hidden in the nooks and crannies of every level. For the most part, 
 they will basically throw themselves at you, twirling fancy-free in some obvious, accessible location, 
 but other times they can be devilishly tricky to track down. More often than not, bagging the gold 
 boils down to knowing when to use one of Mario's three new powerups, or recognizing inconspicuous 
 areas where wall-jumping or ground-pounding can lead to new areas.
  
  Among the new power-ups is the mini mushroom, a tiny blue spore that shrinks Mario small enough 
 to fit into Luigi's pocket, giving him a drastically longer hang time, access into itty bitty crevices 
 and pipes, and the ability to sprint on water. The mega mushroom temporarily turns him into Mariozilla, 
 who lumbers through areas and snaps warp pipes like matchsticks. And finally, there's the spankin'-new 
 blue koopa suit that lets him glide through levels like a chucked shell, or stroke through underwater 
 levels with heightened speed and agility.
  
  Beyond solving a couple riddles here and there, the new power-ups are too limiting to be truly 
 exciting. There are some tiny pipes Mario can sink into that lead to these cute little labyrinths 
 filled with even cuter wee goombas, but it's rarely worth losing whatever power-up you initially 
 had in order to go mini. The mega mushroom has its obvious benefits, but it's too short-lived and 
 spatially limited to enjoy repeatedly. The blue koopa shell is too unwieldy on land to be of any 
 practical use there. So it's not actually the new power-ups, but the new levels and creative gameplay 
 that vault this title. The essentials are long-established -- throw fireballs, slide on ice, duck 
 down pipes, and so forth -- but they're expanded upon and implemented so well you'd think the genre 
 was born yesterday.
  
  In fairness, there is a chance that the game might adhere to convention a bit too much. The few 
 things that are truly new to this game aren't very compelling on their own, often being reduced 
 and confined to solving puzzles and little more. Also, until you save the princess at least once, 
 the only way to save the game is to spend five coins to open a mushroom house, or by beating ghost 
 houses and dungeons. Thats easy to overcome since the DS will put the game to sleep when you 
 close it, but its still an issue that many players wont be fond of. Every Mario game to date 
 has had its own defining feature, yet New Super Mario Bros. simply doesn't do as much to differentiate 
 itself. As a result, this wonderful trip down memory lane leaves traces of that ever-elusive "something" 
 to be desired.
  
  It would be a shame to miss out on it though, because the game is absolutely brimming with subtleties, 
 and it's the most graphically-nuanced 2D entry in the series. Blending polygonal characters with 
 planar backdrops, the widths and heights of the scrolling backgrounds are painted with rich color 
 and meticulous detail. Thanks to the unstoppably smooth frame rate, everything flows with unprecedented 
 silkiness, with full, round animations that look great even under the toughest scrutiny. Players 
 will enjoy the little touches too, like how patrolling koopas and goombas stutter-step and hop 
 during accented moments in the music, or how Mario always throws fireballs with his left hand regardless 
 of which direction hes facing. It might seem menial to point such things out, but graphical excellence 
 means more than big numbers. The attentiveness to these details exemplifies Nintendos heritage 
 of excellence, and makes New Super Mario Bros. great to look at no matter how many times you see 
 it.
  
  Most of the music in New Super Mario Bros. is unique to the game, but every once in a while, remixed 
 versions of classic melodies surface. Let it be known, the quality of the new concert is worthy 
 of the Mario name in every conceivable way. While mountaineering in the chasms of World 6, a flirty 
 flute and banjo duet plays a lively run alongside a clicky drum beat. Moody doomsday themes flesh 
 out the levels within the volcanic wastelands of World 8, while the familiar Super Mario tune rocks 
 steady in the blue-block underground. The score, as vibrant and unique as the levels themselves, 
 blends in perfectly with the standard array of sound effects, and it never falls short of brilliance.
 
  
  If you could hear this game being played without seeing the screen, you could still instantly identify 
 it as Mario. Like the graphics, the sound effects are excessively detailed, as evidenced by the 
 sound of Mario's feet sounding off individually as they strike the ground. If you close the DS 
 at any time during play, Mario shouts out "buh-bye!" Then when you open it, he reminds you of who 
 he is with "Eetsa mee, Maaahrio!" The trouble is, he even chimes in when you're playing as his 
 Luigi, which makes no sense, and rather spoils the charm of it all. Besides that, and a bit of 
 jarbled, staticky noise that comes in the jet-laden areas in the later levels, the effects are 
 generally as solid and enjoyable as the music.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is a fun, quality title that every DS owner can be proud of. The single-player 
 adventure is the heart of the package, but there are also a handful of touch screen minigames a 
 la Super Mario 64 DS that support up to four-player gaming off of a single card. Then there is 
 the wildly fun, albeit shallow, Mario vs. Luigi mulitplayer component which is like an enhanced 
 version of the card-stealing duel on Super Mario 3. In this game, the brothers race to collect 
 randomly appearing stars on one of six assorted levels, and can attack each other with jumps and 
 power-ups to force the stars out of the other guy's clutches. There's not a whole lot to it, really, 
 but this is still the best single-card shareware available on the DS.
  
  As time marches on and games get bigger and more dynamic, it's refreshing to have a simple, approachable 
 title restate the case for elegance in simplicity. New Super Mario Bros. shines like a beacon even 
 amongst the biggest, best, and brightest games in the history of the hobby. Its not just any blast 
 from the past; its the one weve all been waiting for. And we all scored. Big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coollizy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  When I grew up, Super Mario was my hero. The days and hours I spent traveling across the Mushroom 
 Kingdom with him and his brother through Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros. 3 on the NES, 
 and Super Mario World and Yoshi's Island for the SNES were some of the brightest points of my childhood.
 
  
  Playing through New Super Mario Bros. brings the memories back like a flood. The gameplay is there, 
 and I enjoyed every minute of it.
  
  The graphics and character animation are beautiful. Never before have Mario and Luigi been so expressive 
 in a 2D game (Yoshi's Island doesn't count) thanks to the 3d characters. I really wish that they 
 would have gone all-3D for the levels (so that you would be moving in 2D with a 3D enviroment) , 
 but the tradeoff is likely the huge number of levels in the game. Although many of them are somewhat 
 short, the sheer number of them easily makes up for it.
  
  There are a couple of weak points, however. First is the lack of Yoshi. Granted, this is a personal 
 preference, but I would have liked to have seen him in some role just to fill out the cast. He 
 (and even Wario) could have easily been an alternate player instead of Mario and Luigi -- Same gameplay 
 style, but a different look.
  
  The sound is another matter, though. The sound effects themselves are just fine, but the music 
 doesn't seem to be as good as some of the tracks we've been hearing in Mario's later games like 
 Super Mario 64 and Yoshi's Island. This is made up for, at least in part, by the fact that the 
 enemies are actually dancing to the music. If you watch carefully, you'll notice Koopa Troopas, 
 Goombas, and more hopping and grooving to specific beats. There's nothing like watching a group 
 of them do it at once, and it almost reminds me of a Koopa Troopa chorus line!
  
  One of the biggest problems, however, is the amount of alternate routes that require you to backtrack 
 and find a Mini-Mushroom to get to. Since you can only take one hit as Mini-Mario, these tasks 
 get tedious and annoying very quickly, and they all feel like the same thing. Fortunantly, you 
 only need to worry about these if you're trying to get a 100% (3-star) cleared save.
  
  Finally, and this one is mostly personal preference as well, it would have been nice if some of 
 the alternate routes (and especially the alternate worlds) were a little easier to stumble on. 
 Most of the ones in this game you actually have to be looking for, and have a rough idea of where 
 they are by playing the level through a couple times. I'd really like to see a return of the non-linear 
 style map that was used in Super Mario World.
  
  Overall, however, these flaws are just a drop in the bucket. If you enjoyed the old 2D Super Mario 
 games, then this game is made especially for you. If you can find it on sale somewhere, make a 
 note to pick it up as soon as possible. The experience is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyedunno1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  I turn 27 this year, and like many others my age, my first really vivid memory of console gaming 
 is Super Mario Brothers. Now, nearly 20 years after the U. S. release of that wonderful game, Nintendo 
 has come full circle with the release of New Super Mario Brothers, its new and modern, yet entirely 
 familiar, platform game.
  
  The premise of New Super Mario Brothers ought to be familiar to anyone not living in a monastery 
 in Tibet. The princess has been kidnapped, and it's up to Mario (or Luigi!) to save the day by 
 traversing various worlds and stomping enemies.
  
  But none of this is important of course. What ultimately matters in any Mario game is the gameplay, 
 which is outstanding as usual in this incarnation. Here in Japan, Nintendo has taken to marketing 
 the game to a wide range of consumers with the tagline "A new Mario anyone can play," which is 
 supported by the fact that the game uses only two buttons and the d-pad for all the basic controls 
 (though L & R can move the camera in levels, and the touch screen can select a reserve item, though 
 it would have been nice if this function could also be performed by the select button) .
  
  In spite of the limited button usage, Mario's move list is respectable. Along with the usual walking, 
 running (his running actually ranges in speed from a jog to a sprint this time around depending 
 on how long you run without stopping) , and jumping, Mario can triple-jump (like in Super Mario 
 64) , wall-jump (ditto) , and ground pound (apparently originally featured in Wario Land, which I've 
 only played once, but also in SM64) . With items, his move list grows even more, of course. There's 
 the traditional fire flower and starman, but also this game introduces mega mushrooms (actually 
 seen earlier in SM64DS) , which make Mario huge and capable of trashing most enemies and scenery 
 for a limited time, mini mushrooms, which make him small, lightweight, and capable of fitting into 
 tiny spaces, and blue shells, which, along with making him a faster swimmer, make him capable of 
 ducking into his shell while running in order to kill lines of enemies or to destroy horizontally-placed 
 bricks, or while standing still, in order to protect him from standard attacks.
  
  I also daresay this game is the best in the series in terms of level design. Depending on landscape 
 features, Mario can shimmy, hang, swing on some ropes and cross others hand over hand, climb, helicopter 
 jump, and shoot headfirst from pipes, among other things. The levels take full advantage of all 
 of these abilities. Nearly every level in the game introduces some clever and well-implemented 
 novelty, and there are really very few levels (if any) that seem like repeats of past areas. Every 
 level is a treat, and this alone makes the game worth a purchase.
  
  There is also multiplayer vs. play and minigames (most of which are just slight modifications of 
 the minigames in SM64DS) , but ultimately the one-player quest is the best thing here.
  
  One small problem with the game is how easy it is to get 1-ups and items. In level 1-1 alone, it's 
 possible to get at least seven (maybe even eight) 1-ups (assuming you play your cards right and 
 use a mega mushroom in the right place after collecting all coins and a hidden 1-up) . And since 
 the game allows saving, it's very easy to give yourself a huge advantage early on using savegames. 
 However, I'm not very good at 2D platformers, personally, so I considered this a built-in safeguard 
 against extreme frustration.
  
  Another weakness is replay value. Excepting huge fans of platform games, this game will get really 
 boring really quickly for most people when all coins are collected and spent (I just finished getting 
 everything today, and I expect this game to join my "box o' games I don't touch" within a few weeks) .
 
  
  The music is also nowhere close to the best in the series, and I found this to be the single weakest 
 point of the game. Most of the music is derivative of Koji Kondo's wonderful work in previous games 
 without being as good or as memorable.
  
  On the whole though, this is an outstanding game, and surely almost anybody who gives it a try 
 will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2good2betrue
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  NSMB is a fun new version of the good old "super mario bros." on the nes. Like it, NSMB is a side 
 scrolling game with some old features, but also adding a few new moves from super mario 64 like 
 the "but stomp", triple jump, etc. Their are also a few new power ups like mushrooms that make 
 u huge and take up the whole screen and then you could destroy everything like pipes and blocks 
 and mushrooms that make you small so u could access new pipes you could'nt usually reach. Another 
 fun power up is the koopa shell that lets you become a koopa shell and take out rows apon rows 
 of enemies. 
  
  Gameplay: The game is really short and can be beaten in a car ride from California to Las Vegas, 
 but thats only if you don't try to find the extras. The game has so many extras and new paths that 
 will definately make you keep playing. Some of the levels are very fun to play, and you might find 
 something you did't see before. The game keeps its old school-ness by still only using 2 buttons, 
 run and jump, kepping it classic. However, to me, playing this game straight for a few hours gets 
 boring, so to keep it fun, i play for about 20-30 minutes, rest, and play again. This also helps 
 to not beat the game so fast.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good for a ds game. I like how everything is so 3-D even though 
 it is a side-scroller. Even the worlds screen is 3-D and everything looks beautful to look at. 
 
  
  Sound: The game keeps it's old nes sounds from stomping on goombas to the song the old version 
 makes when you die. Basically if you heard it on the classic, you will hear it here.
  
  Value: The game is very fun to play and has a lot of replayability. Super Mario games have always 
 been great for portables and this one is no different. Boss battles are fun and their is even a 
 bowser battl like the originl to. Any fan of the original will love this game, and anyone who never 
 played it before will love it to.
  
  Thats not to say the game has a few minor and not so horrible problems. The thing i hate is its 
 the same old "rescue peach from bowser jr" thing. Thats what it always is! Also, you can't play 
 as luigi, only in multiplayer. Also, their is a few new mini-games, but most of the mini-game in 
 here are from Super mario 64 ds. I was hoping for some more new and fun mini games. The main problem 
 is how short the game is. Every level can be beaten in about 2 minutes if you don't try to find 
 anything. These prblems are minor and rarely affect te game.
  
  NSMB is a fun new classic game that evryone will enjoy and some levels will kepp you coming back 
 to the game. Every side-scrolling lover will loe this game.
  
  (Sorry for any spelling mistakes, im using a lap top)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otogi87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  its so amazing i would of said best game ever but i have halo so perfect duh anyway i will say 
 great but what happened to the racoon power up seriously but the mega mushroom makes forget about 
 that and the koopa troopa shell thats sexy right there the mini mushroom was aright no one really 
 uses except on water levels when u can run on water but yeah the mega mushroom is fun as hell for 
 real in the first level its in a box so when i got is was so hyped i mean traveling travel big 
 mushoom fire mushroom next box this big ass mushroom i was like hell then u just slam a whole bunch 
 of stuff around and well the rest of game is easy if u have as much time on my hands as i do i 
 beat it in 5 days i would play in between halo2 matchmaking while its looking for players but i 
 mutitask i do that in my videogaming get more done ifs som thing happening in your play your ds 
 yeah there ae 8 world and the 8th pissed me off the most omfg u dont even know the mutiplayer is 
 so hot espiasly the minigames all of em from sm64 ds are mutiplayer balles so sexy for plaayer 
 snowball fight that a new game yeah there are a few new minigames and the battle of luigi. In the 
 game mid way it gets more challenging u get these coins that buy u a new faceplate ant the end 
 of the game but mid game u can use them to save and get items. The boss battle easy its just getting 
 to the boss normally u can take down the boss with some fire balls oh another great new feature 
 is if u a fire bro already and u get another fire flower from a box u can save for wehn u get hit 
 instead of just getting points and that about it great game highly replayable i play it everyday 
 beating the gamr 4 times great game go get it and if dont have a ds get a ds lite better believe 
 i am
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigidey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  - Singing Turtle
  
  NSMB is one of the best DS games out. It has the classic Mario feel that made the Mario series 
 take off, giving it great gameplay. Its graphics are above average for the DS, but not everything 
 that the DS is capable of. The game kept the classics, but added three new items, the mega mushroom, 
 mini mushroom, and the koopa shell. The downfall to these new items, is that you get them very 
 rarley, and the most usful one is the koopa shell wich you get the least. The game is a little 
 too easy, and the unlockables are bad. Unlike the original Mario series, this game lacks some of 
 the replay value. Like all Mario games, this has an easy learning curve, but this one has music 
 that can penatrate your ears, so you should turn off the volume, but, you cant do this because 
 the enimys jump to certant parts of the music, forcing you to listen to the music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emperor26
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. signfies Mario's return to his side-scrolling roots, which has been responsible 
 for the success of the Super Mario Bros. franchise.
  
  As in most Mario games, Mario must save Princess Peach from the clutches of his nemesis Bowser, 
 and along the way, he must travel through many different worlds, as well as overcoming many difficult 
 obstacle courses and a wide range of enemies and bosses. Of course, he'll also rely on well-known 
 items, as well as new ones, such as the Giant Mushroom, which makes the Plumber a (temporary) giant.
 
  
  Despite the genre, New Super Mario Bros., along with a good multiplayer mode and addicting mini-games, 
 has prove that Nintendo's mascot will never step down anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The wait for the next Mario game is finally over, new SMB has finally been released, but, as it 
 turns out, it wasnt as good as I thought it would be. The graphics were great, and the new music 
 was good, but it felt too much the same as Super Mario World 2 felt. If you havent played the 
 old games, youd enjoy this one, but if you have, it isnt as good. The new items were great ideas, 
 but they just werent all that good. As Mini-Mario, you are able to skip worlds if you beat bosses 
 with him, but Mini-Mario stinks. You have to ground pound on your enemies to defeat them, rather 
 than just jumping on them. Plus, you cant automatically save your file. That was my least favorite 
 part about the game. You can only save of you spend coins on unlocking a Toad House or a secret 
 level, or if you beat a fort or a world. The game is very easy too, if youve mastered the Mario 
 platformers. However, some levels are just plain boring, and require too much effort to beat. Collecting 
 the 3 coins in every level was a cool idea, but it just turned out to be boring, and way too difficult 
 at times. The game is very easy if you don't collect the soins in each level, in fact it is so 
 easy, I haven't bothered beating it. One of the things I really enjoyed however, was the multiplayer. 
 Collecting the stars was very fun, even though the levels were very short, and the minigames are 
 fun to play on multiplayer. The levels are fun overall, I guess, and the bosses and enemies look 
 great, but it just wasnt the game I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This is the Mario you all know and love. This 2D Mario game is an excellent DS game for fans of 
 the series, and who isn't a fan. The gameplay is excellent. The graphics are great. The story? 
 Well it's simple and corny. But hey what do you expect from a Mario game? It's got a create single 
 player as well as multiplayer game in it. There's a great amount of value here too as a DS game 
 as there are lots of minigames to play.
  
  The only real complaint i have with the game is the saving in the game. You an only save after 
 a castle is passed, and not old castles, only new ones. This is regressive and i'm not sure what 
 motivated such a decision. Mario World should have been the model here; sadly it isn't. This isn't 
 a minor flaw either, as you cannot simply pick the game up to play one level and save. You need 
 to have enough time to beat an entire level. It depends on when you play your DS, but if you're 
 like me and you often only play for like 20 minutes at a time, then you'll find yourself not advancing 
 in the game, at all.
  I guess one other thing. The single player is a bit on the short side, but that's not too much 
 of a concern. The level design is well varied and so is worth playing through lots. Plus the minigames 
 are tons of fun.
  Other than that, the game is pretty darn good.
  Worth Buying? Heck ya!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a game that wants game players to think nostalgia from it's very beginning, 
 practically from the moment you lay eyes on the box. It's unusual title alone does it's best to 
 suggest that this is a return to the side-scrolling Mario of old, an age where Mario platformers 
 set the standard for both other platformers and for games in general. And, in all honesty, it does 
 play and feel an awful lot like those games did. There are, of course, many changes from those 
 games in this one, making it a new enough experience for anyone who's played the older Mario Bros 
 titles to death and wants something new to be done with the formula. And it's also to it's credit 
 that it doesn't lean too heavily on the nostalgia that it suggests, going light on plot and instead 
 simply throwing stage after stage of pure action at you, the player. Most of the older Mario platformers 
 made references to their predecessors in the way they expanded on the concepts that had been introduced 
 in those games, so this game feeling a little bit like a throwback makes sense anyway.
  
  The game's plot, as mentioned before, is rather thin (much as it was in the original Mario games) . 
 Bowser Jr. kidnaps Princess Peach literally from behind Mario's back. From there, it's up to Mario 
 to chase him down and rescue the Princess. The game's levels are divided up into eight different 
 worlds based on various themes such as a tropical area with lots of water stages and a sky world 
 where Mario will have to be careful not to fall off of the clouds. Two of the stages can actually 
 only be reached through a branching path, so going through every single level actually isn't required 
 to beat the game. However, this game's incredibly tight level design makes playing through all 
 the different stages so much fun that people who really like it will no doubt want to play through 
 every stage at least once.
  
  The big deal about this game is, naturally, how it's a return to the side-scrolling gameplay that 
 made the Mario series such a big success in the first place. Nearly every stage involves taking 
 Mario from left to right, although there are a few exceptions during the castle stages. This actually 
 makes it feel closer to the very first Super Mario Bros than any of the (relatively) newer games. 
 A few new moves have been added from Mario's three-dimensional adventures to make things interesting, 
 such as his wall jump and his triple-jump. Power-ups are mostly limited to things that were seen 
 in the original game, like Fire Flowers and Super Stars. A few new powerups have been added, like 
 a blue Koopa Shell that Mario can wear to slide along the ground like a Koopa Troopa, but it's 
 not nearly as common as any of the others. There's also a Mega Mushroom, which makes Mario incredibly 
 large and able to crush almost anything in his path, and a Mini Mushroom, which makes him incredibly 
 small and able to fit into places a larger Mario wouldn't.
  
  In addition to the main game, there are several mini-games available from the main menu, all of 
 which use the DS touch screen and or microphone in some way. Many of them originally arrived on 
 the DS rerelease of Super Mario 64, so they should be familiar to anyone who played that game. 
 Most of them are fun as a diversion, but they're not the selling point of this title and they certainly 
 aren't the best part. There's also a wireless multiplayer mode for players who want to play a sort 
 of side-scrolling scavenger hunt between Mario and Luigi against another person.
  
  The game's graphics appear to be an attempt to modernize the series' classic look. Mario and many 
 of the enemies look like 3-D polygons instead of the sprites of yore, and most of the characters 
 look like the renderings that you see on the box or in the game's artwork. It's a cool look, although 
 most of the characters don't look completely perfect. There are a few neat little details to the 
 game's visuals though, like how some of the game's enemies move in time with the soundtrack as 
 it plays.
  
  Sound is another highlight. While there are more than a few references to old Mario tunes, there 
 are several new songs that are very well-written and incredibly catchy in their own right. Plenty 
 of voice samples have been added to this game as well, something that has happened to nearly every 
 Mario game since the Game Boy Advance was released. It doesn't seem quite as out-of-place here, 
 since this is a new game and not a remake of a game that had none of these.
  
  No experience with the older 2-D Mario games is necessary to enjoy New Super Mario Bros, as it 
 does a spectacular job of standing on it's own. However, anyone who has played those games will 
 instantly feel comfortable with this one, as it does a spectacular job of picking up where all 
 of them left off. And with the high quality of all the different stages that have been put into 
 this game, it's the sort of title that anyone who enjoys it will want to play though again and 
 again. This game is a must for anyone with a Nintendo DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Surreal-Alias
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright, they did a good job this time!
  
  Gameplay
  Fun mix of old school plus a little new school. The old school style is the best though. Three 
 brand new items, Mega Mushroom, Mini Mushroom, and Koopa Shell which is a cool twist.
  
  Graphics
  Like the Mario in Super Mario 64 DS. Backgrounds are cool.
  
  Sound
  I like that 
 new Mario Remix thingy on the levels.
  
  Value
  Once you get all three stars, if your that determined, their is no other reason to play the game. 
 It was too short in my opinion. I wish they would have maidd a side story or something more to 
 do with the storyline. The constant saving of Peach is getting old...
  
  Tilt
  Good game. Alot like the old mario games. Nintendo should only make Mario RPG and like this one. 
 Overall, Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  In a world of extremely violent, vulgar, and gory games, you have the New Super Mario Bros. A breath 
 of fresh air. But this isn't just a double-screened update of the Mario we've all played. This 
 is all new, but the classic Mario 2D action is as good and addictive as ever.
  
  In New Super Mario Bros. you are tasked with *gasp!* rescuing the Princess from Bowser and his 
 minions. The story is really non-existant besides that and all you do is go from start to the end 
 of a level and jump on the flagpole at the end. But there are three star coins in every level that 
 are spent on toad huts where you can save your game and get a powerup or a 1-up or something.
 
  
  The platforming gameplay is good as ever. You'll do your classic koopa stomping, secret seeking 
 Mario stuff as you progress through the game. But Mario has some new moves and poweups that you'll 
 probably miss if you play an older Mario Bros. game. For example (as the U. S. boxart implies) , 
 you have Mega Mario where you're huge and can just stomp everything, and the Mini Mario where you 
 can jump higher and fit into little passageways. There is no flying power anymore unfortanately.
 
  
  What's both bad and good is that the DS's special abilities (beyond 3D rendering) aren't used. 
 All you use a stylus for is stored powerups and you only use the microphone in minigames.
  
  Speaking of minigames, the minigames, which can be played alone or with up to four players 
 (with only one copy of the game) , are mostly recycled from SMB64DS *cough read my review cough*, 
 but are fun in multiplayer. But what is fun is Luigi Poker. Seriously. There is also a Mario vs. 
 Luigi mode where two people battle on a looped map looking for stars. It can be very hectic to 
 say the least.
  
  While the game is strictly 2D, the game renders the characters and some environtmental things in 
 3D. The game looks very good and the 3D capabilities open up different gameplay possibilities. 
 The little added effects like splashing water and heatwaves do a lot to add to the presentation.
 
  
  The sound is great too. There's classic-like songs, funny little sound effects, and more importantly, 
 "THAT'S-A SO NICE!". A nice easter-egg is that if you finish a stage with all the digits of the 
 time remaining the same (11, 22, 33, 66, 111, 333, etc.) you get the classic Mario 'you win' song 
 and fireworks.
  
  If you are a perfectionist you'll spend a good chunk of time on NSMB finding all the star coins 
 and secret levels.
  
  And if you own a DS you should give this one a look. It's nostalgic fun without being a cheap Nintendo 
 cash-in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  I know the first thing your thinking is what is this guy crazy everyone else loves the new super 
 Mario bro's why does this guy hate it? Well to be honest I thought that about another review because 
 I noticed that everyone loved the game. But as you get into the game you realize there is nothing 
 new or innovative about the game except for a few new mushrooms and stuff ( don't worry though because 
 they took out allot of the old ones so your not gaining anything great.) Also if you have played 
 the past Mario games such as Mario 3 or super Mario you remember all the little secrets and all 
 the cool features. such as: in Mario 3 you had the item inventory the unique level design, plus 
 all the cool bosses and such. In super Mario you had yoshi, the secret blocks, star and special 
 world, bosses, and one awesome and long game. With this game you get none of that it is classic 
 Mario 1 game play with a few twists. you may still be saying to yourself well I still love Mario 
 1 so I will like this.... Well sure if you don't mind the incredible easy game play. I have always 
 found the Mario games to be easy but this is ridiculous I died about 4 times in the whole game 
 and had like 60 lifes left (but could have had way more if I went into the 1 up store thing) The 
 last reason why I disliked this game is the level design wasn't nearly as appealing as the originals. 
 It is ok for a normal side scroller but falls way short of Mario standards. now to sum up this 
 review...
  
  Pros: Excellent sound, and cool graphics, great mini games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Welcome back, Mario. We missed you.
  
  It feels like an old-school Mario game; tight control and great level design; tons of hidden secrets 
 to discover; the two-player mode is a fun bonus.
  
  Don't be fooled by the 3D character models. The polygonal characters are simply a way to allow 
 more animation without having to draw a butt load of sprites. The backgrounds and game play are 
 purely 2D, and the 2D and 3D elements blend together perfectly.
  The game puts you in control of Mario, who has to run the right, shoot fireballs, and jump on enemies 
 in order to save his beloved Princess Peach from the evil clutches of Bowser, king of the Koopas. 
 So if youve somehow never played a Mario game, thats all you need to know about the story. It 
 is enough to keep you in the game, but the real reason to play the game is because of all its Mario-style 
 platforming goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crybabylover
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game if your a Super Mario Bros. classic lover. This game brings you more new 
 items to win your way throughout the game. There are two new items called a mega-mushroom and a 
 mini-mushroom. Also, you can play as Luigi if you hold on to L and R while selecting a file.
  
  
  There's more!
  
  If you finish a stage with a time of 11,22,33,44,55,66,77,88,99 and 
 so on, you will hear the classic music when you win a stage. You can see more on cheat codes and 
 secrets. Anyway, it's much easier than the first game, and if your not a fan of easy games, DO 
 NOT GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcE-Fu-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  So this is the new Super Mario Bros. and it is just like any other with some new added features. 
 The new features are the the BIG mushroom, the small mushroom, and the turtle shell. The big mushroom 
 turns you into a relly big mario. Nothing can get in you're way and there is a bar on the top of 
 the screen that basicly says the more things you destroy the more lives i give you. But don't be 
 fooled the ditches in the ground will kill you so don't fall off the ledge. Now to the small mushroom 
 makes you really small and it's a good thing... When you are small you can jump to levels where 
 the regular marion cannot. Also the small marion can go to spiecial places and pipes. Yes there 
 are small pipes only where the small mario can go. then the Turtle shell its just like a regular 
 kupa shell but you controle it and you can't stop it. This shell can break bricks kill bad guys 
 and if you hit a wall you bounce right back. these Items are somewhat helpful in the game. well 
 enough about the Items lets talk about the game. The game is somewhat easy but there can be some 
 really hard levels out there that can get you fustrated but after a few tries you will get it. 
 Also in the game you can hold a spare item just amagin you needed a mushroom and you lost all of 
 them but you got your spare one you touch the touch screen then it drops from the sky and there 
 you go. gameplay is just like any other classic mario game you only need two buttons run/shoot 
 fireballs and jump. but this game is a game that can be forgotin but it can also be addincting. 
 but no to the negetives... this game is WAY to short I could beat it in 1 or 2 days so i suggest 
 that you just borrow it because $35 is a waste for a game that is short and kinda easy... but if 
 you're a die hard mario fan buy it. but other then that this game is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Bowser Jr. has captured Princess Peach and Mario has taken it upon himself to rescue her. Delivered 
 by this utterly imaginative concept players are given a proper Mario side-scroller for the first 
 time in too many years. New Super Mario Bros. for the DS is exceedingly akin to the fantastic classic 
 Mario side-scrollers of yesteryear, but is infused with just enough new life to disprove the notion 
 that this is simply a cash-in. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros. splashes energetic paint all over the existing design, updating just about 
 every feature without spoiling what made the classic side-scrollers so fun to begin with. Youll 
 still find the plump mustached plumber we all know and love running across the screen in his desperate 
 attempt to reach the Princess only for his dastardly villain to escape yet again. New Super Mario 
 Bros. introduces some of the Mario 64 gameplay elements into the side-scrolling formula with successful 
 results. You can wall-jump and butt-stomp enemies into the dirt, adding a couple more layers of 
 strategy to the game. 
  
  The level-design, just as in the old Mario games, is the real star of the show. The levels are 
 kept fresh from start to finish, with eight unique worlds continuingly presenting new challenges. 
 Each level has three special golden coins hidden throughout, and typically youll need to play 
 through the level multiple times taking different routes to find all three. If you succeed at collecting 
 these coins the results range from a new path opening to one of the many mushroom item or 1-up 
 houses, or possibly a path with alternate levels. This adds some replay value on top of the already 
 excellent replayability that comes customary with any Mario side-scroller. Youll not only want 
 to go back and play the same levels again because of their inherent fun-factor but you can now 
 strive to find every last golden coin as well. 
  
  Youll generally find yourself playing New Super Mario Bros. just as you would any of the old Mario 
 side-scrollers. Many of the classic power-ups make their triumphant return along side a few new 
 additions. Youll find your mushrooms and fire-flowers, but youll also find a special blue-shell-suit, 
 jumbo mushroom, and mini mushroom. These power-ups allow you to slide along taking out enemies 
 as you go, turn into a super-sized version of Mario who simply plows through all obstacles, and 
 turn super-tiny allowing you to fit into normally unreachable places, respectably. These new power-ups 
 are used sparingly as so not to imbalance the gameplay too much. 
  
  The boss fights at the end of each castle are fairly similar throughout the adventure, but each 
 one is consequently infused with a new element as you progress. Just as in the old Mario games 
 the boss fights themselves arent that difficult, its the actual act of getting to the end of 
 the level with power-ups that can be the tough part. You can stockpile one power-up with you, and 
 release it by tapping the bottom right corner of the touch-screen with your thumb. This can be 
 especially helpful against the bosses, too helpful even. The game is awfully easy, aside from a 
 few of the final levels in world 8. There are some new enemies that will keep you on your toes 
 throughout, and some tricky situations that will require a small degree of skill, but for the most 
 part the game is effortless. Much more importantly however, the game is fun. And you wont want 
 to put it down until youve finished. 
  
  The game should last you about 4-5 hours your first time through, taking into account the probability 
 that you bypassed two worlds and didnt collect every golden coin. The length of the game really 
 doesnt make that much of a difference, since youll want to go back and play through most of the 
 levels again. In retrospect, a lot of the levels are surprisingly short on their own. But fortunately 
 it keeps with the brisk pace of the game as you progress from one level to the next not wanting 
 to switch off your DS. The game has a hefty nostalgic factor going for it; primarily because its 
 a classic-based Mario side-scroller, but also because of the familiar tunes youll hear throughout. 
 The music remixes many old and familiar tunes, and is one of the games strongest ingredients. The 
 sound-effects are also excellent, just as youd expect. 
  
  The presentation of New Super Mario Bros is brilliant in every way. The Mario art-style is brought 
 to life like never before by the vibrant and rich colors. The most interesting and eye-catching 
 technique used in New Super Mario Bros. is the combination of 2d backdrops and 3d character models. 
 Nintendo couldnt have made a better looking Mario game, and the 3d models drive home the fact 
 that this is indeed a New Mario Bros. game, and not just a cash-in. The duel screens come in 
 handy for the item-storage element, and when Mario sinks down a pipe to lower regions the action 
 trips to the bottom screen. 
  
  There is a mess of touch-screen inspired mini-games to experiment with as well, and some of them 
 are unexpectedly enjoyablebut wont keep you occupied for long. The real meat-and-potatoes is 
 the single player adventure and youll discover the craving to revisit many of the levels again. 
 New Super Mario Bros. is not just a wonderful trip down memory-lane considering its still the 
 same prescription that we all love, but it actually goes out of its way to instill some new life 
 into the Mario side-scroller. New Super Mario Bros. is a game that stands on its own two feet and 
 provides a fiercely pleasurable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csadhoo
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  A Mario game has been released and it's not a sports game! I don't know where to start with this 
 game. It is just a perfect platformer for the Nintendo DS. It has evrything an old-school Mario 
 fan ever wants but with a modern twist. One of the most anticipated DS games and it was a huge 
 hit! I has good replay value to get all of the secrets and multiplayer! The good thing is you don't 
 fight the same boss over and over again. You fight new ones! This game is a must have for your 
 Nintendo DS library. Nintendo should keep up the good work wih their new games that surprise many 
 people around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerpaul21
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Really revuvinates the old game. I had and am having so much fun playing this game. THe levels 
 are not extremly difficult but have a ton of replay value. There is just somthing about a plumber 
 growing huge and destoying everything in his path that brings joy to your little heart. The save 
 system is a little annoying but sleep mode works pretty well. The Boss fights are fun and unlocking 
 the extra worlds is as easy as ground pounding on the boss in the world before as micro-Mario. 
 You just can't put this game down. All in all this is an essential for any DS owner, and would 
 be a good reason just to get a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omochao
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best Mario games I ever played! While I did complete the game in 
 3 days, I can't stop playing it. If you liked the other Super Mario Bros. games, you'll like this 
 one! Out of every game I've played for the DS, this one is the most addicting! Get the Player's 
 Guide too for US$15. It will help you with the later levels and getting star coins to remove the 
 wooden signs blocking certain level entrances. Plus if you clear all those signs, you can get something 
 special at a Blue Toad House, which looks like the red ones, only it's blue.
  
  BUY NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  When I played hte original Super Mario Bros., I fell in love with it. But this game has sooooo 
 much more to offer then the orignal game. The new features are just out of this world. The Mega 
 and Mini mushrooms are great new additions to the game. The Blue Shell was neat also. I think the 
 graphics in the game stunned everyone. They were just amazing. I always thought it looked 3D to 
 me, but people say I'm wrong. I think that you should be able to alter between Mario and Luigi 
 without using the cheat to do it. That was the only flaw I saw in the game though. If you just 
 loved any Mario Bros. games, you will be glued to this game guarenteed. I just love it too much 
 to do homework. I would also recommend it to any DS owners. This is a totally great expeirence 
 for people who haven't tried Mario games (a. k. a. no one :P) . Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyp45
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  NEW Super Mario Bros. isnt a bad game at all. It's fun easy to learn the curve. The missons arent 
 all that hard. The game does stick to you and you'll see your self wanting to play it more and 
 more it is addicting. The graphics are amazing. One of the best I've seen on DS yet. The value 
 isnt bad at all i got it for around 36$ and change, which isnt bad for this addicting version of 
 Mario Bros. Overall view, I'm going to say buy it, its fun, addicting, great graphics considering 
 its on DS hand held system, and its not too expansive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerox0409
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 30, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  It's going to make Old-school gamers cry tears of joy to relive the golden days of Mario & Luigi's 
 proverbial console childhood,
  It also brings some new stuff to old-school Mario, using the minigame feature allows gamers to 
 shame their friends in a rather wide array of wacky competitive minigames, this along with the 
 ability to have a one-on-one face-off 
  against friends and family will keep the fun coming for a long time, the story is as it was all 
 those years ago, Princess Peach is kidnapped, Mario rushes off to save her and must run through 
 revamped Mario World levels in order to save her,
  Along the way you discover secret areas and passageways as well as new items to the Mario world 
 (I'll let you see them yourself, more fun that way) .
  
  As for you Luigi fans that are angry that you are not allowed to select him at the start of the 
 game will be happy to hear that you can unlock him after meeting certain criteria.
  
  A must have for anyone, definitely worth getting a DS for if you're in the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brockpeterson1
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome its worth buying I love old school Mario games but the only thing I did not 
 in joy about this game is its a little to short all 8 worlds have less places to play on the last 
 Mario bros games has worlds packed with other places but thats only the part i did not like the 
 rest of the game is way superb I loved it whats new is you can get as giant mushroon turning you 
 giant size and you get a tiny mushroom turn you tiny size also you can get a blue koopa shell turning 
 you into koopa my favorite is the giant mushroon ( you can also get a fire flower which has not 
 changed ) once you get the giant mushroom you can destroy about any thing. If you look forward 
 to buying an Mario game new super Mario bros is the best Mario game and super mario 64 ds of course. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  First, if you remember the good ole' days over Super Nintendo Mario then stop reading and go buy 
 this game now. For the rest of you, hopefully you'll get something out of my review.
  
  Gameplay- Awesome. This is a standard 2-D platformer so you'll know what to expect there. My only 
 problem with the gameplay is the controls could have been tightend up slightly. Still, it shouldn't 
 take you much longer than a few minutes to get used to them. 
  
  Graphics: Great graphics, the really have used the DS too it's full potential graphically. Also, 
 there's no framerate problems either. 
  
  Sound: It's the typical Mario soundtrack, lots of unusual sounding sounds but some of the tracks 
 sound good.
  
  As for sound effects, they're godo themselves. But they still sound the same as the effects from 
 the 90's. 
  
  Value: this is a very popular game right now, so I'm giving it a high score there.
  
  Tilt/opinion: 
 I loved this game, it really feels like the Super Mario Bros/Super mario World games of the late 
 80's early 90's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AManCalledDan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the best mario games ever i was so exceited when i picked it up and started 
 playing it. 
  
  the gameplay was okay but the levels needed to be longer and alot harder i was dissapointed in 
 that. challenge is what makes a mario game fun.
  
  graphics were perfect i could barely see the pixels and the color was amazing. it looked better 
 than most psp games. definelty a big factor in this game.
  
  Sound was almost like it was real. it sounded realistic and very new not old. another good part 
 of this game.
  
  value it had some depth but i beat it pretty easily but some parts were really hard and fustrating 
 thats why its just right on the difficulty. it was worth the money for this game.
  
  the tilt was good i got used to the game quickly and the jumping that's weird in the beginning 
 fits right into the game now. 
  
  you should buy this game it is defineltly worth it complettely. just go to your nearest store and 
 get it . thanks for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I purchased New Super Mario Brothers for the sole purpose of having a game that was simple and 
 provided a good way to kill time between classes. To put it simply, New Super Mario Brothers has 
 met my expectations and has even surpassed them in some respects. 
  
  For those of you who have been hiding under a rock for the last 20 years, New Super Mario brothers 
 is an extension of a long tradition of the Mario Brothers Franchise from Nintendo. Most would agree 
 that the franchise is responsible for bringing the game to the mainstream and popularizing the 
 home video console. 
  
  The Mario Brothers Series has always been a platforming series and started out as a two dimensional 
 game. Super Mario Bros 1-3 set a standard for platforming in the 80's in early 90's and helped 
 Nintendo become the leader of the gaming industry with consistently intriguing yet simple gameplay. 
 Super Mario 64 took the series to a new level with a truly 3D environment and some consider this 
 game to be the best platforming game ever. Moving forward, Mario was met with less critical acclaim 
 and even less fan acclaim with the addition of "Super Mario Sunshine." The game was fun but most 
 would agree that it lacked that special something that gave the Mario Bros. series is lasting appeal.
 
  
  New Super Mario Brothers is Nintendo's attempt to bring back that "old school" tradition of simple, 
 yet entertaining gameplay and Nintendo was right on the Mark. New Super Mario Brothers for the 
 Nintendo DS is quite simply the best game for Nintendo's new handheld and if there wasn't reason 
 before, their is certainly reason to go go out and pick one up now. 
  
  The core gameplay in New Super Mario Brothers draws upon it's earliest predecessors. The basic 
 gameplay is sidescrolling from left to right with an emphasis on jumping. In addition to this basic 
 gameplay we find that Mario has special abilities that come with picking up certain power ups. 
 The classic "Fire Mario" is back as well as the de-facto standard "Super Mario." New elements have 
 been added to keep the game fresh. Mario can now grow as large as life and casually stroll along 
 the screen and destroy, quite literally, everything on the screen. Another addition would be the 
 inclusion of Mini-mario. Mini-Mario seems to float across the screen in a manner that would be 
 somewhere between the "floating" Princess Peach from Super Mario Brothers 2 and the "Long Jumping" 
 Luigi from the same title. Mario can also pick up a turtle shell power up which allows him to slide 
 into opponents as well as retreat into his shell for protection. 
  
  Nintendo has implemented the old elements of gameplay and the new elements with great precision 
 and any veteran of the series will note a feeling of nostalgia while playing Super Mario Brothers 
 and still get excited about the new elements that Nintendo has brought to the table. The Sound 
 has recieved a complete overhaul and works quite well within the environment of New Super Mario 
 with several references to older games in the series. On the Graphics side of things, the side 
 scrolling Mario has become polygonal. The graphics in the game are more than sufficient for the 
 type of game that New SMB is and are a well done upgrade of the graphics from the earliest Super 
 Mario Brothers games.
  
  New Super Mario Brothers has only one downfall and that is that some of the levels feel a little 
 short. The game can easily be beaten within 4 or 5 hours of gameplay with a few hours of gameplay 
 that can be added through the various secrets that Nintendo has implemented into the game. I believe 
 that this is minor and Nintendo has certainly created a quality game with quite a bit of game for 
 the money however, as with all good things, we just want more. I think Nintendo can bring the New 
 Super Mario Brothers franchise to a powerhouse level in the gaming industry by simply making the 
 levels and game longer. 
  
  In Conclusion, if you have a Nintendo DS, this is easily the best game for the for the Nintendo 
 DS and arguably one of the best games to come out in years. If you do not have a Nintendo DS now 
 is a good time to think about getting one. New Super Mario Brothers is quite possibly the perfect 
 example of what "portable gaming" should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game to come out for months. And then, when it finally did, I couldn't 
 wait to start playing it. It's amazing. 
  
  To start off, I want to say that if you're looking for another SMW or YI, this isn't it. Sure, 
 there are plenty of secrets, but it's not the same. The controls, however, are reminiscent of the 
 SNES games. Unlike in SM64DS, Mario actually does what you want him to. 
  
  As for graphics and sound, both are great. The blending of 2D backgrounds and 3D characters is 
 flawless. Everything looks amazing. The music in the game is catchy, and it's fun to watch the 
 enemies jump or spin when certain sounds play. 
  
  The level design is the game's forte. While some levels seem a bit short, overall they are long 
 and challenging enough. One thing to note is that it is practically impossible to get a game over. 
 There are so many opportunities to gain 1ups, it's ridiculous. This doesn't make the game easy 
 persay, as once I got halfway through the game, I was definitely losing lots of lives. This is 
 particularly true when you go back to complete the game 100%. 
  
  This game is great not only because it's new Mario platforming, but also because of the innovation 
 and diversity that appears throughout. Things you never thought possible in a Mario game or things 
 you'd never expect in a Mario game appear in this game. Personally, that made the game that much 
 more entertaining because I never knew what I'd see or experience next. 
  
  In closing, I highly reccommend this game to any Mario fan or DS owner. You'd be missing out on 
 some solid fun if you missed this one.
  
  P. S. The new multiplayer minigames rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Wall_PG
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  It is known for a fact that combining several elements from previous successful games is risky 
 business. It can either turn awfully good... or awfully bad. New Super Mario Bros. which is an hybrid 
 of sorts that combines classic elements from Super Mario Bros. , exploration elements from Yoshi's 
 Island as well as much of the gameplay and premise from Super Mario World, conveys the general 
 feeling we've come to expect from that same series. However, the seamless inclusion of all these 
 elements does not imply that the game is great, rather, it's just a little less than great.
  
  Of course, up to this date, NSMB has been getting rave reviews from the whole gaming which 
 doesn't mean the game's shortcomings haven't been pointed out. Indeed, some are put off by the 
 easiness of the game or by the nostalgic feeling that oozes from it. There is something that everyone 
 can agree about though : the whole package is short and the incentive to do it all over isn't what 
 it's been in past Mario side-scrollers.
  
  Mostly, if you get 100% completion on your first playthrough, you'll be satisfied wih yourself 
 but the fact is that it doesn't come even close to what completing Super Mario World or Yoshi's 
 Island felt like. Make no mistake, you will have to work hard on occasions to get that extra star 
 coin from a level but that isn't the source of the problem. The fact is, the levels, if you disregard 
 the collectibles, are extremely easy to breeze through. Evidently, I don't expect everyone to agree 
 on this one since I admittedly am a platform game freak, but the general consensus draws the same 
 conclusions as myself.
  
  Having played most of the Mario games, I easily understood the references made in the game but 
 that isn't the matter. Those references may be understandable for everyone but it is a distinct 
 possibility they will, after a while, sicken the gamers who aren't such big Nintendo or Mario fans. 
 Namely, the time limit set in each level had even me, a prototype Nintendo fanboy, cringing. I 
 often wondered about the necessity of that time limit in a game which often puts its focus on exploration. 
 As I said earlier though, if you are just content with tearing through the levels at full speed, 
 you'll have absolutely no problem with the aforementioned time limit. 
  
  Of course, between the plethora of references made in the game, there is one who I believe is just 
 perfectly in place and that is the secret classic song from Super Mario Bros. Let's just say I 
 didn't hate the time limit quite as much when I heard that song at the end of a level. (*wink* 
 matching last two digits *wink*)
  
  You may have noticed I have only mentioned the shortcomings of the game up to this point. That 
 is very simply because its qualities are easier to decipher and appreciate than its shortcomings 
 and I believe potential haters of the game must be warned of what might fuel their hatred toward 
 this remarkably constructed game. To sum up, it's better to know firsthand if a certain element 
 that you cannot stand in a game is indeed included in that same game... but I digress.
  
  It is not a secret that the main force of the Mario games in the past has been the gameplay and 
 I'm happy to report that the same can be said about NSMB. The various powerups all work fine although 
 there have been some mostly unfounded complaints about shell Mario (it does require some practice 
 though) . The classic Mario moves are all back and new ones from the 3D era have been included as 
 well. I was especially blown away when I tried the classic  
 move by instinct, when I was stuck, just to witness it working just as fine as it used to. Overall, 
 the controls are a joy.
  
  The graphics, for their part, fit the billing quite well by incorporating a bit of 3D to the classic 
 side-scroller look. The levels are colourful as are the enemies. The whole package just turns out 
 to be beautiful. You will not be blown away by the realism of the graphics especially if you own 
 a Sony PSP but you weren't meant to be blown away by the technical aspect anyway.
  
  As you may expect, the sound is near-perfect even though there are some annoying and repetitive 
 tracks in the game. You never spend enough time in a level to get tired of its theme song though, 
 which pretty much solves the issue.
  
  In conclusion, NSMB comes up as a successful hybrid of many Mario games, but it could have been 
 better. You can almost feel how close it is to striking the spot which would make it legendary 
 but, ultimately, it doesn't. That still leaves us with a pretty darn good game anyway. Obviously, 
 the game is easy to recommend to any Mario fan or anyone willing to discover what makes Mario games 
 a sure hit among the gaming community. You will not be blown away... but you'll still unquestionably 
 have a heck of a good time with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  There is one particular thought that you should dismiss from your mind before reading a review 
 or perhaps even going out to purchase this game. And that is, do not expect this to be along the 
 same monumental line as Super Mario 64, Super Mario World, or even the first game Mario appeared 
 on for that matter. Think of Marios latest venture as more of an anthology of sorts; an assemblage 
 of positive features from his best games, spanning over the last twenty years. A nostalgic trip 
 down memory lane has definitely been one of the main incentives to purchase a DS and the same applies 
 for the latest in the long line of Marios platform-based adventures. With new and old elements 
 alike, some good and bad, New Super Mario Bros. is yet another reason to purchase the dual screen 
 handheld -- that is of course if you havent already.
  
  Now the first thing noticeably different about New Super Mario Bros. is the graphical presentation. 
 Mario is now sporting a three-dimensional image, first seen on the Nintendo 64. What of course 
 hasnt really changed is the reason why he is frantically running across the world as if something 
 is terribly wrong. Once again, the Princess has been abducted, this time however by Bowser Jr, 
 who has apparently become his fathers errand boy within the last few games. Over the course of 
 eight worlds, two of which secret, you will travel over a relatively large map, knocking out stage 
 after stage in the hope of retrieving the Princess yet again. And sorry Super Mario World fans, 
 none of Bowsers other kids are in this one unfortunately.
  
  If you are familiar with the traditional controls then the learning curve of this game will not 
 be a problem. Using certain buttons in conjunction with the D-Pad will allow you to pull off dashes 
 and hops, as well as acrobatic feats, such as: triple jumps, ground pounds, and wall kicks. The 
 latter being quite useful in later areas when you have to make quick escapes, especially in the 
 screen scrolling stages. Another thing to note is that the touch screen is somewhat limited in 
 use, providing just an overview of the world and a mini-map of your present location.
  
  Nevertheless, what has always made these types of games fun is the atmospheric diversity apparent 
 in said worlds. As you hop from land to land (by way of a Super Mario Bros. 3 style map system) , 
 youll cross valleys and deserts, climb up piranha vines to the clouds, and swim through underground 
 caverns, all the while avoiding carnivorous eels and fish. Nearly every stage shows off something 
 new but at the same time brings back some nostalgic moments, especially if you have followed the 
 series for quite some time.
  
  You probably wouldnt even think of buying this game if you havent right? I mean who could forget 
 putting on the tanooki suit for the first time in the third or finally beating the difficulty scaling 
 masterpiece that was Star Road. New Super Mario Bros. brings to the table some interesting additions 
 of its own, one of which being the power-ups. Ranging from absolutely mandatory to merely conventional, 
 the mega mushroom, mini mushroom, and blue shell encompass the titles primary tools; helping you 
 thrash koopas and solve the trickiest puzzles with less effort than normal. For example, the mega 
 mushroom puts you in an invincible state, letting you run through the area with no cause for concern. 
 While this is happening, enemies are getting trounced, pipes are unearthed, and blocks are crumbled, 
 all in the wake of your massive size.
  
  Regular mushrooms, 1-up mushrooms, super stars, and the ever prevalent fire flower also make their 
 return, giving platform perfectionists quite the arsenal. And while some of these additions make 
 the game more exciting, there are others that bring along a detrimental tedium. A tedium that presents 
 itself in the form of collectible star coins.
  
  Perhaps too many collectibles have always been a problem in most adventure games, especially when 
 they add so little to the game. Just thinking of the blue coin system from Super Mario Sunshine 
 makes me cringe. Though not quite as horrendous, the three coin system prevalent throughout each 
 stage is really more of a distraction, if anything. Heres how it breaks down: in each stage you 
 will find three coins which act as your main currency. Hidden in less than obvious locations throughout 
 your progression, you will have to take the time out to find these tokens or even risk certain 
 doom to grab them. And the reward for your hard work? Nothing more than being able to access mushroom 
 houses, which allow you to purchase a random power-up.
  
  Strangely enough, the coins also tie into the frustrating saving system. Meaning that opening these 
 mostly pointless areas act as one of the few ways to save your progress. This becomes aggravating 
 in later levels, especially if you have to quit early, but find that you have either opened too 
 many houses or dont have enough coins. And lets not forget the dreaded scenario of the battery 
 running out at the wrong time.
  
  Ouch.
  
  Then again, maybe you are the type that likes to collect every trinket and trophy, all in the hope 
 of earning that perfect score. That natural urge to grab something within reach is just sometimes 
 too strong to withstand, I know. If that is the case then there is little cause for concern, but 
 just remember if you ever find yourself pulling out your hair that most of it is avoidable. Most 
 of it.
  
  What was also disappointing was the absence of a familiar face or two that some of us have come 
 to expect to see. Yoshi, for example, fails to show up and wouldve been an interesting addition 
 (not the vomiting Yoshi, of course, but the normal one.) A flying mission or two with him for old 
 times sake wouldve been interesting, as would have been being able to brawl with Wario in a traditional 
 man to man showdown. Then again, maybe I am being a bit too picky. I am glad that Luigi was able 
 to make an appearance and with it, he brings along the introduction to the fun co-operative feature. 
 With this addition, you and a friend (or enemy) can simultaneously play through stages at the same 
 time, tag teaming enemies, challenges, and bosses alike.
  
  Speaking of which, the game scales at a relatively balanced state, providing an adequate challenge 
 as you travel from place to place. Boss fights are continually engaging and later confrontations 
 even require some thought and several lives to beat. However, if youve heard some complaints of 
 how the game is too easy, then I'd have to say the early-bird critics are somewhat correct. Lives 
 are easy to come by, especially if you collect most of the star coins. Ive even heard that the 
 99-life trick exists in the game, so if you discover its location, use it at your own risk. Nevertheless, 
 what helps sustain the replay value throughout is the fact that all worlds are replay-able, even 
 after they have been completely beaten. This surprisingly including: regular stages, mini-battles, 
 and fights with the final bosses themselves.
  
  Also heightening the reason to keep playing is the addition of mini-games that were first seen 
 on Super Mario 64 DS. Knowing that this is a hand-held game, Nintendo would have been crazy to 
 not throw some time passing challenges on here for the road. Some you will notice, some you wont. 
 Whether it is whacking moles on the head, blowing into the microphone to keep Yoshi afloat, or 
 playing Wheres Waldo Nintendo style, there is plenty to keep you and your friends occupied for 
 hours upon hours.
  
  None of that would be possible though if you didnt have some catchy music to play to right? Well, 
 New Super Mario Bros. delivers on that front as well, providing several enjoyable tunes, both traditional 
 and new. A few familiar themes are remixed, but most of the game features a fresh soundtrack. A 
 soundtrack that is mostly upbeat with the exception of the mellow pace featured in the various 
 water locations. Mario and Luigi also churn out some new voice samples as you pull the flag down 
 to the bottom, following the completion of each stage.
  
  Thats a-so nice indeed.
  
  What helps New Super Mario Bros. succeed is the sense of balance that it finds. Though it doesnt 
 do anything groundbreaking, it manages to create an adventure that brings back some old memories 
 and helps create new ones. With fantastic game-play mechanics, satisfying length, and plenty of 
 extra features, the latest work from Nintendo succeeds on several important levels. The inability 
 to save wherever you want is frustrating though, as is the lackluster use of the touch screen. 
 But at the end of the day, the positives clearly exceed the negatives, and the result is what we 
 can normally expect from a Mario game.
  
  Quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboyadvancex
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I am always excited to see a new "Mario" games. I was counting the days until "New Super Mario 
 Bros." was released, which seemed like forever! There is a unique twist to this "Mario" title. 
 I really enjoy the Boss battles. Am glad to see Nintendo throw in some Great Boss-es into this 
 title. It's a great game that isn't hard to pick up on. The whole Game is so Brilliant! This takes 
 "Mario" one more step ahead! I like the 3-D "Mario" games, but I am glad to see him back in the 
 place that started the famous plumber! Hopefully, we will see more of "Mario" in his glory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepy_Kid
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Remeber good ol' Super Mario Bros. The Game on Nes Changed how we looked at games. The New Super 
 Mario Bros Basically that same game except on steriods and heroin. Added With 2D and 3D graphics, 
 Multi player, Mini Games. But the best part of course is The Single player. The plot line is simple 
 Mario saving peach from baby bowser. But of course lets not forget the Green machine himself Luigi. 
 you Can play as him of course. You have to use cheat to use him. Its not very hard. The Game play 
 is very much re-playable. I enjoyed founding how to unluck some of the bonus levels. It took that 
 aspect form Super Mario World. I like the New Mega Super Mushroom. I like Killing everything in 
 Site and being big. If only lasted longer. The mini Mushroom wasn't a bad addition. The Mini games 
 were the same as the mini games in Super Mario 64 ds. I wanted to see new ones. The Music sounded 
 like Super Mario 64 Style which is pretty cool. This Game took a little from every Mario Game. 
 This Game Reminded me of Sonic Rush a lot in a way, but I thought this was extremely better and 
 longer. I can play this over and over again like past Super Mario Bros games except for Super Mario 
 Bros 2. But i will for give nintendo for that game. I say they you should you fellow ds players 
 to go pick up a copy of this at your local Video Game Establishment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  All i expected from the New Super MArio Bros. game for DS was a classic vist to the mario world, 
 good ol' 2D gaming. And thats all, a short vist. the game itself seems very long when you look 
 at how many levels there are and your like wow!, but somehow the levels seem to fly buy faster 
 than a spinning spikey... wth. lol. but anyway.. there are 8 levels and you must unlock 2 of them. 
 The 2 levels arnt hard to unlock and its possible to unlock them on accident (PM me if you wanna 
 know how)
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  I mean, its mario!! nuff' said
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  The graphics are done extremely well and its one of the best games to have that 3-D/2-D feel to 
 it.
  
  Sound- 8/10 meh, nothing special at all catchy music though but that about it
  
  Value- 9/10 this game has tons of replayability from collecting big coins and unlocking new levels 
 or spending coins
  
  The difficulty on this game ranges to easy to pretty hard it can get frusturating at times but 
 not any times where its likeAHH i got smash the friggin DS" so its fine.
  Overall New Super Mario Brothers is an AAA game, but don't expect any thing SUPER DAZZLE SPECIAL!!!.. 
 a game that should be in every DS owners library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rond5566
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 29, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  You're lookin at probably one of the biggest Mario fans on the face of the Earth. Hell, I was born 
 the same week of the first game's release... talk about fate. If you're like me, you heard about 
 this game and just CRAPPED your pants at the idea of a new 2D Mario game taking full advantage 
 of modern technology and being put on an awesome system like the DS. I counted the months, weeks, 
 and days until it first came out. I picked it up, and actually had a LOT of trouble getting into 
 it. I can honestly say this is Mario's biggest disappointment
  
  Definitely the games largest problem is that it is a step BACK rather than a step forward in terms 
 of 2D Mario games. Super Mario Bros 3 and Super Mario World... those games are masterpieces and 
 are absolutely perfect no matter what direction you look at them from. What also made them so great 
 is that they took EVERYTHING the previous game did and made it better, so basically it improved 
 upon what was considered perfection. Super Mario Bros. 3 took the Mario gameplay and gave us the 
 overworld map, the leaf, the secret items, perhaps the best level designs you'll ever see in a 
 2D game, and a lot of things Super Mario Bros didn't have. Super Mario World took the leaf, and 
 gave us the superior cape... it took the map and make it about 5 times larger... the monsters were 
 a lot more diverse. The secrets were a lot more fun to find. They gave us Yoshi's, the spin jump, 
 multicolored shelled troopers. The game basically reinvented the platformer by thwoing so many 
 new ideas out there, and each one of them paid off.
  
  I know I said in my Super Mario Sunshine review that we sometimes have too high of expectations 
 for Mario, so I'm eating my words a little bit on this, but while Mario doesn't have to reinvent 
 the industry with every new game, he certainly doesn't have to step backl so far. Rather than taking 
 and improving on Super Mario World, this game improves upon the original Super Mario Brothers, 
 and not nearly as well as Super Mario Bros 3 did. The maps are boring and are outclassed by Super 
 Mario Bros 3's maps, the secrets are boring and have been done better in Super Mario World, the 
 leaves and capes are gone, no Tanuki suit, the Yoshi's are gone, the level designs are a flat run 
 through and are not very diverse, and the gameplay is just boring as all Mario can really do is 
 jump since he's been stripped of his awesome powerups (except for the fireballs) . Everything that 
 made the previous games shine just vanished, leaving us with just a little bit too much nostalgia, 
 and not enough fun. The game takes zero risks, and has very little pay off, and gives you no reason 
 to play it rather than Super Mario World
  
  Sure, the Super Mushroom is nice, but it is so useless at times as Mario can barely fit in some 
 of the levels. The Blue Shell is probably the worst Mario power up I have ever played with. The 
 small mushroom is the only new power-up I really ever want to see again in terms of powerups since 
 it has a lot of potential opening us VAST little worlds inside the larger worlds. All it did in 
 this game was give us a few pipes you could go down from here to there and inside those pipes, 
 there was not a lot to do. If put on the scale of what the Minish Cap did in terms of changing 
 size by actually making dungeons that depended on it, that could open up an entire new idea in 
 Mario that would just dominate. Secret Worlds you can only get to by being small... it's a great 
 idea, and I'm surprised Shiggy didn't think of it.
  
  Back to the gameplay, the triple jump from Super Mario 64 makes a return, but you'll hardly need 
 to use it. Outside of the Small Mushroom, the only original idea from this game I'd really like 
 to see in another 2D Mario is the wall jump and put to better use. That's a great idea taken from 
 the original Mega Man X games which were awesome.
  
  The graphics are great, no doubt about it, but I still like Super Mario World's more because I 
 have a soft spot for 16 bit games. And technicality will ALWAYS fall short of artistic value as 
 (unless you like the simplicity which isn't a bad thing) the game fais MAJORLY fails when put next 
 to Yoshi's Island. The music is also incredibly bland... ugh... I think the composers just got sloppy. 
 How many songs are there? One overworld song, and one underworld song as compared to SMB3 or SMW 
 which have entire musical scores.
  
  The multiplayer isn't fun either... ho hum
  
  So yeah, I realize the intent of this game was to take Mario back to his roots. As hip and trendy 
 as it is to say Super Mario Bros. is the best game of all time, it's been outclassed by its sequels. 
 Mario is a series that needs to move forward with every release, or else it will become stale. 
 That's not saying that 3D is better than 2D either because I enjoy the original formula a lot more... there 
 is just so much more than can be done with 2D, and this isn't it
  
  Outside of that, it's a solid Mario game that leaves a foul taste in your mouth just craving more 
 and wondering how awesome the next game will be if they learn from their mistakes. And more than 
 anything else, it makes me want to play Super Mario World again
  
  Wait for Super Mario Galaxy and Super Paper Mario... they'll be better. And I HOPE they don't mess 
 up that rumored high rez-sprite Metroid they are putting out also 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is that it is true. There might be Super Mario Sunshine and all those other games, 
 but the first game seemed to be the most memorable. From stomping on Goombas to jumping from platform 
 to platform, how could we forget? New Super Mario Bros. basically captures the same formula of 
 the original game along with enhanced graphics and new moves from other games. Here are some topics 
 I want to go over:
  
  Gameplay: It's basically a sidescroller like the good 'ol days of gaming. The part I regret is 
 the fact that Mario is a midget without the super mushroom, but that is what it was like so I had 
 to deal with it. Besides going through the courses, there are 3 coins that you can collect to open 
 up new passage ways and go to mushroom houses later on. A true perfectionist would definately do 
 this task.
  
  As for the plot, I haven't seen one so bisarre since Super Mario Sunshine. At the beginning, it 
 was actually Bowser Jr. that stole Peach. For a little guy, how could he carry her like that? I 
 guess he really wants his "Mama Peach." Bowser was as easy as beating a koopa. All I had to do 
 was hit the switch behind him and he died. So much for an honorable fight. It was weird to see 
 Bowser Jr. take such a huge role.
  
  Graphics: The 3D graphics are eye candy and the environments were well done. 
  
  Sound: I expected 
 the original theme song, but other than that, it is pretty good.
  
  Value: It is too easy. Even if you finish, there are still coins to collect and mini games to play. 
 Value is decent.
  
  Tilt: Great! A DS game that shouldn't be missed!
  
  Items: Super Mushroom, Mega Mushroom, Mini Mushroom, Blue Shell, and Fire Flower. Yawn! I expected 
 the racoon and frog suit to make this game interesting. I loved flying through the courses more 
 than anything else and they took a vital item away. The fire flowers are most common, but are decent.
 
  
  Lack of characters: Yoshi makes a huge difference between this game and Super Mario World. Who 
 wouldn't like to use his long tongue to chew enemies up and spit them out. He also has a great 
 jump. Luigi should've been in the one player mode also. Two great characters with awesome abilities 
 weren't in there. Why not?
  
  Moves: Wall kick and ground pound. Useful moves don't you think?
  
  This game is excellent. 
 I bet that if they added more items and increased the difficulty , Gamespot would've rated it higher. 
 Still good, nothing more to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Depending on your current mood, playing through a few levels or worlds of New Super Mario Bros. 
 will put a big smile on your face or reaffirm that Nintendo has no idea of the direction they should 
 be going. It's easy to slant either way, because of Mario's rich 2D platforming history (nostalgia 
 is a powerful thing) and because this game really doesn't capitalize on, well... much of anything, 
 really. But it is a lot of fun in addition to being a waste of potential.
  
  Logically, Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World would be good places to start when making a 
 new Mario platformer - they have rich, expansive worlds full of interesting levels and powerups 
 in and around the traditional Mario 'save Princess!' plot and enemies and so on and so forth. Logic 
 has no place here, though.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is an accurate - albeit awful - title. It is a 3D version of Mario Bros. 
 with a couple of references to later games in the various levels and tease of an overworld map. 
 Think borrowed aspects of Mario 3 and Mario World (and even Yoshi's Island) , only dumbed down. 
 Mushroom houses everywhere! Hidden levels! Regular enemies turned into bosses! Unfortunately, there 
 are too many mushroom houses (and the rewards aren't particularly exciting) , the 'hidden' levels 
 aren't really hidden at all given that they're openly visible on the dull grid-shaped world maps, 
 and the bosses are so pathetically easy they're barely worth mentioning. How do you go from the 
 awesome battles in Yoshi's Island (hell, even Mario World had more variety) to simple jump and 
 fireball type affairs? Baby Bowser can be taken out in the mid-world towers by popping him with 
 a couple of fireballs and jumping on his head, which will take him out even before he gets to jump 
 at you.
  
  There is no Yoshi, no cape or racoon suit or suit of any kind, and the levels are REALLY short. 
 And easy - this is not a difficult game in any way.
  
  However, it's not all bad - so long as you can focus on what the game is rather than what it could 
 have been. But is that entirely fair? Not really... but it does have merits of its own. Mario can 
 butt-stomp and wall-jump as in Mario 64 - neither are of much use other than a few isolated spots, 
 but they're fun and simple to pull off. The new powerups are interesting enough - big mushroom 
 so you can smash through a level, small mushroom to float and walk on water, and a silly turtle 
 outfit for spinning and sliding around (and usually falling to your doom since Mario controls poorly 
 in that situation) . Enemies do a cute little hop or twitch or something in tune with the music, 
 although the cue for it gets a little grating after a while. The control is different than any 
 of the previous games - Mario seems to weigh a little less or someone turned down the gravity. 
 He hops a bit higher, falls a bit slower, and generally seems a tad loose. It's not bad, or even 
 significantly different, but it's noticeable if you've played the older Mario games.
  
  The graphics are excellent, if simplistic. There is no coherent and unique art style like Yoshi's 
 Island, but underwater effects and water ripples look great, Mario animates well, and some of the 
 3D aspects come into play in the game itself in interesting ways.
  
  There's not much sense mentioning much past the word 'music' itself, since it's fairly generic 
 and consists of nothing but poorly remixed versions of old Mario songs.
  
  Maybe it's unfair to criticize New Mario Bros. for not being anything beyond what it claims to 
 be. It's just hard to pretend Mario 3 and Mario World and Yoshi's Island don't exist, because all 
 of them took more risks and offered more interesting powerups and levels and enemies than this 
 game. It really is just a tweaked version of Mario Bros. with shiny graphics and not much else 
 - maybe that would have been welcomed with open arms ten years ago, but there have been too many 
 significantly better Mario games since then. Then again, judging by this game's reception, that 
 doesn't seem to matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Who says 2-D games can't be good? New Super Mario Bros. brings back Mario's good old days, combines 
 them with 3-D graphics, side-scrolling gameplay, and Super Mario 3 level-select features, and the 
 result is an instant classic that follows in the footsteps of it's NES predecessors and lives up 
 to the expectations placed on any Super Mario Bros. game. Good DS graphics, nice sound effects, 
 epic music, and minigames that fully exploit the uses for the touch screen make this a game that 
 should not be missed by anyone with a DS. This game gets, and deserves, a perfect 10 out of 10. 
 One of the best Super Mario Bros. games ever. In fact, I'd say that it is the second best, right 
 under Super Mario Bros. 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  when i heard about this game i had to buy it when it finally did i got it the first day it came 
 out and it is a wonderful game for the DS. it combines all mario games from NES to N64 into one. 
 how you ask?? well it has enemies from some, moves from some and items from some. it also makes 
 good use of the second screen the second screen is a map and how far you have to go in the level 
 it also keeps one item for you it is just like the classic mario bros game but the levels are diffrent 
 and the grapics are well done for a handheld game it also makes good use of the microphone and 
 touch screen in the mini games section of the game. the mini games are my favorite they are all 
 diffrent from card games to shooting cannon balls at bombs before they hit your garden (or somthing 
 like that) it is classic mario and if you own a DS and enjoy mario games i strongly reccomend buying 
 this game
  
  
  
  P. S. bowser isnt to only boss you fight like in typical mario games this time you have a couple 
 more bosses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a 2-D platformer for the Nintendo DS. It is a mix of many of the Mario 
 games over the years. And it works perfectly. It is the perfect mix of Super Mario 64, Super Mario 
 World and Super Mario Bros. 
  
  THE GOOD- New Super Mario Bros. does not really take full use of the touch screen but that is not 
 always a bad thing. The game works pefectly with the A, B, X and Y buttons. Giving this game the 
 best control of any DS game yet. The gameplay is just like Super Mario Bros. Platforming, jumping 
 across ledges, collecting power-ups. But it is still very fun. With the new power-ups sprinkled 
 here and there. The game is a VERY fun game. And like I said before, it is the perfect blend of 
 the old Mario games.
  
  THE BAD-The mini-games are almost identical to those of Super Mario 64 DS. With only a few new 
 mini-games they arn't all that interesting. Also, without online, the Mario vs. Luigi mode is just 
 useless. A strange about the game is you could finish a level and then all of a sudden you'll do 
 the next level and say to your self was that shorter than the other? You'll realize that some levels 
 are about half the length of some of the others. 
  
  Overall, New Super Mario Bros. is a DS masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King9999
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. marks the return of Mario in a brand-new sidescroller, which is reminiscent 
 of classic games such as Super Mario Bros. 1, 3, and Super Mario World. In fact, NSMB is basically 
 a hybrid of the three games, with plenty of evidence to support that fact. NSMB adds its own quirks 
 to the time-tested Mario formula, and while its not completely successful, its a fun ride while 
 it lasts.
  
  NSMB begins with Princess Peach being kidnapped by Bowser Jr., the villain from Super Mario Sunshine. 
 Each world has you chasing down Bowser Sr. s kid from fortress to fortress, with various stages 
 in between. The world map design is most reminiscent of SMB3; your goal in each world is to reach 
 the fortress and defeat the big boss in each one. The path to the fortress has all sorts of diversions 
 in the form of secret stages, mushroom houses, pipes, and more. If this all sounds like SMB3 or 
 SMW to you, wellNintendo never hid the fact that NSMB drew inspiration from classic Mario games.
 
  
  The stages have a mostly linear design, which will probably bring up memories of SMB1. In most 
 stages, you run to the right and reach the flagpole at the end, collecting coins and power-ups 
 along the way. Each stage contains three star coins, which are used to unlock paths on the world 
 map. Most players should not have much trouble completing stages, so the challenge comes from obtaining 
 every star coin. The power-ups are disappointingly few in number, and arent all that interesting 
 or useful. Of the three new power-ups, only the mini mushroom is truly useful, and will probably 
 garner the most use thanks to the handy high jump and float.
  
  The 3D graphics are well done; all of the stages look simple yet pretty, and the character models 
 have a similar design. The music, on the other hand, is not the catchy type that one would expect 
 from a Mario game. In fact, the music is forgettable and sparse in number. At least Mario isnt 
 as chatty this time around, making him more tolerable.
  
  NSMB is a fun game, but its not without its problems. First of all, the game is way too easy. 
 Too much handholding in a game is a quick way to hurt the whole experience, and NSMB crosses that 
 line. 1-UPs are handed to you like they were coins, and its ridiculous. By the end of the game, 
 youll likely have no fewer than fifty lives. In SMB1, it was exciting to find hidden 1-UPs and 
 make a mad dash for them, but in NSMB, its not much of a reward because youll have enough lives 
 already. The stage designs, while good, are not strong enough. The stage designs in SMB3 and SMW 
 were imaginative, and often had difficult jumps or were otherwise fun to explore in. NSMBs stages 
 do get better as you get further into the game, but generally theyre over almost as soon as you 
 begin them. The fortress bosses, sadly, are all too easy and can easily be defeated with fire flowers. 
 Nintendo may want to tone down the occurrence of power-ups in any future sequels.
  
  Nintendo is sure to have a top-selling DS game on their hands, but one cant help but feel that 
 NSMB is a game that isnt completely living up to its potential. The game is certainly fun, but 
 it is not a game that is as memorable as past 2D Mario sidescrollers. If you need a comparison, 
 NSMB is the Super Mario Sunshine of 2D Mario platformers, while SMB3 (or even SMW) is Super Mario 
 64. The versus mode and minigames that were included add some replay value to the game, but a much 
 more solid single player game at the expense of multiplayer modes would have been more appreciated. 
 At the very least, NSMB had its heart in the right place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  There's a whole lot to love about New Super Mario Bros. The graphics are dreamy. The music, as 
 always, is stellar. The level design and gameplay are overall just as fun as can be. So then, what's 
 the problem? 
  
  Graphics 
  
  I cannot fathom why more games like this haven't been made; 3d, polygonal graphics, but on a 2d 
 plane. Sure there's still some sprites in there, but the mix of the 2d with the 3d looks amazing. 
 Plus, by using polygons, it's a lot easier for designers to stretch and rotate, etc, which is a 
 challenge to do working with sprites. But back to Mario... Everything looks like old-school Mario. 
 It's obvious that's the approach that was taken throughout the whole process of this game; taking 
 something old and making it New (as in New Super Mario Bros.) . There are a lot of familiar faces 
 running rampant, and they haven't been tweaked so much that you don't notice them, which is a good 
 thing. Hammer bros. are definitely my favorite looking enemies; they look so much more bad-ass 
 now than they ever did before. There's also quite a few little details that make the game stand 
 out even more; the way the water splashes when you're jumping about the surface for one, and the 
 way it makes the screen shimmer while underwater, as well as the heat waves and little chunks of 
 lava (or magma, whatever it is) flying up in the background of the fortress stages. Of course none 
 of that is necessary, but it sure does look awesome. 
  As you may have noticed from advertisements, Mario gets super-sized quite a bit during the course 
 of the game, and that's thanks to polygons. Like I mentioned, it's a lot easier to do those kind 
 of effects with polygons rather than sprites, and to some extent, it seems as if they took advantage 
 of that a little too much for my liking. But, Mario has that nice Mario 64 look to him, even though 
 the game is strictly 2d. The action is fairly zoomed out, of course, and rarely does it zoom in 
 too close, so you can't really see too much detail in his character however. 
  Overall, as good as the game looks, it's definitely not the kind of game you'd use to show off 
 the DS' power. Kind of puts me in a bind; it is a very good looking game no doubt, there's just 
 nothing about it that takes advantage of the hardware, really. 
  
  Sound 
  
  Once again, an area of excellence. I didn't really pick up on many remixes, which is good; no one 
 likes excessive re-hashing. The new tracks however have that whimsical Mario feel to them, so they 
 fit in perfectly. And each world has a different theme of course, be it sky world, lava world, 
 ice world, etc, and the music in each world fits perfectly. The fortress levels have that fortress 
 music and the areas where you go underground have that underground music; most definitely awesome. 
 
  The sound effects seem to be ripped straight from Super Mario Bros. The coin ding and the fireball 
 shooting noise sound just like they did about 20 years ago. That's not really a bad thing, considering 
 they wanted to go the whole throwback route. But the constant woo hoo and wha ha voice clips 
 could have been toned down some. It's not as bad as in past games, but certainly as annoying. 
 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  It is what it is. Super Mario Bros. gameplay at it's best. Or, almost at it's best. Don't get me 
 wrong though; the game plays fantastic. It plays a lot like Super Mario Bros. did on the NES (and 
 SNES, and GBA; gotta despise those ports) , as far as that floaty, slippery kind of action. To freshen 
 things up though, there have been a few additions to that old-school gameplay. Namely, the mega 
 mushroom, the (as I like to call it) Minish mushroom, the wall jump, the ass slam, and the Koopa 
 shell (back to those in a sec) . 
  The only way the touch screen comes into play (during the main game) is when you have a power up 
 in hold; tap it to drop it on the field. I don't mind this at all, since I'd rather it not used 
 than have a lame gimmick tacked to it. There are minigames that use the touchscreen to it's max, 
 though they're straight from Mario 64 DS. Much like every Mario Advance game had the same Mario 
 Bros. multiplayer tagged on, I guess every Mario game for DS will have the same touchscreen minigames. 
 
  The mega mushroom stretches Mario so large that he fills the entire screen. Then you just run into 
 things and destroy them. That's the mega mushroom's only use. The more you destroy, the more extra 
 lives you earn as a bonus. You could save the mushroom in your reserve and use it to one-hit kill 
 a boss, but other than that, there's nothing more to this mushroom. 
  The Minish mushroom shrinks Mario down to a size even smaller than normal. So small in fact, 
 that he's literally a feather weight; jumping while this small can carry you a long way. Unfortunately, 
 this isn't always useful (more on that in a bit) . Also with this reduced size, you can run on top 
 of water, and fit into tiny little pipes. There's a few times during the game where you need to 
 use that enhanced jumping and the other small-fry benefits, but other than those few moments, 
 you'd be better off sticking to a normal power up. You can't kill enemies when you're Minish sized, 
 and the jumping does a lot more hindering than helping. 
  Taking a nod from Mario 64 and Sunshine, a wall jump and ass slam have been added. The wall jump 
 lets you slide down a wall more slowly, and you can climb up to higher places with it. Most of 
 the time you'll only be using the wall jump to get after a star coin; using it as a lifesaver will 
 more often than not end up killing you. The ass slam is used more as an offensive move, and one 
 that allows you to open more of the environment; as Super Mario, you can ass slam bricks and bust 
 them open. You can also slam coins and power ups out of blocks from above with it. There's also 
 a few times where you'll come across some obstacles that need an ass slamming to get by, but most 
 of the time you'll be just running and jumping like a good ol' Mario game. Giving bosses a good 
 ass pounding is a great way to put them away quickly too. 
  The Koopa shell is a terrible excuse for a power up, in my opinion (keep in mind what sounds good 
 on paper doesn't always go so well in execution, Nintendo) . You hop in the shell and when you start 
 running fast enough, you lose control and you slip into the shell and roll by, much like when 
 you toss a Koopa shell. It's like you're your own, portable, Koopa shell. I only came by a few 
 places where you needed to use the Koopa shell, but other than that, the erratic behavior of all 
 the bouncing around makes it pretty useless for normal trekking. 
  In an effort to stick to the original Super Mario Bros., all elements of flying were removed. Personally, 
 I would have much rather had a raccoon tail or cape as that final power up as opposed to a new, 
 crappy one (Koopa shell) . 
  All the old Mario stuff is still present though; fire flowers, Starmen, killing multiple enemies 
 with one shell netting you an extra life, bouncing off a number of enemies in a row netting you 
 an extra life, jumping high enough on the pole netting you an extra life. Seems as if extra lives 
 are given away rather liberally, eh? That's because they are. But, as liberally as they're given 
 to you, they're taken away rather easily too. The game is pretty short by some standards, but you 
 will die a lot in that short amount of time. The deaths are never cheap though, and no chasm is 
 impassible, they just make sure you have plenty of chances. And since the game saves rather often, 
 it's not like having all those extra lives hurts the difficulty any. There are some frustrating 
 moments later on, but never anything that will make you snap your DS in half. 
  
  Lasting Appeal 
  
  Remember how it took days and days to go through the old Mario games? New 
 Super Mario Bros. is the same way. In this day in age however, that doesn't really cut it like 
 it used to. You will have a blast playing it. But it seems as if in no time, it's all over with. 
 Of course there's always the star coins to find; three in each stage, as a matter of fact. But, 
 what do you earn by finding these coins? Access to the lackluster power ups of course. And after 
 you beat the game you can buy themes for the lower screen. Wow. Not much incentive to fully complete 
 the game, eh? But, since it's so fun to play, you shouldn't mind completing it all the way. 
  There's also a competitive multiplayer mode; you and a friend (or foe) run bout some random maps 
 and try to collect the most stars. Being competitive though, of course you can steal stars, by 
 ass slamming, bopping on the head, shooting with a fireball, etc. Those minigames I mentioned earlier 
 also can be played with someone else. There's no inclusion of online play at all. It's obvious 
 that multiplayer was not the focus with this game, but it would've been nice if the multiplayer 
 was a tad more fleshed out. 
  
  Closing Comments 
  
  I have not forgot about my big but... at the beginning. New Super Mario Bros. is an outstanding 
 game; yet another great game for the DS, and a must buy. My problem with it however is that I waited 
 12 years for this? It's been that long since an all new Mario sidescroller came out, and while 
 the game impresses as a whole, I can't help but feel that it falls short as a Mario game. The alternate 
 exits were fun to find in Super Mario World, but there aren't many of them at all in NSMB. Flying 
 around in Super Mario Bros. 3 and in Super Mario World were some of the best moments from those 
 games, but they were taken out of NSMB altogether. It's almost as if for every step forward that 
 was taken, another one was taken back. I had high expectations for this game, since I've been waiting 
 so long for it, and if I said it exceeded them, I'd be lying. I am satisfied with the experience, 
 I'm just left wanting more, which is the case most of the time. Here's hoping I'm blown out the 
 water with the Next New Super Mario Bros. (and that it doesn't take another 10+ years to come out) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakygamer555
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  This game is just like the original Super Mario Bros. only in 3-D and with better dept. The levels 
 are great and the game itself can go on for months on end, so this game is a must have.
  
  You do the same thing here just like in the original. You go into castles and save the princess. 
 But there's more to it, there's no Warp Level in here, but there are Warp Cannons. You have to 
 unlock those, tho.
  
  The items here are mostly the same.
  
  Mushroom: Once eaten you grow larger.
  
  Fire Flower: Once graped you are able to throw 2 fire 
 balls max.
  
  New items:
  
  Bigshroom: Once eaten you can destroy any thing in your path and you never get hurt.
  
  Minishroom: 
 Once eaten you turn so small that you can fit into tiny warp pipes in the level. You can also run 
 on water.
  
  Blue Shell: Once warren you can look like a koopa, and when you run fast enough you go inside your 
 shell and bounce around or kill any thing you hit.
  
  In this game you can also ground pound, so it makes getting the coins underneath you easier to 
 get. There are also 8 worlds, 2 out of 8 of the worlds aren't easy to get to. Worlds 3 and 7 you 
 have to do something special to get to them. But pretty much, it's easy to beat. So don't worry, 
 you'll have fun with this game even after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fusiongt
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game on the ds hands down!!
  the graphics are top notch, the 2d worlds and the 3d sprites are a match made in heaven. The sounds 
 and the music are cool. I like the remixed versions of the music from the classic mario games!
 
  The mini-games are a blast to play. Nintendo could have sold the mini-games as another game, they 
 are that good. The multi-player is cool with one player playing as mario and the other player playing 
 as luigi.
  If you have a ds and you don't have this game go get it now or just stop playing your ds!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimxz1
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  (before you read this take notes that revisions will be made and if you find any mistakes with 
 this review please inform me)
  
  Mario is embedded in our minds as one of the true innovators in video games and even though he 
 has come so far in the terms of innovating games it is not at all disappointing to see him playing 
 the same type of levels again. Not surprisingly the old Mario plat forming formula works amazingly. 
 
  
  Graphics and sound: The game has a bright and pleasing presentation the whole way through intertwining 
 2-d Yoshi story with SM64. I imagine that this would be nothing without top-notch level design 
 that is both familiar as to not veterans of the older games (basically every gamer in the world) 
 
  
  Game play: The game has new touches like varying levels design depending one what power ups you 
 have the might play a little different depending on were you are. A great example of this is the 
 new shell power up it really is fun to knock Mario around. Also you will notice some similar game 
 areas.
  
  Multiplayer: This is mixed bag most of the multiplayer is actually the old mini games SM64 DS just 
 tweaked for multiple people.
  
  Final verdict but it and dont think twice about it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okami_kon
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Well I just got my copy of NSMB a couple of days ago and my first impression is" Wow this is really 
 good i should show it to my friends" which I did I brought it over to my friends house and we played 
 multi player and i loved it i wish there could be online battles and the minigames online. I also 
 wish Nintendo added a co-op mode I've always wanted to play Mario co-op but oh well.
  
  The 1 player mode is a bit short though it didn't take me very long to beat the 1 player mode even 
 while collecting all the star coins. In multiplayer i wish there could be more then 2 player battles 
 =. And there weren't enough maps so it got repetitve after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Hello there and welcome to Gaming Prince Reviews!
  
  Today I will be talking about the new smash hit New Super Mario Bros!
  
  Woot Woot! Lets 
 start shall we?
  
  New Super Mario Brothers is an amazing piece of work for the Nintendo DS.
  
  Premise: Once 
 again, for those of you who know all about Mario brother games, the story starts out with an Italian, 
 short, plumber named Mario. The precious, all known, Princess Peach has been kidnapped by baby 
 Bowser, and your mission is to save Peach!
  
  Gameplay: in New Super Mario Bros., the Controls are fluid and precise. You will make your way 
 through many adventures while completing more than 80 creative and fun levels. The Goombas, Koopas, 
 Bullet Bills are back in action. 
  
  Mario isnt the same as he used to be in his past 2D adventures. This time around, he has inherited 
 some dynamic, flowing moves from Mario 64 including the ground pound, double, triple jump and my 
 personal favourite, the wall kick. You will have to use these new shagadelic moves to collect many 
 hidden Star Coins.
  
  Star coins are round gold coins with a star on them and three of them are hidden throughout in 
 each and every level in the game. Some of them are hidden quite stealthily, while others are just 
 lying out in the open for you to snatch and declare victory! Ahahaha!
  
  Erm... Sorry, got carried away there lol. You can run through each level and beat the game as fast 
 as you can, but what fun is that? There are alternate, secret exits in some levels which will lead 
 to mushroom houses or black canons that will shoot you like a little Pillsbury doughboy to a different 
 world  Hmm Hmm!
  
  Mushroom houses are back in action in this game. Red houses provide items. Orange houses provide 
 big bogonga mushrooms and green houses provide lots of 1-ups.
  
  There are new items in NSMB. 
  
  The big mushroom will make Mario very big and he is like the 
 next Godzilla! Or as I like to call it in a Japanese accent MARIOZILLA! hehe. Anyway, you can 
 run through levels like no tomorrow and demolish everything in your way.
  
  The Mini Mushroom is a small blue fungus with shockingly, no evil grimace on the face! :D. This 
 shrinks Mario down to an even smaller midget and youre able to run on water, jump very high, fit 
 through small spaces.
  
  Blue Koopa Shell is where Mario is able to spin like a koopa on the ground while in running action. 
 There are only a few places I found where this item is useful for unlocking a few star coins.
 
  
  Mushroom: The same old mushroom
  
  Fire Flower: Same as past games.
  
  Lets move on to graphics shall we?
  
  Graphics:
  
  Mario Bros. has a vivid, stunning, 
 utterly amazing colour pallet. Whether its Mario himself, the enemies, the sky or even the bendy 
 mushrooms, this game has some of the nicest eye-gauging graphics for a 2.5 D side-scroller Ive 
 seen in quite some time. The actual graphics are a cross between 2D and 3D; this is a great contrast 
 for the lay out of the levels. 
  
  The 8 worlds are: 
  
  1. Plains 
  
  2. Desert 
  
  3. Tropical
  
  4. Forest
  
  5. Ice
  
  6. Mountain
  
  7. Clouds
 
  
  8. Bowser
  
  All of these worlds are great.
  
  Sound: The sound of New Super Mario Bros. is decent, but I wish it could be better. New tunes for 
 the levels are catchy and familiar for people who are purists at Mario. The greatest part for the 
 music of this game is that the enemies react to the beat and rhythm of the music. This makes you 
 strategize about your timing.
  
  Value: This game has a lot of replay value, especially if you are trying to collect every single 
 start coin, unlock all the secret exits, and collect every singe item in the game. You shouldnt 
 be disappointed.
  
  Tilt: The story of NSMB isnt anything special, but the graphics and levels will keep you coming 
 back for more side-scrolling goodness.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
  New Super Mario Bros. Is definitely a game to purchase. The mass amount of levels and items to 
 collect will keep you playing for hours. I finished the game in a few days, but still need to unlock 
 some items. So far Ive gotten between 12-20 hours. The sound is catchy and gets stuck in your 
 head in a good way. Game play is used with sugar and spice and everything nice. Please go buy this 
 wonderful masterpiece and have a good day!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outlawz247
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Most reviewers gave it a 9.0+ scores... no offence but most of them are pretty much nintendo fanboys 
 overrating such an undeserving game. Not to mention they overrated a game such as Lost magic (in 
 the user review section) which is a piece of crap in my opinion.
  Compared to super mario bros 3, things haven't really changed much. They tweaked the graphics, 
 sound with new items but it isn't really much different.
  I've tried my hardest to like this game but I just couldn't. It was just plain boring. Most of 
 the levels were unoriginal and there weren't any items that really appealed to me. Most of times 
 you will be using mushrooms and flowers. 
  If you never liked super mario bros 3 or if you never liked the supermario series this game is 
 definately not for you. Even if the reviews are 9.0 or above, just don't listen to them. Instead, 
 listen to you heart whether if you truly like mario games. If you always liked mario games you 
 can do whatever you want but If you were never a fan, I highly recommend you to rent it and finish 
 the game in just 1~7days. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EBBIT
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  They keep taking something old and making it new and fresh for today! I like how there is the different 
 sizes so its not just the same old game. This is definitely a must buy if you are just getting 
 the DS. This is not just a repeat of a classic 1990's side scrolling game. The DS has really fixed 
 on a great premise and added a 3D element to the classic 2D old game. You really don't need the 
 lower screen that much, but it adds a nice map element to the game. The only letdown is that the 
 extras are recycled mini-games from Super Mario 64 DS. Outside of that, this game is ridiculously 
 well designed. If you just want to blow through the game from first castle to final battle, it's 
 over in just a few hours. But there's so much more, including hidden levels and single cart multiplayer 
 challenges. It is worth picking up for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spuddge
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of The New Super Mario Bros I thought "What a waste of time and money, all nintendo 
 is doing is making a horrible remake of a classic game" But after playing The New Super Mario Bros 
 I found that it was nothing like what I had thought. Nintendo used a combination of 2d and 3d graphics 
 which were surprisingly good. The controls were what surprised me the most though. The makers of 
 this game did an absolutly fantastic job on the controls of this game. They were flawless in every 
 way. The sound and music of The New Super Mario Bros used a perfect blend of new and old sounds 
 which were done surprisingly well. The only down-fall of the game is how short it was, not just 
 the game, but the levels too. However, I still had fun playing it through twice as Luigi, which 
 gives it in my opinion, a great replay value. So to sum it all up, the new super mario bros is 
 an amazing title which uses old and new elements of gaming in order to it that unique feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  New Super Maio Bros. is an excellent example of nostalgic gameplay and 3-D visuals blending seamlessly 
 together. The game feels like the classic mario, but it has new power-ups, worlds, and new secrets.
 
  
  Good: Awesome visuals and worlds, classic gameplay, stays true to it's roots, the mega-mushroom 
 is just plain awesome, and the mini games are quite addictive.
  
  Bad: Varying difficulty from level to level (can be very easy and then frustratingly difficult) , 
 Baby Bowser just isn't a good villain, some of the mini-games are repeats from super mario 64 DS, 
 and there are too many sand worlds. 
  
  I've had my DS for over a year now and I'm glad to say that the library of games haven't been too 
 disapointing. With titles like nintendogs, Animal Crossing: WW, Mario Kart DS, and Tetris DS, just 
 to name a few. It's had it's share of mediocre games as well. (Metroid Prime: Hunters) . But New 
 Super Mario Bros. falls under one of the greatest DS games to date. 
  
  It's obviously a 2-D platformer, but this one is different. It's got 3-D animations that enhance 
 the gameplay greatly. The two new power-ups, the Mega-Mushroom and Koopa Shell, are worthy additions 
 to the mario franchise and refresh the gameplay even more. The whole things just works great, older 
 gamers will appreciate the nostalgia while newer gamers can find out the roots of the franchise. 
 
  
  The difficulty of this game can bouce from easy, to challenging to frustratingly hard. This isn't 
 always welcome, seeing as how each time you lose all five of your lives you have to start over 
 from the first stage of that world. (Or the last spot you saved your game) . Every few levels you'll 
 have to face a castle stage, where you'll fight baby bowser, who has kidnapped princess peach. 
 (what a shocker!) . Though the storyline isn't very original the gameplay makes up for everything 
 and all the levels can be completed with some practice. 
  
  
  The mini-games are a mix of new and old from the previous super mario 64 ds, and the new additions 
 are just as good as the previous ones. They're a good alternative if you get stuck on a stage in 
 the main game. There's also a multiplayer mode which clearly isn't the main draw of the game like 
 it was with Metroid Prime Hunters, it offers a little bit of replay value. 
  
  The bottom line is that any DS owner can have a good time with this game. It's one of mario's best 
 games since his foray on the game boy advance. Simply put, it's a must-have. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magikoopa21
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros is a very good game, but just not as good as expected. Some levels are just 
 too short and too easy, while others are ridiculously hard. The difficulty is just like other Mario 
 games, it starts out easy and gets harder as you progress. But sometimes its just so frustrating 
 because you need to be lucky to beat a few levels. The last world is just ridiculous because enemies 
 are dropping from above and are sometimes impossible to beat. What makes it even worse and more 
 frustrating is saving. You cant save unless you beat a boss or buy an item. Sometimes I've had 
 to go back 3 levels just because of a game over.
  
  Next is the power-ups, which were a big letdown. Everyone was anticipating the blue Koopa shell 
 which allows Mario slide around defeating enemies as he goes. In my opinion this was the worst 
 power-up in any Mario game. You have to start running for a few seconds to activate it, and then 
 its very hard to prevent yourself from falling off a platform. Another new power-up was the Mega 
 Mario, which is fun for all five seconds of it. I thought it was invincible, but when you touch lava 
 you still die instantly. The only actual good part of it was that you get a few extra lives. Then 
 the third new power-up is just plain horrible too. Mini Mario is........ like the opposite of a 
 power-up. You cant kill enemies just by stepping on them, controls are weird, and you die after only 
 one hit, unlike every other power-up. They really should have given it some kind of advantage.
 
  
  The enemies and bosses are one very good part of this game. You can pretty much expect to see every 
 enemy from Super Mario 64, and some original ones. Bosses are all well-designed, and some are pretty 
 difficult. The only problem with bosses is that you must fight Baby Bowser at least ten times in 
 the game, which is annoying. But he does get some new moves each time.
  
  Overall, I would recommend this to new Mario fans, but fans of the original Marios may be a little 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinvg6
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  The release of New Super Mario Bros. is a fairly important one in the history of videogames. Consider 
 this: since the release of Super Mario Land 2: Six Golden Coins for the Game Boy in 1992, there 
 has not been a new 2D platform game, the genre that the original Super Mario Bros. helped define, 
 starring Nintendo's beloved plumber. 
  
  Sure, there have been remakes and re-releases of past Mario games galore, including the Super NES's 
 Super Mario All-Stars and the Super Mario Advance series for GBA and a few 3D adventures like the 
 N64's Super Mario 64 and the GameCube's Super Mario Sunshine, but no new adventure in the classic 
 "Mario style." And no, Yoshi's Island doesn't count (excellent though it may be) since you played 
 as Yoshi through the bulk of the game. 
  
  That's nearly a decade and a half without a "true" Mario game. Until now. Nintendo has finally 
 decided that it's time to create another side-scrolling Mario title and has christened it with 
 the perhaps too descriptive title, New Super Mario Bros.. New SMB brings Mario and company back 
 to the Mushroom Kingdom for another quest to rescue Princess Peach from the clutches of Bowser 
 and his son, Bowser Jr. Considering how much of a throwback this game is to the classic titles 
 in the series, I have to admit that I was disappointed to see the comparatively dull Bowser Jr. 
 appear as one of the main bad guys instead of Bowser's seven other offspring, the Koopa Kids from 
 Super Mario Bros. 3. 
  Don't be fooled by the 3D character models. The polygonal characters are simply a way to allow 
 more animation without having to draw a buttload of sprites. The backgrounds and gameplay are purely 
 2D, and the 2D and 3D elements blend together perfectly. 
  
  Super Mario's Worlds 
  
  The action is spread across eight worlds, each containing several levels each. Although the game's 
 control physics feel more like the original Super Mario Bros. than later games in the series, the 
 world map and level design take a cue from the more involved SMB 3. If you're afraid that Nintendo 
 has forgotten that one of the best things about the old Mario games was the seemingly infinite 
 number of hidden secrets, then you can stop worrying. In addition to all the good old block busting, 
 Goomba stomping, Fire Flower collecting, and flag pole sliding that you'd expect to see in a 2D 
 Mario title, there are also plenty of invisible blocks to uncover and hidden vines that, when revealed, 
 will allow you to access new areas of a level. 
  
  Seeing as how you can replay stages you've already cleared, you'll definitely want to go back and 
 do a lot of extra exploring. Each world's map screen shows off multiple paths and levels that you 
 won't be able to access your first time through. Think about this: The first time I played through 
 the game, without even using a warp zone, I completely skipped over two worlds. Not levels worlds. 
 Specifically, worlds four and seven. Now, I have to go back and find the secret exits that will 
 open up those unexplored lands to me. Those are some pretty hardcore secrets. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakshow59
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Wow, just got the game yesterday. This is the perfect balance between the old SMB and 3-D graphics. 
 With new levels, worlds and a couple new characters, this makes the game beyond superb. I like 
 how they combined SMB with SMB 3. The reason I said this is because SMB, of course, was a side-scroller 
 (duh) , and SMB had the map element to it. The game combined both of those and the things from above. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone that has a DS, whether or not they're a Nintendo fan or 
 not, it will be hard to put the game down as soon as you start it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Whenever someone mentions a 2D platformer, Mario should be the kinda guy to come to mind. His 2D 
 ventures pioneered the genre, and gave way to a load of clones and inspired immitations throughout 
 the NES, and SNES days. Although lately Mario has been seen in more spinoffs than actual tied and 
 true Mario games, he quickly made a turn around with the release of New Super Mario Bros.
  
  The game works essentially the same as previous Mario titles. Get from point A to point B, 
 while avoiding enemies and collecting power ups. Now, the game design mirrors closely the style 
 used in Super Mario World above all else, with map and enemy ideas coming from Super Mario Bros 
 3... with a touch of the original and 64 releases in there for good measure. This time around, 
 however, there are as many secrets as Mario World had, from secret exits to hidden star coins. 
 When all is said and done, you have very solid gameplay that retains the same feel of the series, 
 yet adding its own flavor to the mix, including mushrooms that make you all kinds of sizes and 
 blue shells for the plumber on the go. 
  
  All in all, the levels are incredibly dynamic, and the oil slick control holds up well enough. 
 Now, the challenge isn't really there due to the overabundance of lives, but later on the game 
 gets pretty tough. Finding all the star coins can be pretty tricky as well, sometimes requiring 
 you to think outside the box.
  
  The music and sound in general are pleasant but forgettable. The soundtrack to Yoshi's Island was 
 the best of all the Mario game soundtracks, but unfortunately this game doesn't even come close. 
 The effects are decent, however.
  
  The graphics, like the sound, are good but nothing totally memorable as far as style goes. It seems 
 like Mario's 3D sprite was placed in a 2D plane, which works, but doesn't contain the same level 
 of personality that the others had.
  
  Unfortunately, the biggest woe of this game is its length. It's only about 80 levels long- and 
 that's if you clear every level. Otherwise it's only around 55 or 60. It's easily clearable in 
 an afternoon on your first run. The main thing to keep you coming back afterwards is mostly the 
 star coin collecting, or perhaps the minigames (mostly rehashed from Super Mario 64 DS) .
  
  In the end, NSMB is a great game. It has the same high quality gameplay that the previous titles 
 had, and takes various elements from each game to mash them together into a quite quirky and fun 
 playthrough. It's sad that it wasn't longer or harder like people would have liked, but it's still 
 a blast from the moment you start to the moment you finish.
  
  Neither does NSMB really cheat off some fun because of nostalgia, because you're truly playing 
 something... new!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeperofgames
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  This is Mario 2-D gaming at its finest: plenty of areas to explore, new power-ups, and moves from 
 Mario's 3-D games make their debut in New Super Mario Bros. The Wall Jump, Double and Triple Jump, 
 and the infamous Butt-Stomp are all here. And, with the Butt-Stomp, you can FINALLY activate those 
 ? blocks from the top, a feature I have been begging for for a long time.
  There are eight worlds, some are familiar while others are new, and there are many hidden areas 
 to find, each with beneficial secrets to help progress through the game. You don't have to play 
 all the worlds, but if you don't you're missing out on what the game has to offer.
  The only bad thing I have against the game is the lack of new power-ups. The Mega mushroom, Mini 
 mushroom, and Koopa suit are all nice but a few more would have been great. But don't let that 
 be a hamper to you, if you have a DS, play this game, whether you're an old school Mario gamer 
 or not, it's a must play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsOmniaC777
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? How fluid the graphics are? The items in the game? Just how overall fun it is? 
 The only flaw that was associated with it, was just how short it was. But at least the replayability 
 plays a huge role in this mix. Such as the secret coins to collect, and secret routes to gain access 
 to.
  
  And the story... not really much of one. But most games don't really need a good storym to make 
 a game good and fun. The New Super Mario Bros is the best example of this.
  
  Now all I have to saw is, thank you Nintendo, for bringing this brilliant game to us. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgshine
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game ever since I first heard about it. And now that I finally got it, I can finally 
 write a review about it. Ok, first off, the main first player game is a lot of fun, you've got 
 the classic 2D Mario style and power ups, Excellent! And there's is also some new power ups and 
 3D touch ups on all the characters, even more excellent! And there are secret paths you can unlock 
 in some levels, super EXCELLENT! But unfortunately it's all over too quickly, Bogus. But it's so 
 highly addictive and easy to play that you'll want to play it again, and again, and again.
  Ok, now for the 2 player mode. You only need one cartridge to play this mode, though it does take 
 a long time to load if that's all you have. Basically, you and your opponent, have to collect a 
 certain amount of stars to win. You can even attack your opponent to steal stars from him. These 
 matches can become quite interesting and fun, and you can also choose between playing as Mario 
 or Luigi.
  Ok, the last mode is the mini-game mode. Most of them were copied from Super Mario 64 DS, although 
 there are some new ones. Chances are you won't go to this mode much, but when you do, it's mildly 
 fun to go for the high score. You can play this mode with up to four people, which is fine , I 
 guess.
  Overall, if you're a fan of the classic Mario games, this is a must buy. I wish you could unlock 
 the original Mario Bros. game, or at least play some of the original levels, but, you can't. Sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonclaw900
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario lovers rejoice! This is a must have for owners of the DS. Despite the unoriginal title (they 
 clearly ran out of ideas) , much of the game is brand new. The idea of 3d characters on a 2d game 
 was experimented with on Spiderman, but mario does what the spider can't. The graphics are nearly 
 perfect for the DS, with no grainy edges, unlike Spiderman, and the animations are as smooth as 
 silk, motion capture be damned. The gameplay also gets some nice additions, as Mario gets all his 
 moves from his 3d incarnations (minus Sunshine) . while this may sound like a novelty, the levels 
 are built around these moves. The wall jump is easily the most useful move. It can save you from 
 a jump gone wrong, and can give you access to otherwise unreachable points. This brings up another 
 good point. Each level features a new platforming element. While this happened in the other Mario 
 games, none of them jumped out at you like say, a giant bucking mushroom. The one gripe that I have 
 about its gameplay is the powerups. The powerups are mainly limited to mushroom and fireflower, 
 the power of flight being removed entirely. In this regard, it is a step backwards from the classics. 
 The main new powerup, the mega mushroom, is no where near as fun to use as the racoon suit from 
 SMB3. All in all though, this game goes to show that Mario is still the king of platforming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreign_flag
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  revolutionary highly addictive and with multi-play adds onto the game itself 
  plus, with the new multiplayer mini games can add to the greatness of this game. The only thing 
 I miss about this game is it should of had wi-fi play
  and at least a few more worlds and more multiplayer levels but if you are considering buying this 
 game I highly consider it because it is like the original mario games on nes and snes with new 
 features in mario 64.
  The other good thing about this game is the grahics, it is like the original game but now with 
 3d enviroments and all new power-ups like big super mario mario turns huge and when you run you 
 smash and break everyting even bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 26, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I find it difficult to give any game a perfect score, but this is about as close as it gets. 
 
  
  If you ask a random person to name a video game, most likely they'll say Mario. This is because 
 of the fun everyone has had playing this brilliant series. Nintendo has managed to continue in 
 the tradition with this remarkable version for the DS. Here are my notable features of the game.
 
  
  1. Minigames - great variety, well done and addictive
  2. Fun multiplayer battle mode
  3. Download feature that only requires one game pack
  4. Lots of hidden worlds and "secrets" 
 which are part of the Mario tradition 
  5. Value brought by the different variety within the game; minigames, the three big coins on each 
 level, ect.
  6. The dual touch screen plays in well as sort of a status / map.
  
  Best of all, the look and feel of the original Mario is captured in a new and improved package. 
 I'd say this is the best Mario game since Super Mario World. Overall this is a fun, good looking 
 game that is a must for any DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olimamidar
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 26, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is both good and bad. The good things are that there are good graphics, the multiplayer 
 is pretty cool, the minigames are okay, and the gameplay is pretty good. The bad things are that 
 its so short ( I beat the last boss in 2 days) , there is NO YOSHI, there is no capes or anything 
 like that, and the most of the minigames are from super mario 64 ds. They at least could've added 
 yoshi and atleast a couple more levels because it's the shortest game ever, tied with donkey kong 
 country for GBA ( I beat that in 2 days also) . Just wait to get it used and return it when you 
 are done. I WISH I DID THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilteo12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I must admit... I had my worries about a 2-d Mario game, considering all of the next-gen hype surrounding 
 this year. But questioning Nintendo when it comes to a sidescrolling Mario game is never wise and 
 they have proven themselves once again. Taking all of the great ideas from the original Mario games 
 on the Nintendo and combining them with a Mario Party world setup, this game feels and plays like 
 the classic but offers all kinds of new fun. 
  
  All of the classic enemies are here, as well as the Groundhog Day storyline (Peach is captured... Mario 
 to the rescure... Peach is captured... Mario to the rescue) . Still, once you get past the 'story', 
 you can't help but find yourself immersed in this new world, where you can grab mushrooms to grow 
 the size of the entire screen or shrink to find Goombas are now giant size. All of the class block, 
 coin, question mark, and mushrooms are here... as is the solid gameplay. Even the replay factor 
 is at work, as you can wind your way back through levels to find Large Star Coins that you 'need' 
 to open gates to mushroom houses that offer minigames and extra lives. 
  
  Many reviews have noted that the touch screen is worthless, but I found it rather helpful. It shows 
 your progress, which is a lifesaver if you are running out of time. The locations of the three 
 Large Star Coins are also 'given', in that you can determine where in the level the stars are located. 
 And with the tap of the stylus, you can bring power ups down from above. 
  
  Wonderful graphics, amazing gameplay and lots of fun. If you own a DS, this is a MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerjack12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  New Super Super Mario Bros had a reputation of being one of the first DS games ever announced. 
 It had high expedtations and guess what, the wait was worth it. The story is so simple, Peach is 
 kidnapped once again, but this time around, your not running around collecting stars or going to 
 crazy worlds like you did in Super Mario 64 DS. Now it's to the basics in terms of side scrooling. 
 
  
  The gameplay is super fun and has enough new stuff to bring the classic NES game in the 21th century. 
 My only true complant to the game is that it is not a very long adventure. This a 11 hour game, 
 so you can it done in a week if you take your sweet time, but if go through the extra levels and 
 the two extra worlds, it adds a shocking 4 addtional hours.
  
  There is miningames in NSMB, but most of them have been taken from SM64DS, so... they're just not 
 as fun anymore. So if you have a DS, just go buy right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game was improved and there are a whole lots new things that have been added 
 to this game such as star coins. everything is improved and new things have been added the only 
 things left remaining is that you still play with Mario (also Luigi) and the point of the game 
 is still the same.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The gameplay of this game is great. Of course in all mario games the point of the game is the save 
 princess peach from Bowser's castle well its no different in this game but instead of beating bowser 
 you have to defeat Koopa Kid. You face Bowser in the first world but in the rest you face Koopa 
 Kid and later on you will have to defeat bowser again. the good 'ol days.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The graphics in this game is PERFECT. there was a major improvement in the graphics 
 since the nes and snes version. I like the way that they made the level screen. i dont know what 
 you exactly call it but it is when your selecting a level and how they made it reminded me of super 
 mario bros. 3 which was a good addition to this game. also mario looks funny when he is small, 
 he looks like he has been sqashed but it is still good.
  
  Sound/Music: 10
  The sound and music was good in this game. The music of course is the classic mario theme. also 
 there has been new music to the game and to the levels. each music does fit in perfectly with the 
 level which is good. the sound of course is good. they sound good and i think the voices has been 
 improved a little im not sure to me it kinda does. 
  
  This game is a perfect game and will be enjoyed by everyone. also this game has multiplayer so 
 2 people can be having fun at the same time. and if 2 people have the game it is even better. also 
 another new thing is that you can now play with Luigi. for people who havent beaten the game yet 
 to play with him hold L then R and then while holding these 2 buttons select a file and Luigi should 
 say his own name and there you go. Also another improvement that everyone perhaps loves is that 
 you can now save. in Super Mario Bros. for the nes and snes you could never save and then you'd 
 have to start all over again. well i hope this review as persuaded to go get the game if you dont 
 have it. if you have it enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros is sort of a remake of the classic Mario game. It starts off with Mario 
 and Princess Peach taking a stroll, when all of the sudden a giant dark cloud hovers over the the 
 castle. Mario rushes over to see what's going on, while Baby Bowser slowly sneaks up behind Peach 
 and grabs her. The cloud disappears, and Mario realizes that Peach has been taken, and he chases 
 after Baby Bowser and Peach. 
  The game is basically you (Mario) running after Baby Bowser to rescue Peach, but, until the last 
 world, he gets away and runs to the next one. There are 8 worlds in the game which can seem kinda 
 short, but it's really not that bad, because there are many levels in each world. The gameplay 
 in this game is like the old one, with only a few new items, but it's still very fun. The graphics 
 are 2 and 3-D, which look very good together on this game. The music and sounds are also great. 
 Altogether, The New Super Mario Bros. is a pretty fun game that will entertain both Mario fans 
 and others looking for a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most entertaining games I've purchased for my DS. You put this game in, play 
 the first level and get a giant mushroom and you are automatically in love with it. The levels 
 are fairly easy unless you try to get all of the star coins and secret exits. The boss battles 
 are a little disappointing with their outstanding ease but they are still more interesting fighting 
 bowser everytime. 
  
  The mini-games are pretty fun, although limited, and the Mario vs. Luigi multiplayer can be pretty 
 intense. 
  
  All in all this game provides a good fun play and I highly recommend picking it up if you havent 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sporkguy3
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I got into this game looking for the second coming of Super Mario Bros 3, but that was not what 
 I got here. When SMB 3 came out it was new, fresh, vibrant, even though 2D had been done, flying 
 goombas, flying Mario! better graphics, before the onslaught of Mario games, it was great. Super 
 Mario World felt new too! Mario had a cape! Yoshi! 16 Bit!!!!
  
  Alas, The new Super Mario Brothers feels far from new. This game does everything right, except 
 for innovate. It was a fun filled 2D adventure worth any Mario fan's while, but no classic here. 
 
  
  Great Throwback, good DS game.
  
  One thing did bother me tho, the blue shell, when you run u turn into a shell, and although you 
 kill everything you hit... its hard to stop and u tend to fall off cliffs.
  
  Anyway, good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo came out with a certain game way back in those late 80's. It was a new game for the NES 
 called super mario bros. and fans immediately fell in love with it. Well new and old fans alike 
 will gravitate toward this game in droves. It's so easy to pick up and just get right into it. 
 Plus it has a slew of minigames to spice things up. But the single player adventure is just excellent, 
 the game is easy enough to play and hard enough for those masters of the mario platforming art. 
 Well I really can't think of much else to say about the game except it's completely perfect, there 
 are absolutely no problems in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortazavii
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  This Mario Side Scroller for the DS, although I do wish they would make it for the big screen! 
 Who knows, they may, and it does fit for the DS so it's a very injoyable game for the DS it self! 
 This game is a mix of everything from Super Mario Brothers to Yoshis Island to Super Mario 64! 
 This game happends to use 3D Mario movement from Mario 64 and may take a bit of time to get used 
 to it... Other than that, this game can get cheap at times.
  
  This game has much more than the old games! It has new enemys, new moves such as wall jump and 
 Rope climb/swing. It also has new items as well such as Mini Mushrooms, Mega Mushrooms and Blue 
 Koopa shells that gives you the power to act and do what a Koopa would! This game is great for 
 Kids and Adults! This is a classic to behold and I bealive you could beat this 200 times in your 
 life like the old one (or at least play 200 times) !!
  This game has Minigames, Multiplayer Battle and its even Multiplayer for the mini games as well. 
 This game is something you can enjoy for a long time!
  
  The story is: Mario goes on a walk on a open field with Peach across the front castle.. As soon 
 as they come to a bush lightning hits the castle and destracts Mario so he goes over to the castle 
 and checks it out! Soon Baby Bowser sneaks behind Peach near the bush and takes her away and its 
 up to you to save her once again!
  
  So if you're a DS owner and youre a Mario fan or even if you're not! I suggest playing this! This 
 is a game that continues the old to the new!
  Mario games go to show that a game can never be to old not to play... unless it's broken or your 
 parents dont let you play games or you died or.. umm nevermind..
  
  Anyways, enjoy this great classic!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OdinDragoonX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  New side-scroller Mario's have been very absent since the SNES days. Sure we got the remakes on 
 the GBA, but nothing that was truely new. New Super Mario Bro's has changed that, and has become 
 a game you can rightfully put in the same catagory as previous games that are now some of the greatest 
 games ever created. NSMB took the very core of which Mario blossomed from, and reworked it in a 
 way to blend the past and the present into a nice package.
  
  The main game plays a lot like a mix between the oringial Super Mario Bro's and Super Mario World. 
 The interface is nice, and the path to each level is clear. Each level has you collecting 3 coins 
 (optional) which are used to open new pathways, usually to mushroom huts to get 1ups, items, and 
 even wallpaper. The game definiatly has the old school feel to it.
  
  The graphics are done very well to update the series. Its 3D graphics in a side-scroller, so its 
 a nice mix of the two together. Better graphics have been seen on the DS, but the game definiatly 
 looks good. This game was announced back before the DS came out, so its understandable the graphics 
 arn't up to what the DS can produce now, but nothing to complain about.
  
  The sound is absolutely amazing, something you will always want to have turned up. All the classic 
 Mario tunes are redone, remixed, and even tossed together with other songs. Some of the sound effects 
 are taken straight from their NES counterparts. The sound is clear, crisp, and really adds a nice 
 feel to the game.
  
  This game is fun, and thats all that really matters. This is a game you can pick up, play, get 
 through a few levels, and if you have to leave, close the lid. Its addicting and will have you 
 returning to previous levels just to collect the coins. Sure its simple, but maybe thats why it 
 makes the game so great. It's something you can just play and enjoy, you don't really have to worry 
 about anything else. The gameplay is very smooth, and before you know it your playing the game 
 through for a 2nd or 3rd time, enjoying it as if it was your first time.
  
  The dual screens and touch screen are not used very much in the main game. While the bottom screen 
 does display where you are in the level, and allows you to easily get your back up item, that is 
 about it. The best feature they use with them is when you go down a pipe, the main screen with 
 Mario will go down to the bottom screen, and return to the top screen when you go up the pipe. 
 In multiplayer games, expecially the mini games, the touch screen and dual screens are used heavily.
 
  
  The multiplayer is great. Sure they take a lot of games from Mario 64 DS, but they add multiplayer 
 to all those minigames. Me and my friends played them, and while they arn't big on handhelds, they 
 enjoyed playing blackjack and blind mans bluff. A major step fowards in terms of multiplayer modes 
 in a standard Mario game. The normal two player mode is running around getting stars, while still 
 fun, is no where near compared to the replay value of the minigame battles.
  
  This game is easily one of the best titles on the DS and I highly recommend you purchase it. There 
 is so much content packed into this game, it will be a game you will keep returning to. If you 
 liked any of the old Mario's, this game will completely satify you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumesoxxs
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  When you first start out playing the game you run into a familiar scenario. You are taking Princess 
 Peach on a stroll through Mushroom Kingdom until Bowser distracts Mario and snatches Peach away. 
 You have to save the princess from Bowsers grasp over a wide array of levels and worlds. There 
 are moments where you will remember how much fun you had with the other Marios and you are feeling 
 great appreciation for this game from the moment you turn it on.
  
  Game play
  
  Now the game play
  
  The Game play is the same type of system from the older Marios on the 
 NES and SNES however they have added new features and a lot of new ways to interact with the environment. 
 You will feel features unique to games such as Super Mario Bros. 3 (for example when you slide 
 down slopes.) I truly believe this game system can transcend time and I truly think this is the 
 true essence of Mario and this is the way Mario games were meant to be played. We have been waiting 
 for this kind of game since the GBA and we have finally grasped a new Super Mario Game. Although 
 the game play is a bit repetitive and you sometimes find yourself facing similar enemies the game 
 play is still fun. They also managed to add fun mini games and fun multiplayer and stylus action 
 in the game. Controls were familiar and grAnd easy to use =)
  
  8/10
  
  Graphics
  
  Now the Graphics are great, they are like the graphics from the Super Mario 64 DS but the game 
 is 2D of course. I really loved the graphics because it brought a great feel to the game like Mario 
 was making a big comeback and looking better than ever. This game showed the graphical value of 
 the DS in my opinion. The graphics were still cartoonish Mario style but it looked great (if that 
 makes any sense)
  
  9/10
  
  Sound
  
  The sound was classic, we got to hear familiar Mario sound effects but they sounded a lot better. 
 The music on the levels was very catchy in fact Im trying to find a soundtrack for this game because 
 it is so well done. The music is old school but it sounds new (once again, if that makes any sense)
 
  
  10/10
  
  Value
  
  Now I have been playing the older Mario games since I was a little tike and I still do in fact 
 I always have my NES ready for when I get a craving for Super Mario Bros. 3. I believe I will do 
 the same with this game because it is so fun and it has captured a lot of the excitement from its 
 predecessors. 
  
  10/10
  
  Reviewers tilt
  
  Now Im going to review my tilt on how well I think Nintendo achieved at their goal. Their goal 
 was to make a Mario game that will bring the Mario fans back to the series. I being a lost Mario 
 fan myself found Marios future looking a little grim but when this game came out I truly think 
 they accomplished their goal. They have blended Old School with new features and great graphics 
 and pure fun Mario formula game play which will keep the fans entertained. Even though they have 
 just barely came out with a new Super Mario Bros. Im thirsty for more Super Mario on the DS and 
 I hope Nintendo quenches my thirst
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy7985
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  How long has it been since Mario has stomped on goombas, grabbed coins, and raced the clock in 
 a solid new platforming adventure? The answer is too damn long. Even though this game looks totally 
 new there's nothing to be afraid of since Nintendo's still kept the Mario goodness through solid 
 platforming. Though the game looks perfect there's still a few faults. The music for one only has 
 a few tracks and will probably disappoint you while some nostalgia freaks might enjoy it, the game 
 is short enough that youu can blast through it in about a week, and all bosses go down too easily. 
 But other than that New Super Mario Bros. is a solid platformer that's worth buying for nostalgia 
 freaks and players new to the series alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played any Super Mario Bros game in the past and enjoyed it this game is worth buying. 
 The title explains itself I mean come on its Super Mario. It is much like the classic Mario games 
 run, jump on enemies and reach the end of the level, while also uncovering all the secrets on the 
 way to. The game follows a map system much like Super Mario Bros 3 or Super Mario World. The levels 
 are fairly short but are still very enjoyable. There are 8 playable worlds in all with about 10 
 levels each. In each level there are 3 star coins in which you can find to access other areas on 
 the map. This adds more playing time and fun because you have the urge to unlock everything. The 
 gameplay is spectacular because it follows much the same system that has worked for twenty years. 
 The game features three new items. There are two new styles of mushrooms, the mini shroom and mega 
 shroom. The mini shroom sinks you to a very small size so you can squeeze into small places to 
 access star coins and other secrets. The mega shroom take it by the name grows you very large allowing 
 you to walk through the level destroying everything in your path. The last item is the koopa shell, 
 all three of these items are great but are very rare, they don't occur often which is somewhat 
 disappointing. For most of the levels you will be using your standard fire balls to take care of 
 your enemy's. Each world features a sub castle and a main castle each castle has a boss mostly 
 different versions of baby bowser. The bosses aren't that great because you can easily take care 
 of them with your fireballs. However the bosses still are a fun addition to the game. The game 
 also features a multiplayer mode, you can go up against your friends which is pretty fun. There 
 are also many minigames most of which are features in Super Mario 64. The multiplayer and mini 
 games are great additions but the main thing to this game is the single player mode. The gameplay 
 in this game is the best part and any game would know that.
  
  The graphics in this game are really good for the Nintendo DS. However this game does not use the 
 full capabilities of the DS because it is a side scroller. Still, the graphics look very clean 
 and are excellent.
  
  The sound in this game is good, mostly consisting of the traditional Mario sounds. The music in 
 this game consists of classic songs and new ones, but the new songs are not as memorable.
  
  The game has great value because you will find your self coming back to this game to find that 
 one secret or one star coin that you missed.
  
  So overall this game is spectacular and should be in any DS owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BejiitaSaiyajin
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Ever since this game was announced for the DS, I couldn't have been more excitied. I mean, who 
 wouldn't love to have some old-school side-scrolling Mario in your hand? Once I picked up this 
 game, I couldn't put it down. Everything about this game is excellent, brought back so many memories 
 of playing Mario on the NES. The graphics in this are really colorful and nice, and just beautiful. 
 It was nice to see a modern-day Mario in a side-scrolling game. The also has been done really well, 
 lots of old-school type sounds brought back. I really don't need to say anything about the gameplay... 
 it's pretty much self-explanatory. The new upgrades in this game are really cool as well. Getting 
 a gigantic mushroom and watching Mario grow into a giant and just being able to destroy everything 
 in his path is just really cool and fun. Also, theres some nice multiplayer addition, and some 
 mini-games, but they are just the mini games from Super Mario 64 DS bought over, but are still 
 fun. Overall, if you own a DS, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 23, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Let be one of the many to say that New Super Mario Bros for the Nintendo DS is just killer. The 
 game starts out with an ever so predictable intro, Peach is kidnapped, yet again. So Mario has 
 to save her. Now, fans of the original, jump for joy. This game packs all of the fun of old school, 
 puts the New in Super Mario and takes the Sunshine right the hell out. With an arsenal of new moves, 
 new powerups and new enemies, it's no wonder why this game pwnt ALL game sales in its opening week. 
 Naturally, you can beat this game in a day. But this game also has SICK multiplayer... well, more 
 addictive than sick but still great, an awesome minigame battle system, which I have yet to try 
 out and the ability to play as Luigi. Not that he's any different, but hey, give the loser chance, 
 eh? This game MEGA recommended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadBunny
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This Mario 2D plateformer brings the old NES Super Mario Bros. back to life! But with some new abilities, 
 new power ups, a new story and of course a new screen.
  
  The story is like most Mario adventures. In this 2D Mario game Baby Bowser/Bowser Jr. kidnappes 
 princess peach while Mario is distracted from your walk with peach when you see some mischief.
 
  
  The whole game is focused on the single player mode. You have 8 worlds to explore and collect star 
 coins to open special doors. On your way threw these worlds you will encounter Bowser Jr. quite 
 allot as for you must beat him in the in 8 towers (One in each world.) After you beat him and some 
 other levels on the world you will encounter a castle. Inside these castles you will have boss fights 
 that Bowser Jr. has set up for you. These Boss are a little to easy sometimes, if you have a flower 
 power up or even without. To beat a boss/Bowser Jr. you must jump on them 3 times or hit them with 
 fireballs in till they die. The only miss of this mode is saving. You can only save when you beat 
 a tower/castle or open a door with your coins. But the alternative is sleep mode. This is not that 
 very appealing as for that you must close leave your DS on. If at any time your DS turns off you 
 will have to start at your last save point.
  
  There is also a Mario vs. Luigi mode that you can play via DS download play. You can play this against 
 your friends that dont have the game or do have the game. Your objective is to collect more stars 
 then your opponent. You can jump on them, throw fireballs and so on to get there stars.
  
  A different addition to the game are the mini games. They may not be as exiting as the single player 
 but there something you can do in your spare time playing this game. But if you own Super Mario 
 64 you will not be surprises that there the same games from that game.
  
  Pros:
  New abilities, Power ups and new control
  Still makes a classic enjoyable
  
  Cons:
  Other 
 modes aren't that appeling
  Cant save when you need to
  Boss arent that hard
  Some levels a little to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars_fan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  this game is a great tribute to the originals. the story begins with Mario and Princess Peach taking 
 a stroll, until a stormcloud appears over the castle and lightning strikes its pillars! mario runs 
 to the castle to investigate, but then an old enemy whisks away the princess.............. bowser 
 JR. mario pursues the koopa prince to save Peach. the game play is a little similar to the original, 
 but there are changes. there are new powerups, such as the mega mushroom and blue shell. there 
 are 8 worlds and each have 1 or 2 towers in which you overcome traps and face bowser jr. at the 
 end. worlds also have a castle where you face a boss such as mummipokey, petey pirahna, monty mole, 
 and, of course, BOWSER!!!!! bowser is faced 3 times, at the end of world 1, in the world 8 castle, 
 and in the final level, bowsers castle. there are also alternate exits and warp pipes/cannons to 
 warp you to another level or world. and also, you can unlock luigi with a code you get after beating 
 the game. this game is bottom line amazing. the only thing is that bosses arent that hard really, 
 but hard towers, castles, and finding every secret more than make up for it, since some are very 
 challenging. and you really should think about getting this because it will not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redertainment
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  This return to the 2-D platformer is great for the Mario franchise. Truth be told, this game is 
 one of the best for the DS, though that's like saying you are that best of your sibblings when 
 you only have one other sibbling. However, when the end comes, your are left with one question: 
 Is that it? I truly wish this game had more content, because I finished it in just under a week. 
 Just eight worlds is not enough for a game nowadays, I've preferred somewhere around fifteen or 
 twenty. The mini-games are horrible, useless, and only good if you are stuck in a doctor's office, 
 ot the DMV, and have a obscene amount of time to blow. I can't tell you what the multi-player is 
 like, because I haven't played it, though I wasn't looking to play them based on the quality of 
 the mini-games. All in all, I would reccomend it to anyone looking for something we haven't seen 
 in a long time, a great Super Mario game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyPetsis
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  When you add another Mario game to an already great library of titles for the DS you can get more 
 fan support for the ever so popular hand held device. When that other Mario game was the game that 
 probably started out the fame for the Nintendo name then we have some fans that want the New Super 
 Mario Brothers to live up to their original. Not to worry fans, because this game truly delivers 
 the old school power, punch and swim of Mario combining of course with the new school never say 
 die attitude, great graphics and greatly improved game play of the new Mario.
  
  It's entertaining, highly addictive and without a doubt it is one of the best games on the Nintendo 
 DS. 
  
  It is always worth to talk about the way its been laid out on the map of course and by that I mean 
 the graphics, the gameplay, the sound and the value of the game. 
  
  Nintendo tried to combine some three dimensional aspects in this ever so popular two dimensional 
 world and they did succeed but I believe it could have been improved a little more. The backgrounds 
 in each world look amazing as they have been improved greatly.
  
  The sound was also improved and it sounds as if more tracks have been added to the audio of the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is the thing that got me hooked. It's one of the most addictive games I've ever played 
 and every thing fits accordingly in the game. It's a game that goes from left to right, but in 
 a way you'll always be going back to the left to keep playing that level even if you've finished 
 it.
  
  The New Super Mario Bros. game makes you want to go back to previous worlds and look for all the 
 secrets which is why the value of this game is so high. You will be playing it for hours at a time 
 without any stoppage time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemmyKoopa
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I can say. This game is awesome.
  
  The gameplay is terrific. It plays out like a standard Mario platformer, like SMB3 or SMW, and 
 with plenty of elements from various different Mario platformers all mixed in, which makes for 
 a great experience. One minor downside is, some of the stages feel a bit unoriginal, like some 
 of them feel like an old stage just tossed in. Most of the other stages, however, are great. They 
 obviously have the same environment and feel as some other Mario games, but are still original 
 enough. Only a couple of the stages are unoriginal. Additionally, there's been some great new stuff 
 added, such as a giant mushroom, which allows you to turn gigantic/invincible and destroy everything 
 in your path for a brief period. There have been other cool new power-ups, along with some new 
 bosses, added, as well. And some fun mini-games, as well.
  
  The sound is what you'd hear in most Mario games. The music is pretty good, as it has some nice 
 re-mixes, as well as some of the classic Mario music. Pretty good overall.
  
  The graphics are awesome, especially for a DS game. Nice and clear, and well-designed. Not really 
 much to say for this section.
  
  Overall, an awesome game, and definitely worth playing. Don't listen to the people scoring this 
 low, complaining about it being "unoriginal". This game wasn't intended to add anything SUPER (no 
 pun itended) new. It was mainly meant to feel like a classic Mario platformer, with various classic 
 Mario elements mixed in, which it does a great job of.
  
  So, what are you waiting for? PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekkerguy
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow! this is definitely the best Mario game yet, and having beaten all the classics I think I would 
 know. A worthy and true successor in the SMB franchise. Every level has a polished and colorful 
 feel to it and the gameplay takes you back to SMB roots, while adding it's own twists to the franchise, 
 truely lifting it to a new level (pun intended) . Mario is still the king of all platformers and 
 I think this title will generate even more hype for the upcoming "Super Mario Galaxy" on the Nintendo 
 Wii. A true and worthy sequel to the best series in gaming history. Buy this game, it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  If you love videogames, you know Mario, if you don't, search your videogame roots, and you'll find 
 him.
  
  GamePlay: In NSMB, the story is the same as all other 2D Mario games, the b! tch, I mean Princess 
 Peach gets kidnapped. The actual gameplay is fantastic with off the wall moves, literally, sweet 
 level designs and a mix of too-short levels and massive levels that you can just get overwhelmed 
 in. Old-school enemies return to make an appearance such as the Goombas and Koopas as well as new 
 ones that I'll let you find. The length of the game is pretty good, about 3-5 hours from start 
 to finish without finding all the nooks and crannies. But the replay value of finding those star 
 coins and the multiplayer mode and mini-games mode definately bring the gameplay value up.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Plain and simple NSMB is one of the best looking games for the DS. Just 
 wait and witness the first underwater level. The water, the enemies, the beauty that is Mario.
 
  
  Sound: Let the nostalgia begin. When you die, the original tune comes on in, and when you hit the 
 flag right at the end of the level, BAM, an original tune that old-schools know, pounces out from 
 the speakers.
  
  Value: 10 out of 10. Why? The main story is just plain fun, maybe a bit too short, but the beauty 
 of it is finding everything, which could take a while. And a huge bonus the multiplayer and minigames 
 mode. Some critics say this is just some lame tack-on. But trust me when I say, you'll be playing 
 these modes for HOURS. (if you have friends with a DS, that is) .
  
  Tilt: What do I have to say. This is the best 2D Mario game EVER. Go out a buy IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vyrizzle
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 22, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Mario is back with a new adventure to do what..... O thats right!! Save poor ol' Princess Peach. 
 And this time around, he has smooth new moves, and some nice powerups as well. 
  
  Gameplay for this game was solid. Tight controls, old and new power-ups, and Star Coin collecting 
 bring this game together. As for power-ups, you get your old set of mushroom and fireflower, but 
 you also get some new ones. The new power-ups were the Giant Mushroom, which increases your size 
 to fit the whole screen so you can romp into anything you would like, the Mini Mushroom, which 
 allowed you to fit into tiny areas and have an increased jump height, and then there was the Blue 
 Turtle Shell, which would let you roll around the map in a turtle shell and basically be invulnerable. 
 But all these new powerups had thier set backs. The Giant Mushroom was sometimes rendered useless 
 in areas that werent filled destructable terrain or enemies, the mini mushroom cause you to die 
 in a hit, and the turtle shell was somewhat useless and hard to control ( especially if you would 
 hit a wall and get bounced back in the other direction) These new power-ups didnt really take the 
 game too far, seeing as they never were used as often as they could have been. The only time they 
 were really needed was to either get to a certain area to find a Star Coin or to get the alternate 
 route ending. Along with these new power-ups, Mario has obtained most of his moves from his 3-d 
 games. Along with the basic jump, you now get the "Butt Stomp", "Wall Jump", and the "Triple Jump". 
 Butt Stomp was used quite often as well as the Wall Jump, but i could never really find a real 
 use for the Triple Jump besides having fun running into the boss room.
  
  Level Design brought back some nice memories. They all contained familiar enemies and familiar 
 run and jump standards. Yet after awhile, it wasnt varied enough. At times, the levels seemed repetetive. 
 Now i know there isnt much that can be done after level design ideas are used up, so it wasnt that 
 much of a dissappointment as it was a quick level. The tower levels were also way to redundent. 
 Well maybe it wasnt the level itself, but having to face the same "boss" at the end of it was kind 
 of a bore since it was the same quick kill everytime. The real bosses of each stage were the best 
 suprises though. This game contains prolly one of my favorite boss fight in a mario game. Also, 
 each level contains 3 Star Coins that can be obtained to unlock mushroom houses. There are 3 types 
 of mushroom houses. One is your familiar house that gives you a power-up, another was a 1-up mushroom 
 house that allowed you to play a game of "chance" to obtain some free lives, and the last was a 
 Giant Mushroom house which gave you none other then... A Giant Mushroom! These coins were also used 
 towards the end of the game to unlock new "faceplates" for the bottom screen.
  
  Overall though, i was rather disappointed. After not having recieved a 2-d mario for so long, i 
 was hoping for something AMAZING. I was hoping for something along the lines of Super Mario World, 
 and this game just didnt feel that way. There wasnt that much anticipation to search for everything 
 adn everything in a level. Making sure to search high and low in each level for the alternate ending 
 was not as fun as it was in super mario world since you could tell on the world map that there 
 was going to be an alternate route to find. So it wasnt a real suprise when you found that ending 
 to unlock something different. Also, i kind of missed the pressence of Yoshi. At the beginning 
 of the game, Yoshi really wasnt in my mind. But as i was playing through, memories of SMW kept 
 coming back and i started wanting more of the game. Like in the case of the tower levels, why couldnt 
 they bring back Bowser's lil Kronies. I mean instead of facing the same miniboss over and over 
 and using the same tactics to kill him, why couldnt they spice it up and bring back the kooppa 
 family. So maybe it was because i was expecting a game similar to SMW and not something along the 
 lines of Super Princess Peach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshark5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  20 years ago, Super Mario Bros was released. This was a side scrolling platformer. Then there was 
 Super Mario Bros 2 and 3 and a whole bunch others. After these however, came different sets of 
 golf, tennis, basketball, parties, sunshine and karts. Now, in 2006 we have a new side scrolling 
 game. The New Super Mario Bros. Read On.
  
  No Story. At least there isnt much of one. Dont worry, a story isnt needed. Basically Mario 
 and Peach are walking towards the castle, and then thunder strikes. Mario checks out whats happening, 
 and Peach gets kidnapped by Baby Bowser. Mario begins his adventure. Now just like Super Mario 
 Bros, especially the 3rd one, its not just going on level to level nonstop. There is a map with 
 little circle points. Each of these is a level. One by one youll go to a level, beat it, a new 
 level/path opens. There is, or so Nintendo says, 80 levels. If you go through the game in a straightforward 
 manner, meaning not looking for secrets; you will:
  1) Miss 2 worlds
  2) Miss A Bunch Of Secrets
  3) Miss A Lot of Hidden Content and Gameplay
  
  Doesnt look 
 like a lot, but by going back and finding the rest of hidden items and levels, it makes all the 
 difference. True, It is a classic side scrolling game. With 3D graphics now. Instead of having 
 a cheap 2D Mario, you now have a full fledged Mario. There are 80 levels, all unique. Youll go 
 through Mountains, deserts, volcanoes, oceans and more. This means baddies from all across the 
 kingdom. Yes there is still the goomba, the koopa, the flying koopa, the cheep-cheep, the bowser, 
 and now a few others.
  
  Now what kind of game would this be without powers? Oh yes there are powers. Sadly, nearly as many 
 as there were in Super Mario Bros 3. In this game you have the mushroom, turning you into Super 
 Mario. The Fire Flower turning you into Fire Mario. The new Mega Mushroom, turning you giant and 
 invincible. With this power you may crush anything in your path. The Starman; same thing as the 
 Mega Mushroom, however you dont go massive. Finally, the new blue shell. The Blue Shell turns 
 you into a somewhat koopa Mario. This lets you essentially become a turtle guy. By ducking, youll 
 go into your shell, hiding. If you start running, youll hide in your shell, but youll be spinning 
 and moving at the same time. If any bad guy is stupid enough to run in front of you, we wont see 
 them now will we?
  
  As I mentioned, you run 2D, like any side scrolling game. But it has 3D graphics. So Mario doesnt 
 look like the old Mario in Super Mario Bros 1/2/3. He looks like the Mario from Super Mario 64 
 DS. Which is slightly better than the N64 Mario. The 2D and 3D graphics fuse together quite nicely 
 in this game. The different powers look good. The turtle Mario was a nice touch, and he lookswell 
 fat in it. The levels are nicely detailed, and varied. Throughout the ocean levels you wont see 
 the exact same fish in the exact same spots. The bosses. Different and unique are good words for 
 describing bosses. Aside from 1 boss, all of them look unique, and have unique looking moves. Each 
 different level gives the boss a different trait, which then ends up having different bosses to 
 look forward too each level. The sound in general is excellent. Theres some classic Mario sound 
 effects in there. Such as going down tunnels, hitting koopas, getting a mushroom everything. There 
 is also some catchy beats in the game. All of the worlds have a tune that youll remember. Sort 
 of like Luigis Mansions song.
  
  The game itself isnt too long. But if you read above youd know that by playing straight through 
 it you miss a lot of secrets and 2 worlds. To actually get everything youll be playing for quite 
 some time. Not to mention trying to get 99999999 points. Bottom line, this game grows on you and 
 you wont be able to put it down very easily.
  
  Overall this is an excellent game. Not just for the DS, but for gaming systems around the world. 
 The hidden secrets in the worlds will keep you coming back until its actually finished. If you 
 need a good platformer, The New Super Mario Bros wont let you down.
  
  9.0 Editors Choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legofreak11
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! It has many of the qualities that made SMB a classic, yet feels totally new! And 
 the multiplayer is great! If you don't have this game, buy it today! I would buy this game even if 
 I didn't have a DS. It starts out great because it feels just like the original. Then while you play 
 you are introduced to new items like the Mega Mushroom, new gameplay such as item houses 
  between courses, and new bosses, such as a giant Goomba. There are also the new Star coins, which 
 you use to open item houses and use shortcuts found in the game. All things considered, New super 
 Mario Bros.
  is a definite DS classic that everyone should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario brothers is just as the name suggest the first brand new 2d adventure since super 
 Mario brothers 3 and with the new game comes a new system ,the ds ,and a new 3d look. The core 
 gameplay in nsmb stays basically intact with the major changes being a few borrowed moves from 
 Marios venture into the 3d world. For example you can now perform a wall kick when about to fall 
 off a ledge and die or use it to reach a hidden area. Along with Marios new moves come brand new 
 level designs which are just as smooth and entertaining as the previous levels in past games. Each 
 level contains various power ups and hidden areas. The only problems I have with nsmb is the tact 
 on minigames which are pretty useless and the game can sometimes be a little difficult at times, 
 but its that very same ,die, try again, die try again formula that makes the game so addicting. 
 Any ds owner should definitely have this game in their library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloIsABeast
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off this game will own you. It's very addictive with stunning visual and unique but 
 exciting features and catchy music that fits each world perfectly. There's no feeling in a game 
 like te one you get when Mario grows into a beast-like size and stomps through everything. difficult 
 at times, but very hard to put down. Finally a game that really tries to take the handheld's truly 
 creative potential. If youre into fun, colorful action gameplay then check this game out and you 
 wont be disappoiinted. This truly is a modern classic worth any DS owners time no matter what age. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FE411
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 10/10. I tried it when a friend of mine lent it to me and may I say that was 
 a darn good game! Mario games have just gotten better and if Nintendo keeps it up, I can just imagine 
 how much money they will make off of me. Sure it was easy but aren't all Mario games like that? 
 The gameplay was perfect. As was the graphics, sound, tilt, and especially replay value. Anyways, 
 I love this game and it loves me and we are a happy family. Heh, I couldn't think of anything else 
 to say. Although I do have this game now and I am on World 6. GO NEW SUPER MARIO BROTHERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadrik
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I was pleased at the new game. The mini games are fun and are a nice extra feature to the new Mario 
 game. They are simple for the most part and are fun to try to get a high score. I love how they 
 added the multiplayer aspect so that you can challenge someone without a cartridge to play the 
 single player levels. Now time to review the main single player game. This game was great. Right 
 from the start you can see the great graphics and yet the game still had the original Mario game 
 NES feel. The controls are basically identical to the original Mario game except they added wall 
 jumping and butt stomp. They have also added new items like the mega mushroom which makes you huge 
 and almost unstoppable, the mini mushroom which makes you extra small, the turtle shell for protection, 
 and classics return such as the flower, star, and mushroom. The game was very fun. They have added 
 large coins to collect extra items between levels, 1up mushrooms, and some extra features. The 
 normal coins still exist as well as the eight red coins which will give you an item such as a mushroom 
 or flower. The difficulty of the game was about the same as the original Mario. At times it is 
 moderately hard, some parts very easy, and some pretty hard. Overall, I would say most of it was 
 easy, some levels where difficult, and the final dungeons to most of the areas where difficult. 
 The boss fights where very simple. Most of the fights were very easy and could be won with ease. 
 The final fight and some of the other fighters where you don't fight Bowser or Bowser Jr were a 
 challenge. Overall, this is a great game to play. I know I would play it again. The best part is 
 the game saves your progress and has the map feature so that you can play any level you want as 
 long as you have access to it by beating it or being next on the map. This game is a must have 
 for Mario fans. I would highly recommend it. I would not however recommend it for young kids. Just 
 like the old Mario, it takes a bit of skill and timing to get the jumps right and for children 
 under the age of 6, I would not recommend this game. Kids can learn to play this game, but it only 
 takes one to two hits to kill Mario and because of that can be irritating. Also, this game has 
 8 areas. There are two areas that have to unlocked by defeating the final boss in s special form 
 and on area 2 and 5 (I think) as the mini Mario will unlock Map 4 and 7. (The little Mario that 
 is the size of a peanut) Overall, I would give this game a 9/10. I wish they could have made the 
 game longer by adding more levels, adding more items, and adding more unlockable features. I still 
 stand by my opinion that this game is a must have. I would recommend it. I wouldn't be surprised 
 if in the next year we see another New Super Mario Bros. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenal_xat
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  I love Mario and very much. I've been counting days before this game shipped. Yes, this is definitely 
 Mario. When you feel the solid control, you know that.
  
  It won't take you long to complete the game but some levels are not easy and you might try a few 
 times, and maybe you need to go back to store some mushroom power-up.
  
  You can see some new and interesting designs like the moving bomb will be ignited by the falling 
 firing stones. The mini and huge mushroom offers much fun.
  
  The familiar and sweet world impressed me, but when I finished this game, I knew it's not the best 
 Mario. It lacks the essence of Mario. When you play Yoshi Island, you are smiling all the time. 
 When you see baby mario covering his eyes with his tiny hands, you cann't help smiling. People 
 love mario not just because its smooth control and secrets, but also its lovely world full of sunshine. 
 Sometimes, you just play some gadgets in the level, it's fun. In this new Mario, I only had a big 
 smile when I was trying to jump for the flag and hit by the snowball.
  
  And the secrets... Just go to gamefaqs and check the walkthrough, you'll find there's not much 
 about the secrets in this game. When you finish collecting all the big coins, there's no more meaningful 
 challenge. Yes, you can try to see how fast you can finish the game, but you can do that in almost 
 every game. You won't play this new Mario for very long time. The Mario Kart, Mario vs Donkey Kong 
 lasts much longer than this game.
  
  If you're a huge Mario fan, you'll be absolutely touched when you take the first glance at this 
 game. But soon you'll be as disappointed as me and hoping this is not the game you have been waiting 
 so long. It's still a very great game, but it's just not a very "Mario" one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  In the hustle and bustle of E3, it seems the arrival of New Super Mario Bros. had a low fanfare, 
 and believe me... it deserves more. A lot more. Nintendo did its homework, researching Super Mario 
 Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World and taking some of the best parts of each to 
 make an excellent game.
  The game begins with the usual Mario story: Princess Peach gets kidnapped and Mario has to save 
 her. Sure, the story may be weak, but once you play the first few levels, you will completely forget 
 it. The New Super Mario Bros. feels exactly like an old-school Mario game with a few new items. 
 There is the Mega Mushroom, which grows Mario to the size of the top screen of the DS, where he 
 basically destroys anything in his path. There is the Mini Mushroom, which makes Mario smaller, 
 but better at jumping. Finally, there is the Koopa Shell, where if Mario runs fast enough, he spins 
 like a thrown Koopa Shell. While these new items are fine and dandy, you do not come across them 
 very often. Also, the Koopa Shell usually got me killed more times than it helped me.
  Controlling Mario is just as easy as it was on the NES: B and A are to jump, X and Y are to run 
 and shoot fireballs when Fire Mario. However, Mario has some tricks from Super Mario 64 (DS) as 
 well. He can double jump, triple jump, butt stomp, and wall jump, making for some unique puzzles.
 
  While I do love this game, there are a few small problems I have. First, the fire flower basically 
 makes even the toughest of enemies into pushovers. As mentioned above, the Koopa Shell is annoying 
 and the new items don't appear as often as they should. Also, some things are just out of place, 
 like some levels not having anything to do with the rest of the world, and the world 5 boss, although 
 I like him, doesn't fit in with the icy world at all. Another thing is it seems that the difficulty 
 jumps all over the place. Overall, these small complaints don't come close to outweighing the good.
 
  If you are simpling trying to run to the end of the game, New Super Mario Bros. will seem short. 
 However, if you are trying for 100% by finding every star coin, beating every level, and finding 
 every secret exit, New Super Mario Bros. will take you a long while to beat. Not to mention the 
 Mini Games, even though most are just remakes of the Super Mario 64 DS games.
  Nintendo really did it right. Newcomers to the Side Scrolling, Platform Jumping Mario games can 
 pick it up and play easily, and fans of the classic Mario games will not be disappointed. The New 
 Super Mario Bros. is excellent to the very end. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: windscar26
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is an absolute must have if you own DS. 
  
  At first I was not sure if I wanted to get this game but than I decided what the heck and bought 
 it and I'm glad I did. The game is suprisingly fun and addictive for a side scroller. some of the 
 stages are super easy but there are some that are quite difficult. 
  
  Mario gets his fire flower and starman back in this game and 2 new mushrooms. The mega shroom which 
 lets you become super huge and lets you destroy EVERYTHING in your way, and the tiny shroom which 
 lets you become... well tiny. It lets jump very high and fit into tiny pipes and holes.
  
  But there are some sad things about this game. For instance no yoshi, no cape or racoon mario.
 
  
  Anyway this game is hella fun i reccomend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty much just like the old ones. 2-D, save the princess, defeat bowser... Oh wait! You dont 
 always fight bowser! You fight Pokey's, Baby Bowser, those fish, who I temperaly forgot there name, 
 and others. And the characters are 3-D. 
  
  There are also new items. Ones that make you really big and ones that make you really small. There 
 are also the fire flowers and the normal mushrooms. There are probally about 100 or so levels? 
 
  
  This game also has mini-games just like SUper Mario 64. Some new and some old. I think you can 
 unlock some but I have yet to found out how. 
  
  Multi-player is in this game also. One play Mario and the other Luigi. Fight for the stars! And 
 don't forget! You can also go multi- player with the mini-games too. You only need one game card. 
 
  
  This game is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Mario has gone through many changes over the years. When Super Mario 64 hit shelves, it seemed 
 as if the days of his side scrolling games had come to an end. However, New Super Mario Bros brings 
 back the days of Mario's side scrolling games, and makes it seem new all over again.
  
  The plot in this game is simple. Princess Peach gets kidnapped by Baby Bowser, and its up to Mario 
 to save her. Mario then goes on a journey to save her through a variety of worlds.
  
  The graphics are an interesting mix of 2D and 3D. Mario and other characters are displayed in 3D, 
 while the environment remains in 2D. The 3D models are sharp and look great on the DS. The animations 
 run well for everything on the most part, and there aren't any slow downs. However, because of 
 the DS screen resolution, the characters may look a bit gritty. Environments in the game don't 
 share the resolution problem. All of the backrounds, boxes, platforms, and buildings are bright 
 and solid. There are also several effects going on in the environment depending on where you are. 
 Water, for example, will ripple whenever something falls in or jumps out of it.
  
  New Super Mario Bros may take most of its gameplay elements from previous games in the series, 
 but this game has a few things of its own. There are several worlds to go through, each one having 
 a specific amount of stages and a unique theme. Each world will give different challenges depending 
 upon its theme; for example, the fire world has flaming rocks falling on you, and the ice world 
 has a slippery surface. You'll use powerups to help you through each stage and keep things from 
 getting too repeditive. All the basic powerups from previous Mario games are here, such as the 
 Fire Flower and Mushroom, but now there are the additions of the Mega Mushroom, Minimushroom, and 
 Turtle shell. The Mega Mushroom will make Mario grow the size of the screen and allow you to crush 
 anything in your path, while the Minimushroom will make him shrink and able to get into small places. 
 The turtle shell will give Mario a turtle suit and allow him to spin attack enemies and slide.
 
  
  Although the gameplay is great, it isn't what it could have been. Some levels seem a bit too short, 
 and some powerups that would have been great are not there (feather or frog suit anyone?) . Yoshi 
 would have been a nice addition as well, however he is also absent. The game is also too easy and 
 short. If you've played the previous Mario side scrollers, you can probably blaze though this one 
 in about a day or two.
  
  The sound in this game is a mix of classic and remixed tracks from previous mario games. Backround 
 music is clear and different in each world and area. For example, if you are to go under water, 
 you'll hear a theme for that, and another for the classic grass worlds. Sound effects are basically 
 upgraded sounds from previous Mario games, but are upgraded to the point that they seem new again. 
 Each one is clear, and makes great use of the audio capabilities of the DS. The character voices 
 sound good for the most part, but Mario and Baby Bowser sometimes sound a bit fuzzy. Other than 
 that small problem, the audio quality in this game is fantastic.
  
  Like other past Mario side scrollers, this one is highly addicting. After you go through the main 
 quest, chances are you'll go back and jump through the levels all over again. If you get bored 
 of the main quest, you can challenge a friend in the minigames, or a versus battle. A versus game 
 will put one player as Luigi and the other as Mario. The object of the game is to get to gather 
 as many stars as possible. Some minigames you may recognize from Mario 64 DS, but there are some 
 new ones, and they have the option of multiplayer. There are a variety to choose from, such as 
 cards and action games, to keep you from getting bored too quickly.
  
  New Super Mario Bros brings back the memories of Mario's side scrolling days, and somehow makes 
 the entire experience seem new all over again. Although it gets the main formula down, it lacks 
 a few things that would help to make the game better. For the most part, this game is a must-have 
 for any Mario fan or DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetraGold2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the classic Mario series, you have gotta try this game, with new people, better 
 graphics, new levels and the classic unforgetable characters that no one will forget about. Mario, 
 Peach, Luigi, Drybones. It is a lot like Super Mario World and Super Mario 3. I got it for 30$ 
 Canadian and I'm one of the most happiest people in the world. If you see this game in stores, 
 get it, you will be enjoying it for weeks. The only thing I would like them to add would be a cape 
 or something like that so I could fly on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpblu
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game combines SO many different Mario games and squishes them all together. Does it work? 
 OH YEAH!!! This game has elements from the four games described in the title. This game is a perfect 
 modern Super Mario Bros! Other games that remix classics tend to suck... but this game ignores that 
 rule! It's everything Mario fans have been waiting for. Only thing missing is Feather Mario! ;)
 
  
  Let's see... where to begin... well, the gameplay shouldn't be unfamiliar to ANYBODY! It combines 
 several gameplay aspects from past Mario games. It holds the classic skills and power-ups from 
 Super Mario Bros, it holds true to the "Tower" Bosses and the Toad Houses from SMB3, it has alternate 
 exits and a world map just like in SMW, and it also features Mario with his more modern moves (like 
 the Wall Jump) from SM64. Bowser's back in his classic fight from SMB, as you only need to destroy 
 the bridge to defeat him. The other bosses are much like SM64, only needing three attacks (usually 
 jumping/butt-slamming) to be defeated. Of course, Mario veterans will remember the entire cast 
 of Mario characters and enemies. A few new faces are shown (Mummipokey for example) , but most will 
 seem familiar to you. Mario also holds his classic health system. As long as he's not regular (or 
 Mini) Mario, he won't die from enemy attacks. Mario has three new forms this time around! He's 
 got a Mini form to squeeze into tight spots, a Shell form that'll destroy basically anything he 
 slams into, and Mega Mario, who kicks ALL butt!
  
  The replay value is definitely present, as this is basically a Mario classic. And what's the best 
 thing to do with classics? Speed-runs!!! In fact, I'm expecting to see speed runs of this game 
 near the first couple of months of 2007. And the fact that's it's been a while since a brand-new 
 Mario classic, it has a lot of replay value. The levels are plentiful and fun enough to keep you 
 entertained. Also, there's plenty of tricks to do in each level. One extra thing that's been added 
 into the mix is the Star Coins. These are used to purchase wallpapers or to pass through the Star 
 Coins signs. Only a true Mario expert will grab every last coin!
  
  With all sorts of gameplay aspects from past games squeezed into one, and the brand new things 
 they bring into this game, it's one heck of a game! No wonder it's #1 for the DS! Nintendo DEFINITELY 
 knows what they're doing! Mario comes at us with yet another classic to add to his repertoire. 
 Congratulations on a job well done, and thank Nintendo for such a blessing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seffora
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Mario has been around for just about as long as Console gaming. Some might argue it was Mario Bros. 
 that helped the gaming industry take off with the NES back in the 1980's. Now 20 years later Mario 
 is a household name and yet handheld gamers have been treated to nothing but ports to all his greatest 
 games from the 8-bit though 64-bit eras. This is all fine and good, but most of the audiance that's 
 buying these games have been playing since the NES and we haven't had an original handheld Mario 
 game since Mario Land 2. Nintendo has finally heeded the call for a truely new Mario game on the 
 DS, but how does it stack up?
  
  The first thing you notice playing the game is the graphics are somewhere between Mario World and 
 Mario 64. It's set in a 2D space, a true side-scroller like the Mario games of yesteryear. But 
 it also features 3D charactor models along the lines of Mario 64. Granted the models aren't quite 
 as complex as the 3D Mario games but it's refeshing to see Nintendo push the DS a little harder 
 and have polygonal models rather than upgraded sprites.
  
  The soundtrack is what you would expect from a Mario game. Not quite as memorable as games like 
 Mario World, Mario Bros. or Yoshi's Island but still the same kind of up-beat fun music you would 
 expect. Mario also yells and such as he hops around in the style of the GBA remakes. As an interesting 
 twist sometimes the enemies will dance or sing to the music in an attempt to throw off your timing. 
 Not a huge gameplay inhancement, but interesting atleast.
  
  What really matters is the gameplay. Interestingly enough it seems to combine all the best aspects 
 of all the most popular Mario games together adding some new unique style of it's own. The move-set 
 is like a combonation of Mario Vs. Donkey Kong, Mario 64 and mario Bros. 3 and even a little Mega 
 Man X. One issue I have with the game is the controles feel a little "stiffer" than I'm used to, 
 more along the lines of Mario Vs. Donkey Kong or the original Mario Bros. on the NES. You can preform 
 moves from acorss the Mario series like the running and jumping you would expect. You can also 
 ground pound like in Mario World or Mario 64 and triangle jump like Mario 64. You can also cling 
 to and slide down walls like the Mega Man X games. This is how you peform the triangle jump, kicking 
 off walls while clinging to them. The hub area is in the style of Mario Bros. 3 with the alternate 
 paths of Mario World. You can also keep one item in stock like Mario World. In case you can't already 
 tell, the game is basically a Mario Anthology. Yes all the worlds and levels are new. But the features 
 in tha game are all basically a best-of-the-best collection. In a way this is fun for fans. But 
 in another way it also hurts the game. There are no real new elements to the game for long time 
 fans aside from some new power-ups, which works a lot like some of the old power-ups anyway. In 
 the end, you get a solid game that looks great but if you're expecting an inovative new Mario side-scroller 
 you're out of luck. But if you're looking for one of the best Portable platformers in a while this 
 will be what you're looking for.
  
  Additionally there are three star coins in each level to collect and sectre exits to locate, which 
 should keep you busy for a while, and it's a Mario game, so it's sure to be challenging and keep 
 you entertained for hours.
  
  In the end, like I said, it's a fun, solid, pretty platformer. It may not have a lot of "new" innovations 
 but it will keep you entertianed. But more importantly this is an important game in that it's the 
 first original side-scrolling Mario game since Yoshi's Island and the first new portable Mario 
 game since Mario Land 2. If you enjoy a good platformer, then buy it. really, anyone can enjoy 
 it to some degree, so as long as you have a DS this should be next on your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orochi_RockMan
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  What we have here is a side scrolling Mario Bros. game. A NEW side scrolling Mario Bros. game [hence, 
 the name] well.... sort of. I wouldn't exactly call it NEW because most everything in this game 
 you've seen before and in better fashion.
  
  Bowser Jr. kidnaps Princess Peach [I know, I was shocked to] and as Mario you must chase him through 
 8 different worlds to get her back. Each world features a map with about 6 to 7 different levels 
 and ends with a boss battle inside a Castle at the end of each world.
  
  The world maps do little more than place each of the worlds levels right beside each other in a 
 straight line heading to the right and in such are... rather boring and uninspired. Like Super 
 Mario World, some levels have alternate exits, but where they lead to is already clearly pointed 
 out on the map, there's no re-arranging of the geography to expose hidden areas like SMW.
  
  The new items at Mario's disposal are a Mini-Mushroom that makes Mario exceptionally small, 
 a Mega Mushroom that makes Mario especially huge, and a Blue Shell with turns him into something 
 akin to Hammer Brother Mario from Super Mario 3, only half-assed.
  
  Mini Mario can get into tiny places the other can't and floats down slowly when he jumps, Mega 
 Mario bashes and crashes through everything in the level like Godzilla run amuck, and Shell Mario 
 can get inside his shell when he runs and plow through things.
  
  The returning Mario items include the Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, and Invincibility Star. That's 
 it. There are no flying powers, no swimming powers, no Hammer Brothers Suit, no P Balloon, and 
 NO Yoshi.
  
  The game also lets you store 1 item the way SMW did but you have to touch the touch screen to use 
 it, which seems rather arbitrary since you don't use it for anything else. br / 
  
  The Super Mushroom itself may sound like fun, but when you realize all your can do is run forward 
 for a limited time with it and destroy everything in your path you'll remember that you might have 
 wanted to see if you could have gone DOWN one of those pipes you destroyed... or maybe there was 
 a vine in one of those blocks you ran through... oftentimes such things lead to a hidden exit which 
 means if you go rampaging through an area with the Super Mushroom you'll more than likely have 
 to play the level again to get what you missed while you were destroying everything.
  
  Let's talk about the Fire Flower now. There's really no reason to aspire to collect any other item. 
 You can run through a level pretty much killing everything except Bullet Bills with 1 Fire Ball. 
 Even the end level bosses fall after being pelted with about 5 or 6 of them leaving you feeling 
 rather "underwhelmed".
  
  Each level has its own boss which is usually a gigantic version of a normal Mario enemy. Levels 
 also have Fortresses and you'll face Bowser Jr. here, but he does the same thing every time you 
 fight him and what he does is EXACTLY what Boom-Boom, the mid-boss from Super Mario 3 does. He'll 
 run at you, you jump on his head, he'll go inside his spiked shell for a second and then come out 
 again and you just do the whole process over again.
  
  Such is the way of all 8 worlds of the game, and things start to get old by World 3. There are 
 two hidden worlds... but that would be levels 4 and 7... so even counting them there are still 
 just 8.
  
  The game itself is also just 1-Player. That's right. This Mario game is NOT 2-Players. Sure there 
 are mini-games you can play that are 2-Player, but the main game is 1 Player only.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. isn't really a BAD game per se... I mean it's decent. It's just that every 
 other side scrolling Mario game does the same thing this one does, and they do it much better. 
 I just don't feel this game lives up to the standard set by Super Mario Brothers 3 or Super Mario 
 World.
  
  It seems to me that this game would have been better served as a free inclusion with the DS Lite 
 and not something to be sold on its own merit.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  It's been twenty years since Super Mario Bros. broke out on the new Nintendo Entertainment System 
 and became a phenomenon. Intuitive gameplay, creativity, and an unprecedented huge game environment 
 resulted in a classic game, and being bundled with the NES put the game into the hands of over 
 40 million players. The immense popularity created one of the greatest game franchises ever, with 
 many sequels that are also considered classics in their own rights. Nintendo's philosophy has always 
 pushed the core platforming series forward with new ideas and new twists. However, Nintendo took 
 a totally different approach with New Super Mario Bros. - they dropped a lot of familiar elements 
 introduced in the sequels and created a very retro-styled game. With a lot of the bells and whistles 
 now absent, the game focuses on the well-designed levels to catch your attention. The end result 
 is a game that successfully captures a lot of the charm the original had, while keeping the experience 
 fresh enough to prevent the feeling that this is has all been done before.
  
  The game opens in very familiar fashion, with Bowser Jr. swiping the Princess while Mario is distracted. 
 The entire game is spent chasing after the young Bowser, with no dialogue or plot twists of any 
 kind. In an era when companies feel the need to force a story onto a game, no matter how dull or 
 annoying, it's a little refreshing for a developer to say "don't sweat the details, just play the 
 game." And the approach works well, little could be done with the story to make it interesting 
 and it would just divert your attention and time spent away from the actual gameplay experience 
 itself.
  
  Anyone who has played a 2D Super Mario Bros. game will immediately be familiar with the controls, 
 and anyone who hasn't will be able to pick them up instantly regardless. The game's beauty lies 
 in its two-button design, just like the NES games themselves. One button lets you jump or swim, 
 and the other lets you dash or throw fireballs and turtle shells. There's no need to memorize what 
 combinations of which ten buttons do which moves, as the controls are simple and intuitive. Equally 
 intuitive are the objectives - there's no checklist of various tasks to complete, you just need 
 to make it to the other side of each level while avoiding enemies. Its the kind of game that you 
 can give to someone who never plays games and they can pick it up immediately, without penalizing 
 veterans by making things seem too simple. The same wonderful balance that makes the originals 
 so popular is back once again.
  
  While most of Mario's moves that he gained throughout the series are absent, from the ability to 
 fly to riding Yoshi, there are a few moves that he retains. One is the butt stomp, which can destroy 
 bricks underneath Mario on jumps. Another is the wall jump, which lets Mario jump off of a side 
 of a wall. If two walls are close enough, he can use this ability to scale his way to the top, 
 and it can also potentially be used to save Mario from a bottomless pit. There is also the ability 
 to pick up shells and throw them to either side, perform a triple jump, and slide down a hill. 
 There are a few specialized things you can do in specific worlds, like climbing fences similar 
 to Super Mario World, swinging from vines or hanging from ropes. Though you'll only use a few of 
 these moves regularly, it is still more than enough to get you through, and you do just enough 
 uncommon moves throughout the game at certain points to make it feel that your library of abilities 
 is greater than it actually is.
  
  The standard power upgrade path is the same as the original - small Mario turns into Super Mario 
 with a mushroom, and a flower gives Super Mario the ability to hurl fireballs. Each time you get 
 hit, you go down a notch on the power ladder (Fire Mario to Super Mario, Super Mario to small Mario) 
 or you die if you are already small. This is one of the noticeable basic design change from the 
 original, where you revert to small Mario even if you had the fireball ability. The fireballs are 
 rather powerful in this game; often letting you mow down a tricky grouping of enemies or even minibosses, 
 but the way they bounce and the limit of two on a screen at once hardly makes them foolproof. Once 
 again, a star will make you temporarily invincible, though is rather uncommon.
  
  Though Fire Mario is the most common power upgrade, it's not the only one. There are three new 
 abilities in this game, though they're typically rather uncommon. One is Mini Mario, which shrinks 
 Mario down to a very small size. This enables him to fit into small gaps and pipes, and his light 
 weight allows him to run on water and glide further on jumps. Another is Blue Koopa Mario, which 
 Mario finds himself with a blue shell on his back. When you run fast enough, Mario will retreat 
 inside his shell and glide over the ground as if he were a controllable tossed turtle shell. The 
 controls on this one take a little getting used to, which is made more difficult with how rarely 
 you get this upgrade. The final and most publicized ability is Mega Mario, where Mario grows to 
 about the size of the screen and simply obliterates everything in this path, be it enemies, blocks, 
 or pipes. The more he destroys, the more extra lives he has the potential of earning. With such 
 a powerful ability, obviously this is rather uncommon as well, which can be disappointing given 
 how much it is publicized though entirely understandable.
  
  Mario initially finds himself on a world map, not much unlike the ones found in Super Mario Bros. 
 3. Worlds are points on a map, along with locations like mushroom houses which grants various rewards, 
 and you can go through various paths to reach the ultimate goal of the world's castle (or warp 
 cannon if you are going for a fast playthrough, which shoots you to a later world) . Some worlds 
 have an alternate exit that opens a path to a new area, and other areas are only accessible if 
 you pay star coins to open a path. Each area, fortress, and castle has three star coins hidden 
 inside which are not required to beat the game. However, those wishing to fully experience the 
 game will find themselves hunting for as many of these as possible, and collecting these coins 
 provides something to accomplish after the game has been defeated. Each of the eight worlds has 
 at least one optional world, accessible only by either a secret exit in another area or by paying 
 coins to open a new path. Each of the eight worlds has a general theme in each of its areas, from 
 deserts and forests to snow and the clouds.
  
  One of the hallmarks of the Mario platforming series is wonderful level design, and New Super Mario 
 Bros. doesn't disappoint. None of the areas feel tired and overused, and they tend to stand out 
 from one another. Nintendo certainly doesn't overuse the same good idea, they use it sparingly 
 to leave gamers with positive impressions instead of getting tired of its repetitiveness. For example, 
 there are some worlds with mushroom platforms that sway from side to side, but they're scattered 
 throughout the game and each one has at least one unique design feature that isn't found in the 
 others. There are also a few specialized worlds they use once each, like controlling a rising platform 
 in a vertical world filled with flying koopas, another vertical world with rising lava that you 
 must stay ahead of, a level that you ride on the back of a giant Wiggler, or an area with an erupting 
 volcano that rains lava rocks which destroy the bricks they hit. Some of those specialized worlds 
 will be loved by some and disliked by others, but since they're only used once they're quickly 
 forgotten if they were disliked as you move on to the next world.
  
  There are a few curious design features, one of which is the extra lives, which are easy to stock 
 up. The famous method to get 99 lives from the original is still possible here, which shows how 
 well Nintendo stuck to the game formula. However, this isn't always easy to pull off. What's really 
 boggling is why this game, along with a number of other ones, even includes the concept of extra 
 lives. In the NES games it mattered a lot, as you needed to stock up lives while you had the chance 
 for the harder levels, as you couldn't return to them later. But here, you can return to World 
 1-1 and gain an extra four or five lives in a quick minute-long run through the world, and repeat 
 it infinitely. If it is so simple to gain extra lives, why include the concept in the first place 
 if its just there to be tedious? Another design is the save system, which only lets you save the 
 first time you beat a fortress or castle, or open a path using star coins. Since there are usually 
 a couple of areas between each fortress and castle, you'll need to figure out how to beat multiple 
 areas between each save opportunity. You can put the game into sleep mode by simply closing your 
 DS, but this is a temporary measure and just doesn't seem to be a good feature to have in a handheld 
 game. What's absolutely puzzling is that once you beat the game, you're granted the ability to 
 save at any time on the map. Why not just include this convenient feature right from the start 
 instead? Finally are the fights with Bowser Jr. in each fortress. There are a number of fortresses 
 in the game, so you fight the tyke a lot. However, he's very slow to gain new moves so the fights 
 feel very repetitive after a while. This is further complicated by how easy he often is, especially 
 when a few fireballs can even kill him before he can get an attack in.
  
  The graphics in New Super Mario Bros. are simply beautiful. Each world is lively, vibrant, and 
 full of personality. Though it's a 2D game, it was made using a 3D engine, giving the characters 
 the appearance of being something more than just a flat 2D representation and providing them with 
 fluid animations. The upgrade over sprites found in previous Mario games is very noticeable, and 
 its one of those rare 2D games that have graphics that are very impressive. A 2D game hasn't seen 
 such a clear-cut graphical leap since Donkey Kong Country and Yoshi's Island. The only drawback 
 is that there are a lot of repeating patterns on the walls and floors. This is entirely understandable 
 and likely intentional since the original NES games contained the same features, and were put in 
 to maintain the nostalgia. However, in some areas the patterns invade so much of the screen that 
 they can get tiring, but it's usually only temporary. The sound is also high quality. A few familiar 
 tunes are remixed, but most of the game features a new soundtrack. The music is pretty upbeat and 
 seems to fit very well with the Mario series. Mario and Luigi also have a few short voice clips 
 that are well done but not terribly varied.
  
  Just running through the game itself isn't terribly difficult, but there are a few worlds scattered 
 throughout the game that are difficult enough to shave a few lives off your total on your first 
 time through. But you're far from through with the single player game after beating the final level. 
 Due to two short branching paths, you'll only go through six of the eight worlds if you do not 
 use warp cannons. Which of the two possible worlds you go through depends on the method in which 
 you defeated to world bosses, so there will be two whole new worlds to explore. There are also 
 all the secret exits to find and roadblocks to unlock with the star coins. The star coins themselves 
 provide a good deal of the tasks to accomplish outside of simply progressing through the game, 
 and some of the difficulty too. While some coins are easy to find and get, others take a bit of 
 hunting to find and sometimes require a difficult stunt to access. The coins and alternate exits 
 will certainly give veterans who may fear that the game is too simple something to do.
  
  While the single player potion of the game is without a doubt the main attraction, there is also 
 a two-player battle mode. Here, Mario and Luigi rush through a looping course with the objective 
 to obtain the most giant stars. They can also attack each other to force their opponent to drop 
 a star. Its entertaining if you play it on occasion, but it's nothing you'll be coming back to 
 a lot. There is also a collection of minigames that are essentially the same as the ones in Super 
 Mario 64 DS but with a graphical facelift. The big change is that they're now playable by up to 
 four people, but unfortunately it will give Mario 64 owners a sense of deja vu. Unfortunately, 
 you'll need to directly mingle with other DS owners to take advantage of the battle mode and multiplayer 
 minigames. Unlike most recent DS releases, the multiplayer does not take advantage of the WiFi 
 service, leaving those who don't interact with other DS owners a game mode they'll likely never 
 play.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. manages to find the right balance in just about everything. Inviting enough 
 to brand new players, yet providing enough challenges for the more experienced to seek out. Enough 
 nostalgia to please those who fondly remember the NES classics right down to the flagpole and fort 
 at the end of each level, yet a good deal of new ideas and level designs to make the game feel 
 fresh and new. A good selection of old familiar moves to perform, but not all of them as to not 
 overwhelm the player. Mario hasn't been on a 2D platformer adventure in quite a while, and it's 
 great to see him at it again in a game that could very well measure up to the high standards that 
 his originals did over the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Nintendo is really the only company that can get away with bringing back these great classics in 
 a nice updated form. Nintendo help make and define this industry which makes them have a special 
 place in every gamer's heart. The nostalgia factor alone is what really sells this game to begin 
 with. Nintendo did a great job of retaining what was fantastic about the classic mario games yet 
 do a nice job of adding just enough new features to keep the game fresh and exciting. People often 
 fail to realize that the Mario series isn't about difficulty or challenge, it's about the adventure 
 and finding out all the game has to offer. My only real complaint about this otherwise great game 
 is that Mario and Luigi are too much the same and that you can't play as both bros. the same time. 
 I like the new enemies such as the boxing ghost that follows you and breaks bricks in it's path. 
 The game has a nice, clean presentation where the backgrounds are sharp and the characters are 
 nicely animated. The mini games are a nice filler to help quickly pass the time. Any Mario fan 
 should definitely pick up this title not just for the nostalgia factor but because this is truely 
 a great title. It is a short but very sweet game that should be enjoyed by old and new gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nradd99
Rating: 3
Date: May 20, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  As medias age, it is inevitable that nostalgia will eventually come to play a roll in the reviewing 
 process. It happened to books, movies, and now unfortunately, video games. Like many gamers, I 
 have fond memories of the original Mario games. They were all revolutionary when first released, 
 and are even still amusing to play on occasion, making it easy to ignore their simplicity and lack 
 of depth. Nonetheless, they are classics in every sense of the word. 
  
  However, when Nintendo starts releasing rehashes of these old treasures for the price of a brand 
 new game, there is definitely a problem. That is exactly what New Super Mario Bros is, albeit 
 with a few surface changes to convince nostalgic gamers that they aren't just replaying old favorites. 
 For example, the invincibility star is now replaced with a mushroom that makes you turn gigantic. 
 As nice an effect as it's just an old mechanic with a new look. The same goes for mini Mario, which 
 just makes getting under low blocks more complicated. In the old games, you could bypass these 
 obstacles by purposely taking a hit in order to revert back to Mario's original form, adding a 
 layer of strategy to the game. Were you willing to take a hit in order to get some coins. Now, 
 you simply gobble up a mushroom and the problem is solved. 
  
  The one arguably new gameplay component is the blue shell, which takes the place of the flying 
 cap. This largely useless item allows you to ram into enemies, and more often than not launch yourself 
 off a cliff. Not only is not only frustrating, but also shallow and pointless. It's not like Marios 
 enemies are that difficult to begin with.
  
  Speaking of difficulty, New Super Mario is sorely lacking in any kind of challenge. If you have 
 never played a Mario side scroller in your life, perhaps it will take you some time to beat the 
 game. If you have, you are forced to make your way through simplistic levels. Before things pick 
 up, the game is over and you are left to play through the "secret levels." Great, another hour 
 and a half of gameplay. Once your doe with that... well there's not much else to do except play 
 through the multiplayer, assuming you know someone else with a DS. I'm beginning to wonder why 
 Nintendo put so much effort into their Wi-Fi service if their big releases won't make use of it. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchheeaatteerr
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : Just like classic Mario , very responsive , if u've never played mario , it couldbe 
 a little hard.
  
  Graphics : For DS, there preety good , nice scale , vibrent backgrounds , it sometimes seems a 
 little basic though.
  
  Sound : Nothing Amazing , just your standard platformer noise , but nice solid retro music.
  
 
  Value : 8 worlds , secret levels and mutiplayer and minigames, it's a good band for your buck.
 
  I've always loved Mario, so there's ur tilt, but there is 1 complaint, it's $35.
  So u have to like this type of game.
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dblade48
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that most (if not all) of us have played Mario games in the past. Making its way from 
 8-bit NES now all the way to the DS, Mario's been through a lot. And we, gamers, have been ther 
 supporting him all the way.
  
  Mario's newest adventure isn't revolutionary or spectacular in the sense that he explores a 3D 
 with eye-exploding graphics. In fact, Nintendo went the opposite way and dug up its roots by making 
 its newest Mario game a platformer, just like the old days. Older gamers, such as myself, will 
 rejoice at this chance of reliving the old days with good old gameplay.
  
  The DS is ideal for this. Many of us are constantly on the go, leaving a lot of our gaming to the 
 portable systems. Naturally, returning to the old stuff, Nintendo made the new Mario game for the 
 DS. With a combination of polished old gameplay and portability, New Super Mario Bros. gives you 
 a heaping plate of fun. 
  
  Let's first talk about the gameplay. We're all familiar with Mario and his abilities: jumping, 
 pounding blocks with his head, bouncing off foes' heads, etc. Naturally, as the years went by, 
 Mario picked up new tricks, including new costumes and moves. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros.
  New? For now. Super? Forever.
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 10
  Controls (15%) - 10
  Variety (25%) - 9
  Replay (25%) - 9.5
  Sound (7.5%) - 10
  Depth (15%) 
 - 9
  
  OVERALL - 9.48 
  
  Graphics - 10
  I was initially very hesitant about the idea of 3D visuals in a sidescroller -- and I was completely 
 wrong. Brilliant visuals from New Super Mario Bros. It's quite a surprise to see standout visuals 
 from a Mario game, but this one delivers. The backgrounds are incredibly detailed (far moreso than 
 Castlevania DS) and the animations are perfectly fluid. The frame-rate is a constant smooth rate, 
 and the various effects you'll encounter are even better.
  
  Thanks to those 3D visuals, for the first time in a Mario sidescroller, the camera will zoom in 
 and out in certain places, and it really helps create experiences not previously possible. And 
 what New Super Mario Bros. may do the best job of what a series did admirably previously, is make 
 sure you need to see is there to be seen. You'll never be annoyed at a poor angle causes your demise.
 
  
  Controls - 10
  The control of Mario at first definitely takes some adjustment (particularly if you're used to 
 a previous game) . My initial take is that he controls like a cross between the Super Mario World 
 Mario, and the Super Mario Bros. 2 Luigi (whom I find awkward) . However, adjustments made, let 
 it be known: New Super Mario Bros. has the best controls ever in a sidescroller. You are in complete 
 control once you understand how Mario works, and it couldn't be more natural.
  
  As for button layout, the game reverts back to its NES roots, using only Start/Select and two face 
 buttons. However, it's not as simple as move/jump as in the original. You have a stock item like 
 in Super Mario World, which is accessed by tapping it on the touch screen which works surprisingly 
 well. His other new moves are the ground-pound from the 3D games (works similar to the SMW spin 
 jump except with no bounce) , and the triple jump (primarily useless and just for style) .
  
  An item that may seem problematic at first is the new blue shell upgrade. This will cause you to 
 automatically spin in your shell and act as a koopa shell. All you need to know is to release Y/X 
 and you revert to normal form.
  
  Variety - 9
  I'll get the complain out of the way: too few levels. That's basically the only thing wrong in 
 the variety department; the game has 80 levels, despite the fact that Super Mario Bros 3, which 
 was released over 15 years ago, has 90. I'd think it would at least match the most in the series.
 
  
  As for level design variance and enemies, the game is crammed with variety. Virtually every enemy 
 from Super Mario Bros 1, 3, World and 64 appears, subtract the sun from 3 and the koopa kids. They 
 all have great 3D recreations and bring something unique to the table. There are also a few new 
 characters, although minimal, are in instances great new additions (estimate between 3 and 6 new 
 enemies) .
  
  Level design is as varied as any in the series. Not only are nearly every enemy from the aforementioned 
 predecessors, but nearly every type of level is included from those same games. And of course, 
 new concepts, which work greatly but are appropriately scattered and rare. There are also bosses 
 in the castles of each world, some unexpected and are a nice addition.
  
  But what would Mario be without secrets? There are 3 types of secrets in the game -- star coins, 
 portals, and worlds. There are 3 star coins in each level, and are used to either open mushroom 
 houses for power-ups/lives, or once you've completed the game, buy new backgrounds for the bottom 
 screen. There are 2 types of portals: Pipes and Canons. Pipes transport you to a further area in 
 the world, and canons launch you to another world. And, while there are 8 worlds, for whatever 
 reason, you have to unlock worlds 4 and 7. It's obscure and tricky and I personally find it obnoxious 
 and annoying, but once unlocked it doesn't matter that much.
  
  There are also minigames and a one-on-one multiplayer mode. The minigames are mostly taken from 
 Super Mario 64 DS, aside from a select few, and are a meagre distraction.
  
  Replay - 9.5
  The two most important aspects of the sidescroller are control and level design, 
 and in both instances New Super Mario Bros. is best in series. Moving through each level there 
 are things to watch out for, there are challenges yet simple linear pathways.
  
  While you can plow through the game and, if you really want, beat it playing every level in 2-3 
 hours, there is a lot left to do. Unlock those 2 worlds, collect star coins, open portals; and 
 frankly, it's very fun to do.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. is also fairly speed-run friendly thanks to the portals. There's a nice balance 
 of freedom to run and an excessively fast pace and difficulty in which to do it. If there's any 
 problem with speed running it's all the levels you have to complete in World 8, but that's acceptable.
 
  
  The minigames don't really add much at all to the replay value, and are just a nice addition/distraction 
 that should take up a tiny fraction of your time with the game.
  
  The one problem with the game in replay value is that the game is a bit too liberal with the extra 
 lives. I finished the game in excess of 20 lives left over. Your coin counts carry over from the 
 previous level, you get extra lives from dealing out destruction as Mega Mario (from eating a new 
 Mega Mushroom) , there are hidden extra lives in most, if not all, levels, and you get an extra 
 life from reaching the very top of the flag (more difficult to do than in the original, though) . 
 However, the lives themselves aren't really the issue, as have multiple instances to save in each 
 world, and dying is bother enough aside from Game Over. It still would have been nice to see better 
 sectioning and fewer lives.
  
  Sound - 10
  The streak continues -- brilliant audio from the Mario Bros. series. The new main theme fits right 
 in with the previous classics, many of which are remixed and fitted in select areas (and not just 
 cheaply reused) . There is a new underground track, which while not as catchy as the original, is 
 perhaps more appropriate in nature.
  
  Aside from music, there is the occasional voice-over clip, all of which are entertaining and add 
 a layer of personality not previously seen in the sidescrollers of the series.
  
  Depth - 9
  Depth is certainly a tough are to judge in a platformer, but from what I can tell, 
 New Super Mario Bros. does a very good job at letting the player get creative. The star coins are 
 incredibly tricky in areas, and the new wall-jump move brings much to the table.
  
  The detracting factors are the lives issue and the power-up practicality. The mega mushroom and 
 mini mushroom are nearly useless in general play as the mini mushroom is more of a downgrade used 
 only for secret areas (somewhat tacky) and the mega mushroom is poorly placed as well as annoying 
 since you lose your fire power if you take it.
  
  Overall - 9.48
  New Super Mario Bros, welcome to the family. A very worthy entry into the renowned series, New 
 Super Mario Bros. while not as groundbreaking as those before it, certainly brings as much entertainment. 
 There is no reason for anyone with a DS not to pick up this classic from the most universally appealing 
 series in gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 29, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  You all know what New Super Mario Bros. is. And the answer is yes, it feels just like any good 
 old Mario game. It's fun, and it's enjoyable. The only problem is that the game doesn't offer much 
 more than a recreation of Super Mario World, and while it's a solid experience, you end up wishing 
 that the game had more to offer than nostalgia.
  
  The game's graphics look great, the 3D sidecrolling looks just right. There are always a lot of 
 colors on the screen, and it's a great game to look at. The sound may not please everyone, as the 
 game doesn't simply remix old mario themes. The game has a new soundtrack of techno beats that 
 sound good, not great, but good.
  
  The gameplay, as stated before, is sidescrolling like always. It's a great game to play, but I 
 plowed through the game in a few hours. It also has warp points which will let you beat the game 
 faster than that. It's fun, but you wish there was more to it. The new powerups (including the 
 mega-mushroom) are useless and don't appear very often. There are several occasions when becoming 
 Mega Mario will cause you to become too big, therefore haulting your progress in the level until 
 you become small again. The mini-mushroom will allow you to access hidden areas in the levels, 
 but you never feel the need that you have to find the secrets... unless you plow through the game 
 in a day and want more.
  
  There are mini-games (85% of which are ripped off of or based on Super Mario 64 DS) which aren't 
 terribly entertaining, and there is a Mario vs Luigi mode in which you and a friend play as Mario 
 and Luigi as you battle each other for stars. Again, this mode has been taken straight out of Super 
 Mario 64 DS.
  
  All in all, the game is solid, fun, Mario action. Just be prepared to blow through the game pretty 
 quickly, as each world shouldnt' take you more than an hour to complete. It's definitely something 
 that all DS and Mario fans should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamr49
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Remember good old Super Mario Bros. back from the NES days? That was a classic. Mario saves Princess 
 Peach from the evil Koopa King, Bowser. After the N64 came out, side-scrolling Mario died out. 
 After newer 3D games, original Mario Bros. players wanted something new with an original side-scrolling 
 theme. So Nintendo went to their Mario drawing boards and mixing all of the elements from previous 
 Mario side-scrollers that were successful with a mix of today's graphics and out came... New! Super 
 Mario Bros.
  
  Basically, New Super Mario Bros. strory is Bowser Jr. kidnaps Princess Peach and Mario must save 
 her from the Koopa Alliance (hehe... came up with that one) . Let's look at some basic PROS and CONS 
 of this game.
  
  PROS:
  -3D graphics mixed with 2D Side Scrolling
  -Classic Mario Side-Scrolling elements
  -Newer and Remixed Classic Music
  -Secret Passages 
 and numerous trails to take.
  
  CONS:
  -Some levels are short
  -Items can be quite common within' some levels
  -Simple and Easy Boss Battles
  
  New Super 
 Mario Bros. takes a great approach at having great concepts from previous games. Here's some examples 
 of which...
  
  Super Mario Bros- Powerups
  
  Super Mario Bros. 3- Map level select
  
  Super Mario World- Ghost House and Powerup storing
  
  Super Mario 64- 3D style graphics 
 and enemies.
  
  etc.... a lot more.
  
  Overall the game can be fun but short levels are sometimes a problem. This is balanced with numerous 
 of levels. Another problem is Boss battles can be very easy to defeat.
  
  In summary, the game is very awesome and would highly reccomend it as a DS game to consider getting. 
 Also I reccomend purchasing this game if you love Mario games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for over a year now, and I couldn't have asked for more out of 
 this game. This game takes you back to the good days of jumping, running, and stomping on goombas. 
 The presentation of the overworlds is very nice, it almost reminds you of Mario Party. The graphics 
 are very fine as well. New Super Mario Bros. plays just like all the others, except a few new elements 
 have been added (like collecting three giant coins in each level) . The game also has a few mini-games, 
 most of which were taken from Super Mario 64 DS, but some new ones were made too. There's also 
 multiplayer for both the main game and the mini-games. The only downside of all this greatness 
 is the fact that the game seems like it's over too quickly. That's not to say that you'll leave 
 the game alone forever, it's easy to play through the game over and over because of all the secrets 
 and stuff to see. Overall, this game was worth the wait. If you own a DS, whether you like Mario 
 or not, you need to try this game out. It's just too much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_GamerZ4
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Aight, first thing, it's like the 2D mario games on the snes, but its 3d  . , not as in 3d movement 
 (i dont enjoy those) its just looks 3d. Bascally this game is the snes version but have more things, 
 like power ups and enemies and levels. They still have the old-school things
  
  
  This doesnt contain spoilers 
 (I think)
  
  The Power Ups you can use are...
  
  Fire Mario (Isnt New  .  , Throws Fire balls at enemies)
  Mini Mario (New, can go through small 
 areas to get secret things)
  Giant Mario (New, your gaint and u can just rush through any thing in your path, its really fun 
 =D)
  Turtle Mario (New, You have a shell in your back and you can rush tho multiple enemies hiding in 
 your shell, like gommbas in a line, just rush throught them, also fun =D)
  Star Man (Isnt New, invincable, just rush though anything)
  
  
 
  
  There are 8 Worlds to go through but u can only go through 6 world in total, 2 are secrect, wprld 
 4 and 6 are. You have to do something in a world to go to them, so... good luck!
  The orginal path would be,,, 1 2 3 5 6 8
  
  
 
  
  That is it, i hope this had helped you. Now... GO BUY IT ITS REALLY ADDICTING, A REALLY GOOD OLD 
 SCHOOL GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wambam1206
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  There is nothing i can say bad about this game it is so addicting, and so amazing. The level design 
 is phenomenal. The best part is the levels. Some are sort of short but all packed with really interactive 
 or cool things. One level has mushrooms that go up or down depending on you jumping on them. One 
 other level has slide after slide and a bunch of jumps. A cool thing nintendo did with it was making 
 it cnsist of all the different old marios. Some of the themes you will remember, the power ups, 
 and the moves mario does. Overall you need to get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcdc554
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I am going to divide up this review into sections.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is practically flawless. It feels as natural as ever to control Mario/Luigi, and the 
 return of the classic Mario Side-scroller is just great.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are surprisingly seamless. The frame rate appears to be very good, I'm not quite sure 
 what it actually is.
  
  Sound: The music is a little different than the classic mario style, but I suppose change is good. 
 Classic SFX.
  
  Value: For 35 bucks, you can't NOT buy this game. It deserves your collection.
  
  Tilt: This 
 game has pretty good replay value. Getting all the Star coins and opening up secret worlds is a 
 challenge.
  
  Overall: This is one of the best DS games to come along in a while. Don't miss out. For your sake. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I had no idea what it would be like until I put it in my DS and started 
 playing and I thought it was O. K until I found a very big and weird mushroom and BOOM! I am a gigantic 
 mario and it was fun and funny instead of wating time jumping on koopas I just ran over than. All 
 of my freinds wish they had this game but they dont have a DS. Another cool thing about this game 
 is that you can turn tiney and it is also fun. My oppinion about this game was a 10 but you never 
 know until you buy it. Take my advise though I think you should buy this game it is classic in 
 a way and new in another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  Super Mario Brothers helped define modern video games and it is still the benchmark for what a 
 lot of people compare other videogames. Whether you still have calluses on your thumbs from the 
 countless hours pressing on the NES controllers, or you have only been exposed to the re-releases 
 on one of the portable systems, Mario equals videogame.
  
  This title, The New Super Mario Brothers is different than the last several Mario 2-D platform 
 titles. For the past five or six years now, Nintendo has been re-releasing the Mario platform titles 
 on either the GameBoy Color or GameBoy Advance. These titles were either originally released on 
 the NES or SNES systems. They were not new games, just the original games with improved graphics 
 and a few bonus features. This new title borrows from the look and game play of Super Mario Brothers, 
 Super Mario Brothers 3, Super Mario World and even bits and pieces from Super Mario 64. Let me 
 make this perfectly clear: THIS IS A NEW GAME.
  
  The look of the game is unique, but not totally original. A few years back on the SNES had a series 
 of games called Donkey Kong Country. These games were platform games; however the main characters 
 and the enemies were 3-D. The look was never really polished, but it was attempted over ten years 
 ago. In this title the technology has greatly improved and you end up with a Mario the looks 3-D 
 but is forced to face either left or right for 95% of the screen time. You can tell he is 3-D by 
 shading in the colors and when you change directions, Mario will face you or have his back toward 
 you. It is a visual that has to be seen to truly understand. The backgrounds of the game are rich 
 and colorful and are reminiscent of the scrolling backgrounds of Super Mario World with far more 
 detail and layers. There is even texture to the rolling hills and 3-D effects have been added to 
 the water. For old-school layout, the game has a great deal of current visuals.
  
  In a Mario game, it is game play that brings players to the series. In this game, the look and 
 controls closest resemble the original Super Mario Brothers. There is only two buttons to control 
 most of Marios actions: A button and B button. You can use the L and R buttons to scan left and 
 right on the screen but they are not really needed. Some of the moves that Mario can perform are 
 borrowed from later titles. Mario can pick up shells (Mario 2) , along with slide down hills (Mario 
 3) and has the butt bounce, triple jump and wall kick (Mario 64) . Even with the added moves, the 
 game still feels the most like the original title. You have to face a boss at each level and the 
 first boss is Bowser himself, on a bride shooting fire and you can either drop him in the lava 
 or burn him with your own fireballs.
  
  The game also has a lot of secrets to locate which has been a staple to the series since the first 
 title. What is nice about the secrets is that the worlds are laid out in map format like Super 
 Mario 3 or Super Mario World. This allows the player to re-visit levels to try to locate second 
 exits. Also, players may want to re-enter a level to locate all three super coins hidden in each 
 level. These coins are mainly used to unlock new paths and Toad Houses in any given world. 
  
  A Mario game would not be complete without power-ups. Returning to the game are the true classics, 
 the Super Mushroom, Invincible Star and the Fire Flower. To add to the variety are a few new options: 
 the Ultra Mushroom (It is a lot like the Invincible Star only Mario fills the screen and destroys 
 everything in his path) , the Mini-Mushroom (This is the opposite of the Super Mushroom by it makes 
 Mario half his size and allows him to loft his jumps, squeeze into tight spaces and go down mini 
 pipes) and the Blue Shell (This allows Mario to tuck into his shell preventing his from taking 
 damage on most attacks and break ground bricks by sliding across land) . The Ultra Mushroom is fun 
 and comes up on occasion, but it last for only a few seconds and reverts you back to Super Mario 
 even if you had a different power-up before. The Mini-Mushroom is mainly there to allow you to 
 unlock or reach secrets, it serves little other function. The Blue Shell also serves to unlock 
 secret sections, but it serves combat functions as well.
  
  The game comes loaded with mini-games and head-to-head action with other players. The mini-games 
 are pretty much the same lot from Super Mario 64 DS, which was somewhat disappointing, but this 
 follows the patter on the assorted Super Mario Advance games released on the GameBoy Advance. The 
 mini-games are one of the few times you actually use the touch screen in the game. The other time 
 is you can keep one power-up in reserve and you touch the screen to release it. You also touch 
 the screen to warp back to previous worlds. The other multi-player game is a two-player option 
 where you and a friend play as either Mario or Luigi. You battle it out to collect the most stars 
 in a set level. It has a feel like Mario Brothers, but a lot more interaction.
  
  There are a few of flaws with the game. One of the biggest is that a player cannot save whenever 
 one wishes. You must complete a castle or a tower to save your game in standard play; or, spend 
 five super coins and open a path in a world to save your game. This is a bit frustrating since 
 this game is on a portable system. A nice addition would have been a quick save option that allows 
 the player to return to the level and or screen when the quick save was enacted. The next flaw 
 is that even though this is a new title, with all of the nostalgia elements in the game you play 
 the game with a dj vu. The game does not feel or play as a totally fresh experience. This does 
 not stop someone from enjoying the game, just makes the payer think: Have I done this before? The 
 last point I want to make is the lack of challenge the game has. This is not the easiest Mario 
 game ever made, that was Mario 2, but it does not have the challenge of some of the other titles. 
 It could be that Nintendo took some flack for making Super Mario Sunshine too difficult and they 
 toned this down; or, they wanted to flat-out make an easier game. In either case, the game is not 
 overly difficult.
  
  Overall, the game is a great experience and worth at least a play. Borrow it from a friend, rent 
 it from GameFly, or just flat-out buy it. I can speak from experience; I love to revisit Mario 
 games. So even after I completed the entire adventure, which takes about seven hours, I will start 
 from the beginning all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  For many people, New Super Mario Bros feels like playing your NES all over game and having that 
 old school side scrolling platformer action right at your finger tips and on the go makes for some 
 great gaming. Regardless of your age, you will find it fun and addictive, and the feel of the game 
 is quite easy if you are a veteran of Mario platformers.
  
  One of the highlights of NSMB is that it uses a 3D element combined with side scrolling features 
 plus the touch screen whch displays both map and item information. The mix of levels and bosses 
 is nice, howevver the extra features could have used tweaking. Unlocking Luigi is pointless since 
 his moves are the same as Mario's. The multipack and single pak games make for some cool multiplayer 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WerdRebew85
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Thank you God for this great game! Well, Mario and Luigi are back and is in his element! I call 
 this game Super Mario Bros. 5, because it's the fifth Super Mario Bros. game. Well anyway, Bowser 
 Jr. is back and kidnapped the Princess (like father like son) . Mario/Luigi goes thru different 
 worlds to save Peach and to aid on his quest are some familiar items such as Mushroom, Fire Flower, 
 Starman. Also there is 3 new items to add to the list such as the Big Mushroom, Mini-Mushroom, 
 and the Blue Shell! All good items if you ask me. The Big Mushroom makes Mario/Luigi huge and he's 
 able to plow thru enemies, pipes and block that get in his way. Mini-Mushroom make Mario/Luigi, 
 well, mini and he's able to jump higher and walk thru tight places. The Blue Shell is make Mario/Luigi 
 imitate a Koopa Troopa. He uses his shell to attack and pwn most enemies that get in his way. Also 
 if you duck the shell can be used a shield. I like this game more than i though. The music is catchy. 
 The enemies are the greatest (Hammer Bros.!) . The level's are challenging! I love it! Haha! Classic! 
 I recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  "New Super Mario Bros." is quite a name for a game to have. I mean, think about it, it's a NEW 
 SUPER MARIO BROS. I don't know anyone who wouldn't want to play this game, and I can't think of 
 any type of person who wouldn't want to play it. Every gamer and his grandmother has played Super 
 Mario Bros. at least once. The real question with New Super Mario Bros. isn't whether or not the 
 game will be good or whether or not it will sell tremendously, it's wether or not the game lives 
 up to its own name. Years following the last true 2D Mario platformer from Nintendo, Super Mario 
 Bros. is revisited, and it's looking and playing splendidly on the Nintendo DS system.
  
  If a reader were to expect me to say that New Super Mario Bros. has any less than stellar gameplay, 
 they would have to be completely mad. New Super Mario Bros. is exactly what the name says. It plays 
 the same as the original Super Mario Bros., what with the floaty jumping mechanics, secret level 
 skipping areas, size-altering power-ups and easy-as-hell boss fights. It's all still here exactly 
 as you remember it, however, this game is not just simply an extension of the original. There's 
 loads more to it, actually. Sure, the game has all of the basic mechanics, and anyone who's just 
 finished a game of Super Mario Bros. on their GameBoy Color can jump right into it, but there's 
 much added to the gameplay that could only be done the best 
  on the Nintendo DS.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. wraps every classic Mario game ever made, including Super Mario World and 
 Super Mario 64, around this classic Super Mario Bros. gameplay. There are even levels that clearly 
 utilize the game mechanics of Mario Bros. in their level design, and the map design reminds me 
 a lot of Mario Party's game boards. Everything about New Super Mario Bros. reminds you of another 
 Mario game, but at the same time, you never get bored with any of it, because the game manages 
 to be fresh with mechanics of its own, like new power-ups, new level designs that prove to be fun 
 in their own unique ways.
  
  The graphics in New Super Mario Bros. are undoubtedly good-looking. The backgrounds are have Mushroom 
 Kingdom written all over them, the 3D as well as the 2D special effects and character designs are 
 also gorgeous and detailed. The graphics remind you of every other Mario game, but still remain 
 fresh.
  
  The sound is the exact same case as the above. It holds just as many old sounds as new ones. It's 
 a fantastic assortment of sound, with the trademark catchy Mario tunes and sounds that are taken 
 straight from all of the Mario games you can think of. It's the same situation. It reminds you 
 of every Mario game you've ever played, but it remains fresh and fun to listen to.
  
  The value is probably the only slightly disappointing aspect of the game. Nobody really expected 
 this game to be long, but the length of the game really does feel disappointing regardless. The 
 second this game starts, you won't want it to ever end. Of course the game isn't Yoshi's Touch 
 & Go short, but an average gamer can beat the core game in 6 hours. There's two hidden worlds to 
 unlock once you've beaten the final wimp of a boss, and there are some multiplayer modes with a 
 star-collecting vs. mode and some mini games which seem pretty fun, but they won't last you much 
 longer. The value is still better than other games, simply because you will find yourself probably 
 playing the core game through at least 3 more times after you've beaten it the first time. I know 
 I did.
  
  There's no denying it. If you are a true gamer, you want this game, and you will buy a Nintendo 
 DS to play it if you don't already have one. It's a New Super Mario Bros. for Pete's sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nigh_Wolf0707
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Got my New Super Mario Brothers in the mail yesterday finally. Also was the day I got a DS from 
 a friend to ry it out. Boy! once I started the music and the first stage was just like to old time 
 classic but of course much better. 
  The graphics were awesome and the game play is extremely addictive. 
  
  Way starts just like 
 Super Mario Brothers 3. You start off at a map scene then go to where a red mark is on the map. 
 Once your on it you click ok to enter the stage. Once you beaten the stage the red mark will turn 
 blue. You can always go back to the stages that you have already beaten. 
  
  Once you are in the stage the top of the screen is where the action is and at the bottom, there 
 is a doted line with a flag at one end and a image of marios' head. That's showing you how far 
 along you are at that stage. At the bottom right you also notice a circle where you can collect 
 extra mushroom, fire flower, etc. When you touch it, it will drop from the sky.
  
  you should play it through to find out instead of me talking all about. I haven't finished the 
 game yet but I know it's going to be heck a lot of fun. With the new mixes with the old that's 
 a looker.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercoolguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 19, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect in every way. Everything you loved from Super Mario Bros. 3 is back 
 and better than ever. Well almost everything, the one thing that not as good are the bosses. But 
 for the amount the bosses are in this game don't worry it doesn't take anything away from it. 
 
  If you own a DS you have to own this game, I haven't seen this level of perfection in a game in 
 years. Super Mario Bros. 3 is my single favorite game of all time, and this game is destine, to 
 be on my top 10 list. 
  Once you have beat this game which doesn't take that long there is so much extra to do. I beat 
 this game without warping and I still missed two worlds, and like 35-40% of the levels. And in 
 each level there are special coins that unlock different levels. So there is a lot of replay value 
 here.
  One of the best features of this game is how seemlessly they put 3D characters into this 2D world 
 and still make it look good, actually look better and so natural.
  Mario has a bunch of new moves, but never feels gimmicky. 
  This game stands one the shoulders 
 of it's brothers and does everything it set out to.
  One can only hope it's success can mean a new Renaissance of Super Mario side-scrollers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgall80
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Sure this game banks on the nostalgia pretty hard, but who cares, its what we all wanted. The game 
 is blissful 2D platforming fun with bright, clear and lush visuals. For those who waited for a 
 system seller for DS ya just got one to buy along with your new pur-ty nice DS Lites, if you can 
 wait till June 12th. If not, go out and grab it anywat. Its a little on the easy side but that 
 makes it better to play over and over just like any good Mario title! And when tired of stomping 
 goombas link up with 3 buds and play the mini games, they a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadrunner1178
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Very fun game wether you are a long time "Mario fan" or not. This is the way Mario games should 
 be. The 3-D Mario games of recent years were great games, but they just didn't appeal to me like 
 the 2-D games did. There is a reason that SUPER MARIO BROS, SUPER MARIO BROS 3, and SUPER MARIO 
 WORLD are on Gamespot's list of the greatest games of all time. NEW SUPER MARIO BROS is game that 
 keeps enough of the charm and fun of the earlier games, but has great new features and surprises. 
 With a small learning curve and a decent challenge this makes for an awesome pick up for the Nintendo 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakShow2191
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo recently has been doing things right like the upcoming next gen console which we all know 
 about by now. But right now I'm focusing on the handheld revolutionary system Nintendo DS which 
 features TONS of masterpieces and it still has more life in front of them then behind them.
  
  One of these games is the revival to the series Super Mario Brothers which hasn't made a new 
 apperance (as in new game) in years! Well this game brings back everything you loved about it in 
 a 3D/2D manner, along with a few new extras. A title worthy to fall into the Super Mario Brothers 
 series showing Nintendo has finnaly awoken... New Super Mario Brothers is exactly what the title 
 implies NEW! It is slightly easier, but still alot of fun with a few extras here and there....
 
  
  To own and not own this title is a act against video gaming, old nes fans who have been holding 
 out let me introduce you to the wonderfull world of Nintendo DS...
  
  New Super Mario Bros is much more then a game it is a worthy game bearing the title Super Mario 
 Brothers....
  
  This is the second day I had the game and I am hooked though sadly it is fast paced, but like the 
 others it is fun to go back... Right now I only record a few hours and am hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp4ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? I just bought this game today and I got right into it. The gameplay is amazing 
 for the DS, the option to grow or shrink is great and there are these tokens you must collect to 
 get to certain levels (3 tokens available per level) in which I find a joy in finding and collecting. 
 The levels I have played were pretty easy to get by. The gameplay is sorta similar to some of the 
 other 2D-side scroller Mario games of past times but this one has that new flavour that I can't 
 help but love. All in all, a great game and I believe I am in for some good gaming for a little 
 while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 18, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Super Mario bros 3 on SNES, this game is surely a must buy. With new intriguing 
 gameplay. Stunning graphics. And all the Mario sounds that remind you of the good'ol days.
  
  Only downside is not having a feather and flying across maps.
  
  Jumping off walls! Riding 
 in a blue shell! Getting huge and destroying everything in your path! Getting tiny, and running 
 across water like Jesus! 
  
  Surely it is a game for the ages.
  
  I had almost forgotten how much fun it could be to break bricks with my head. But after playing 
 the New Super Mario Bros, my memories came flowing back, and I was destroying everything in my 
 path! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flint247
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! You have to play and buy this. Tons of new and remade stuff! Including the 
 new item, Mega mushroom! It puffs mario up to become big size like in SM64DS. It's pretty cool. 
 :d. There are also other items like blue shell and mini mushroom. The story is kinda short but 
 it is still fun and replayable. There is also MP and mini games. I haven't tried the MP but the 
 mini-games are amazing. It's touch screen only controls are perfect. Most of them are from SM64DS 
 but you will get over it. Overall, this game is amazing. It reminds me of the NES days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1ntendorevO
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  It has to be one the best DS games yet. If you have a DS you have to pick this up. The multiplayer 
 sets this game apart from the older marios. Remember the old days? This is what we have all been 
 waiting for. How can you not like Mario games? This game is not too long and not too short. It 
 has a ton of extra features that will keep you playing for hours after you beat it. Go save the 
 Princess Peach as usual and kick bowsers ***. Go out and buy this today if you havent already. 
 The DS Lite will make this game even better.
  
  
  
  
  
  Mario... nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthvideous
Rating: 5
Date: May 18, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  You can become BIG! You can become SMALL! You can put on a BLUE KOOPA SHELL and kinda run into 
 things umm This game has it all! And so do the other 30+ games that Nintendo has put poor Marios 
 face on. Cmon guys, retire our favorite plumber while he has a bit of dignity, or lets see him 
 in a game blowing away innocent mushrooms, jacking decked-out Koopa Tanks and taking Peach up 
 to her castle for a little hot coffee. Variety is all I ask for.
  
  This game is for those people who never, ever, ever played Super Mario Bros., Super Mario Bros. 
 2, Super Mario Bros. 3, the compilation of all three on the Super Nintendo., or any of the other 
 numerous games with Marios face plastered to it. And even if this applies to you, youd be better 
 off playing one of the classics.
  
  In this one, Princess Peach is kidnapped (again) while Marios off doing the hero thing (as usual) . 
 Once Mario realizes that his woman isnt where he last left her, he goes off to find her (of course) 
 while romping through forest stages (check) , snow stages (check) , desert stages (check) , and other 
 atypical environs (frickin check) . Along the way he can visit Mushroom shops (SMB3) and will have 
 a chance to wall-jump (SM64) and collect three pretty shiny big coin thingies in each level (which 
 is from another SM game, but you get the idea) .
  
  The BIG difference in this game (pun intended) is that Mario can grow to gargantuan size, as well 
 as shrink down to miniscule proportions. Oh, and theres some blue shell thingy that youll see 
 about once a world, and will be phenomenally useless if youre anywhere around sudden drops. This 
 thing is like steering a retarded cow. Not that the big and little Marios will be any better. 
 Theyre just a little bit less unwieldy. Big Mario can break through anything in his path ala bull 
 in a china shop. He can go through blocks, pipes, you name it. And the novelty of this will wear 
 off the first time you have to go back through a course because you destroyed the pipe that held 
 the last big pretty coin thingy in it while you were on a drunken rampage through Marios backyard. 
 And the small Mario is cute for about the time it takes an enemy to step on you. Little Marios 
 claim to fame is that he can run across water, and will float a bit when hes on the downward 
 part of a jump. Thats it. He will die quickly and painfully, and is the pits to control.
  
  Lets not jump to conclusions (another pun!) , because normal Marios no fun to control either. 
 It feels like theres a split second of lag between the time you tell him to jump and the time 
 he actually does jump. This also seems to be in effect when you move him left and right. This can 
 be pretty sweet. For instance, you can get friends and family members to play this game, and watch 
 their faces go from enjoyment to horror as Mario cheerfully walks off a cliff, or blissfully jumps 
 a hair too far and falls off to oblivion in the swinging mushrooms of death stage. But besides 
 that bit of hilarity, Marios just not that enjoyable. Hell run too far and fall, or hell jump 
 too far wide of the pit, or youll lose the fire flower youve had for about three worlds as you 
 inadvertently turn super huge in a pipe with nothing to do but wait the ten seconds for it to wear 
 off. I know what youre thinking. He must really sux0r at platformers! Be that as it may, this 
 game is geared towards a young audience. I suppose I could overlook the lag (you get used to it) , 
 but Its just not that fun. There are better platformers out there. Anywhere. Go look, Ill wait
 
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, as well as the sound. The first time I heard the end music and got 
 a firework to shoot from the castle was a definite blast from the past. It wears off quickly. 
 The sound and graphics are revamped for todays audience, and look good.
  Im not really sure why this is a DS game, however, as you only use the touch screen for minigames 
 THAT WERE RIPPED FROM ANOTHER MARIO GAME. Yep, youre playing the same minigames you played in 
 Super Mario 64 DS. So what exactly is new here, besides the graphics and sound? Not a single thing.
 
  
  I really wish Nintendo would have spent the time and energy from this game in making a new version 
 of an old classic, like Blaster Master or Bionic Commando. I wish the game wasnt so bland, so 
 lackluster. And I wish I hadnt spent the $30+ dollars on a bad redeux of a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturnefoxx
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Brothers may be the simplest, straight-forward title a video game has ever received. 
 It describes this game perfectly: It is a new version of Super Mario Brothers  and it works beautifully.
 
  
  What youve got on your paws here is basically a remake of the original NES Super Mario Brothers 
 with the sensibilities of Super Mario 3 and Super Mario World along with some modern day graphical 
 improvements.
  
  The plot? Save the Princess from Bowser and Bowser Jr. The gameplay? Press A to jump, B to dash 
 and spit fireballs. Heck, you even have to jump on a flagpole to finish the level. Theyve tossed 
 in a few new tricks, like wall jumps and the size-changing mushrooms, but at its heart its straight-up 
 Super Mario formula. The interesting thing here is that it balances itself well between being a 
 blatant, shameless retread of an old classic and being something new with the classic feel. The 
 most noticeable improvement to the game is the abandonment of sprites in favor of full 3D models. 
 The 3D models look sharp against the sidescrolling environments, and I personally feel it shows 
 that the 2D sidescrolling formula still has a lot of life left in it.
  
  There really isnt a lot to say about this game beyond this: If you played Super Mario Brothers 
 and Super Mario 3, then you know what youre getting with this game and youre going to love it. 
 Theyve added some nice frills to the classic formula but at the end of the day this is pure platforming 
 nostalgia, and its worth every dime that the game will cost you. You should buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Having played the original side scrolling Mario games for way too long as a child... I went into 
 the game ready only to except the best... And the best is what I got.
  
  Pros: Classic Mario with MORE STUFF! Nuf said right there. This game has some length to it for 
 a handheld game, and tons of replay ability. Introduces new power ups that are alot of fun. The 
 graphics are fantastic. But, like always, Mario is ALL ABOUT THE GAMEPLAY. You'll be swinging from 
 ropes, dodging spiked turtles, flying in the clouds, and ducking giant evil fish under water. This 
 game takes me back to the old days of NES. Mini games are fun too!
  
  Cons: Could be more music from the original games. The mini games are basically the same ones from 
 Mario 64 DS... they could have added more new ones... or atleast freshened up the old ones a bit. 
 Still fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Well, Mario id here, and back in his original form. For those who don't know, Mario is a 2D sidescroller 
 that first appeared on the nes. and spawned many sequels. then later after the nes era, he appeared 
 on the Nintendo 64, and even on today's Gen. game cube. Both of which were in a 3d style of gameplay.
 
  
  The story. Is about bowser junior kidnapping princess peach. yep that's about it.
  
  The gameplay. Mario returns to his roots in this game, the classic 2D style that everybody loves 
 is back. The classic style of gameplay that we all love is back. you'll adventure through different 
 worlds, and go through level's to unlock more levels to go through. Of course the classic platforming 
 is back, well the main focus of the game is set on platforming which means, (lots of jumping) there's 
 also swimming. though it can be fun, and adds a new twist to the old school style of just plat 
 forming, you'll enjoy regular old school style plat forming more. of course there's enemies and 
 bosses. the enemies are mainly turtle's called, koopas. and theres walking brown things that I 
 forgot what there called. The main way you'll attack these enemies is by jumping on them. are using 
 the power ups you'll get, like fireballs and turtle shells. With the variety of level designs, 
 you'll never feel like your at the same place twice. the boss battles are the biggest disappointment 
 in the game, their way to easy and requires little are no skill at all maybe Nintendo wanting it 
 to appeal more to the audience with its somewhat easy main difficulty but us old school fans like 
 it tough. I am not saying there isint any challenge in this game oh no! there's lots of challenge 
 in this game its just some old school veteran's might find it a little easy. Anyway you'll also 
 collect gold coins which are scattered through out the levels that you'll explore and defeat enemies 
 on. you'll use these coins for unlocking new levels on the world map and etc. the save system you 
 can only save when you unlock a new route, or beat a castle or tower level. though with all these 
 minor to big flaws with the game. it's still an amazing 2D experience that youll only get rarely 
 these day's.
  
  The graphics. Are once again brilliant! for the DS. All of the smooth textures and beautiful environments, 
 all come together in might just be one of the most beautiful games for the DS. The graphics in 
 this game are 2D yet 3D It's hard to explain though, all the environments that you'll go through 
 its just awe, the water levels are what really show off the graphics in this game. all the polygons 
 and textures on the characters make them look complete. 
  That's about it the graphics are smooth and never do you have any problems with, collision detection, 
 and framerate.
  
  The sound. all the classic Mario songs are back! though some have been tweaked a little bit, there 
 still the Mario noises that you have come to love. remember that noise when you beat each level 
 yep it's back with a lot more of that ooomph. some noises though have been put in the most unexpected 
 places. which is not that great like the classic Mario tunes from when your on the first level 
 in the originals, well that's been put in levels that you don't want it to be yet its there. All 
 in all though the music is great and its going to remind you of the old-days.
  
  The value. There's a lot to do in this game. with secret worlds and all the coins that are hard 
 to find in the levels you'll probably be playing this game for a while. Though the main game is 
 short. there's still multiplayer mini games. And a Mario Vs lugi sorta of thing.
  
  The bottom line. Is that this game is and awe trip down memory lane. fans of the series will love 
 it. And so will new comers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  The clumsy name is nonetheless perfect for the game - this is a new version of the classic Super 
 Mario Bros series! If you loved SMB, SMB3 and SM World, there's a pretty good chance you'll love 
 this one too. The core gameplay is identical to it's bretheren, and although it's not as massive 
 as Super Mario World or as packed with items as Super Mario 3, it's a great balance of size, items, 
 secrets, and challenge that the series is known for.
  
  So the first question is: what's old? New SMB embraces the new Nintendo focus of simplicity. It 
 uses the D-pad and 2 of the 4 buttons - and that's it. This game could be played with an NES controller. 
 The touch screen components are minimal and could easily be taken out without affecting the game. 
 It has the core gameplay of the original SMB. Tack on the overworld aspect of SMB3. Then sprinkle 
 in the secret exits, alternate paths, and special coin collecting of SMW.
  
  Oh, the "New"? New moves: wall jump and butt stomp. Both are used liberally to access secrets and 
 coins. New power-ups: huge mushroom, mini mushroom, and blue koopa shell. The mini mushroom in 
 particular is utilized for special areas. There's some strategy required with these new power ups, 
 as you rarely find them in the levels themselves...
  
  The environments are typically Mario, and the graphics are beautiful, some of the best 2D graphics 
 ever. The challenge level is significant if you like finding all the secrets, but not too bad if 
 you just like blowing through levels. The music is quite cool, catchy remixes of tunes from all 
 the previous games.
  
  There are a few things that can be annoying. First, you can only save after completing a tower 
 or castle level, or after spending coins to access a blocked path. This is really weird, and frustrating 
 if you just want to blow through a level on the bus - you can't save anywhere. The control underwater 
 is real floaty, making these levels even more of a pain then the original game. 
  
  Highly recommended, and a worthy addition to the pantheon of 2D Mario classics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  The Good: you can be a very big mario which every time you walk on something then it's destroyed 
 or if it is a enemy then it's dead, but at the same time you can also be a very little mario which 
 is also really good. and you could be a few different types of marios brothers like the green guy 
 or the fire guy or yeah, you know what i'm talking about.
  
  The Bad: there is nothing bad to say about this game but if i'm forced then i choose that there 
 is no multiplayer.
  
  This game is one of the best if not the best DS game out there and is without a doubt the best 
 mario game ever, ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holtke4987
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  So we had a friendly competition in our office to see who could beat it first. well it only took 
 me about 4 hours max over two days to beat. This game was def. worth the wait, the graphics and 
 gameplay are amazing for the DS. I loved this game because I was a big fan of the original Mario 
 way back when. I am not for sure if I really like the Giant Mushroom in this game. Yes, in world 
 1 this feature was friggin amazing. It was pretty sweet the fact that you can just walk through 
 the level as a Big friggin mario. So overall, this game was pretty easy to beat but was def. worth 
 the wait.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGoukiX
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I've been waiting for this game for a while now. Two of my top three games of 
 all time are Mario games (Super Mario Bros. 3, Super Mario 64) , so with this being the first original 
 side scrolling Mario game in 15 years (excluding Yoshi's Island) I had extremely high expectations 
 for New Super Mario Bros. Most of my expectations were met.
  
  New Super Mario Bros. (NSMB) starts off in typical Mario fashion, with Princess Peach being abducted 
 and Mario setting off to rescue her. Mario travels through dozens of diverse levels in the Mushroom 
 Kingdom, collecting power-ups and defeating various minions and bosses. Usually Mario's nemesis 
 Bowser is responsible for whatever trouble is afoot, but this time it's his brat of a kid Bowser 
 Jr. that's gotten into the princess-nabbing business.
  
  Mario starts on an overworld map, much like the ones in Super Mario Bros. 3 (SMB3) and Super Mario 
 World (SMW) . The different levels to each world are scattered about, connected by routes, and hidden 
 levels and routes can be accessed via secret exits that are found in some of the regular levels. 
 At the mid-point of each world is a mini-fortress which houses Bowser Jr. (fans of SMB3 will be 
 reminded of Boom Boom's levels) , who acts as a sub-boss throughout the game. At the end of each 
 world is a big fortress that houses the real boss, which varies throughout worlds. There are also 
 minigame and item houses in the levels that must be unlocked with special coins collected from 
 the levels, and even roving Hammer Bros. (again, SMB3) that will appear in whichever level they 
 land on whilst roaming around the map.
  
  The levels themselves are a stylistic mix between SMB, SMB3, and SMW, with some new twists thrown 
 in. While playing I noticed, more than once, that a level I was on actually incorporated sections 
 of levels from these past Mario games. A notable example is at the very beginning of world 1-1, 
 which resembles the 1-1 of the original SMB almost exactly. This occurs periodically, but rather 
 than seeming cheap or forced it actually serves as a sly nod to established fans that will know 
 exactly what's going on. My favorite such instance is the first boss fight, which I won't spoil 
 for those who haven't played the game yet. The game even goes so far as to bring back the end-of-level 
 flagpoles from SMB, complete with fireworks.
  
  NSMB is shamelessly old-school in design and echoes this most strongly with the two-button control 
 scheme that was standard on the NES, but the game controls flawlessly in that special Nintendo 
 way. The only returning power-ups are the Super Mushroom (increases Mario's size and allows him 
 to take an extra bit of damage) , the Fire Flower (allows Mario to throw fireballs at enemies) , 
 and the Starman (limited invincibility, faster speed, longer jumps) . Sadly, power-ups that grant 
 flying abilities are notably absent this time around. Also gone are the various animal suits from 
 SMB3. Instead we get the Mega Mushroom (makes Mario as tall as the top screen and able to demolish 
 anything in his path) , the Micro Mushroom (decreases Mario to miniscule size in order to fit through 
 small areas, run on water, and float-jump) , and the Blue Shell (Mario wears this on his back and 
 can duck into it, sliding into enemies and bouncing off walls) . None of the new power-ups are anywhere 
 near as cool as those from past Mario games, and especially disappointing to me is Shell Mario, 
 which is a poor substitute for the Hammer Bros. suit from SMB3 (sans hammers) . The Mega Mushroom 
 is useful as a cheap way to defeat bosses in one hit, and the Micro Mushroom is used to find many 
 secrets in the game and is required to gain access to two entire worlds. Any one of these items 
 can be stored on the bottom screen for later use, at which time you touch the item icon on the 
 bottom screen to summon whichever item you've stored.
  
  This is also, by far, the easiest of all the Mario games to date. Almost from the get-go the game 
 is practically throwing Fire Flowers and 1-UPs at you. By the time I had beaten the first world 
 I had amassed approximately thirty lives without effort, and after a while I never had below fifty. 
 The difficulty is actually my main gripe with NSMB; I've honestly never even seen the Game Over 
 screen (I wonder if it looks cool) . Additional challenge can be found if you strive to uncover 
 every secret, in true Mario fashion, but the straight path through the game is an utter cakewalk 
 with the exception of a small handful of levels. Two of the game's eight worlds are hidden and 
 completely optional and are actually markedly more difficult than the regular sections. There are 
 approximately eighty levels total, but only a fraction of them are required in order to progress 
 to the end of the game. All of the bosses are easy to beat and mostly require the same jump-attack 
 technique, but this is par for the course in a Mario game.
  
  The graphics are great and evoke a nice hybrid of modern and old-school sensibilities. All the 
 action is on a two-dimensional plane, but everything is polygonal. Mario's model is the same one 
 from SM64, but it works well and looks very nice. The animation is fluid and there are never any 
 framerate issues, even with lots of enemies or objects onscreen. Everything is vibrant and crisp, 
 and the multi-layered backgrounds are gorgeous. This is a very nice-looking game, period.
  
  The sound is standard Mario fare, with bricks breaking, enemies flattening under Mario's feet, 
 coins being collected, etcetera. The music is a mixture of new tunes and some remixed old ones, 
 with most of the latter coming from the original SMB. One cool twist with the music involves enemy 
 movement being influenced by the beat of whatever song is playing in the level, making it necessary 
 to time your actions accordingly. I like this idea, though it took a while to get used to.
  
  NSMB includes multiplayer support as well. There's a neat mode in which players control Mario 
 and Luigi in a race to collect stars, and then there's a collection of the same exact minigames 
 from Super Mario 64 DS. I'm not too sure about the longevity of the multiplayer aspects, but at 
 least you get to use the bottom screen for something other than storing items and looking at a 
 map (which is the case in the single-player mode) .
  
  Overall NSMB is a great game, and despite my many criticisms I'd even go so far as to call it an 
 instant classic. It's got the soul of SMB, the physics of SMW, and the level design philosophy 
 of SMB3. Though it's a bit too easy and there's a distinct lack of awesome power-ups, there are 
 countless secrets to find and the whole package is just so lovingly crafted that even its flaws, 
 some of them glaring, can't really do much harm to NSMB. When all is said and done, this game ranks 
 up there with SMB3 and SMW in terms of quality and fun, and anybody that truly considers themselves 
 a gamer should go ahead and pick up NSMB at the first available opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhbk
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  It's been 15 years since Mario was jumping on goombas in Dinosaur Land. We had other Mario Games, 
 but let's face it, we needed our good old side scrolling fix. 
  
  That's where New Super Mario Bros. delivers. It's just the right mix of old-school meets new-school 
 to create a game that feels like the classics, but remembers to incorporate new elements to keep 
 it fresh. 
  
  Gameplay: At First Impression I felt that Mario ran slower than in previous games and found myself 
 frustrated with this. Somewhere around the first mid-level tower i had completely forgotten about 
 it. It plays mostly like Super Mario Bros. so youll depend more on timed jumps rather than speed 
 (Super Mario Bros. 3) . The game features the essential power-ups: Super Mushroom, Fire Flower, 
 Starman, plus some new ones: Micro Mushroom (shrinks Mario) , Mega Mushroom (makes Mario giant) 
 and the ever do hard to control Blue Shell (seriously get some practice on this) . I wasnt really 
 impressed with the variety since older games seem to have more range when it came to power ups 
 but it will do. 
  
  Graphics: New and old enemies with most models taken from their 3D incarnations. Goes to show that 
 2D gameplay with 3D graphics was the way to go. Beautiful Backdrops. I found myself staring at 
 the background design more than once, and getting killed for it. No complains in this area.
  
  Sound: Music score with a new main land theme and plenty of remade classic themes such as the 
 Underground theme, Ghost House theme and Fortress theme. The sound bits for the original were used 
 for jumping, squashing, powering -up and just about anything Mario does with the exception of the 
 phrase "Here we go!" when blown out from a pipe. Good Sound Quality.
  
  Replay Value: Average considering this is a action platformer. The first play-through will most 
 likely have you skipping 2 entire worlds since they are only accesible through certain methods. 
 It gives you something to go back and do but at the same time limits the length of the game. Perhaps 
 leaving the main game intact and having some kind of SPECIAL world would have been a better choice. 
 Also collecting Star Coins (3 hidden in each level) will allow you to buy more paths and levels. 
 
  
  Overall great game, almost a classic but not quite. Having said that Im very hopefull that the 
 next installment (come Nintendo, you know you have to!) will be even better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrrr69
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When you think of video games, few images may flash in your mind. Zelda, Metroid, Master Chief, 
 Solid Snake, Crash Bandicoot, Sonic the Hedgehog and many other game characters may occupy your 
 mind, but one should be the most likely to flash in your head: Mario. 
  
  Mario is not only an important staple to the industry, he's a legend to the gaming world as we 
 know it. Without the success of Mario and his hit games Donkey Kong (where he was known as Jumpman) 
 and the original Super Mario Brothers, who knows what gaming would be like today? Would it exist? 
 Would it thrive? Would it become one of those lumps in humanity that never got its chance? 
  
  All history lessons aside, its time to get down to New Super Mario Brothers for the Nintendo 
 DS. This game is not only full of action and platforming goodness, it has what most games nowadays 
 don't- its really, really, really, really fun to play. 
  
  It starts out with a simple story- Peach is captured by baby bowser and now Mario must go out and 
 save her. The first part i'll explain is the graphics. In certain areas of the game they are astonishing. 
 Full of rich, vibrant worlds and nicly detailed characters, my only complaint is the could have 
 been a little bit smoother and a little less "blocky". When Mario's "Mega Mario" he looks FANTASTIC- 
 his overalls and red jumpsuit (or whatever clohing material he wears) are greatly detailed and 
 contrasted. He looks fair when he's Super Mario as well, but the problem begins when he's Mario 
 or "Mini Mario". He becomes so tiny, yet has so many pixels, he looks, for lack of a better word, 
 like a five year old's barf after he's eaten a box of Crayola crayons. Other than that, the graphics 
 are great, i just wish they weren't so pixelated.
  
  Of course, we have the sound. Now, let me be perfectly honest here, Mario's theme music has ALWAYS 
 been my all time faviorite music EVER MADE ON THE PLANET. No, im not joking, i adore. Which is 
 why i was dissapointed when i heard the music here- it's not so varied, and is some awful techno 
 remix that almost makes me wanna cry. To make up for the awful music though, there is the great 
 array of sound effects to consider. All of the sound effects are excellent, varied consistent. 
 Still, i wish the music was better.
  
  Now its time to delve into the best part of the game- the control. The controls for New Super Mario 
 Brothers are so retro they feel brand new. I have no idea how the developers did that but it is 
 truly amazing how it retains to the old school feel. You even have to slide down a flagpole this 
 time, a feature that has never been done in a new mario game since the original Super Mario Brothers. 
 That's the irony of new SMB- even though it says new, its pretty much old. Though they did add 
 a few new moves- a wall jump and a way to flip- there isn't that much content to differ from the 
 original SMB. There are also three new mushrooms- mini mushrooms (which create "Mini Mario", and 
 allows Mario to access places where his original self would be unable to visit) , mega mushrooms 
 (which create "Mega Mario" and has Mario running lef t to right, destroying everything in its path, 
 even warp pipes) , and a blue turtle shell ) which isn't neccessarily a mushroom, but it transforms 
 mario to turtle mario and lets mario hit other enemies) . In all honesty, i felt the new power ups 
 gimmicky, as the only time you need to use them would be the mini mushroom, which allows you to 
 access some hidden areas, as well as world 4 and 7. The map is now in an overworld resembling Super 
 Mario Brothers 3, with some bonus minigames for you to get some power ups. 
  
  From this review, you may think i'm going to give it a bad score, but no, im giving it a terrific 
 score. New SMB is a game that even people who dislike nitendo would enjoy. It delivers in every 
 possible way, except for some issues that need some ironing out. New Super Mario Brothers is quite 
 possibly the best DS game to date. Now, if you excuse me, i have flagpoles that need sliding.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miracle_Air
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Long have many Nintendo fans begged for a new Super Mario side scrolling game. For a few years 
 we saw the releases of the classics apart of the Super Mario Advance series. And for a while there 
 was nothing amongst the Mario world...
  
  Then came the announcement of New Super Mario Bros. This game was promised to be a revival of the 
 classic gameplay formula, running, jumping, power ups and platforming, all a Mario fan could want.
 
  
  And it's a DAMN good thing they kept their promise.
  
  New Super Mario brothers is a TRUE revival of the classic Mario formula as it merges the gameplay 
 of Super Mario Brothers 3, Super Mario World and the 3D graphics which graced Mario 64.
  
  The game consists of 8 worlds, 2 which must be accessed seperate from the normal pathway of the 
 game, a la Super Mario World. You have you basic style of levels, Mushroom Kingdom, Desert World, 
 Tropical World, Ice World, Lava World, Mountain World, Sky World and one I have yet to visit.
 
  
  There's no need to explain the gameplay. We all know it and we all love it. And if you claim to 
 hate Mario and call yourself a REAL gamer, there's something wrong with you. No, this is not a 
 pro-nintendo speech, this just simply is a statement of fact. Any real gamer worth his money knows 
 the basic Mario gameplay formula.
  
  There are 3 new power ups, Blue Shell, Mega Mushroom and Tiny Mushroom. The two are self explanatory 
 whereas the blue shell is something brand new. Basically put, it turns Mario into a Koopa Troop, 
 in the sense he can do pretty much anything they can.
  
  The story is simple as always, except this time Baby Bowser is the kidnapper.
  
  There's much 
 more I could explain about this game, but there's no need to.
  
  I DO however want to let the people know this. The game is SHORT. I have already gotten to the 
 final world the day after it was released. But good news is even if you clear the game with Mario, 
 unlock all worlds and all levels and collect every last star coin, there's still the ability to 
 play as Luigi. But as how to do that, you can find out for yourself. ;D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdclanc
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Classic Mario all the way with a lot of fun twists and innovation. Huge Mario is just 
 the beginning .They use the 3D engine well to add fun gameplay elements.
  
  Graphics: Using 3D graphics in a 2D side-scroller makes the game look sharp and colorful.
  
 
  Sound: The music is good but not great. There is a good balance of Mario voice for those who love 
 it and those who hate it.
  
  Value: The game is pretty short if you rush through it. However, there are a lot of unlockable 
 levels. Replay value is very high.
  
  Tilt: What can I say? Nostalgia is ever present. It's a new Mario game and it rocks!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrX8991
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  In the hustle and bustle of E3, it seems the arrival of New Super Mario Bros. had a low fanfare, 
 and believe me... it deserves more. A lot more. Nintendo did its homework, researching Super Mario 
 Bros., Super Mario Bros. 3, and Super Mario World and taking some of the best parts of each to 
 make an excellent game.
  The game begins with the usual Mario story: Princess Peach gets kidnapped and Mario has to save 
 her. Sure, the story may be weak, but once you play the first few levels, you will completely forget 
 it. The New Super Mario Bros. feels exactly like an old-school Mario game with a few new items. 
 There is the Mega Mushroom, which grows Mario to the size of the top screen of the DS, where he 
 basically destroys anything in his path. There is the Mini Mushroom, which makes Mario smaller, 
 but better at jumping. Finally, there is the Koopa Shell, where if Mario runs fast enough, he spins 
 like a thrown Koopa Shell. While these new items are fine and dandy, you do not come across them 
 very often. Also, the Koopa Shell usually got me killed more times than it helped me.
  Controlling Mario is just as easy as it was on the NES: B and A are to jump, X and Y are to run 
 and shoot fireballs when Fire Mario. However, Mario has some tricks from Super Mario 64 (DS) as 
 well. He can double jump, triple jump, butt stomp, and wall jump, making for some unique puzzles.
 
  While I do love this game, there are a few small problems I have. First, the fire flower basically 
 makes even the toughest of enemies into pushovers. As mentioned above, the Koopa Shell is annoying 
 and the new items don't appear as often as they should. Also, some things are just out of place, 
 like some levels not having anything to do with the rest of the world, and the world 5 boss, although 
 I like him, doesn't fit in with the icy world at all. Another thing is it seems that the difficulty 
 jumps all over the place. Overall, these small complaints don't come close to outweighing the good.
 
  If you are simpling trying to run to the end of the game, New Super Mario Bros. will seem short. 
 However, if you are trying for 100% by finding every star coin, beating every level, and finding 
 every secret exit, New Super Mario Bros. will take you a long while to beat. Not to mention the 
 Mini Games, even though most are just remakes of the Super Mario 64 DS games.
  Nintendo really did it right. Newcomers to the Side Scrolling, Platform Jumping Mario games can 
 pick it up and play easily, and fans of the classic Mario games will not be disappointed. The New 
 Super Mario Bros. is excellent to the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  *completely edited old review after playing it more*
  
  Personally, I liked EVERY Super Mario sidescroller game. Each brought new level designs, new challenges, 
 and new bosses. This game is no exception. One of the greatest things about this game are the new 
 levels. Its amazing how they keep coming with new ideas for levels and their challenges.
  
  Secondly, this game has a lot of colour and it is not dull. Even the dark bowser levels are cool 
 because of the red lava.
  
  Also, this game combines practically all Mario games. For example, the ell from Super Mario 64 
 is an enemy. You can wear weird suits (shell suit) such as in Super Mario Bros.3. Its too bad Yoshi 
 isn't rideable in this game else I might of called it the best Mario sidescroller ever.
  
  Unfortunatly, Bowser Jr. is in this game but he sort of replaces the Koopa Bros. and he isn't very 
 annoying in this game. In fact, I'd say that his boss battles are amazing.
  
  The controls aren't bad either. You can easily modify them and get use to them. Sometimes you can 
 get frustrated with how the Shell suit works.
  
  In conclusion, this is a wonderful game filled with colour, adventure, variety, and playability.
 
  
  The Good: Cool boss battles, colourful worlds, new modes (shell suit, super mega mario, mini mario)
 
  
  The Bad: I thought the graphics would be better but who cares
  
  The Ugly: (this is where I list cool possibilities what weren't in the game) No Yoshi, no Wario, 
 no Waluigi. The title sucks :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto-freak
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying that this is a true mario game. It is in 2d, but it is stilol one of 
 the greatest games for the ds yet. 
  New super mario bros starts off by Princess Peach being kidnapped (get a new hobbey bowser/bowser 
 jr.) and you have to rescue her by jumping on your enemys heads. This game has loads of stuff from 
 the old games. goombas, and koopas, still only walk in straight lines and turn around when they 
 hit things. besides that, there are loads of new enemies.
  the level design is pretty nifty as well. in one level you ride on a massive wiggler. You get to 
 jump from platforms that move and jump over lava that shoots up lava balls. one thing thats not 
 so cool is that some of the levels seem short.
  in between the seperate levels, you are transported to an overworld where you can see each of the 
 seperate levels are. 
  The graphics in New Super Mario Bros is crisp and clear. although it is 2d, some of the special 
 offects look pretty neat. Like the water when it ripples, or when you jump on a mushroom and it 
 trys to throw you off.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanoh
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  We all have waited for a game like this since Super Mario World and Yoshi's Island. After a long 
 8 years of wait, Nintendo delivered a bomb of a good game. New Super Mario Bros. is the next best 
 2D/3D game for your DS/DS Lite.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The story goes like this: Mario and Peach are taking a stroll when the castle is struck by lightning. 
 Mario goes to check it out, but at the same time the sneaky Bowser Jr. sneaks and snatches Princess 
 Peach. Mario sees this and the chase is on and a new adventure begins. The first 4 levels are an 
 exact remant of the old school NES game: Super Mario Bros. Mario has his moves from old to new 
 (well some of them) , and they come in good use some times. You will love remembering the villains 
 and foes you come across. The map overlay has a unige Super Mario World feel to it and the game 
 starts a bit easy, but then gets difficult along the way (believe me, I was having a hard time 
 on World 6-8) . Also there is the 2 player mode where it pits brother vs brother in a race to get 
 the most stars. The thing is you can beat the opposing brother to get the star. However, if you 
 are like me and where no one else has a ds or ds lite.... you will barely play this option. The 
 minigames return from SM64 to NSMB. There are a hand ful of new games, and some old ones you remember 
 quite fondly. You can play alone or with friends depending on your preference. My only downside 
 with the gameplay is once you beat it, you feel like there is no challenge, or you would hate to 
 do it over again (after that last boss it might (I beat the last boss and with full grown mario)
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  This is probably one of the best graphics for a DS handheld that I have ever seen. Each level is 
 given it's own unique flavor and design, and the foes look better than ever. There is one small 
 problem though. Some of the levels have the same background, but that is to be expected. Almost 
 all the super mario 2d games had the same background.
  
  Sound: 10:10
  This is what makes a super mario game... well... super. You will hear the classic underground tune, 
 the overworld tune, the star song (from SM64) , and if you hear very well on the map overview of 
 world one, it is the updated level 1-1 music from Super Mario Bros. 3. The sounds the foes make, 
 the jumping and coin noise we always loved is all here in one nifty little packaged game. Oh yes 
 and finally: the die music is also there.
  
  Value: 9.6/10
  Super Mario fans get this game. I recommend it with full degree. Even though I beat the game it 
 proves its worth in my collection. For casual gamers and beginner gamers: this is also a game you 
 should try. My only problem with the game is it feels a bit short, but that is no problem at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  There are two steps to almost every Mario side-scroller. First you go to the first castle, peach 
 taken to another castle, and repeat steps until you run out of castles to destroy. Surprise, surprise, 
 surprise. It is the same here! There are only a few changes made in the new one. First, its no 
 Bowser; it is Baby Bowser (Big Deference) . Second, there are new items mini mushroom, giant mushroom, 
 and blue koopa shell. They are able to store on the bottom screen. Third, the graphics. WOW, it 
 will take a while to get use to but..... IT IS SO AWESOME!!! You should get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero232
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I got to say, this is one of the greatest Mario games since Super Mario Bros. 3. New Super Mario 
 Bros. combines 2D side scrolling gameplay with 3D moves and graphics. I wish I could play this 
 for myself, but I don't have a DS. I wish I bought that instead of a PSP. The DS is rich with games. 
 Anyway, back to the review. The controls are real awesome. The DS unfortanally doesn't have the 
 A button on the bottom, though. The game has the power-ups of the original, plus some new ones. 
 One includes a giant mushroom, which turns Mario Super Big. The multiplayer mode is real great, 
 too. Mario and Luigi go against each other in a sibling rivalry. Although it only has Ad Hoc (No 
 Nintendo Wi Fi connection) , The game is great. There are also minigames recycled from Super Mario 
 64 DS. I don't pay attention to those. If you want retro action with remixed fun, I highly recommend 
 playing New Super Mario Bros. You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbriell
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited for a new iteration of the side scrolling Super Mario since it was announced 
 in 2004. If that seems like a long time to wait, try waiting 15 years for a proper follow up to 
 1991s Super Mario World. In some ways New Super Mario Bros. is the true sequel we expected following 
 a game like Super Mario World (no slight to Super Mario World 2: Yoshis Island, but its a tough 
 argument to say Yoshis was a true sequel) ) . In some ways this game is not a true sequel; mainly 
 because it does not seem like an evolution of the side scrolling series. Yes, there are new additions, 
 a turtle power-up and biggie and small-fry-size magic mushrooms, but these power-ups dont intensely 
 alter the gameplay. 
  
  Dont get me wrong, I like this game (quirky title aside) . It just doesnt feel like a sequel. 
 It feels like what the aforementioned quirky title suggests: a reprise. Not a remake, but a reprise. 
 
  
  In my wildest dreams I expected an enormous game with serious level variety and some innovation. 
 It may sound harsh, but New Super Mario does not innovate, and it falls short of my wildest dreams. 
 Super Mario 3 met those dreams. I was a lot younger and prone to dreaming, but I can still get 
 excited for a game. New Super Mario does what it needs to do, and it does it well. It stays true 
 to the Mario side scrolling pedigree, and like other reviews have said, New remains fresh. It 
 feels like the game Nintendo should have made a long time ago (somewhere between Super Mario 3 
 and Super Mario World) . It just doesnt feel like a game anyone should have waited 15 years for. 
 Yes, I know, we didnt really wait 15 years. Mario has stomped through a veritable parade of adventures 
 during that time. I think I wanted this game to go to the front of that parade, to quiet all the 
 3-D madness that has ruled the gaming industry since, well, Mario himself went 3-D. 
  
  New Super Mario is a great game, and a fine addition to anyones DS library. Just dont expect 
 the world from this little platformer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProfessorRaine
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario Bros. has some very good memories for most gamers. It brought gaming to the masses. 
 It saved video games period. Weather he was saving his girlfriend from what was then a King Kong 
 ripoff to cleansing an island paradise from red goo, Mario has had consistantly amazing gqames 
 for his entire run. Is he still as good as he was? Read on...
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Simple, easy to learn, hard to master controls make this game easy to pick up and play even for 
 those, I don't know, 6 people who have never played a Mario game. What I don't understand is how 
 in the world is running to the right and jumping so fun? Who knows. The difficulty is just right, 
 and the learning curve is perfect. The pacing is great, and the enemy designs, while most are reused 
 from previous games, are still interesting. And, even when there are many enemies on screen and 
 there is a 20 foot tall Mario running along the left side of the screen, there is absolutely no 
 slowdown. This is truely a marvel of game programing.
  
  Controls 10/10
  As I said above, the controls are simple, yet effective. There are really only three movements-moving, 
 dashing, and jumping/swimming. Sluggishness is nonexistant; it almost feels as if Mario is responding 
 to your thoughts, not hands. Simple, easy to pick up and play makes this game very available to 
 everyone from avid gamers to passive players.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are great. 3-D characters and 3-D environments are a real treat to the eye, especially 
 for a handheld title. Particle effects are abundant, from the pieces of brick falling after breaking 
 a block to the sparkles coming off of the "Starman". All the character models animate nicely, and 
 Mario's movements are nice and fluid; I was particularly amazed at how good Mario looks while flipping 
 around the screen with the Starman (with one, all of his jumps become almost Samus-like somersaults) .
 
  
  Multiplayer 8/10
  Co-op and competitive multiplayer has always been a staple of Mario since the first appearance 
 of Luigi in the arcades. This game is no different. The co-op/competitive multiplayer (single and 
 multicard) is simply a blast to play with a friend. There is even an assortment of Mario Party-like 
 minigames that you can play alone or with a friend. These games are very diverse, and most of them 
 make full use of the touch screen, including whack-a-mole, a game that has you drawing lines between 
 rails to lead Mario to a Starman at the bottom, and a personal favorite, a poker-like game against 
 the dealer (Luigi) .
  
  Rent or Buy? BUY THIS GAME! You owe it to yourself to play this game at least once. Not doing so 
 could possibly fall into the category of "Cruel and Unusual Punishment". Yes, it's that good.
 
  
  Final Thought: Mario is the father of games, and he's definitly doing his fatherly duty by gracing 
 players with this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushibot12
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Here i go.
  
  All i can say is, YES!!!! There hasn't been a "traditional" Mario Side Scroller since Super Mario 
 World. Sure, we have seen rehashes, and such on the GBA, or other variations of the game, such 
 as Yoshi's Island, but none were truly a Mario game in my opinion. IN other words, not so much 
 Mario 1, Mario 3, or World. But Nintendo, now they finally brought back something we all love, 
 true platforming Mario.
  
  YAY!!!!
  
  GamePlay:
  
  Mario and Princess Peach decide to take a walk. Guess what, trouble is a brew, and Mario leaves 
 for 1 minute, and guess what, she gets kidnapped by Baby Bowser. Huh? Whats going on? Here we go 
 again. :)
  
  I have finally beaten New Super Mario Brothers today, and i say, WOW. The gameplay is definitely 
 what i expected from a traditional Mario Side Scroller. 
  It has the from side to side, also allowing back-tracking, and ending with Pulling the flag down, 
 and raising the Mushroom Kingdom Flag. The game also has the fortresses in the middle of the level, 
 where we face off against Baby Bowser. Baby Bowser?? Where is big Bowser?? Dum DUm DUM!!! There 
 is a little map on the screen like that from Mario 3, that also has Mushroom huts scattered all 
 over the place. There are several types of these huts. 1 has mini games for 1ups, 1 for items, 
 and special ones that give you the MEGA Mushroom or MICRO Mushrooms. However, they took out the 
 inventory system from Mario 3, and instead is using the one from Super Mario World, where Mario 
 can only carry 1 more thing. Like Super Mario World, some levels branch off into different directions, 
 and also you can purchase to go through different parts of the world, with large GOLD coins that 
 you can collect all over the worlds and levels, and instead of the tornado to take us to different 
 worlds, we got cannons.
  
  The game features a couple of new items. 
  
  The new items are the Mega Mushroom, the Mini Mushroom, and the blue shell. The Mega Mushroom is 
 the definition of uber godly Mario mode. You plow through everything with ease, and there is a 
 bar measuring the "Mass Destruction" you perform. The more destruction will wield you more 1-ups 
 when the time runs out. The mini mushroom is a unique item, because it turns you micro sized, allowing 
 you to enter tiny pipes, and such, however it feels a little tacked on. There have only been like 
 4 levels where you actually use the Mini-Mario to get somewhere. Also, the mini-mushrooms ability 
 doesn't really add too much. You will still die in 1 hit, and all it offers is the ability to stay 
 in the air a little longer when you jump, and walk on water. The blue shell is the interesting 
 item of the mix. When Mario puts in on, he can obliterate everything in his path when he starts 
 dashing. When he does so, he hides in the shell, letting it spin and destroy everything in its 
 path, however it may be a little tricky to control in the beginning. 
  
  Mario also has his traditional items. Returning are the super star and fire flower. As well as 
 these items, Mario brings some of his moves from his 3D days.
  
  Abilities Mario had since his N64 days, Mario can stomp and wall jump in this title. Also, an interesting 
 thing he could do, when you jump on the spring platform to float into the sky, if you push down, 
 he will start spinning fast in a small flurry of blue wind.
  
  Music:
  
  The music in this game is awesome. If you pay close attention, in some areas, you hear an arranged 
 version of some of the older Mario Music. The new tracks are awesome, and well made. They fit in 
 to the Mario world fine.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are gorgeous for the small handheld. Nintendo definitely did a number for this one. 
 The graphics just very well done. I really like the lively backgrounds, moving Platforms, and little 
 things all over the place. I especially like the ripple effects of the water.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  There is a Mario Vs Luigi mode. This mode is very addictive, where you and 
 a friend pummel each other trying to takes each others stars. Find some friends to play this with, 
 because you only need 1 cartridge to play in this mode.
  
  Extra Content:
  
  Just like the Mario 64 DS, this comes with Mini games. Many of which are from the Mario 64 DS, 
 however with a few new ones added to the mix. These are a nice addition, for those times when you 
 wanna take a short break from the running around and such.
  
  Summary:
  
  First thing to say, if you love Mario, buy this game now. The game features very solid gameplay, 
 and well made music. There are several extra features that add to the experience, such as the Mario 
 VS Luigi modes, among other things. This game comes with plenty of extra mini games, and will definitely 
 last you a long time. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveroe29
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros has a mixture if old and new school gameplay of past Mario games. It has 80 
 levels but you have to go back into the game after you beat it to play half of them. If you loved 
 the old school Mario games you will love this game. This game gives you the old school feel with 
 the classic Mario jump and the power flower and the mushroom mixed with a new school feel with 
 the big and very small Mario. The best DS game made so far. This is a must buy . If you have a 
 DS and if you don't get this game you have a bad taste in games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBonaccors
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up my copy of New Super Mario Bros. I was excited. When I played it for the first 
 time, I had a feeling that I hadn't had in years. Remember that magical feeling you used to have 
 when you first played Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World? 
  
  That feeling has gotten lost in the sea of game developers that have forgotten what it takes to 
 make a game have that x-factor. 
  
  New Super Mario Bros is easily the most colorful game I've played on DS. It's such a joy watching 
 the visuals while playing through the all new Mario levels. I had forgotten how much fun 2D side-scrolling 
 platformers were, Nintendo and other 3rd party developers need to revive this genre of games.
 
  
  The game totally feels brand new, but the gameplay retains all of the perfection that Nintendo 
 and Miyamoto mastered. The music is spectacular and just as catchy as the original. The original 
 sound effects are nostalgic and wonderful.
  
  Mario is a little easy this time around, but that's fine too, it's well worth the $35 to feel like 
 a kid again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is a great update to a classic game formula. The game plays almost exactly 
 the same as other side-scroller Mario games, with a few additions. Butt-stomping and wall kicks 
 are the most notable new features, and these blend seamlessly into the old fomula.
  
  As Mario goes through each level, he can collect powerups. The fire flower and super mushroom and 
 starman are the only known ones to return. There is a new powerup that makes Mario the size of 
 the screen, and another that significantly shrinks him so that he is light enough to walk on water 
 and jump very high. There is also a blue shell powerup that lets Mario slide across the ground 
 and defeat enemies.
  
  The graphics are great. Wonderfully drawn 2d backgrounds, and nicely done 3d character and enemy 
 graphics are absolutely great. And, best of all, it still feels like a Mario game!
  
  The only issues I find are the lack of flying powerups, like the raccoon suit or cape from previous 
 games, and also a lack of a few favorite enemies (like the Koopalings) . Also, the difficulty is 
 not very high, but because the game is so fun, that really doesn't matter. Mario games have never 
 been difficult, and this is no exception. Also, the levels are a little too short. They go by extremely 
 fast.
  
  Overall, one of the best games I've played, and easily the best game on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazycomplife
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game yet, you should go buy it.
  Here is the breakdown of what it consists of, if you've played other mario games:
  Level selection- 
 Super Mario World
  Side-scrolling- NES/SNES Marios
  Power-up "levels" (Like the Toad House) - Super Mario Bros. 3
  Storing an item- Super Mario World
 
  Hidden areas- Super Mario World
  Triple jumps/Wall kicks/Ground pound- Super Mario 64
  
  New features:
  -Star coins allow access to hidden areas
  -Checkpoints are usually included 
 in levels
  -Mega Mushrooms (AWESOME) , Mini Mushrooms, Blue Koopa Shells
  -Fun little minigames
  -Good Multiplayer
  
  Here is a breakdown of my review:
  Gameplay:
 
  The gameplay is smooth, responsive, and fun. You can play for short time periods or long ones 
 and feel satisfied from both (which is usually a problem for me on handheld games... I like to be 
 able to play them for 5 minutes and still have fun without having to get too involved into the 
 game) .
  The story is simple and old-school. Peach was standing around like an idiot and got kidnapped for 
 like the 60th time, and Mario feels the need to save her. Nothing new, but I like that.
  
  Graphics:
  Very smooth and well animated. The game looks like a very well rendered version of 
 Super Mario World. Side-scrollers need basically only one thing, and that's color. This game pulls 
 the graphics off excellently.
  
  Sound:
  Same wonderful sounds. Nothing needed to be changed from the old sounds, and I'd be disappointed 
 if they were changed.
  
  Value:
  A great game, and well worth the purchase.
  
  Tilt:
  I tilted the score down a little just because this wasn't too innovative. Innovation is 
 the main thing I look for in games.
  
  I hope this review helped!!
  -Sythierius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordtossZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10!!! The game play is where the game play really shines. There is a hand full of vairty 
 of moves to move/kill your enemy. All different sorts of power ups. each level has secrets of its 
 own, like finding coins and the pirana plant that is used to climb makes a return to some levels 
 where u can find secrets.
  Graphics: 9.5. That .5 that i took off is that i found that in a few of the bosses, i saw a minor 
 lag when one of the bosses attacked me, like the one in final castle of world 2. Other than that 
 the graphics are extremly good for a 2-D/3-D hybrid.
  Sound: 9. The sounds are good but i was hoping for a different sound for stomping on different 
 enemies. Each stage tho has a variety of music.
  How long is it going to last you? 8 Not very long if you are one of those guys who likes to blow 
 through the game, but if u are like me, and find every little secret, it can last you around a 
 month or so.
  
  Its a must get title for the DS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Brothers game isn't exactly revolutionary... Hell, it isn't even really all 
 that new a concept... But it is one of the best DS games out right now and it is a definite must-buy 
 for every DS owner. The game basically takes everything that has been good about the entire Mario 
 Bros. series (with some new stuff added) and compiled it into a brand new adventure. Mostly, it's 
 influences seem to draw on Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World for the NES and SNES respectively.
 
  
  The game pans out in typical Mario fashion. Get from point A to the end castle and jump the pole. 
 You'll have to chase after Bowser (or little Bowser in this case) and make your way through various 
 worlds with varying things to see and challange. There is a map where you pick your level, most 
 like SMW, and there are some visible 'hidden' areas to unlock if you pry a little. Within each 
 of the levels are giant star coins, 3 per level, and collecting them will help unlock little toadstool 
 shops along the way, or possible alternate pathways to travel.
  
  I've been playing Super Mario Brothers for 20 years now, and this adventure still has me yearning 
 for more and more. It's great fun, it offers a great challange at times and also comes packed with 
 multiplayer and minigames for added enjoyment. Until I got my hands on this game, I wasn't sure 
 how it would turn out, but it turned out remarkably good. Even if you aren't a long time fan of 
 the series, it is still an amazingly well done side scroller for the DS.
  
  Whoever said that 2-D games were a thing of the past needs a swift kick to the rear. If companies 
 can still create side scrollers this much fun, I hope I'll be playing them for another 20 years. 
 After all, fun is what video games are all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gersh100
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 17, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario bros. is a good game but with some flaws. The good parts of the game is the clasic 
 feel to the game, and the contorles are pretty good but you wish the buttons were alittle better 
 placed, I'v alsways found on the DS definatly when playing a GameBoy game the the buttons are in 
 to much of a diamand position and should be more slanded. There also arn't enogh levels, you can 
 unlock levels but it's wierd because you use a coin star system whin in the levels, instead of 
 secret exits like in past games. With the power ups there not that great because the small mushroom 
 gets you realy small but can leace you defenseless if an enemy goes for you. The shell only works 
 if theres a slant and ones you get into it you lose alot of controll. The big mushroom is alright 
 but is realy rare to find. The lack of a flying suit also kinda buged me a bit. One promblem that 
 I find on evry Mario Side scroling game is the movment of the character. You go too slow, or you 
 go too fast, you can never tell where you or an enimy will land any every thing always seemed alittle 
 scrambled. Another bad factor is the grafics, I think they should have keeped a 2-D look, the grafics 
 almost look wrose than Super Mario 64 DS, also for the frist time in a long time mario turns small 
 when hurt, didn't look horible on 2_d vertion but in 3-d it just looks creepy. Even thogh there 
 are so many flaws in it it still is a good game, you realy do feel like your playing a true 2-D 
 mario game, and must of the things I've mentioned have always been in mario games, I just figured 
 they would have fixed them by now. Over all this is a preety good game and any mario fan or fan 
 of 2-D side scrollers should definatly buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisekris86
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  One of the Top DS Titles, that is both easy to play, challenging to master, and a good balance 
 to play again & again!
  
  1. Very Easy to learn to play, excpecially considering there is no tutorial in the game (compared 
 to most games)
  
  2. There are some parts in the game that while not neccessary are a challenge for gamers who want 
 a little more game. Lets not for get all the collectibles that include mainly Large coins (3 per 
 level) and rewards for them that include unlocking more levels!
  
  3. MANY levels that are short (and fun) enough to play over and over again!
  
  Cons
  
  
 1. mini games are kinda dull, unless you have other players
  
  2. no single player for Mario VS Luigi (so that you can practice to play friends) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is a remake of the old mario game and guess wat? they made an AWSOME GAME!!!!!!!!!! man 
 this game is FUN i mean like u have the story line which is baby bowser steals princess peach and 
 mario has to sava her. there are 8 levels and they are very fun to play. first couple of levels 
 are kinda easy but after a while they get quiet a bit harder. there are different types of mushrooms 
 like the mini musherum which makes u so small that u cant c yourself but u jump like 20 feet in 
 the air. there is a huge mushroom which does wat it says. overall this game is one of the best 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbturner1438
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  What a perfect combination of mostly classic Mario with a dash of new stuff sprinkled on top. This 
 3-d side scroller brings back so many awesome Mario moments. You can stomp kopas, throw shells 
 and slide through the good ole green pipes. There are so many enemies old and new along with some 
 really sweet platforming you expect from the Italian plumber himself. One of the most satisfying 
 yet simple moment is the first boss. I'll let you see for yourself why. There are wireless multiplayer 
 modes as well. Two players with two cards can have a race to collect the most stars. You're Mario 
 vs. of coarse. With one card up to four players can play a wide variety of minigames together; 
 some of witches are familiar to SM64DS players. You obviously can play them alone as well. If you 
 have the chance to either rent it or buy it you know and the entire even slightest Mario fan know 
 what to do.
  
  
  
  
  BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Side-scrolling mario. We havent seen that in a while. Now, with the release of New Super Mario 
 Bros. thats all about to change. And thats not just including the side-scrolling elements, thats 
 including the amazing gameplay, and sound -- which now fit the games of this era.
  NSMB is one of the best mario games on the DS to date; period. From gameplay, to graphics, to sound, 
 this game does everything right.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is fantastic. Just like the old Super Mario Bros. 3. Much of it is the same, besides 
 new items you collect, such as the giant mushroom, and mini mushroom. Mario also uses moves seen 
 in Super mario Sunshine, and Super Mario 64, which is a nice touch.
  Although all the levels are really intresting, the lack of bosses drags it down. The only Boss 
 you ever fight is Baby bowser; over and over. I would have liked to see some more baddies, like 
 a "diffrent" Koopa perhaps? It does drag the game down; Just a little though.
  
  Graphics
  Great 3-D, beautifully designed graphics. The 3D elements work great with the game. 
 The backgrounds also look gorgeous on the DS' dual screens.
  
  Sound
  The game sounds great. All, and i mean ALL the great sound effects from the old super mario are 
 revived in this game, with some new additions. The music fits everything, and it sounds great.
 
  
  Value
  Although it takes like 4 hours to beat the game, youll still want to go back and find everything 
 in the levels. Although after that, there isnt much more. The mini-games are all taken directly 
 from Super Mario 64 DS, and the multiplayer is just a race to the finish. I wanted to see a co-op, 
 but oh well.
  
  Overall
  This game is really, really good. Gameplay is excellnt and a true revival of a great classic. Graphics 
 are really nice looking on the DS, and the sound is great. Makes me remember the old days; before 
 super mario 64. And let me tell you; those old days are not something to be forgotten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bubble_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  After years of waiting, Nintendo has finally opted to release a new side-scrolling game featuring 
 everyones favorite plumbers. Sure, there were the Game Boy Advance ports of older games, but this 
 is the first original one to appear since the Super NES era. So, does it stack-up to the expectations 
 of the series longtime fans? The answer to that lies just ahead.
  
  The game-play features all the classic elements that a Mario fan could ever want to see. Once again, 
 Mario can power himself up by obtaining items such as super mushrooms, fire flowers, and invincibility 
 stars. The bulk of the game consists of walking to the right, smashing overhead bricks for power-ups, 
 and defeating the many enemies that inhabit each level. Speaking of enemies, the game features 
 a multitude of familiar foes such as goombas, koopas, and those annoying hammer brothers.
  
  As he travels toward his goal, Mario visits a variety of different lands, including several 
 that are themed after those from his previous adventures. Each land has a sub-castle at its midpoint, 
 and a main castle at the end. In each sub-castle, Mario must face Bowser Jr. as his adversary. 
 Pummeling Bowsers version of mini-me gets to be old after a while, but thankfully, the main 
 castle of each world has a unique boss who waits to end the Marios adventure once and for all.
 
  
  Even though New Super Mario Bros places a lot of emphasis on nostalgia, there are also new elements 
 to be acknowledged. In addition to the original power mushroom, there is now a gigantic mushroom 
 that makes Mario grow to a Godzilla-like size; those who played Bowsers levels on Paper Mario: 
 The Thousand Year Door will be familiar with this. Another addition is that it is the first side-scrolling 
 Mario game to include moves from Marios 3D adventures, such as the butt-stomp and wall-jump.
 
  
  Many of the games levels include multiple paths, which can lead to multiple exits. By finding 
 such exits, it is possible to unlock completely new levels on the map. The games world map features 
 item houses (like from Super Mario Bros 3) in which valuable power-ups can be obtained; some of 
 these houses can by unlocked by paying five special coins and others can only be reached through 
 secret paths. Searching for each worlds secrets definitely give the game a lot of replay value.
 
  
  The games music is peppy and really upbeat -- like one would expect from a Super Mario Bros game. 
 Not surprisingly, the game includes a few remixed versions of classic tunes from the series earlier 
 titles. The sound effects are well-done and in perfect sync with every animation. Some may even 
 appreciate classic sounds such as the unmistakable chime that occurs with each coin collected, 
 or the boing sound that accompanies each of Marios jumps.
  
  Graphically, the game is absolutely gorgeous. The 3D character models are smooth and jaggy edges 
 are kept to a minimum. Each worlds background is colorful and highly detailed. Even with the graphical 
 detail, the animation runs smoothly and without a hint of slowdown. 
  
  In short, New Super Mario Bros takes the game-play from Marios glory days and fuses it with the 
 graphical prowess that new technology has made possible. The result is a candy-sweet title that 
 plays like a dream; it is shallow enough to casually pick up and play, but deep enough to hold 
 ones interest. However, I cannot confidently say that the game will meet the expectations of longtime 
 fans -- it just might surpass them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schpenke
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  I've been gaming since the early Atari 2600 when "side scroller" meant "leaps and bounds in new 
 technology". Video games that actually leave the boundaries of the single screen? Unheard of! So 
 to say that I've cut my teeth on and endured most side-scrolling games caught in the wild would 
 be an understatement. I knew I'd pick the game up regardless of the possible gameplay outcome but 
 I didn't realize just how awesome this return to side-scrolling action would be.
  
  The graphics are superb, the music is pleasant the entire length of the game, and the gameplay 
 controls never once frustrate. The gameplay is somewhat shorter than I would have liked if you 
 do nothing but concentrate on getting from the first to last world. Fortunately the game once again 
 shines in the Mario-esque placement of secret areas and feats of skill when attempting to replay 
 all the levels to find all the stars and coins.
  
  The extra moves and power-ups that Mario receives does nothing to take away from the gameplay either. 
 I feared that the extra goodies would simply be used as band-aids to cover poor level design or 
 a flawed difficulty level. I was proven pleasantly wrong. The new power-ups are brilliant and the 
 additional moves that Mario can use are never forced down your throat or serve to take away from 
 the fun of the game.
  
  Excellent game and an excellent purchase for casual gamers, hardcore gamers, and collectors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsmith4321
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Why does Nintendo have to be so concerned about new gamers that they can't give a good level of 
 challenge? Zelda Wind Waker was one of the easiest games I've ever played. It was ridiculous actually, 
 no challenge at all. This game is at least better. SMB3 was hard, but ever since then things just 
 seem to keep going downhill. I love Mario, but some of the real fun was the challenge. Take that 
 away and it just isn't the same. Come on Nintendo, at least put in a hard mode for those of us 
 that aren't 10 years old. Don't just care about the new gamers, care about those of us that bought 
 these game when we were young and are still playing htem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beancrate
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Dead on controller physics! The player will be enthralled with the feel of this game. Levels are 
 challenging enough to keep interests peeked and are the perfect length, giving the player that 
 only one more level before quitting feeling. Very addictive!
  
  Not to mention the multiplayer Mini Games, which is a "PERFECT 10 BONUS" on top of the main game!
 
  
  Graphics:
  Superb! The nostalgic 2D visuals are enhanced by the 3D overhaul. Vibrant Colors! Visually Clear! 
 Which is an important element in side-scroller on the small hand held screen. 
  
  Sound:
  Great! The Music/ Sound is updated versions of the old school tunes. Subtle enough not to ever 
 be annoying. This is one of the few handheld games that I do not want to turn the sound off when 
 playing.
  
  Value:
  Solid Buy! This is one of those games that you will put many hours into and then come back to between 
 the droughts of waiting for new games.
  
  Tilt:
  I am Nintendo Old School bias. My tilt is ten if you have any ties to playing Mario Games. My tilt 
 is ten to the next generation of video gamers looking for what should be the industry standards.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaRidley42
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  All right. First up in this review, I am going to get the one major thing about this game that 
 I dislike out in the open. The title. I mean, cmon Nintendo, 'New' Super Mario Bros.? Why not "Super 
 Mario Bros DS"? Will it still be 'New' when the Wii is out? Oh well.........
  
  Title aside, this is one of the best games on the DS so far, and that is saying a lot. If you were 
 a fanboyish player of the classic mario games (and I am) This game will give a fuzzy feeling inside, 
 as you once again run through colourful worlds and jump high off of turtles heads. The control 
 scheme is extremely well-tuned, allowing you to pull off all of mario's updated moves with ease. 
 My only small issue in this department is that the running speed feels a little slow compared to 
 previous games in the mario franchise, like SMB3. 
  
  The graphics are crisp and clean, and the 3D models make the game feel like it is vibrant and alive. 
 The sound is involving to match. 
  
  The length of the game is as long as it needed to be, but could have been longer.
  
  Overall 
 this is worth the purchase for any self-respecting DS owner, classic mario player or not, this 
 game is a masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is basically Super Mario Bros. 1 or Super Mario Bros. 4. What is so diffrent 
 from this and Triolgy of Mario games on NES. Well Co-Op is. But NSMB doesn't suck. Super Mario 
 Bros. 1 was an amzing game wasn't it so this is gonna be the same way right. Well about it. Wi-Fi 
 should have been on this game. 
  Now let's head to the review of: 
  New Super Mario Bros. (DS) 
  Publisher: Nintendo
  Developer: Nintendo
  Release Date: May 15th,2006
 
  1-2 players (Co-Op) (battles)
  Gamespot Score: 9.0
  Average User Score: 9.5
  Average Other Website Score: 9.3
  Player Reviews 32
  Wish List: 5037
  Collections 399
  
 Now Playing 199
  Tracking 5193
  
  Gameplay: Nothing different. Mario saves Peach. But it so fun. You still stomp Goombas and Koopas. 
 You get new power-ups and now you can store your power ups for later. Which is a huge achiievment 
 by NINTENDO. New stuff happens when you hit the FLAGPOLE. They're are new bosses. Everything has 
 increased!
  
  Graphics: Okay now they look like Super Mario World (Super Nintendo Entertainment System SNES) .
 
  
  Sound: The sound is okay the music is good too.
  
  Value: Great!
  
  Tilt: AMAZING BEST GAME FOR THE DS!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanober
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  This game is everything that the original Mario was, and I played that when it first came out, 
 so it brings back many memories of spending quarters and then playing at home on the NES. Overall 
 the game is great with variety in level design, new areas to explore and a variety in paths. I 
 like the quick warp map and being able to save a little more often than other Mario games. New 
 enemies give updated feel, and well the purple fish kept eating me in the one level... insert mario 
 cry here... anyways, the mini games keep in interesting and add a little side venture, but nothing 
 to terribly noticeable there. my only remark is that the mini games werent new, as most of them 
 were playable on mario 64 ds... nintendo could have made more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDW101
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  You won't be disappointed. In Fact, with the MINI-GAMES you get to enjoy without even being in 
 the adventure side of the game, you almost get your moneys worth right there! We had a hard time 
 stopping WHACK A MOLE to take a look at the real reason we bought it. This may not be a game for 
 the hard-corer's but, they may even find a LOT of fun here also. For the casual gamer, this is 
 a MUST HAVE. Just plain'ol fun from the past with a few new wrinkles. And, the way they transported 
 this to the DS is AWESOME. I happen to have the opportunity to be playing it on the NEW DS-LITE's 
 and beleive me, it's even better. Again, get ready for some plain old fun the way gaming should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 22, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  I would best describe this game as a hybrid of the first Super Mario, Super Mario 3 and Super Mario 
 World with some new power ups it's like SMB with the flag poles at the end of every level and the 
 way you fight Bowser at time's and a lot of levels will remind you of SMB1 and the map is much 
 like the one in SMB3 with the mushroom houses and the kinda of maps there are as for it being like 
 Super Mario World there's more then one way to beat a level opening up more then one path and Ghost 
 houses and such.
  
  But even with it being like a lot of the old one's it sill feels new with the 3d graphics and new 
 power ups and some new enemies and bosses. I would also say the mini game mode is much like the 
 one for Super Mario 64 DS in fact some of the same mini games return in this one as for the 2 player 
 vs mode I was kinda disappointed it was'nt WI-FI but the 2 player mode is awsome kinda feels like 
 a cross between smash bros and the old super mario mini game with the pow block as far as for the 
 2 to 4 player mini games there's a nice twist on some of the old mini games from the SM64DS also 
 with some new games makes this mode nice. If you like the old Mario games this games for you there's 
 a lot of memorable characters, situations and enemies If you like Mario
  new or old this is your game It is a great game so I would even recommend it to new comers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldok00
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  You ever played a 2D side-scroller with Mario in it? The you already know it owns, and you know 
 what to expect by now.
  
  Excellent level design, 80+ levels, and extremely gorgeous graphics for a DS game. If you have 
 a DS, you owe it to yourself to get this game.
  
  The only downside is that it's easy. You die often, but there are many 1UPs to collect. However, 
 will it stop you from having fun? Not a chance in Koopa's lava pit. Nintendo manages to do it AGAIN. 
 I mean, you'd expect for there to be less you can do with a side-scroller. Enjoy this game... because 
 this genre is a dying breed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  It's the ultimate 2-D scroller platformer that starts it all. Super Mario Bros get a revamp and 
 the original essence is preserved. Jump your way through 6 worlds of a great variety of themes 
 (2 hidden worlds) , and tackle familiar enemies like gombas and boos and new enemies never seen 
 before.
  
  NSMB is perfect as a handheld platform, You just start and go, no long texts (no text actually, 
 just little icon wordings like Touch) , no long complex plot. You start the game and you just go 
 on, just like old times.
  
  The game is generally easy, without any levels that really requires much skill. What some levels 
 required is more of patience. Rush through a level and you most proberly got squashed by a crushing 
 wall. Just collecting the coins along your path would generate more lives than you need.
  
  The mini-games ain't worth much of a mention, most are seen before on Mario 64 DS. But it's remade 
 for multiplayer so it might be a bit more fun. There's also the Mario vs Luigi where 2 DSs fight 
 with each other to get more Stars. You can attack each other for them to drop any Stars they are 
 holding and it seems lots of fun, with all the bricks, power-ups and critters of the various levels.
 
  
  The only complaints I have ain't any major issues, only that you couldn't save anywhere before 
 you completed it at least once. Or else you could only save if you beat a tower or castle or open 
 a big coin signboard.
  
  This game is a must-buy. It's really the best 2-D platformer that I've played so far and it's portable. 
 
  
  new super mario bros. rules!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game is like a breath of fresh air. It takes the old Super Mario Bros 3, and Super Mario World 
 formula, puts it into a new package, with better graphics, and an updated style. We haven't seen 
 a classic mario game like this since Super Mario World (Yoshi's Island, although a great game, 
 was not a Mario Bros game in my opinion) , which was more than 15 years ago, and the gameplay still 
 hasn't aged a bit!
  
  The graphics and sound are typical Mario. New, colorful graphics, and remixed Mario tunes are what 
 this game has to offer. Although it is really nothing too new and original (Grass World, Desert 
 World, Water World, Ice World, Etc...) , it is still welcome, because the formula works so well. 
 The controls are simple, D-pad, and 2 buttons. The controls are basically the same as in the days 
 of the NES, and again, 25 years later, it still works!
  
  It is hard to say bad things about such a wonderful game, but I noticed some TINY things that could 
 be improved. For one, the game doesn't really record how you are progressing in the game. While 
 it doesn't really matter, it makes it so you have no real way of knowing if you've missed any secrets. 
 My main problem with the game though, is the lack of items. Super Mario Bros 3 shined in this department, 
 but this game only has a few items, and you can only hold ONE at a time. Oh well. Other than that, 
 this game is nearly perfect. It's ALMOST tied with the best in the series.
  
  This is platforming at it's near best. Any fan of Mario, platforming, or just good old fun games, 
 should get this. This game will make you feel good, it makes you feel proud to be a gamer. Miyamoto 
 showed us he was a genius when he created Super Mario Bros, and the fact that the formula is timeless, 
 and still works 100%, 25 years later, proves that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeris100182
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros reminded me of that time when I just got a NES. The fun I had playing the 
 original. In this NEW edition for the DS have to say is very very addictive with the beautiful 
 3D backgrounds and the new power ups ( mega mario, shell, and mini) . Also the some new maneuvers 
 as well for mini games it is well worth the money. Its fun for all ages and woundn't seem right 
 for any DS owner to not have there copy. If you have a DS and don't have New Super Mario Bros. 
 YOU ARE WRONG!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the name mislead you. New Super Mario Bros. is not all that new. In essence, it is a 
 potent mix of all of the previous Mario games, though it seems to take the most from the original 
 Super Mario Bros. and the third installment in the series. Mario has a ton of moves at his disposal, 
 including a few new and very fun ones, but much of this is "remixed" stuff you've seen before. 
 Does that make it bad? He-ell no. In fact, New Super Mario Bros. is a very addictive game, but 
 it sometimes plays up the nostalgia-factor a bit too much.
  
  One thing that IS new is the fantastic presentation. This is easily one of the most attractive 
 games on the Nintendo DS, with nice 3D visuals and butter smooth animation. The sound effects and 
 music are also wonderful, especially for fans of the series. Overall, the game really does a good 
 job of winning you over with it's audiovisual flair.
  
  What is kind of spooky though is how closely it mimics Mario 3 in terms of the world progression. 
 The first world is a regular Mario-with-boxes-and-coins kind of thing, but then after that you 
 hop into the desert world... world 2. And then after that it's on to world 3, a largely water-based 
 world. You see where this is going right? And in world 1, you start off with the first, normal 
 mario level, and after that head into... what? The blue, underground level from Mario 1? No! This 
 one is different! Well... not that different actually. Also in world 3 there is a level that is 
 dangerously close to being the same level as one from Mario 3... there just comes a point where 
 it is not nostalgia and is, in fact, deja vu. New Super Mario Bros. crosses that line a bit too 
 often to completely sell the experience it offers. 
  
  However, New Super Mario Bros. can still be giddy, addictive fun. The ability to put on a turtle 
 shell and spin around levels, knocking out opponents left and right, is a total blast... and turning 
 really small or really big is enjoyable as well. New Super Mario Bros. also seems to base a good 
 bit of its gameplay on of Mario's weight and momentum, which gives the game a welcome and more 
 modern feel. 
  
  Still, New Super Mario Bros. is a title that isn't exactly fitting... because despite Mario's newfound 
 abilities and "feel", you can't completely ignore the fact that you're still playing in levels 
 that are eerily familiar, and sometimes shockingly so. However, there is enough that is new here 
 to justify the game's existence, and hey... the Mario formula is one of the most time-tested and 
 proven formulas out there, so if it ain't broke don't fix it. Despite not being all that new, it's 
 still very fun, and totally worth buying. Chances are, if you have a DS, you've already picked 
 this up, or are planning to. If you aren't planning to... now's the time to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicious-RedDrag
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow!! This game is fun and amazing! Anyone can get hooked on it!
  It starts off easy with a simple story. Mario is taking a walk with Peach and suddenly they see 
 that her castle is being attacked by unknown forces. As Mario watches, the princess gets kidnapped 
 by Bowser Jr. Its up to Mario to save the day and have an old fashioned adventure by rescuing the 
 princess again! This might actually be the best Mario adventure game yet and I've only done the 
 first two worlds out of eight! There are 80 stages to beat. In my opinion this game might actually 
 surpass the all-time best Super Mario Bros. 3! 
  
  If you loved the 2-d platformer Mario series than this game is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldeneye2591
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 16, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  lets start by saying this, THIS GAME IS AWESOME! i was a fan of the original mario games, so i 
 just had to buy this one. and i was not one bit dissapointed. this game almost brings me back in 
 time and reminds me of all the fun i had with the original mario on the NES. my mom even played 
 it, and she likes it too! this is the must buy game for the DS. in fact, this game itself is a 
 reason to buy a DS. nintendo should use this game as a model for future mario games. this is an 
 absolute buy for fans of the older mario games, or the current mario games. although this game 
 is not perfect, it comes closer than any other game ive played. everybody should give NSMB a shot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMRMAX
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  It's the ultimate 2-D scroller platformer that starts it all. Super Mario Bros get a revamp and 
 the original essence is preserved. Jump your way through 6 worlds of a great variety of themes 
 (2 hidden worlds) , and tackle familiar enemies like gombas and boos and new enemies never seen 
 before.
  
  NSMB is perfect as a handheld platform, You just start and go, no long texts (no text actually, 
 just little icon wordings like Touch) , no long complex plot. You start the game and you just go 
 on, just like old times.
  
  The game is generally easy, without any levels that really requires much skill. What some levels 
 required is more of patience. Rush through a level and you most proberly got squashed by a crushing 
 wall. Just collecting the coins along your path would generate more lives than you need.
  
  The mini-games ain't worth much of a mention, most are seen before on Mario 64 DS. But it's remade 
 for multiplayer so it might be a bit more fun. There's also the Mario vs Luigi where 2 DSs fight 
 with each other to get more Stars. You can attack each other for them to drop any Stars they are 
 holding and it seems lots of fun, with all the bricks, power-ups and critters of the various levels.
 
  
  The only complaints I have ain't any major issues, only that you couldn't save anywhere before 
 you completed it at least once. Or else you could only save if you beat a tower or castle or open 
 a big coin signboard.
  
  This game is a must-buy. It's really the best 2-D platformer that I've played so far and it's portable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Goods
  1. Great conrtol
  2. Lots of power-ups
  3. Multiplayer is fantastic
  
  Bads
  1. No Wi-Fi
  2. Only Mario playable in Adventure Mode
  3. A few items do not fit in
  4. No 
 avaibility to save when you really need to
   
  This is a new improved version 
 of the hit NES classic: Super Mario Bros., is way better than the first will ever be.
  
  The controls are simple, you can switch the controls around and you can hold an item whenever you 
 need it which always comes in handy when fighting a boss and fire flowers when fighting Bowser 
 Jr. sometimes you might wanna save some star coins which let you go to certain areas. Also, you 
 might want to go back to the levels and play them again and again. 
  
  The graphics really fit in with the DS anytime, anywhere. You rarely get confused in the game and 
 you may wanna hit your head onto something hard because some levels are really hard and complicating 
 bacuse of how many bits you can see while running fast. This game is really good for a side scrollong, 
 2D-3D remake.
  
  The sound is totally clear and everything goes with whatever it is suppose to go with. It has music 
 from SMB, and SMB3 that you would want. You might even find things that are really familiar from 
 other Mario games for the NES.
  
  The value is huge and makes this a must have game for the DS. You will be playing this for hours 
 and hours. You will never want to put this game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilighted
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  the new super mario bros should NOT be called new super mario bros, super mario bros 4 would do 
 the trick. this is a game that plays a lot like super mario bros 3 ( best selling video game in 
 history by the way ) and super mario world, if uve never played those games than u should really 
 buy this game. 
  
  the sounds are a lot like super mario world, the jumping has the same sound as in super mario world, 
 the running is cooler now, the faster he runs he starts running in a ninja form and can do a 3 
 jump like in the 64 game. 
  
  The gameplay is the same, and once again who is complaining, mario is known as the god of 2d gaming, 
 and for those new to video games, mario was originally a 2d character. its a simple game run, jump, 
 land on enemy, and then reach the end of the level with powerups at the end. 
  
  Graphics are rather good, just look at the screenshots on those really. 
  
  overall it seems 
 like a extensive game beyond the just play through. 
  
  it is definetly worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordzod89
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Remember the good old days where Sonic games were still good and Mario was a side-scroller, Nintendo 
 does and they have listened to your prayers. This game is is the perfect DS game, right difficulty 
 so everyday joe and plow through the game in a few days, but hidden with so much hidden stuff that 
 hardcore gamers and spend weeks getting it all. The first thing you will notice about this game 
 is that there is no toturial, you just go. Games dont do that anymore so you know a game is special 
 when you have to figure everything out for you self. The story is really not there at all, but 
 since when did Mario need a excuse to beat the crap out of Bowser. The game has minigames, but 
 there just the old one from 64DS with multiplayer added in, a timewaster at best (there are a few 
 new one after all) I could go into detail about the new features they put in, but that would ruin 
 the fun of find out for you self. All-in-all, if you dont have this game then you insane, and if 
 you dont have a DS then get a DSLite with this game, you'll be gald you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  For years on end fanboys and old school gamers have been pleaing for a great new (no pun intended) 
 Super Mario Bros...... well rest easy, for not only is this game great, but it meets the expectations 
 and more!
  Graphics- As far as graphics are concerned, you can expect a wide pallete of colorful backgrounds, 
 and well modeled 3D characters. Nintendo has done an outstanding job of combining both the 3D and 
 2D elements. The 3D gives you the wondrous feel of Super Mario 64, while the 2D brings back the 
 fond memories! However, some of the 3D models do look a little pixelated at times, but it certainly 
 isn't anything that constantly catches your attention all that often.
  
  Gameplay- Mario was the one to revolutionize games 20 years ago, and he is still doing it today! 
 The gameplay from the minute you pick up this game rushes all of those Super Mario skills, talents, 
 and memories all to your head! As expected, the game is a 2D/3D sidescroller filled with lots of 
 goomba jumping, platform hopping, and princess saving enjoyment. The stages are fairly easy if 
 your objective is just to get to the flagpole, but if you are going for those secrets and extra 
 levels (which most of us are) , then this game will seem to put up quite the challenge. There can 
 be several points of frustration with levels in the game which, I must say, feels great! I cannot 
 describe how much this game sticks to its roots, but yet still brings the fresh feeling at the 
 same time. Oh yeah, and the fireworks from the flagpole help bring all the memories back too!
 
  
  Sound- This game features a lot of both new music, and reworked old school music. You will hear 
 the classic star music, odd sounds when Mario gets a mushroom, and outstanding background music! 
 To sum the music up for this game, it just feels like Mario.... and there isn't anything wrong with 
 that!
  
  Value- New Super Mario Bros. is all about value. If the secret levels and worlds aren't enough 
 to keep you busy, there are always the minigames. I must say however, I am a bit disappointed with 
 the minigames due to the fact that a lot of them are the same ones as in Super Mario 64 DS. For 
 those of you who didn't pick up a copy of Super Mario 64, well, enjoy! Other than minigames, there 
 is also a multiplayer mode where you race against your friend! It may not be the most glorified 
 thing, but it does help increase the replay value quite a bit. As a fan of the Super Mario series, 
 and a longtime player, I must say that this is a fantastic game. It easily ranks up there with 
 Mario kart DS, and of course the old school fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheavydrinker
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The New Super Mario Bros. This game has been one of the most desired games since it was announced. 
 The game tries to capture the essence of a classic but fails in many spots. The main reason is 
 its reluctance to move forward.
  
  Gameplay - It's solid for the most part. There really isn't anything "new" to the gameplay from 
 the original mario bros. Flying's gone, the Super Mushroom is pretty much the star and the tiny 
 mushroom is situational. Mario has momentum in this game which hinders gameplay more than it helps. 
 This is most obvious in the 2nd castle where you're supposed to hide in a crack in the floor, but 
 if you're running, you wont stop in time. The bosses are pretty interesting and fun especially 
 this guy who you have to wall kick several times to be able to reach his head. All and all the 
 game is very easy.
  
  Graphics - They're clean and decent for a DS game. Everything is nice and bright and Fireballs 
 skim the water and make waves in the lava- pretty cool. Mario does look a little stretched out 
 though (when small) .
  
  Sound - Ugh. Some of the sound is just recycled from older games. That stuff is pretty good especially 
 the remixed boss music. The new stuff however is really.... bad. There's a strange chant of "WAAH" 
 and "baah" in the background of most of the stages which is kinda annoying.
  
  Replay Value - There really isn't much here. No star world, no yoshi's, few branching levels (probably 
 because the stage layout is by stage rather than the entire world) .
  
  Tilt - I gave this an 8 because I think this game deserves an 8 but I would totally recommend Mario 
 3 or Donkey Kong Country 2 before this game. The minigames are nice, but they're pretty much the 
 same from Super Mario 64 DS only the background music is more annoying and less upbeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkluigi5
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, Mario hasn't been the most popular Nintendo character to play with. His games, such as 
 the constant partying he does with Mario Party, have become repetative and quite boring after a 
 few times. Now, I'm not gonna go on about how Mario Party comes out every 4 months or so, or how 
 Mario has become a bit too sports crazy lately, but New Super Mario Bros. has really given me a 
 reason to play Mario again. This game brings the old school and combines it with newer and more 
 updated graphics. It is a perfect game for the DS, taking advantage of the power the Nintedo DS 
 has to offer, especially the touch-screen. This game is probably the best game on the DS since 
 its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The mario universe has gone through a lot of bumps throughout its days. When it started out it 
 was pure genious then went downhill towards the 3D days. Im not saying they were terrible games, 
 but they did'nt live up to the 2D calibur games.
  
  Finally they've fixed that though with NSMB. Imagine the old Super Mario games but with everything 
 good about each of them in one. Then take better graphics and higher performance techniques and 
 you have NSMB.
  
  Throughout the game you play as Mario or Luigi and take on Bowser and his Son Bowser Jr. He has 
 taken peach once again and you must retrieve her by means of running through different worlds with 
 their own unique areas. Most areas of the game have been used before but are still different enough 
 to offer a good experience.
  
  The sound and Visual qualities are really whats great though taking what the remake of SM64 did 
 for the DS and fixing it up. Most enemies are those you have seen in all other mario games like 
 koopas but there are also some nice new suprises in store. The underwater levels also look great. 
 Be prepared to go for all the extras and spend hours of you time doing it, for there are a lot 
 of them. 20hours worth atleast.
  
  The disadvantages to NSMB are few and far between. Mainly the biggest disappointment are the items 
 you can get. While there great and some nice new ideas, they don't stand up to the old ones like 
 raccoon suit and all of those. Still they are useful, well designed, and can come in handy.
  
  Another problem is the lack of the use of the DS capabilities. While they are there and in 
 use you would hope that they would put it to better use in a Nintendo game. Mainly its used for 
 the map, coin slots, and one extra inventory item that can be touched to activate. All in all any 
 fan of mario, platoforming, or good gameplay with fall in love with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, my apologies for the review title, I wanted to use the word "panache" so badly... and it's fairly 
 apropos here. NSMB is a terrific game. It's got improved sprites, variations on classic music, 
 new moves, classic solid narrative, and some fun 2-D platforming that's been dead for too long. 
 It's a pleasant revival of a mostly dead genre. 
  
  Mario's new moves include a butt stomp a la Yoshi in Yoshi's Island, a triple jump, and a wall-jump 
 a la SM64. They are fluid moves and easily executed. I'm especially happy with the wall-jump as 
 it's easier to pull off then the Metroid wall jumps and can be very fun to perform. 
  
  The levels are standard SMB levels -- castle, desert, underground, underwater, hilly land, etc. -- , 
 but with some cool twists like pipes that launch Mario into the air, a launch pad thingy that makes 
 Mario twirl helicopter blade style, and some other goodies I won't spoil. Some of the level can 
 feel kind of short compared to open-ended gameplay style more prevelent in most games made nowadays, 
 but they have highly replay value and good appeal in design. 
  
  There are some minigames that seem ripped from the SM64DS cart and some new ones that are decent 
 but nothing eye-popping. The mini-games seem tailored to a younger audience.
  
  I haven't played mulitplayer yet, but I know there's no CO-OP mode via the menu so that's kind 
 of a disappointment. There's a battle mode. Not sure on the gameplay there, but from what I've 
 seen of the videos of it it looks to be very similar to the gameplay of the core game itself. 
 
  
  After playing for 2 hours I began to realize that the gameplay isn't that fresh, but it's solid 
 and enjoyable enough to make for a perfect portable game.
  One major complaint is the save system which seems to be centered upon completing a mini-castle 
 or castle or having 5 star coins so Mario can unlock a mushroom house. This is fairly annoying, 
 but nothing major.
  
  All in all, NSMB is a fine addition to the legacy of the Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangloid
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 16, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Amazed. That's how I feel after playing this. 
  
  Most gamers who have been playing Mario games since NES have been asking for a new side scroller 
 for a long time. 
  
  It was well worth the wait.
  
  The New Super Mario Bros. is everything you could have possibly wished for. The hype for this game 
 was not even close to what it should have been. 
  From the regular single player, to multiplayer to the mini-games, everything seems to be the most 
 fun I've been having on my DS.
  
  The level layout is spot-on. It gives you the great feeling of playing the original super mario 
 bros. The new power-ups for this new Mario makes it even all the better. 
  
  I really don't want to spoil any gameplay, in my opinion you read a review to see if the game lives 
 up to the hype and price. This game does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picjusbro
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  In New Super Mario bros Peach is kidnaped agian by Baby Bowser and it's up to Mario to save his 
 girl (the only girl in the Mushroom) . The world setup is taken from SMb3 in were you will have 
 blocks flying and hammer bros going from level to level in each world. In a new addition Mario 
 must now collect star coins (there are three in each level) to open new pass to level and toads 
 house. Now some of these will not be easy to get to you must use your brain and mario powers in 
 creative way to get them. The overall gameplay is a combo of SMb3 and Mario 64 which were both 
 perfect by themselfs and now are better smash togather. the graphics are sweet and fluid none of 
 the characters look blocky and the world looks and feels real to the player. The sound of the game 
 is perfect from the background music to the sound of stomping on a goomba. The game is well worth 
 the 35 dollar price tag sounds you playing this game for many hours after you beat to unlock the 
 secert levels and worlds. 
  
  All in all New Super Mario Bros. is what all us Mario fans wanted our favorite plumber in side 
 scrolling action and Nintendo had delivered. NSMB will makes us old School gamers must feel like 
 kids playing SMB on the NES while showing a younger audience what is so lovable about an Italian 
 plumber running back and forth. There Two absolutes perfect Mario games in the world ( mario 64 
 has close but not quite there) those are SMB3 and now NSMB. So what are you doing stop reading 
 this and get yourselfs a copy of NSMB now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game plays like a mix of mario 64 and mario bros. It has a great feel to it. The game is wel 
 worth the money. The grahics are good and the sound really takes you back 13 years. The new power 
 ups are great to watch. But i find it needs a bit more new stuff to do. I also hope that the game 
 would have wifi but it did not , so it loses some points for that. The game is just plan fun its 
 not very hard. So if you are new to the mario bros games you could easly get into it . Its an new 
 game with a classic twist that is what games it very good. you can play mario vs lugi but you need 
 to find another ds and a friend to play with lol but the multi player mode is very fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZahrimThoth
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Mario and 2D Platformer fans can rejoice, the wait is over and the "New Super Mario Bros." game 
 delivers. Not since SMB3 have I had this much 2D fun! Forget bad camera angles, camera clipping, 
 etc... bugs like that just won't happen in the 2d world. We are left with a wonderful addition to 
 the mario library and it looks great even on the small DS screen (s) .
  
  Players will experience retro-gaming from SMB1 to SMB3, the new power-up that makes you huge is 
 fun and really allows you to take out those frustrating baddies.
  
  All around, this game is great, highly recommended unless you just plain hate 2D platformers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay so today I want to Gamespot and they said they wouldn't get it until tommorow. Then I decided 
 to check Walmart and guess what? They had it! This is the game that fans of Super Mario World and 
 earlier Mario games have been waiting for a very very long time! This is even better than Super 
 Mario World and the best Mario game yet and the best DS game yet.
  
  Gameplay: It's the classic Mario gameplay of Super Mario Brothers mixed with 3D and wall jumping 
 of Super Mario 64. In this game you get the old powerups along with some new ones like a Shrinking 
 and using a blue Koopa shell. The Giant power up from Super Mario 64 DS also makes a return. Their's 
 one more thing that makes a return: Remember that flag you had to pull down from the original Super 
 Mario Brothers? Well you do that in this game too. It's nostalgia people! Anyone who likes the 
 old Mario games just has to like the gameplay found here. The bosses are easy but then again they 
 were easy in the old Mario games too. The gameplay is truly addictive. Rating: 10/10
  
  Graphics: WOW! I've never seen a DS game with such great graphics. You could think your playing 
 this game on your GameCube or PSP with such graphics! If you haven't played this game yet then 
 just look at some screenshots and you could see what I'm talking about. Rating: 10/10
  
  Sound: The typical old Mario sounds are as good as ever. The jumping. The throwing fireballs and 
 everything else sounds the same. The music is new though but it's enjoyable to listen to and not 
 too distracting. Rating: 9/10
  
  Value: I would have given it a 10 it had some hidden worlds or Yoshi as a playable character. But 
 with Luigi as a playable character, the mini-games and all the levels this game has some great 
 value. Some mini-games are the same ones from Super Mario 64 DS but atleast some are new. I'm so 
 glad you can find secret worlds and levels and stuff in this game. With this who knows what levels 
 you can discover next? Rating: 9/10
  
  Tilt: This is the game that old-school Mario fans have been waiting for over 10 years. This game 
 teaches us a lesson too: "If it's not broke then don't fix it". Don't get me wrong Super Mario 
 64 and Super Mario Sunshine are decent games in their own right but they really can't compare to 
 the 2D Marios. If you like Super Mario Brothers, 3 or World then you will love this game. At a 
 low cost of $35 this game is worth every cent you pay for it. If you like Super Mario Brothers, 
 3 or World then you will love this game. Check it out! Rating: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  New Super Mario Bros. is not a remake, surprisingly it's a whole new game and there hasn't been 
 a whole new Mario sidescrolling platforming game since, well a long time ago. Like Yoshi's Island 
 and you weren't even playing as Mario then. This game basically fulfills what it promised and it 
 is even better than I expected. So now onto the review.
  
  Now we all know Nintendo DS isn't exactly a graphics powerhouse but New Super Mario Bros. almost 
 exceeds the limits. First off, the sprites look amazing. They are not blocky and they look fantastic. 
 Almost PSP quality. The level design could've used a little touches but it really gets fantastic 
 later in the game and anything that moves like lava or water looks excellent. The music is great 
 and some of it is new in fact most of it is.
  
  The storyline is the same. You see a brief intro of Mario going towards something and then Bowser 
 comes and nabs Peach and Mario tries to chase him but he takes her into his dungeon. There are 
 eight worlds with sixteen dungeons. Each world gets harder but the game as a whole is easy to beat. 
 You can easily beat get to and beat world 4 in a day and that is over half of the game. Some new 
 moves have been added that haven't been in Mario sidescrolling platformers before. A wall kick 
 and a butt stomp. The same goal is here, getting through the level and hitting the flag. 
  
  Now Mario can turn super small to fit into super small places kind of like in Mario Party 4 
 except NSMB is nothing like Mario Party 4. You can also turn into a super giant and crush anything 
 in your path. Both don't last forever and are kind of rare sights but when you are huge or tiny 
 it is fun. You can also get fireballs, mega Mario, normal Mario and more.
  
  The game is very short but oh so fun. It is beatable in 2-3 days in a matter of hours really but 
 it does pack some replayability value. There is a minigame room just like in Super Mario 64 DS 
 except more of the minigames in NSMB are exactly the same so if you've grown tiresome of the minigames 
 from SM64DS then there isn't much to find here. But you'll want to play this game for than once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  when you first get this game in your han dit is very addicting and good graphics for the ds and 
 a new mario bros game. But pace yourself do like a castle a day and then once 2 weeks has past play 
 it like a billion times because it is not very long. But it is the best ds game i have ever played 
 i suggest you get up from this computer chair and ask your mom if you can get new super mario bros 
 tomarrow! well thats all i have to say theres not much to say because im sure everyone has played 
 a mario game some time in their life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario562
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is top and I mean top of the line. When you play this game you will feel so dam good. 
 I just received my copy and I just can't stop playing it. The story so far is good. The moves on 
 this game are so outrageous that you wouldn't even think they could be done on this type of game. 
 Get it as soon as possible. You will be satisfied and I mean it. This game is worth the price. 
 Nintendo is doing very well with the DS. Mario is going to take this company further into the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2FREq
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a well based sidescroller of the italian plumber we all know and love. When I first 
 got my DS I was sceptic about certain games, but now the DS is way better than the PSP. You have 
 to admit name one good game for the PSP exept Lumines, Burnout, or Daxter. At first you realize 
 that it is just another Mario game with 3D models. But If you get through the first few levels 
 its hands down one of the best DS games ever. The multiplayer was okay, and it could have been 
 better. Nintendo, if you are reading this right now please make more great wi-fi games. I think 
 that Nintendo will be on the top of the handheld market for years to come if they continue to make 
 innovative gamplay mechanics, and just plain fun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Basicly, Bowser Jr. kidnaps Peach right before the nose of Mario and keeps running from him. Yes, 
 Bowser Jr. is like that koopling in SMB3 you keep batting evrey minicastle. But you get to battle 
 other bosses too, like the real Bowser in a classic SMB battle :P
  
  The worlds are not so orginal, you don't suspect that in a Mario plattform game. 
  Plains, Forrest, 
 Desert, Beach, Mountain, Hell, you name it. All these levels usely has an own theme and events 
 not shown in other ones, so evrey level is a new one.
  
  Mario's skills is the normal jumping, but also new SM64 moves like Wall-jumping and Tripple-jumping, 
 which feels great, like some kind of perfect Mario game, which this actually is.
  
  The new powerups are ok, but it is really fun to smash evreything with a Giant Mario.
  
  The 
 graphics are real nice and the games doesn't look ugly or anything. Sounds are great too, Mario's 
 / Luigi's (yes you can be Luigi! complete the game first) voices are crisp and stuff, and the music 
 is nice and fitting to the level themes.
  
  I have to disapoint you, NO CO-OP! Only some Mario v. s. Luigi crap. Oh. It ain't that bad, but 
 why not Co-op, Nin? WHY??!!
  
  Yeah, there minigames too. But most of them you can find in SM64DS too, which sucks. But multiplayer 
 there is a blast for up to 4 players.
  
  Totaly : This is one of the reasons to get a Nintendo DS. So get one. And this. Both. Now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
