-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninjatown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/ninjatown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are easy to learn.
 Combat moves at a quick pace.
 Extremely well-balanced classes.
 Quick battles make it perfect for gaming on the go.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficult to adjust strategy on the fly.
 Lots of trial and error.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Venan Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ninjatown is an intuitive strategy experience that anyone can enjoy. 

  While depicting ninja as anything other than silent, throat-cutting assassins generally means a 
 game is headed in the wrong direction, SouthPeak Games' DS adaptation of the Shawnimals line of 
 toys proves that preconception false. With an intuitive interface and some addictive strategic 
 battles, Ninjatown is one of the better licensed games released this year.  

  The story revolves around the attempted invasion of Ninjatown by the nefarious Mr. Demon and his 
 gang of Wee Devils. As the powerful Ol' Master Ninja, you are in charge of defending Ninjatown's 
 most precious secret, the recipe for your world-famous ninja cookies. The story, as one would expect, 
 is there merely to set up the actual game and serves to relay key objectives such as protecting 
 a bridge, factory, or other key locations. The dialogue is hammy and unintentionally funny, but 
 can easily be skipped or watched without having an impact on your overall experience.  

           There's no need to micromanage in Ninjatown, which works to the game's benefit.      

 
  Ninjatown is a straightforward endeavor. Your objective in every map is to protect a location 
 from being invaded or destroyed by Wee Devils. To do so, you have to construct buildings that house 
 various types of ninja with different attributes that help you fight off the waves of enemies. 
 There are both melee and long-range ninja including black ninja, which are well balanced in speed 
 and strength; business ninja, which are fast but not particularly strong; sniper ninja, which are 
 balanced long-range units; and white ninja, which can shoot snowballs at enemies and momentarily 
 freeze them.  

  The game features even more ninja classes, some of which are available from the beginning and others 
 that are unlocked over time. All of your buildings can be upgraded during battle to raise the maximum 
 health, strength, and other attributes of your ninja, and you can even set up "modifier buildings" 
 that improve the strength, speed, or attack range of neighboring ninja buildings.  

  You'll start each battle with an adequate enough number of ninja cookies -- Ninjatown's currency -- so 
 that you can get at least a few buildings set up. The ninja do all the work once the buildings 
 have been constructed, and you earn more ninja cookies that can be used to build new buildings 
 or upgrade existing ones for a more powerful overall defense. The system works incredibly well; 
 each map usually features around 10 waves of enemies, and the later waves often include not only 
 more enemies, but varying types. There are business Wee Devils that are fast and tough to halt 
 unless you have an equally fast defense; large, blob-shaped enemies that are slow but extremely 
 powerful; flying enemies; and even zombies.  

  The top screen serves as an overview map and keeps track of how many ninja cookies you have as 
 well as the types of enemies coming your way. If things get a little too heated and you find yourself 
 overpowered, you can call for Ol' Master Ninja's powers or use tokens that are available in combat. 
 The types of Ol' Master Ninja powers are quite varied, including options to empower your units 
 but also fun toys such as the magnifying glass that will fry foes with scorching sunlight. The 
 tokens are often quite handy, including the ninja droppings option that radiates a stench that 
 chips away at the health of all enemies in its radius.  

  What's most impressive about Ninjatown is the level of challenge and strategy involved in such 
 a simplistic game. Setting up ninja buildings and managing them is intuitive enough, but your invaders 
 will make quick work of your defenses if you place the wrong kinds of units in the wrong places. 
 As you progress through the 36 maps spread across the nine districts of Ninjatown, there will be 
 many battles you will have to replay multiple times before finding the right strategy. Unfortunately, 
 this magnifies perhaps the biggest flaw with the game: the inability to quickly correct your units 
 on the fly. You can sell buildings and erect new ones in their place, but oftentimes the battles 
 are too frenetic and fast paced for your adjustments to make any significant difference, meaning 
 you'll most likely lose and be forced to restart.  

  Ninjatown also comes packed with a multiplayer mode in which you and a friend both play a single 
 map; the player that eliminates the incoming waves faster is the winner. It's quite competitive 
 and puts a lot of emphasis on your unit selection and placement. The nice thing is that you need 
 only one cartridge to play three of the game's nine districts with a friend, but all nine are available 
 if both players have their own copies.  

           The art style of Ninjatown definitely sets the tone for its charming, strategic experience. 

  Upon first loading, Ninjatown's art style is immediately noticeable. Its vibrant colors accentuate 
 the lighthearted nature of the game and the characters are all distinguishable from one another. 
 The business ninja and Wee Devils are meant to be the humorous characters, strutting around with 
 their ties. There are points in the game where you may laugh because you realize that you're watching 
 ninja wear ties, and the ridiculousness of it all smacks you in the face. The music, on the other 
 hand, is there mostly out of necessity and isn't particularly memorable.  

  Ninjatown is a delightful and surprising entry for the DS. With each battle only lasting upward 
 of 10 or so minutes, its not only perfect for your portable gaming needs but makes good use of 
 every minute you play. It's an exhilarating and well-balanced strategy game that is simple enough 
 for newcomers to the genre, while at the same time challenging enough to keep things interesting. 
 If you've been around the block with strategy games you may not find much here, but if you're looking 
 for a pick-up-and-play experience Ninjatown is wholly recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ceraby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm no big fan of Tower Defense games since I'm not very good at them, but I must admit that I 
 loved this game dearly. Aside from having the difficulty level adjust to something easier if you 
 get stuck on a level, the cute ninja ( and demon ) characters and storyline urge you to continue 
 playing. The dialogue can be funny and the pacing of unlocking newer types of ninja huts ( the 
 tower defenses ) is just right. I'm sincerely hoping for a sequel. Perhaps my only complaint, a 
 teeny tiny one, mind, is that after finishing the game, they should have had the option available 
 of re-playing the stages in a harder mode because after finishing the game, there's really nothing 
 to do after unless you go on multiplayer mode. 
  
  Other than that, it's a truly enjoyable game and worth the time. It can be enjoyed by everyone 
 of every age who have different preferences of genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Ninjatown Review
  
  With every passing month the impressive library of games available for the Nintendo DS keeps getting 
 larger and more diversified, even though successful games of various genres can be found on the 
 handheld it is pretty clear that no genre tops strategy titles when it comes to number and quality. 
 The pair of screens allows for a big variety of information to be shown at once, which is something 
 vital for strategic games, and the ease of using the touch screen also contributes to the development 
 of titles of the genre, Ninjatown is just another one among all strategy games, but it stands out 
 due to its originality and peculiar humor.
  
  The world of Ninjatown is a colorful one and everything starts in the city that lends its name 
 to the game. There a mysterious volcanic eruption is followed by the town being invaded by an army 
 of devils whose leader, Mr. Demon has secret evil plans that involve one of the Ninja's best kept 
 secrets. The usually peaceful Ninjas have all of a sudden to defend their beloved home from the 
 attacks, and so an old master Ninja is summoned to the action, too bad he doesn't remember any 
 of the techniques he learned on past adventures.
  
  Ninjatown is basically a Tower Defense games. Each of the game's forty four levels has the same 
 goal, build Ninja Huts surrounding a path through which enemies will attack, killing the enemies 
 before they reach their goal is all you need to do, let ten of them go through your defenses and 
 it will be game over for you and you will have to painfully watch Mr. Demon taking over your town 
 and succeeding on his evil mission, if you succeed then you will receive a rank that goes from 
 A to D and go to the next mission. You control the camera and browse through the landscape using 
 either the D-pad or the stylus, but you will find the former to be much more effective. All other 
 actions are performed on the touch screen with no need to press any other buttons.
  
  In order to contain the enemy waves you will have plenty of options that will increase as the game 
 goes by. There are a big variety of Ninja Huts to be placed, Wee Ninjas are your basic units and 
 they are pretty much balanced while their stronger peers, Anti Ninjas are slower but can deal high 
 damage to enemies. There are also Ninjas who like to attack from far away by using slingshots, 
 fireballs  that will cause the enemies to slowly burn and lose health  and even snowballs  that 
 will slow downs the little devils. 
  
  The variety of Ninjas goes on and on, knowing them and building the huts on the correct places 
 are the key to success because as the game progresses stages get harder, more enemy waves may attack 
 at once, and the path through which enemies will try to reach their target will become trickier, 
 on some more advance stages you will even have to deal with two completely different paths that 
 need to be defended.
  
  To go along with the Ninjas you can also build modifier buildings that will alter the status of 
 Ninjas from nearby huts, they can get more attack power, become faster, have a bigger range of 
 attack, or even get more money as they defeat their foes. The enemies also come in different types, 
 some of them are balanced, others are slow and strong, some fly, some are just there to distract 
 your Ninjas while others just run straight through your defenses and need to be finished quick 
 so they don't get to their goal.
  
  Besides, the old Ninja Master can also perform special attacks when the power gauge is filled, 
 these attacks use touch screen commands and even some microphone features. So even though the initial 
 premise of the game may seem overly simple the developers were careful enough to add plenty of 
 content so that you don't get tired of building huts and defending against enemy waves, in fact 
 you will find yourself addicted to the game until the very last of Mr. Demon's attacks has been 
 stopped.
  
  The game differs from other tower defense games due to its amazing art direction, which makes the 
 Ninjas look like merchandise you would see selling on one of those plush stores and the enemy look 
 evil and cute at the same time. Everything is heavily themed from the Japanese songs to the modifier 
 buildings which are very creative and have descriptions that will make you laugh for a few minutes. 
 Such humorous content is also found on the dialogues that will precede each level and on the cartoon-like 
 cutscenes that develop the game's crazy plot.
  
  Ninjatown is a must-buy for those who love Nintendo DS strategy games even though you may already 
 have ten of those in your collection. The game may seem too easy on its early stages but you will 
 find yourself having some trouble defending the attacks as the game goes by. Its unique look may 
 keep some gamers away at first, but it is actually very charming and enjoyable. After about six 
 or eight hours of gameplay you will have the game finished, but trying to get A ranks on all the 
 missions will entertain those who like to fully complete every game they play for some more hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitu123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  Ninjatown is about cookie-loving Ninjas living in Ninjatown peacefully, before the syrup addict, 
 Mr. Demon, invades Ninjatown to obtain the recipe for the Ninja Star Cookies that Ninjas of Ninjatown 
 make and steal ingredients to create it. Mr. Demon will create various enemies to overthrow your 
 defenses and reach the certain point or destroy a certain structure. In this game, you play as 
 Ol' Master Ninja, who was assigned to tackle the army of Devils. The story is pretty good and hilarious 
 at times, which makes it worth while to play.
  
  Each level of Ninjatown is about 8-12 minutes long, and has you completely wrapped up in the game 
 play. You need to be on your toes for every level to make sure the wave of enemies gets defeated 
 in time, and you have several ways to go about doing this. Ninja huts (towers) are the source of 
 the primary amount of damage dealt to the enemy waves. There are several different types of ninjas 
 that have different motives. Some attack quickly, powerfully, slow enemies down, or shoot them 
 with arrows, and each must be strategically used to defeat the waves in time! Modifying buildings 
 can be built that can make surrounding huts more powerful, faster, or have a bigger range. There 
 are also special powers that Ol' master ninja can use as an emergency defense, and you have tokens 
 of special ninja capabilities that can be used once per map. The game is very interactive, making 
 you use all of your resources to win.
  
  You must plan carefully, which makes most battles intense. As you unlock more ninja types, you'll 
 find many ways to win battles, which adds depth since the outcome will vary depending on how well 
 you use strategy. If you don't plan carefully, it's easy to lose, and the difficulty gets harder 
 as you play. While that may be the case, the fact that you have the inability to quickly correct 
 your units on the fly may be frustrating when battles are too frenetic and fast paced for your 
 adjustments to make any significant difference. Expect trial and error as you play, but it'll be 
 worth it in the end.
  
  Despite it's cute look, it's highly difficult, but still addictive. The more you plan accordingly, 
 the better you'll get at it and have fun trying to experiment each Ninja types in each battles. 
 Not many battles play out the same way as expected, offering a different experience each time. 
 This is easily the best thing about the game since the Ninja types are well balanced too, so you 
 won't have cheap difficulties that much, if at all.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. It has a nice cutesy art style with vibrant colors, but they aren't 
 exactly the best the DS has to offer. The sound is ok, the sound effects are decent, and the music, 
 while cheerful, bright and carefree, is slightly repetitive since there isn't enough variety in 
 it, but it's ok so it isn't all bad. These aren't the strongest points of the game, but they're 
 not bad either. 
  
  As for replay value, you can try to get an "A" grade for each battle, and with 36 battles in total, 
 it can take a while. It also comes with friendly multiplayer options. With each player defending 
 their own version of the same town, the goal is to be the first to defeat each wave of attackers. 
 Losing a wave will cost you a heart, and when they're gone it's game over. If both players have 
 a copy of the game nine multiplayer maps are available, but you can still play three environments 
 with just one cartridge. The replay value in this game is solid at least.
  
  Overall, you shouldn't miss out on this game. Sure, it's difficult, has trial and error, not that 
 impressive graphics and sound, and it's cutesy look might turn you off, but the gameplay is so 
 addictive, unique and rewarding that just playing the game is more than enough to own it, and for 
 the funny storyline as well. Look past it's flaws and look, and you have one of the best Tower 
 Defense games on the DS.
  
  Final Score: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlebron
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  Strategy games have reached such a level of development that it takes an exceptional effort to 
 produce something outstanding. Ninja Town achieves exactly this feat. It's graphical presentation 
 is a perfect fit for its lighthearted theme. However, neither the colorful art style nor the lighthearted 
 theme represent that challenge Ninja Town presents. The ability to eventually deploy multiple classes 
 of Ninja, level them up in real time as well as construct on of nice variety of buildings that 
 give local units stats boosts, is not only immersive but presents a puzzle in itself. As the game 
 throws waves of a nice variety of enemies at you on a nice variety of maps, you will constantly 
 be challenged to figure out the optimal placement of the different classes as well as the buildings 
 and when to level up. 
  If Ninja Town has one shortcoming is that some maps seem to have one or two right ways to beat 
 them, which somewhat diminsihes the tactical tools at your disposal. However, this is a small complaint 
 against a game that is nearly perfect in every other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Im sorry, this is the cutest game ive ever played! I didnt know ninjas could make me this happy! 
 Haha. Even the premise of the game is cute! You got to defend your ninja star cookie recipe from 
 the evil Mr. Demon! Awww! A cookie recipe! 
  Anyway, this is a strategy game. You construct homes on the playing field for different types of 
 ninjas. There are black ninjas called Wee Ninjas, orange ninjas called Anti Ninjas and even ninjas 
 that shoot wasabi peas called Sniper ninjas. There are alot more than that too. You summon these 
 adorable beings to defend your area from different kinds of Mr. Demons minions. You have to defeat 
 them in waves and keep them from getting to the exit of the field. Its a simple concept. 
  As you progress through the stages the enemies get harder, the stages get more complex, you get 
 different types of ninjas, you collect ninja tokens that you can use that do a variety of things 
 and you get more Ol' Master Ninja powers. Those are awesome. They are the power you get from the 
 master ninja that help you in battle. And on top of all that the controls are simple and use the 
 touch screen wonderfully.
  One thing id say is that id like if there was a bit more variety. I really just want more cute 
 ninjas really! Its not a huge complaint.
  But I would say that anyone looking for a simple, quick pick 'em up game than this one is perfect. 
 Its also great for anyone who wants a stategy game without being so hard.
  This game is great for all ages, and anyone with a Nintendo DS should give it a try! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truthsoularm
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game its really fun and addictive. The ninjas are so cute you just gotta love em. there 
 isn't much of a story but it still keeps you more than interested by introducing new types of ninjas 
 throughout the game. If you have ever gone to miniclip. com and played canyon defense you may have 
 a better idea of what this game is like except more in depth and better graphics. this game may 
 seem to get old quickly at first but it really doesn't. Ninja town is very well paced so that you 
 don't unlock everything right at first but it keeps you on your toes with harder enemies and cooler 
 ninjas and powers as you go along. over all I give this game an 8 out of 10 because it can get 
 a little repetitive and also the ai can be a bit like zombies just going for the finish instead 
 of fighting but thats the point. in the game you are out too stop all of the wee demons from getting 
 through the stretch of road you get to work with and too the finish. I shall end with this I LOVE 
 NINJA TOWN
  
  
  p. s If it seemed lie I rambled on its because I needed more words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grahilah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I just came back with the new DS game Ninjatown in my hand. Man it's adorable and great fun. A 
 bit of a twist on the classic Tower Defense-style gameplay, you take the role of the Ol' Master 
 Ninja, the leader of the defense of Ninjatown. You must defend Ninjatown's cookies against the 
 hordes of Mr. Demon who wishes to take then Ninja-Cakes for himself!
  
  I've played the title for a couple hours and already I love the audio of this game; the music is 
 really fun and upbeat, and the combat noises are spot-on, punch and kick styles that bring you 
 back to kung fu movies. The art style is great too, a very cheery cartoon style with little creeps 
 versus little ninjas. The gameplay itself is solid, nothing really new about it from any WCIII 
 style TD map, but it's definately simple and quick. You can zoom all over the map placing buildings 
 on the touch screen while the overworld map appears on the top screen. It seems to find a home 
 on the DS where you can tap on the map to place or upgrade your buildings which spawn different 
 types of ninjas with which to defend your confectionaries.
  
  There's a single-player campaign and a multiplay mode that supports two players in a head-to-head 
 match of last man standing! I can't wait to try out the multiplayer. The single-player campaign 
 seems beefy. I've tried the first mission that took me about ten minutes and my campaign is now 
 2% done. If 1 mission is 2%, that means there are 49 more to go! And all promise to be much more 
 complicated that the very simple first learning mission I went through.
  
  Ninjatown got me interested again in the DS! It's over 9000!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmaan7000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  A fun game and you'll maybe get addicted to it. This game is for people that like catoon war with 
 ninja in them. There all kinds of heros to fight with to fight the evil Mr. Demon. Yhave to build 
 buildings with different characters to fight against in different enviroments. Its also very fun 
 to watch with all the action. But one thing is that you'll maybe get bored of it too soon. Overall 
 its fun and worth buying. But if you think its going to be boring rent and then see. Or if you have 
 a Wii go on Nintendo Channel and theres a demo of it. djdjdj dsshjs sbhdd dhbsksh dsksj shhskjbwjhb 
 hshsjdk shhdjj jjw dhwj shwshd nds dhhe dhc esnd jcdncfd bcnefb b b bhn h db bb hdbd bhhsshhxhx 
 ssxhshsxj xshjhsxjhs shxjsxhjsxjh sxjhs jhsjhs jhsjwkjw jedejeeje jejeeeee eeeeeej (IGNORE LETTER 
 SENTENCE) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
