-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/ninjagaidendragonsword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Production values are through the roof.
 Stylus-only combat keeps you engaged by letting you string together loads of dazzling attacks.
 Brilliantly captures the spirit and tone of the previous games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The level of challenge, especially in boss battles, is underwhelming.
 Some level designs create occasional control issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 862 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Developer: Team Ninja
Genre: Action
Date: Mar 25, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This handheld offshoot of the revered action series provides plenty of fun and satisfying stylus 
 slashing. 

  If you're in the market for an action game that wrings the most out of the Nintendo DS's visual 
 and sonic capabilities, you need look no further than Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword. It is possibly 
 the most technically proficient title available for the system, brimming with superb, smooth-as-silk 
 visuals and sword-slashing sound effects that make the action practically spring off the screen. 
 It's impossible to imagine how Dragon Sword could have better captured the overall look, feel, 
 and flow of the console games, from protagonist Ryu Hyabusa's midair acrobatics to the dramatic 
 Eastern-hued soundtrack. And while it may have its problems, the gameplay does a pretty good job 
 of keeping up, matching most of this brilliance with a compelling adventure and stirring, combo-stringing 
 stunts that are thick with thrills and kills.  

           Dragon Sword looks and sounds amazing.      

  To play, you'll first need to flip the 
 DS sideways. Every bit of the action takes place on the touch screen, with the top screen relegated 
 to cutscenes and the minimap. The touch screen also holds the key to your controls: Every move 
 you make as Ryu, from running and jumping to slicing and dicing, is done with the stylus. The only 
 time you need to touch a button is to block, which can be done with any button -- even the D pad. 
 It's a pretty comfortable setup, and we found that keeping our thumb on the D pad for this purpose 
 worked out just fine (if you're a southpaw, you would use a face button in a similar manner) , though 
 using one of the shoulder buttons is also a viable solution.  

  Even if you're a series aficionado used to doing your dirty work with a standard controller, it 
 won't take you long to get used to the controls. Using the stylus is remarkably intuitive, since 
 your flicks with the stylus are met with a more or less equivalent action on the screen. If you 
 want to run, just slide the stylus in the direction you want to move. If you want to jump, flick 
 it upward; to attack, swipe through the enemy you wish to target. It's simple, and it may not afford 
 you the kind of complex combinations and wall-jumping gymnastics you can perform on the Xbox and 
 PlayStation 3 titles, but there's still a remarkable array of interesting techniques to pull off. 
 For example, you can double-jump toward the heavens by flicking upward twice, and then slash through 
 a nearby fiend, which will cause Ryu to zoom toward his enemy and slice into it. Scratching rapidly 
 will unleash a powerful attack that varies based on how long you scribble, while tapping an enemy 
 will cause you to throw a shuriken or shoot your bow. It's all pretty effortless.  

  Rest assured, the stylus controls aren't just the touch-screen equivalent of random button mashing. 
 You need to maintain control over the attacks you want to perform, especially in the later stages, 
 since some enemies are far more susceptible to some assaults than others, while a poorly chosen 
 move on your part can leave you vulnerable. Nevertheless, compared with other games in the series, 
 Dragon Sword is relatively easy, and is made even easier with its plethora of save points -- and 
 the fact that those same save points completely replenish your health and ninpo magic energy. The 
 diminished challenge is most obvious in the game's boss fights. The bosses themselves are intimidating 
 and exciting to look at, but most of them are a cinch to take down. If you're a Ninja Gaiden fan, 
 it's a bit disappointing to realize that on standard difficulty level, you'll be able to take the 
 majority down in one try. Even some of the attack patterns are practically the same among bosses, 
 which is disappointing.  

  That doesn't mean, however, that Dragon Sword isn't a lot of fun, regardless of how you feel about 
 its level of challenge. This is mostly due to a varied pace, a terrific sense of speed, and -- when 
 things are at their best -- responsive controls. You won't just be swiping your stylus around constantly, 
 and when you do, it's not always just to fight a roomful of mean-looking ogres. You'll head back 
 to town between missions to consort with the townsfolk and purchase upgrades, navigate the occasional 
 trap sequence, and solve a few rudimentary puzzles. The action is the most satisfying aspect, though, 
 since the controls engage you with onscreen events in the most immediate way possible. It's tremendously 
 rewarding to flick your stylus around and watch Ryu let loose with a smooth, snappy selection of 
 stabs and strikes. Less frequently, the game won't respond properly to your carefully scribbled 
 strokes. This occurs mainly when the level design causes the action to retreat toward the rear 
 of the arena, where Ryu and his enemies become the size of ants. When this happens, the corresponding 
 mess of pixels makes it harder to perform the attacks you want to perform, and even jumping gets 
 a little haphazard.  

  Dragon Sword has retained the ninpo magic aspect of the franchise, though the mechanics are a lot 
 different this time. Provided your ninpo gauge is full, you tap an icon on the screen to activate 
 an attack. From here, you select the ninpo you wish to cast, and in turn, you are met with a Sanskrit 
 character that you color in using the stylus. Once it's filled in, you're returned to the main 
 action, where you can further control the attack. These are mostly what you would expect -- lightning 
 strikes, fireballs, shards of ice, and so on. The system itself is a nifty way of further using 
 the touch screen, and while it temporarily removes you from the action, it complements it rather 
 than detracts from it.  

           The bosses are impressive to look at but easy to take down.      

  There's a story 
 buried in here. The plot has never been the main point of a Ninja Gaiden game, but Dragon Sword 
 provides a decent catalyst for the ensuing mayhem and introduces a new character, Momiji. The bulk 
 of the story plays out in beautiful, vibrant cutscenes accompanied by gripping music, and features 
 a few touching references to fallen heroine Kureha. The cutscenes aren't the game's only displays 
 of splendor, however. As previously mentioned, Dragon Sword is a technical powerhouse, squeezing 
 the most out of the DS without a single hitch and perfectly re-creating the visual style of the 
 console titles. Ryu flips and zooms around with animations so fluid it's a wonder the machine can 
 render them without even a hint of slowdown. Human enemies (of which there are few) and fiends 
 (of which there are many) are meticulously designed, and they look great and animate smoothly as 
 well. On top of that, an array of guttural grunts, sword clanks, and ambient sounds help bring 
 the action to life.  

  The game clocks in at eight hours or so, but once you're done, there are some unlockable goodies 
 to check out, and you can upload your karma score (accumulated by busting out your most skillful 
 moves) via Wi-Fi to compare with others. Besides, the core gameplay is so good, you'll want to 
 return to it, possibly to check out the higher difficulty levels, which are a bit more compelling. 
 All in all, it may be watered down a bit, but Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is still a spicy and savory 
 mix of familiar combat and sweet stylus action, and it pulls you into its world of dastardly fiends 
 and mysterious, shuriken-slinging martial artists.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (73 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics; awesome controls, moves, upgrades, and chi attacks; cool sound effects 
 and use of the mic; quite the challenging campaign, plus an insanely hard mode; an interesting 
 plot, especially for a hack and slash, as the backbone of the game.
  
  The Bad: Cutscenes look kind of cheesy; even with both difficulties the game's insanely short; 
 stealth moves and certain jumping moves are a little messy.
  
  Ninja Gaiden has made itself a legend on the Xbox and PlayStation systems, with Ninja Gaiden II 
 getting similar praise, even if it's not as original. Dragon Sword was chosen, oddly, for the DS. 
 Or, it seems odd until you play it, when you realize the intuitive controls were done as well as 
 you would have hoped and make for a fantastic fighting game for the handheld.
  
  When you hear about a system like the DS, you're always hoping that someone will make a game that 
 uses the touch screen really, really well. Manipulating a character with just a stylus, though, 
 is a difficult feat for any company to pull off. Phantom Hourglass being the only exception, this 
 was never successful. But now, the first third party to succeed in it, Tecmo, has made a brand 
 new experience thanks to the controls.
  
  You'll be slashing your stylus to swing your sword, drawing it up to jump, tapping to throw shuriken 
 or shoot arrows and of course moving it around in front of your character, Ryu, to run.
  
  You're off to save your apprentice, who fell into the hands of a demon. She's not a helpless damsel 
 in distress, seeing as she's a warrior, but Ryu's the most powerful ninja alive. You'll be getting 
 new swords, using an RPG system to buy new combos, chi techniques (magic, basically, where you 
 draw symbols to summon attacks) and getting new long range weapons.
  
  Ryu's journey takes him through multiple, bizarre realms full of demon creatures to defeat. As 
 you can tell by the title, it'll be the legendary Dragon Sword that you'll need to save your apprentice.
 
  
  Using your sword works well, as does moving around, using your shuriken/ bow, and even jumping. 
 But stealth attacks aren't executed quite as well. Clicking down on the control pad (down as it 
 seems when you're holding the system sideways) has Ryu duck and block. While holding that down, 
 tapping to the sides of Ryu, apparently, get him to roll left and right. It works usually, but 
 when you're avoiding traps, it's hard to avoid getting hurt. It's good that there isn't much emphasis 
 on these parts of the game, but it still needs mentioning.
  
  Meanwhile, in the heat of battle you'll be swinging your sword like a madman. It sounds repetitive, 
 but there's enough variety to the attacks that you can play for quite awhile before it even seems 
 a little stale. It is also notable that Ryu will sometimes do a technique you didn't mean for him 
 to do, but it rarely messes you up enough to harm you. If you're slower and more exact about it, 
 that won't be an issue anyway.
  
  Generally, in other words, the controls are great. The music sounds very honestly oriental, the 
 short bits of voice acting feel right (and they're Japanese too) , while the graphics make the game 
 gorgeous. This title would've been unbelievably good looking on the N64, as the backgrounds are 
 already drawn, like in Resident Evil. That means they're flat, but they'll look 3-D enough, and 
 it allows for more emphasis on the characters, which obviously have to be made normally. And they 
 too look great. The title shows off what the DS can do, even though it's still the weakest system 
 graphically this gen.
  
  Blowing into the mic is actually incorporated and not overdone. There is a pause menu, but again 
 the entire focus of the game is on the touch screen, not on buttons. And you'll have a variety 
 of enemies to battle with, and you'll need different strategies to take them all down.
  
  Those same enemies are pretty easy early on. Even on the normal difficulty, though, the final boss 
 is insanely challenging. It'll take you a ton of tries to bring it down. And once you have you'll 
 learn that there's a harder mode. That one, I haven't even attempted, to be honest. I'm terrified, 
 because from what I understand it's nigh on impossible.
  
  But either way the game's gonna be really, really short. It's around five, six hours the first 
 time through, including playing bosses and certain groups of enemies through again when you die. 
 That... Isn't much. Playing again, doubtlessly, will take longer. But at max that'll be eight hours. 
 Fourteen hours, if you're not great at fighting games, and that's still extremely short. Minus 
 the battles you lose, it's more like eight hours through both difficulties.
  
  The quantity just isn't much, and that's the main reason the game's score got docked for me. But 
 on the other hand, the quality is spectacular. Few third party companies produce titles that rival 
 the games Nintendo themselves put on their own systems, but this one does. Tecmo has proven that 
 they can hold their own against the other big third parties on Nintendo systems: to me, Capcom 
 (mainly for Wii) , EA, Activision, Square Enix (for DS) , and, soon if not already, Sega.
  
  If you're looking for a game that has a long campaign to it, this isn't the game for you. If you're 
 looking for a ton of high quality fighting, plenty of replayability and quite the challenge, then 
 look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Good: Sharp touch screen controls, putting good use to DS held like a book; huge bosses making 
 great fights; writing Ninpo magic characters on the screen is cool; awesome graphics for both 3D 
 models and environment design, pushing the hardware to its limits.
  
  The Bad: Gameplay can be a little repetitive and the same goes for Ryu's voice acting; 'clean' 
 design for the characters doesn't work sometimes; auto-save.
  
  Dragon Sword brings the series back to Nintendo's cradle where it was born after 17 years without 
 an original adventure - the last release of the kind was Ninja Gaiden Shadow in 1991 for the first 
 Game Boy. And it was surprising to see that not only Tecmo was ambitious enough trying to squeeze 
 those modern 3D environments and playability saw in later X-Box releases into DS, but also that 
 the whole thing works pretty fine.
  
  NGDS is technically flawless: 3D models for characters and enemies are impressive for DS patterns; 
 backgrounds are beautiful and varied; animation scenes are always awesome; voices and SFX are well 
 recorded and produced. And the choice they made for the controls to work almost entirely through 
 the touch screen in a 'book-like' position just gave the production more value: 3D models can be 
 bigger, making huge bosses and great boss fights; environments look even better with this 'vertical' 
 perspective; and they cared enough to split the stereo sound in two different ways  up/down DS 
 speakers or left/right headphone speakers.
  
  Controls are intuitive and work pretty well in the touch screen. Sliding the Stylus in different 
 directions results in different strokes and slices of the katana, or in jumps/double jumps depending 
 on the sequence of moves you're doing  combos are also possible; touching the screen quickly makes 
 Ryu throw shurikens, kunais or arrows; holding the Stylus in a direction makes the character move 
 to where you're pointing; rubbing the screen for a while gives you a charge to use an 'Ultimate 
 Technique' (throwing air blades all over the room you're in) ; and using Ninpo magic through drawing 
 symbols in the screen is pretty cool.
  There's another interesting game mechanic that brings a little bit of strategy to the action: essences. 
 When you kill an enemy it releases some essence (a ball of light) that keeps floating in the air 
 until you stop moving - when you do it, it comes to you. Essences come in 3 different colors: yellow 
 (can be spent like money) , blue (fills energy bar) and red (fills ki  Ninpo  bar) . And here comes 
 the strategy: you can use Ninpo power if you see a red essence floating, since you know your ki 
 bar will be filled again soon; or you can start to rub the screen to absorb essences around you 
 and charge an Ultimate Technique instantly; or you can avoid using a health recharge Ninpo if you 
 see some blue essence in the air to be absorbed.
  
  Unfortunately this pleasant control scheme makes the game a little repetitive, since NGDS is a 
 'button-masher' converted in a 'screen-scratcher'  you may need some screen protector to avoid 
 damage to your hardware. That's the major fault of the game, and I could list some other minor 
 faults: the clean design for the characters doesn't match the spirit of the game sometimes; the 
 auto-save system can hold back your performance analysis in the end of a stage  you may want to 
 fill your energy/ki in a save point just to explore the place, but your exploration will be saved 
 and it will cost you some time.
  
  The side-quest of looking for the Sea Swallows will make you coming back to the game to fill the 
 extras list, and that rises game's life time.
  
  In the end Dragon Sword is an awesome game that opens the path for other installments in the series 
 coming back to Nintendo. And Tecmo should be praised for being ambitious and competent in the execution 
 of this great action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buck_Hotep
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I've held off from buying the Nintendo DS for a couple years now. I used the excuse that there 
 really wasn't any games for it that appealed to me. While the DS line-up of games have gone beyond 
 the Nintendogs, Brain Age and Pokemon lines it was still limited in heavy action-oriented games. 
 It took the announcement and subsequent release of Team Ninja's latest title in their great Ninja 
 Gaiden series to finally make me pick up a Nintendo DS. I am more than happy and glad I broke my 
 embargo of Nintendo's newest handheld. Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword was all I had hoped it would be 
 and actually made the DS fun to play with.
  
  Anyone who games a lot knows that Team Ninja's Ninja Gaiden series for the Xbox (soon for the 360 
 as well) was seen as a game for the hardcore of the hardcore group of gamers. This series was unforgiving 
 in its difficulty and didn't baby the players. While such a thing may alienate the more casual 
 player it does pose as a great challenge for gamers who have seen and played all types of games 
 and where a challenge to their gaming skill comes only rarely. I was concerned that transferring 
 that difficulty level from the console to the handheld would prove to be a problem, but Team Ninja 
 seem to have found a balance in Dragon Sword's overall execution. While Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword 
 is not sadistically difficult it's also not a pushover. There's enough of a challenge in the gameplay 
 that it shows the spirit of what the Ninja Gaiden series has always been: a challenging and fun 
 action series.
  
  Dragon Sword also made great use of the DS touch screen and stylus system by pretty much using 
 it as the end-all and be-all of moving and fighting throughout the game. The rest of the buttons, 
 shoulder bumpers and D-pad have been relegated to act as a way to block incoming attacks. This 
 makes the game quite intuitive as making slashing motions over an enemy on the touch screen would 
 cause Ryu Hayabusa to lock on that opponent and make his attacks. Combo attacks and chains could 
 be achieved by making the correct patterns with the stylus over an opponent. For hack and slash 
 players the combat system will be easy to use even fancy attacks are not made, but for those willing 
 to learn the special techniques the stylus-touchscreen mechanic could be quite rewarding.
  
  The graphics on this game is some of the best I've seen on an DS game released so far. While 
 not on the same level as the Xbox's Ninja Gaiden Black or the upcoming 360-exclusive Ninja Gaiden 
 2 this DS title pushes the limits of what the handheld's innerworkings can accomplish. Dragon Sword 
 using 3D animation for the player and the enemies on the screen while using pre-rendered 2D animation 
 for the background. Similar to past Resident Evil titles this marriage of 3D characters with 2D 
 environments makes for quite a beautiful looking game. The comic book style animation for the cutscenes 
 also makes the game play out like a manga. This illusion is further enhanced by the fact that the 
 game is played with the DS opened like a book.
  
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword was quite the successful foray for the traditionally hardcore 
 Ninja Gaiden series which always came out on the newest and powerful console system. Team Ninja 
 was able to bring the action-oriented gameplay of the original console titles, but also bring an 
 innovative and intuitive gameplay through near-exclusive use of the DS stylus and touchscreen. 
 Here's to hoping Team Ninja will continue to make more Ninja Gaiden and original IP titles for 
 the DS to complement the titles they've been releasing on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamevsWolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I have heard alot of good things about Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword. It took me a while to find it 
 but at last i got it. I ripped open the package in the car and slid the gamecard in. At first i 
 was sort of confused on how it was setted ,sideways. The Beginning story had already got me pumped 
 up and ready for action. There was lots of combos to learn and i loved the ninja shurikens. It 
 helps so much and it bys time while im in the air.. safe. I had gotten through alot of it by the 
 time we arrived home.. 
  But every good game there are some bad points. Here they are; sometimes the game gets confusing 
 because most of the time the place is complicated and i always get lost. And sometimes scribbling 
 the stylus and slashing everywhere does get boring. 
  But besides that i have nothing to complain about good graphics, good storyline, good everything. 
 xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  So, Ninja Gaiden is back to a Nintendo console with a proper release and for the DS, taking full 
 advantage of the touch screen and other aspects of the handheld, even though not as much, the result 
 is a game that should be played by both long time fans and newcomers to the series.
  
  For you to play the game you hold the DS like a book, just like you did with the Brain Age games 
 if you ever played it, with the stylus at hand you control where Ryu Hyabusa will go and attack, 
 the main attack is done by the sword, and you need to slash your way through the enemies, it can 
 be rather systematic, and somewhat not as deep and responsive as it may sound, like wielding your 
 stylus like you would be wielding your sword, but in the end it serves just right for the game, 
 you can also throw shurikens or use the bow by simply touching the screen, as well as other secondary 
 control mechanisms. The only thing you'll need a button to perform is the block, and you can use 
 whichever you want, your choice.
  
  The save system is done by several save points situated all over the game, works fine. The game 
 is action filled and will keep you busy, not much wandering around wondering what to do, more like 
 non-stoppable action from one hallway to the other, sometimes the perspective can feel a little 
 awkward but it shouldn't be in your way to enjoy the game.
  
  The difficulty is pretty good, but if you are through with the game and wants to start a more difficult 
 challenge, it can be deceiving, since some save points won't allow you to go back, so you can't 
 upgrade, and also the more difficult also comes with various enemies before the bosses for you 
 to defeat, which makes the system a little boring, when you finish the fight you're not at full 
 health anymore, if you lose for the boss, you have to start all over again and beat the enemies 
 as well, no save in between, kinda frustrating.
  
  The music and sound design are pretty good and won't let anyone down, the sound fits the atmosphere 
 and changes pace nicely when the action comes. The length of the game may come as a problem for 
 some, it's short, but enjoyable for as long as you play, which may be better than a longer game 
 but with long periods doing nothing or just going from one place to the other.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, the levels are well designed providing a nice 3D feeling, certainly 
 not a title to be overlooked if you seek a good looking game for the DS. The story does the job 
 of being there, action games never relied on stories too much, this fits in the pick and play kind 
 of game easily. Ninja Gaiden is also one of those games that won't be gently to your touch screen, 
 you'll find yourself harshly scratching the screen while playing the game, so a screen protector 
 is recommended.
  
  If you played the games released originally for the Nintendo Entertainment System I bet you're 
 curious to see how this is going to turn out, if you never played a Ninja Gaiden game you'll feel 
 right at home with this amazing game, another great one for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starduke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is definitely one of the best games I have ever played. It is also one 
 of the few games for the DS where the stylus plays an important role in playing the game. You control 
 Ryu, the main character of the game, almost exclusively with the stylus. The only time you ever 
 have to push a button is when you want to block, dodge or access your inventory. I would advise 
 a screen protector when playing this game. Actually, the first thing anyone should do when buying 
 a DS is invest in a screen protector. The touch screen gets scratched very easily. 
  
  The difficulty of the game on normal mode is pretty easy. Although, I did notice that it got even 
 easier when I was using my special stylus that I could wrap around my finger. I could slash at 
 the enemies on the screen a lot faster and easier then when using the normal stylus.
  
  The bosses were challenging enough to make the game interesting, but not so much that I wanted 
 to throw my DS across the room. 
  
  I was able to beat normal mode in 8 hours, so its not a very long game. 
  
  If you want a short, 
 action packed, and amazing game then I definitely recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSdude247
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my most favorite games I have. I did'nt know what I was getting into when I got 
 this game. Needless to say, Im glad I got it. This game has some of the best graphics I have seen 
 on the DS. The creators of this game really utilized the touch screen. Everything in the whole 
 game is controlled via touch screen, except for blocking which any button will work. Character 
 designs look awesome, along with the backgrounds. The music fits right in with the game taking 
 you back to ancient ninja times. Alot of people say the boss fights are a bit on the easy side... 
 I say it's just right. The boss fights in this game are awesome, and the boss designs are really 
 good. Some of the bosses remind me of something off of Final Fantasy X for PS2. Oh and let's not 
 forget those cut scenes, once again... very awesome. 
  
  This game is not to hard and not to easy. The controlls are really easy to get the hang of. The 
 learning curve is about 5 minutes or less providing you with quick- lets get to it game play. The 
 only thing that kept this game from being perfect is how short it is. The game can be beat in 8 
 to 10 hours. But all other aspects of this game make up for it, providing good replay value. I 
 recommend this game to any one. Before you buy this game be sure to pick up some screen protectors, 
 trust me you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword - DS  Team Ninja, Tecmo, 2008
  
  
  Pirates versus Ninjas, come on, lets face it. Ninjas would kick the snot out of the rum swilling 
 fools, especially when they've got Ryu Hayabusa on their side. Dragon Sword katana, check, throwing 
 stars, check, skin tight ninja getuperm.. check. Well, I guess friction is the ninja's greatest 
 enemy. Since the Super Ninja's return to home consoles in 2004 on the Xbox, Ryu has been handing 
 out ass left right and centre, and now he's whooping some up in a nice portable package. Yup, Ninja 
 Gaiden has hit the DS and there's not a mini-game in sight, hooray!
  
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is an action adventure which picks up were Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox left 
 off. While fans of the series may notice some of the same characters and locations in Dragon Sword, 
 it merely gives you a since of familiarity instead of receptiveness. Set six months after these 
 events, Ryu Hayabusa has rebuilt the Hayabusa Village. When fellow villager and kunoichi, Momiji, 
 is kidnapped by the Black Spider Ninja Clan, he is forced to find her, while uncovering the secrets 
 behind the mysterious Dark Dragonstones and their relation to the Dragon Lineage. Yeah, the story 
 is nothing to be blowing the whistle about but it works and is very well presented through gorgeous 
 comic book stills. The art work is just beautiful and makes superb use of the dual screens, words 
 don't do it justice. It's worth noting that this was also Team Ninja's only opportunity to display 
 their signature "huge breasts", courtesy of semi-nude demi-god fiends. Go figure.
  
  The game is presented in a 3rd person, pseudo-3D manner, meaning all the game-models are rendered 
 in full 3D, but the world the player travels around in is pre-rendered. Think Resident Evil and 
 you'll know what I mean. When played, the DS is held sideways, as in Hotel Dusk: Room 215 and Teenage 
 Zombies (*shudder*) . The left screen shows the area map, while the right displays the main gameplay, 
 when set for right-handed play, and reverse when set for left handed play. The game is almost fully 
 touch screen driven, with all actions and combat carried out through drawing different gestures 
 on the screen. Blocking is achieved however through pressing any button on the DS, so you can find 
 your own comfortable playing position. Now, considering the nature of the combat, fast paced hacking 
 and slashing, you would be forgiven for thinking, "touch screen controls! Pah! What tripe!". However, 
 this is not the case as the controls in Dragon Sword are some of the most responsive and intuitive 
 I've seen on the DS.
  
  Movement is easily done by clicking a location on screen, jumping by flicking up on Ryu, ranged 
 weapons by clicking enemies and attacking with the sword by drawing lines through them. It actually 
 reminds me of a PC title called Silver which employed a similar system, but used mouse gestures 
 to execute combat moves. Various special moves are learned through the game, nothing like the complex 
 library of moves from the bigger consoles but enough. The Flying Swallow, the Izuna Drop and various 
 other signature moves are present as well as the awesome Ultimate Technique (were you franticly 
 scribble on the screen) which gets boosted by the souls of fallen enemies. While the DS is not 
 capable of flinging huge numbers of enemies at you, the 5 to 6 it does are often constantly re-spawned 
 during epic battles creating very intense and involving fights. 
  
  You must pay attention to your enemies to out manoeuvre, then strike at the right time. Dragon 
 Sword like its older brothers is all about frantic, well timed thoughtful combat and is anything 
 but shallow. The other aspect of combat is the ninpo magic, which involves tracing kanji symbols 
 (renamed to Sankrit to be more cultureneutral outside of Japan) to unleash powerful spells and 
 effects. Drawing the symbols is not difficult but it gives you a time limit, which is reduced at 
 higher difficultly levels. They are often used in the basic puzzle solving elements of the game 
 as well. The only gripe I have with the combat is that at times Ryu becomes quite small due to 
 the camera location and perspective. It makes drawing and pulling off the exact moves that you 
 want a little tricky and can be the source of much frustration. However, luring enemies back to 
 the camera so you can see what's going on can help. Having said that, I forgive Dragon Sword as 
 this is a common problem with games employing this playing angle. 
  
  Bosses in the game are massive, impressive and imaginatively designed. All too often however, once 
 you've discovered the pattern to kill them, they become remarkably easy, with the exception of 
 a few. Yes, Dragon Sword is not the brutal pounding that its big console brethren offer but this 
 was never the goal of the creator Tomonobu Itagaki. His main goal was to create a game that can 
 be played by all gamers everywhere, saying that his other titles "have traditionally targeted men 
 above the age 18 and Westerners." Not everyone will want to be beasted constantly by the first 
 boss for hours until perfecting their attacks. Sure, Dragon Sword is now easier, as well as being 
 blood and gore free but it doesn't suffer for it. Playing as Ryu is a great experience, jumping 
 about the screen slaughtering hordes of enemies is ludicrously good fun. 
  
  There are plenty of secrets to be found in the game and hidden challenges. Wooden talismans can 
 be found to unlock new features by completing secret stages, accessing the Netherworld or by defeating 
 the "Sea Swallow". The latter being a really fun aspect to the game were you have to listen for 
 the chirp of the Sea Swallow. You can't see it but you can coax it out of hiding by whistling into 
 the mic or by throwing objects. Harder difficulties can be unlocked by completing the game, scaling 
 all the way to Master Ninja difficultly. I'm playing on Head Ninja currently, and let me tell you, 
 it's a lot harder, A LOT. I suspect that Master Ninja will make most grown men cry and Ninja Gaiden 
 fans revel in glee.
  
  I've already spoken about the presentation of the game, but it really is remarkable. The artwork 
 through out the game is beautifully drawn and the 3D rendering is the most impressive I've seen 
 on the DS. There is even a section of the game were the camera takes a true 3rd person position, 
 and everything is rendered in 3D. Sure it was only for a minute stretch, down a forested straight 
 path killing bad guys and dodging boulders, but it was awesomely implemented. The pre-rendered 
 backgrounds look fantastic, with vastly varied level locations and colour palettes as well as different 
 enemies correlating to the specific level. 
  
  Sound and music is also very well presented with the music adding vastly to the atmosphere and 
 the sound effects being chunky and solid in the right places. It really is a treat for you ears 
 and I highly recommend playing with headphones or you'll be missing out on one of the finest aural 
 experiences you can have with a DS.
  
  The only really niggling point that can be made about Dragon Sword is that it's short. Clocking 
 in at only 6 hours on my first play through on Normal it's not even a weekend long game. Having 
 said this, the higher difficulty levels provide a real challenge and the secrets are worth playing 
 for. If you're looking for a game that's going to engage you for 20hrs+ you're looking in the wrong 
 place. However, if you're looking for one of the finest action adventures on the DS, welcome have 
 a seat. Sure, it's a short experience, but it's pure gaming bliss for the duration. The refreshing 
 use of the DS's graphical capabilities and touch screen controls is a real marvel and is something 
 I hope we can see more of in the DS's future. Dragon Sword should be a real lesson to the developers 
 spitting out half-hearted titles with tacked on mini-games. Sure it's not perfect, but this is 
 a stunning example of how action adventures should be done on the DS. And if you pirates think 
 any different, you'll end up with a shuriken in your eye. 
  
  8/10
  
  - Niall Macdonald, 24/06/08
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics; awesome controls, moves, upgrades, and chi attacks; cool sound effects 
 and use of the mic; quite the challenging campaign, plus an insanely hard mode; an interesting 
 plot, especially for a hack and slash, as the backbone of the game.
  
  The Bad: Cutscenes look kind of cheesy; even with both difficulties the game's insanely short; 
 stealth moves and certain jumping moves are a little messy.
  
  Ninja Gaiden has made itself a legend on the Xbox and PlayStation systems, with Ninja Gaiden II 
 getting similar praise, even if it's not as original. Dragon Sword was chosen, oddly, for the DS. 
 Or, it seems odd until you play it, when you realize the intuitive controls were done as well as 
 you would have hoped and make for a fantastic fighting game for the handheld.
  
  When you hear about a system like the DS, you're always hoping that someone will make a game that 
 uses the touch screen really, really well. Manipulating a character with just a stylus, though, 
 is a difficult feat for any company to pull off. Phantom Hourglass being the only exception, this 
 was never successful. But now, the first third party to succeed in it, Tecmo, has made a brand 
 new experience thanks to the controls.
  
  You'll be slashing your stylus to swing your sword, drawing it up to jump, tapping to throw shuriken 
 or shoot arrows and of course moving it around in front of your character, Ryu, to run.
  
  You're off to save your apprentice, who fell into the hands of a demon. She's not a helpless damsel 
 in distress, seeing as she's a warrior, but Ryu's the most powerful ninja alive. You'll be getting 
 new swords, using an RPG system to buy new combos, chi techniques (magic, basically, where you 
 draw symbols to summon attacks) and getting new long range weapons.
  
  Ryu's journey takes him through multiple, bizarre realms full of demon creatures to defeat. As 
 you can tell by the title, it'll be the legendary Dragon Sword that you'll need to save your apprentice.
 
  
  Using your sword works well, as does moving around, using your shuriken/ bow, and even jumping. 
 But stealth attacks aren't executed quite as well. Clicking down on the control pad (down as it 
 seems when you're holding the system sideways) has Ryu duck and block. While holding that down, 
 tapping to the sides of Ryu, apparently, get him to roll left and right. It works usually, but 
 when you're avoiding traps, it's hard to avoid getting hurt. It's good that there isn't much emphasis 
 on these parts of the game, but it still needs mentioning.
  
  Meanwhile, in the heat of battle you'll be swinging your sword like a madman. It sounds repetitive, 
 but there's enough variety to the attacks that you can play for quite awhile before it even seems 
 a little stale. It is also notable that Ryu will sometimes do a technique you didn't mean for him 
 to do, but it rarely messes you up enough to harm you. If you're slower and more exact about it, 
 that won't be an issue anyway.
  
  Generally, in other words, the controls are great. The music sounds very honestly oriental, the 
 short bits of voice acting feel right (and they're Japanese too) , while the graphics make the game 
 gorgeous. This title would've been unbelievably good looking on the N64, as the backgrounds are 
 already drawn, like in Resident Evil. That means they're flat, but they'll look 3-D enough, and 
 it allows for more emphasis on the characters, which obviously have to be made normally. And they 
 too look great. The title shows off what the DS can do, even though it's still the weakest system 
 graphically this gen.
  
  Blowing into the mic is actually incorporated and not overdone. There is a pause menu, but again 
 the entire focus of the game is on the touch screen, not on buttons. And you'll have a variety 
 of enemies to battle with, and you'll need different strategies to take them all down.
  
  Those same enemies are pretty easy early on. Even on the normal difficulty, though, the final boss 
 is insanely challenging. It'll take you a ton of tries to bring it down. And once you have you'll 
 learn that there's a harder mode. That one, I haven't even attempted, to be honest. I'm terrified, 
 because from what I understand it's nigh on impossible.
  
  But either way the game's gonna be really, really short. It's around five, six hours the first 
 time through, including playing bosses and certain groups of enemies through again when you die. 
 That... Isn't much. Playing again, doubtlessly, will take longer. But at max that'll be eight hours. 
 Fourteen hours, if you're not great at fighting games, and that's still extremely short. Minus 
 the battles you lose, it's more like eight hours through both difficulties.
  
  The quantity just isn't much, and that's the main reason the game's score got docked for me. But 
 on the other hand, the quality is spectacular. Few third party companies produce titles that rival 
 the games Nintendo themselves put on their own systems, but this one does. Tecmo has proven that 
 they can hold their own against the other big third parties on Nintendo systems: to me, Capcom 
 (mainly for Wii) , EA, Activision, Square Enix (for DS) , and, soon if not already, Sega.
  
  If you're looking for a game that has a long campaign to it, this isn't the game for you. If you're 
 looking for a ton of high quality fighting, plenty of replayability and quite the challenge, then 
 look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemanngamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I'll say it now, Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is a lot of fun. The controlls are usually very good. 
 Everything is done on the touch screen except for blocking which can be done by pressing any button (other 
 than start or select) . The only time I had a probem with the controlls was when trying to move 
 short distances while trying to avoid spikes or something like that. I would tap in the direction 
 I want to move but instead of moving foreward, Ryu would shoot an arrow. But the controlls are 
 great for most of the game.
  
  This game looks and sounds great. It really pushes the DS to its limit. Whether your shooting an 
 arrow, slicing an enemy, or throwing a shuriken the graphics and sound design will blow you away.
 
  
  The story isn't great but it does get pretty intresting at times. The story is told through gorgeous 
 still frame cut scenes. I would have liked to see more of the bosses tied into the story but its 
 not a very big deal.
  
  Speaking of the bosses, they're all easy but fun. They're usually huge and a lot of fun to fight. 
 Some of them might kill you once or twice but you'll probably beat most of them pretty quickly.
 
  
  You'll probably beat the game in about six hours on your first play through, but multiple difficulty 
 levels and secret unlockables give the game a lot of replayability.
  
  All of this means Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword could definatly be better, but its still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  First things first: I have never played any game of the well-liked Ninja Gaiden series. So you 
 can call it my introduction to the series. As a result to this I can not compare this game to the 
 Xbox versions but the story isnt that complex so that you wont have any problems 
 understanding whats going on. You play Ryu, a male ninja and leaderof the Hayabusa-ninja-clan 
 but you will play a female ninja called Momiji, who gets trained in Hayabusa in a short part, too. 
 
  Within the story you will mainly be questing for dark dragon stones. After finding one of the stones 
 you may purchase upgrades for you weapons or for your health from Muramasa, an owner of a little 
 upgrade store. He provides you also with new special attacks, which affect the environment, too. 
 You pay with yellow essences the enemies you killed left behind. The other ones fill your healthbar 
 (blue) or refill the so called Ninpo (red) .
  
  The controls are easy to learn and thus you are able to perform great combos to defeat the enemy. 
 Basically you use the stylus only for any movements. Point to a side of the touchscreen and Ryu 
 will go to this area. If you draw a short line in any direction, the protagonist will do a fast 
 attack. However, while you are using the stylus mainly defending your character is realized by 
 pressing any desired button and the stylus onto the touchscreen. 
  Knowing you are doing everything except blocking with the stylus makes the controls feel very comfortable. 
 But certain times they arent as sharp as you want them to be. So it may occur that he does 
 not perform the attack you chose. After all this happens only scarce.
  To this the special attacks will stop the battle and switch to an asian sign you have to trace. 
 This is called Ninpo.
  Talking about the stylus only some actions are done with the microphone like helping to wake up 
 an old resident of Hayabusa.
  
  Ninja Gaiden DS delivers an outstanding visual design, which you will hardly find on any other 
 DS game. While the anime styled cutscenes make the story progress the main game have very detailed 
 backgrounds. 
  
  The sound of Ninja Gaiden DS is nothing special or outstanding, but the effects in combat and the 
 short voices of the characters are ok overall.
  
  Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is an utterly amazing game that unfortunately lacks of length as you 
 will complete it in about 8 hours.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximaltroop
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword, Where to start. Ninja Gaiden has one of the most confusing and odd stories 
 (Due to Ryus Partticipation the The "dead Or Alive Series) So it is hard to place it in the timeline, 
 but ill explain the story anyway.
  
  Story: Classic fairy Tale, Old witch takes young love intrest and the brave town hero goes to save 
 her. But insted of Princes and Princesses, it Ninjas! And everyone knows, ninjas kick ass. And 
 its up to our favourite silent bad ass, Ryu to save her.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are great for a portable, the environments look fantastic, from each tree 
 to a trickeling river they are spotless. The enimes need a little work, because when you get closer 
 SOMETIMES they get a little pixelized, but that is a rare occurance. The giant bosses look awesome. 
 Ryu looks like he should, in black and with a sword but i think his character model could of been 
 improved, but hey, im nitpicking. But one bad thing, hardly any gore.
  Overall: Great Graphics
  
  Sound: Like an RPG or any DS game, there are sound clips, not fully 
 fledged dialog (Apart from maybe 1 or 2 bosses) But you still get the feel of Ninja Gaiden. As 
 for the quality, Ryus mad slashing scream (Which you shall be hearing alot) sounds good, but will 
 get on your nerves, 
  Overall, good sound 
  
  Gameplay: What can make or break it, the gameplay. Which is.... great. You control Ryu with the 
 stylus, slash an enemy and Ryus legendary dragon sword is almost certain to make contact with it. 
 It may not work sometimes dude to the camera angles, but only sometimes. You can use many special 
 techniques which are used by accesing the technique and then drawing a matching pattern to the 
 technique you want to use. It comes in handy whle fighting the giant bosses. Though all of this, 
 it is no longer than 6 hours long
  Overall: Great Gameplay
  
  Ninja Gaiden DS is a great game, and it wouldnt
  
  Ninja Gaiden may be portable and lacking 
 blood, but Ryu is still fighting the giant bosses and fighting with hot ninja chicks. 
  
  Thanks for reading, you have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmayaPapaya
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  I may have never played a Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword game but after playing this one, you can bet 
 i want another. In NG your a "master ninja" trying to save his friend from the black spider clan. 
 use the stylus to do everything with Ryu. Talk, Move, Attack, Unlease Awesome Magical Attacks. 
 This game had fun bosses none of which to me were annoying. upgrade you wepons to have devastating 
 power. use bows, throwing stars, and EXPLODING bow. (FYI you hold you ds like a book)
  
  
  Gameplay: The stylus control is great. i had great fun slashing and on the final boss you could 
 see my hand movie so fast because unlike most games that give you a limit to how fast they attack 
 this one doesn't!
  
  Story: The story is pretty normal on my terms. Althogh it is 2D
  
  Graphics: great for the ds!
  
  Flaws: each game has it flaws (except OOT which is completly 
 off topic) . all though this happens rarley somtime when you go to move he attacks (didn't see that 
 one coming) there is nothing to do after you beat it except beat it on hard now. hard does give 
 you a nice challenge though! THE WORST FLAW is when you see what Ryu actually looks like! I'll 
 save that surprise for you.
  
  Conclusion: Ninja Gaiden was a fun game with few flaws. the graphics were pretty good. gives you 
 a while of gameplay. buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Object
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Yes! Ninja Gaiden! I thought when I finally got the game. 
  
  Story:
  
  Ryu Hayabusa, A Ninja from a small town. Fights its way through beautiful areas collecting the 
 dark dragonstones. To find and rescue his friend. Momiji. Captured by the fiends. Will he succeed? 
 Thats up to you!
  
  The innovative control system:
  
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword (For short NGDS) comes with the amazingly innovative control system. 
 Turning your DS around and lets you fight with the stylus.
  
  My first impression of the control system was kind of strange. In the beginning I though it was 
 rubbish and buggy. But its not! Slashing opponents with your Dragon blade while slashing your stylus 
 nearly in your touchpad is an amazing experience. And the use of special attacks is easy and fun. 
 Direct a ball of fire burning your enemies alive!
  
  After finnaly getting the hang of this amazing control system. I found myself in the woods just 
 outside Ryus village. Controlling Momiji. Ryus apprentice.
  After that first level I came to realize what a fine game this is.
  
  Time spent playing:
 
  
  Sadly. This game is a VERY short game. With a maximum of 4 and a half hours. You wont have the 
 urge to play this game again. Only the die hard Ninja Gaiden fans might want to try the hardest 
 modes. Its a great game. But the time playing really dissapointed me.
  
  Difficulty.
  
  At the beginning of your first game you can only pick the Normal difficulty. When you beat the 
 game the first time. A harder difficulty will open up for the player.
  
  Wi-Fi Options
  
  As expected. There were not big Wi-Fi options. Only the ability to upload your current ''karma'' 
 (points you earn while playing and defeating enemies'') . This also gives you the option to compare 
 each others playtime, karma and deaths.
  
  Conclusion.
  
  Although NGDS had a few minor problems. It really turned out to be a great game. When you finnaly 
 mastered everything. You will really enjoy it and you will hunger for more fast paced ninja action 
 but sadly the total playing time did not meet any of my expectations. Apart from the playing time. 
 Everything is perfectly fine. Although Team Ninja should have worked a bit more on the Wi-Fi options, 
 This game definitely deserves its 8.5 and I agree with gamespots mark. and I stick to that
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I had my doubt when I first heard that Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword for the DS was going to be controlled 
 via touchscreen. We all did. Everyone was hoping for a game with gameplay similar to those on the 
 360 and other consoles. But Team Ninja surely delivered.
  
  The game starts out with you controlling a female Ninja warrior named Momijee sparring with Ryu 
 Hayabusa, the famed ninja descended of the Dragon Lineage clan and wielder of the Dragon Sword. 
 Upon finishing your session together, you leave for the village. Returning to the village serves 
 somewhat as a tutorial for the game, but for the most part you much learn the controls by yourself. 
 However, while returning to the village, Momijee is ambushed by The Black Spider clan, a clan composed 
 of many Fiends that hopes to destroy the Dragon Lineage and steal the Dragon Sword for their own 
 evil purposes. Momijee is defeated, and taken hostage by an evil sorceress. When Ryu hears of this 
 tragedy, he must embark on a quest to rescue Momijee and stop the Black Spider Clan once and for 
 all.
  
  The most controversial part of Ninja Gaided: Dragon Sword are the controls. These were the make 
 it, or break it part to the game. Fortunately, they work fine. You hold the DS like you would hold 
 a book. All the action occurs on the touch screen, while a map appears on the non-touch screen 
 along with some various information. And don't worry if you are left handed or right handed. Dragon 
 Sword has options for people who are left handed also.
  
  To attack, simply slash over an enemy to attack them. To walk, you simply just hold down on a spot 
 on the DS and Ryu will walk to the spot, like Animal Crossing. To jump, just slide the DS up, and 
 Ryu will jump. To shoot a projectile, simply tap an area you want to shoot, and Ryu will shoot. 
 It all works very well. And throughout all of this, depending on if you are left handed or right 
 handed, the only button you will use are the R and L buttons to defend yourself with.
  
  After you defeat an enemy, they release essence. The orb may be gold, blue, or red. Gold essence 
 is used as a form of currency to buy new moves or increase your health, etc. Blue essence replenishes 
 your health bar, and red essence replenishes Ninpo. Ninpo are special attacks you can do that can 
 be used both to destroy enemies, or to affect the environment, such as destroying an immovable 
 boulder to get by it. To activate your Ninpo, tap the icon at the top of the screen and fill in 
 the character they show you. Once it is filled in, it becomes activated.
  
  Never did I feel that the controls were hard to use or were overbearing. The camera worked great 
 also. It is always focused on Ryu, and depending on the scale of the area, it may zoom in or out 
 on your hero. Not once did I complain about the camera in the game, which is crucial to an action-adventure 
 game of this sort. Sometimes there may be an archer off screen attacking you, but that only happens 
 in very small, enclosed places where the camera is very closely zoomed up on you. Like I said, 
 the camera works great and won't have you complaining if you die.
  
  And speaking of dying, you will probably die your fair share of times. The game easiest difficulty 
 (Normal) is set at a fine level. Dragon Sword doesn't follow its console big brothers by having 
 painfully hard battles. Never did I think that Ninja Gaiden was too hard or too easy. The pacing 
 in Ninja Gaiden is superb also. There are save points in almost all critical places, which also 
 recover your health and energy. The story is told comic book style, and it is easy to follow along. 
 All the characters have anime designs while they talk, but look realistic when you see them in 
 game. The in-game graphics are awesome, some of the best on the DS. The detail in the environment 
 is very high for a Nintendo DS game, and the character models are quite impressive too.
  
  The story is told in chapters, and there are 13 chapters in the game. Each chapter can last between 
 15 to and hour in length, making the game about over 7 hours long your first playthrough. Chapters 
 are concluded after you defeat the boss, and they give you a chapter summary and a label for how 
 well you did on the chapter (e. g.: lesser ninja, greater ninja, head ninja, master ninja) . The 
 boss battles in Dragon Sword are really fun too. They oftentimes will have you alternating between 
 using ranged attacks to up close and personal combat. They require all your skill to dodge their 
 moves.
  
  The audio is what you'd expect from a game of this sort. All your attacks have a personal sound 
 to them. There is some very minor voice work, where a character will say the name of another character. 
 I'm pretty sure there are some Japanese works uttered in the game also. There are a few themes 
 that go to the levels, but not many. Overall, it gets the job done.
  
  In conclusion, Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is an excellent action-adventure game on the DS. With 
 strong controls, excellent graphics, fun boss battles and great pacing, it is a game that should 
 be in any collection of fan interested in the genre. It is a fun game that shouldn't disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDDZX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden DS takes place shortly after the Dark Dragon Blade incident from the console versions 
 of the ninja gaiden series. If you know anything about the previous ninja gaidens then you will 
 have no problem playing this game and understanding the story. You play as two character Ryu and 
 Momiji ( a female ninja/maiden) . You play only one act as Momiji but then later can unlock her through 
 a secret. You continue the story in the fight against fiends to undue the great deed on the dark 
 dragon. You play the main story as Ryu questing for dark dragon stones to help story the work of 
 the evil fiends.
  
  The game offers fast action fighting and swordplay to the DS using the stylus. Both movement and 
 attacks are done with the stylus making it easy to play through the game. You can do all the movements 
 that you expect from the console versions, throwing kunai, wall scaling, wall jumping and essence 
 chops.
  
  Learning the game can take anywhere from 10-20 minutes to get the feel of the game. You can find 
 all the fights to be quite easy until you make it to a boss. The boss battles can be quite challenging 
 and what you expect from the typical ninja gaiden game. Though there are no extra blades like in 
 the previous console versions of ninja gaiden, you do get things such as bows. You will be able 
 to utilize the bow and the sword as well as kunai to take down all the big and tough bosses. 
 
  
  One good feature in this game is online scoreboards. Thought its tough to get on the scoreboards 
 you will feel really good to make it to that level of success.
  
  Completing the game on certain difficulties will allow you view bonus content and allow you to 
 play the game on harder game modes. Also there are these secret birds in the game that you must 
 listen for and kill using the DS mic, if you find them all you can unlock things such as artwork 
 and lots more.
  
  Well thats the end of my review. Be sure to check out Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword, it has good replay 
 value and can be bought for about 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you get a crappy overused plot, and some pretty good gameplay? Well, not Mario, 
 but Ninja Gaiden. But this time, Ryu Hayabusa goes for a spin on the Nintendo DS.
  
  So how does this start again?
  
  You first play as Momiji, who I think is Ryu's sister. After 
 training, she picks flowers for Sakura, but after picking flowers, she sees some freaky monsters 
 trying to get you at every corner. She is not entirely defenseless, however, and that's because 
 she has her shurikens and her sword. So you as the player will at least try to defend Momiji against 
 the evils of the Black Spider Clan by controlling her, but that's just for a short period of time 
 and serves as introduction to the new controls because she gets abducted anyway.
  
  Stylus-slashing!
  
  This will draw comparisons to Zelda, which I haven't played, and that's 
 because Ninja Gaiden is almost fully controlled by the stylus. You hack and slash by slashing your 
 screen and releasing projectiles by tapping at your target lightly. This also makes for some control 
 issues and conflicts that arise from the fact that walking is also initiated by tapping at a part 
 of the screen!
  
  Then again, it's more of the hardware's problem if you think about it.
  
  You can defend yourself from attacks as well by pushing any button. I'd advise pressing the 
 R button since your one of your hands is gonna be resting there, and that's because you play Ninja 
 Gaiden like you're playing Brain Age- you flip the DS sideways.
  
  Graphics
  
  At first glance, you'll see that Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a heavy-hitter in the graphics department 
 because they're pretty good to look at. My gripe is that they're pretty much wasted by the monotonous 
 look of most dungeons because most of the rooms look pretty much the same save for a few rooms, 
 thus making it really easy to know which room is important, and which one is not.
  
  These graphics still shine regardless, and what Team Ninja has exhibited is nothing short of a 
 benchmark that other third-party developers should follow.
  
  And again, stylus control, and the use of the microphone are some of the game's most advertised 
 features. They're implemented quite well, save for the aforementioned projectile-walking issue.
 
  
  This leads me to the microphone.
  
  There are times when you have to use the microphone to advance the story, but you don't know exactly 
 when you'll use it.
  
  Like many others, I was stuck at Chapter 3 with the sleeping Muramasa thing which was so self-explanatory 
 that you had to open your PC, connect to the Internet, wait for GameSpot to load, type in the search 
 term, pick the correct title, click Cheats, select one of the many walkthroughs for the game, wait 
 for the thing to load, press Control or Command-F, type Chapter 3, and read it from there.
  
  I mean, yeah, the NPC's note that you should calla person when he's sleeping, but doesn't that 
 mean that if you tap a person that's awake, you don't call them? Instead, they talk randomly? Because 
 common sense usually states that when you want to talk to a person, you call them first. But no, 
 in this game, the NPCs that are actually awake are probably released from the mental institution 
 because they just talk to you without you even calling them. I mean, if you wanted to apply the 
 logic of having to use the microphone to call someone, why don't you just use it to talk to someone 
 awake as well?
  
  Well?
  
  And then there are those times when the game seriously wants you to waste your Ki and use your 
 special Ninja arts to get rid of an obstacle. Now there's nothing wrong with using powers to clear 
 obstacles, it's just that some of them don't even make sense!
  
  Here's an example that makes me grind my teeth:
  
  "The spider web, strong as steel, prevents 
 you from going any further."
  
  Now if Ryu can penetrate steel armor with his sword, why the hell would you have to use fire to 
 get rid of a SPIDER WEB? I don't know about you, but that just doesn't make sense to me. What, 
 is Ryu scared of cleaning his sword because the itty-bitty spidow web will make itty-bitty Wiyu's 
 sword cwy? What about the blood that goes into your damn sword?
  
  Speaking of blood...
  
  There's none of that here, and that makes the game family-friendly, which I don't have much 
 of a problem with.
  
  However, the game's really, really easy, and really, really, really short. As in, each chapter 
 amounts to like 30 minutes of gameplay, but the chapters are far too few to be deemed long.
  
  Mind-numbing strategy...
  
  So there are bosses, of course, and though they're pretty big, 
 they only have like 2 to 3 attacks: 1) the throw and; 2-3) plain, semi-powerful attack.
  
  So what strategy is there to be had with boss fights? Well, they're so strategic and epic, that 
 you can just roll and use projectiles, roll, projectile, roll, projectile until they fall (except 
 for the last boss who knows how to evade) . In fact, the only times I succumb to a boss' throw attack 
 is when I hit the invisible barrier which is annoying as heck because you're simply given an illusion 
 of free 3D movement in every boss battle but not given just that! But at least the camera can catch 
 up.
  
  And if you want to accelerate these boss battles, you can always use ninpo!
  
  In fact, to be perfectly honest, I die more deaths from losing life to the "grunts" or the normal 
 enemies in the game, who are far more irritating to kill, than the bosses. Yeah, I die from them. 
 And when I do die from the bosses, it's because fighting these grunts have made me tired from slashing 
 and Izuna-dropping and such. Yeah, there isn't any button mashing which affects the fingers, but 
 your right (or left) hand will hurt instead. If there was a term used for describing the many slashes 
 you do on the DS, I'd use it.
  
  Oh yeah, it's called carpal tunnel syndrome.
  
  Still...
  
  There is still variation in the attacks nonetheless. You can slash down and then 
 up twice to perform a pretty cool dive, or rub the screen so hard it could break to execute the 
 Ultimate Technique. Frankly, I'm underwhelmed at the minimum of varied combos and attacks the game 
 offers, but they're actually pretty cool to watch, and exciting to implement.
  
  Overall
  
  Granted, there's still a lot of fun to be had with Ninja Gaiden DS, and maybe you can pick 
 it up unless you're expecting a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is a series well known for three things:
  
  1: Gorgeous visuals
  2: Tight gameplay
  3: Punishing difficulty
  
  It's a tough but fair love affair for hardcore 
 gamers, and to complete even one of these titles is a moment of unmatched triumphment. It's a critically 
 acclaimed series that has done much to destroy what confidence gamers have in their hearts as they 
 attempt what seems impossible; actually finishing it from start to finish. Now the game has appeared 
 in the shape of "Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword" for the Nintendo DS. Does it do the series proud or 
 ridicule it?
  
  Obviously it's the former because I gave it a great score. Yes, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is without 
 doubt a must own game for the DS. Most of the stuff you'd expect from a Ninja Gaiden game is here. 
 Tight controls and addicitive combat, gorgeous visuals (for a DS at least) but, funnily enough 
 for the first time through, no insane difficulty.
  
  Let's start with the control. The DS lacks a analogue stick. Yet the game still plays great without 
 one. Everything is controlled with the stylus - movement, fighting, casting spells. The block is 
 any face button excluding start and select. Rolling requires you to hold block and tapping anywhere 
 on the screen. And believe me, it's so easy to get used to. You make horizontal or vertical gestures 
 with the stylus on the enemies for various sword combos, certain stylus strokes for Flying Swallow 
 or the Izuma Drop (yes, they're in there!) . You tap enemies to throw shurikens at them and you 
 stroke vertically to make Ryu jump. Casting spells is as easy as pie. You simply choose which spell 
 you want (as you acquire them) and trace over the Sankrit characters and use the stylus to aim, 
 with some spells mind you. Even the Ultimate Technique is in this game, except it's a bit too powerful 
 and useful. You simply "scribble" with the stylus over Ryu to build it up and stop to release it. 
 There is, however, some issues that need to be addressed with regards to the stylus control. At 
 some moments in the game there's platforming. But what's the problem? Well, try jumping onto a 
 platform. It's a little fiddly at first. You'd think that by slashing up with the stylus then tapping 
 in the direction gets you to jump that way, but think again. It merely makes you jump up on the 
 spot and then throw a shuriken. You sort of have to do it in a slight diagonal stroke, but not 
 too much otherwise you start attacking. The next issue is the game having slight trouble with figuring 
 out what stylus movements you're doing. But these are minor gripes with what is essentially a perfect 
 control scheme for this sort of game.
  
  Next up is the Ninja Gaiden essentials. All the blue, yellow and red essences are here. Blue is 
 for health recovery, yellow is for shopping and upgrading and red is for charging up your ninpo 
 spells. As always, if you use your Ultimate Technique with essences floating around it'll charge 
 up far quicker. You also have a Karma system that goes towards your overall stats. There's no new 
 weapons to acquire, you just level up your default Dragon Sword. There's new projectiles but nothing 
 you haven't seen before and a plethora of spells to exploit with.
  
  Six months after the events of the original Xbox Ninja Gaiden story (called the Dark Dragon Blade 
 Incident ) a clan known as the Black Spider Clan is attacking the Hayabusa village. You first start 
 off as Momiji, a Ninja Apprentice under the tutelage of Ryu Hayabusa. It's an effective way for 
 players to get used to the control scheme. Anyway, quickly through the prologue you get defeated 
 by a Fiend boss and get kidnapped. Control is then given to Ryu Hayabusa and your mission is to 
 get to the bottom of the Black Spider Clan, rescue your village and Momiji. The story is played 
 out through text conversations and the occasional spoken dialogue (kept in the native Japanese 
 tongue, thank the lord) . Instead of glorious CGI cut scenes, the game incorporates 2-D artwork 
 with a sparse animation to convey the story. The story overall won't win any awards for originality, 
 but it's kept short and sweet so you can get back to the game double time.
  
  On a DS visual presentation level, Ninja Gaiden is a technical glorified monster. The game has 
 little to no slow down, the animation on Ryu and the monsters is as slick as the console brethren, 
 the boss battles are absolutely fantastic and stay true to the series lauded moments (the boss 
 battles take place in an enclosed 3-D arena at 60 fps) . The game's backdrops harken back to the 
 days of the old Resident Evil. The scenery is pre-rendered, but they look absolutely gorgeous. 
 Visual effects such as rippling water and light breaking into beams do much to convey a convincing 
 world. The sound effects are taken directly out of the console games and are just as sharp. The 
 music avoids the rock music and sticks to upbeat Japanese folklore esque music, another plus in 
 my ears. As said previously, voice acting is in here but is kept minimal. There's cackling laughter, 
 spell chants and screams of pain. It's just an astounding good looking and sounding DS game.
  
  Oh dear, for all the good stuff there's this one horrible thing. The game is short. At 6-7 
 hours the game is over. Sure there's the always "why do they include it" leaderboard, new difficulties 
 (which actually does add to the game's longevity, but not much, truth be told. This glaring flaw 
 is hard to overlook) . What would have made this game truly excellent is the possibility of downloading 
 new chapter missions or something along the lines of that but alas, no.
  
  Team Ninja should be proud of their valiant efforts in getting the NInja Gaiden series to the DS. 
 Rather than cram every morsel from the console games into it, they just picked out the core bits 
 and actually designed it with the DS in mind. The platforming is not that great, but when does 
 Ninja Gaiden do platforming greatly? The combat is rock solid and has nearly everything you'd expect. 
 So the game's a short ride, but what a ride! It's unforgettable and just plain fun. It feels, looks, 
 sounds and most importantly, plays like a Ninja Gaiden game. Rather than cower at the legacy of 
 Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox, it stands just as strong on the podium with its console siblings. Comes 
 highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AntiHero-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game last night, and even though I am half done in a mere 2 hours, it's good for 
 a hand-held game. The complete reliance on the stylus makes you actually have to pay attention 
 and keeps you doing some cool linked attacks. One thing i really, really liked was the Ninpo powers 
 having to be traced to be activated, that was a VERY good feature that made the game just a bit 
 cooler. One problem i had was my hand getting in the way of the screen when walking over some maps. 
 One thing that stumped me for a few minutes (until i realized that it was there) was the microphone 
 to wake that guy up in Chapter 2. I was frustrated till i finally exclaimed "WAKE UP YOU PRICK" 
 and he jumped, reminding me of the microphone. The graphics for a hand-held are good as well. It 
 has set a good base for more DS games to come. I say Bravo Tecmo, Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  This is my first ninja gaiden game and I really enjoyed it. However i didnt like it at first. But 
 i kept playing and it grew on me and I like it now. It left a bad first impression. The opening 
 was really dumb and confusing. but i got past it and it got tons better. The story is decent. Nothing 
 to pay too much attention to. The graphics, phenomenal, and the cut-scenes are brilliant!
  
  The controls got a little hard when Ryu got in the back of the screen. But I managed. The controls 
 are, average I guess. Just controls. It scratched up my screen a TON.
  
  The sound was okay. Nothing to cheer about and nothing to hate.
  
  The game moved along at 
 a good pace. And I liked the flow of it all.
  
  The gameplay was fantastic! I really enjoyed the game itself. However this game could not keep 
 my attention for long. But overall, I really liked this game. But it had it's share of flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a challenging action game that follows the footsteps of Zelda: Phantom 
 Hourglass in terms of gameplay. The hook to the game is that all of Ryu's movements are controlled 
 by the touch screen controls. In this game, the face buttons, directional pad and shoulder buttons 
 have all been given a singular use: blocking attacks. This allows you to hold the DS in whatever 
 position is most comfortable for you, which is necessary, as the game requires you to turn the 
 DS sideways like a book. In this way, the touch screen is where all the action takes place. The 
 secondary screen displays your map.
  This control scheme works very well. Ryu follows your stylus movements, and attacks enemies with 
 his sword when you slash the stylus over them. If you tap an enemy, Ryu will attack them with a 
 ranged weapon. Additionally, you can perform some acrobatic maneuvers by moving stylus up and down 
 and so forth. Finally, you can perform different magic attacks by tracing the outline of the Ninpo 
 magic symbol you have selected. All of these work very well when it comes to attacking the wide 
 variety of foes you will face.
  Though the music and (limited) voicework are nothing special, the graphics are fantastic. These 
 graphics really push the DS, performing on levels similar to the N64 (though you'll see some of 
 the same bland texturing often) . On top of that, the story is really fleshed out by the beautiful 
 cutscenes. 
  While I haven't tackled the game on a higher difficulty yet, trust me, this game is tough enough 
 on the standard difficulty. The evil minions of the Black Spider Clan and Fiends you will face 
 may not be much of a threat on their own, but you will have to fight your way through innumerable 
 waves of them. Then you'll come face-to-face with the very impressive-looking bosses. Some of them 
 are not too challenging, but the end bosses will truly kick your ass time and time again.
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden is a solid game. The graphics are a real standard-setter, the story is interesting, 
 and the gameplay is intuitive. The game has a real learning curve to it, especially for anyone 
 venturing beyond the standard setting. While it can be beat in under 10 hours (on the lower setting, 
 mind you) , it is still very rewarding to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARIFFLES
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden packed into a dual screened little gaming system. This is is a good as it gets when 
 it comes to hack and slash DS games. You play the part of Ryu Hayabusa, a young yet talented ninja 
 happily teaching the ninja arts to a shrine-maiden named Momiji. As always, all is well until rather 
 randomly, the Black Spider Clan kidnaps Momiji. And of course, someone has to save her. Ryu to 
 the rescue! 
  The completely touch generated control system is perfect in controlling Ryu and his actions. Drawing 
 a line across enemies forces Ryu to slash at the enemy. Tapping an enemy causes Ryu to throw projectile 
 at the enemy. Sliding the stylus upwards is used to jump and then sliding the stylus horizontally 
 while in the air will make Ryu do the Flying Swallow technique! A flying attack that is quite effective 
 once upgrades are bought using 'essence' which is released from defeated enemies.
  There are three types of essence. Yellow essence is the most common and is used as currency to 
 buy goods from good Mr. Muramasa. Blue essence recovers your health and quite annoyingly, won't 
 appear very often but can be found by throwing projectiles at little target/flags. These are also 
 scarce. Red essence recovers your ki and is even less common than blue essence.
  Ki is like Ryu's chakra or spiritual energy. When you have enough ki, you will be able to use your 
 devastating Ninpo techniques! Before using your ninpo, you must make hand signs by simply colouring 
 in a ninpo symbol before the time limit ends. There are a total of 7 ninpo arts to get.
  Other than the constant hacking and slashing to keep you occupied, there is also a prize shop for 
 you to unlock after you complete the game. Muramasa's prize shop is a compilation of character 
 and enemy databases to be unlocked with the gathering of wood amulets throughout the game difficulties. 
 So there's lots to keep you occupied in the game.
  There is also a Wi-Fi option to compare your 'karma' (score) with the rest of the world. Unfortunately, 
 like pretty much the top 10 or so have completely maxed out their karma with their play-time being 
 like an hour or something so it's kinda pointless really. Damn cheaters...
  Overall, Ninja Gaiden, Dragon Sword, is a great game and anyone who owns a DS should get this game 
 right now. So yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  When I started playing NGDS the first impression wasn't that great. Quickly moving the stylus over 
 your enemies without thinking is the best way to defeat the early enemies. Makes your hand hurt, 
 though, and it's not particularly interesting. Fortunately you'll get new techniques and harder 
 foes as the story progresses. You also don't want to just defeat the enemies. You want to defeat 
 them with a good score and therefore try to utilise the Ultima Technique as often as possible.
 
  
  So fighting gets more fun. But it sure could be better if the control of Ryu wasn't as inaccurate 
 as it is. Since you do everything except blocking with the stylus it often happens that your stylus 
 moves are misinterpreted or rather that you did them slightly wrong. You want Ryu to just walk 
 somewhere and he starts a 7 hit combo against the fresh air. You want to charge an Ultimate Technique 
 and Ryu doesn't stop fighting. You want to simply jump and again Ryu slashes an enemy instead.
 
  
  Considering the difficulties with the controls it's a good thing that the game isn't as hard as 
 its console counterparts. Don't worry about impossible bosses that you cannot overcome. Also there 
 are save points everywhere which means there is no problem with 5 minute sessions in the bus. On 
 each save point you get full health and your Ninpo magic reloads. Other then by save points and 
 a certain Ninpo spell there is no way to heal yourself but that also means you won't have to spend 
 your money on healing items and can concentrate on the interesting stuff. The only way to upgrade 
 your character is by purchasing new techniques and items to increase your maximum health and the 
 strength of your sword, which is by the way your only weapon except for arrows and shurikens.
 
  
  Sound and Graphics are good. But almost all enemies, bosses and environments are recycled from 
 the console games. Lazy designers.
  
  After you have beaten the game (in probably 5 to 10 hours) you unlock a harder difficulty and there 
 is another one to unlock if you beat that. You also get prizes in the form of character portraits, 
 diary entries and story scenes for the collectibles you gained during the game. You can upload 
 your score via Wi Fi but it's pointless since the ladder is full of cheaters.
  You can unlock a new character by accomplishing a certain task to get more replay value. The game 
 is quite short but it doesn't feel too short.
  
  So here are the pros and cons of this game summarized:
  
  Good:
  - Satisfying sword action 
 after the first few chapters
  - Good presentation
  - Not overly hard on normal mode
  - Two harder difficulty settings
  
  Bad:
  - Recycled enemies, bosses, environments
  - Fuzzy 
 controls
  - Only one weapon
  - No challenge for fans of the series
  - Ladder full of cheaters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I'd first like to begin by saying, This is my first Ninja Gaiden game. This game has inspired me 
 to try out the rest of the series because from what it feels like, this series is a button-mashing 
 series and I love button-mashing. Anyways here I go...
  
  The Gameplay is great. All you got to do is slide your stylus across the screen a million times 
 till all the monsters disappear and you can move to the next area, any blind person can do it! (I'm 
 not blind) The bad thing about it is that sometimes your attacks don't stop right away so if you 
 have to move or something you can't really do it till your attack stops or till you get hit, unfortunately 
 that happend to me as many times as i slid the stylus across the screen.
  
  The Sound is great. I enjoy hearing the monsters get sliced with Ryu's sword and when they make 
 that last shriek before dying. The tunes fit great with the situations and area so no complaints 
 there.
  
  The Graphics look pretty good for a DS game. Bosses look amazing, environments look great, and 
 Cut scenes look alright. The little kids in the village look funny and do funny things you might 
 enjoy that. And uhh that's it...
  
  The Game is very short it lasted me about 6hrs. But the game lets you play through the same story 
 in a harder setting, which I personally won't do, but if you do it you can unlock some useless 
 things such as cut scenes you've already seen and some character diaries.
  
  So in conclusion I'd say it's a game very worth having but if you don't like th length and replaying 
 games then it's a game you might want to avoid.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a nice Ds game that has A good and solid 3D fights. The fight are awesome. You 
 Get do spin Ryu around the screen only with your Stylus pen, the controls are that simple, it only 
 needs the stylus pen, blocking only with the D-pad or the buttons. i find that the story is lengthy, and 
 interesting. You can do harder difficulties if you dont got enough of the easier ones :D. There also 
 a Wi-Fi ranking system wich i honestly dont care of.. its just a bunch of nerds Showing their high 
 scores on each difficulties. I took a look at the rankings at Normal difficulties there were many 
 that had 999999! i only had 536789, i was like wtf, damn i never could beat a highscore like that!.
 
  
  Anyway.... Ninja Gaiden DS is an Awesome game that will be worth to add to your DS collection.
 
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Power_Wrist
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I had fun with Ninja Gaiden: DS. The thing that most dissatisfied me about the game was probably 
 the fact that you must hold the DS sideways, like an open book, to play the game. While I applaud 
 originality, it got tiresome to continue to do it. 
  Now the gameplay, for the most part, the stylus controls are tactile and responsive, however simplified 
 they may be. I'm sure you could have replicated most of the moves I do by randomly moving the stylus 
 up and down. The levels are well designed, and the bosses live up to Team Ninja's ideal of excellence. 
 Don't even bother with the story; typical Japanese over complication - something about dragons, 
 souls, demons, and several color-coded gemstones.
  All in all, I'd say get it - if only to have a Hack 'n Slasher on your DS. You won't be disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triplep1103
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this as my first Ninja Gaiden game. I actually averaged out to an 8.8 but since 
 I can't go out of .0 or .5 I gave it a 9.0 rounded up. I took 5 main categories and gave an average 
 rating.
  
  Story: 8 (Kind of ruined the first few NG for X-box since I haven't played them.)
  
  Graphics: 
 10 (It was a DS game so I considered that and I loved the detail on all the bosses.)
  
  Audio: 9 (It had some good music but I found myself not interested in that music and not attentive 
 to it.)
  
  Time Playing: 8 (I like games that really last and was a little disappointed when I beat it in 
 6:30 but loved every minute.)
  
  Game-play: 10 (It was the game-play that captivated me. At EB games I played the demo and I knew 
 it would be a good game.)
  
  As I said averaged 8.8 but rounded 9.0. I would recommend this game if you have the money to spare. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmond1997
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The game is very short but is still solid fun. Sometimes I feel like I am really swinging the sword. You 
 put a line through your enemy to slash. Though it was tough buying your items, there are a whole 
 bunch of unlockables. It was delayed once since team Ninja (made this game) added wi-fi connection. The 
 game is divided into chapters, each with neat drawings and a lot of action. The game is a little 
 too easy (once you unlock head ninja mode, all bets are off) for a action game. This game is really 
 great and I hope you reach my rank. (101) Now the story! First you play as Momiji and then Ryu. This 
 game is a good game and is one use. Becareful that the unlockables are hidden everywhere and is 
 a long time getting them.
  notes
  You have to delete and create accounts lots of times.
  You can not transfer money to other accounts.
  Does not work on x-box. (sorry, this is a weird 
 one)
  You hold the game sideways.
  There is only one way to play the game.
  There are 4 levels of swords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayos539
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Enemies spawn. Hack and slash. Enemies spawn again 2 or 3 more times. Kill them all. Move onto 
 the next area. More enemies spawn. Repeat steps 1 and 2. Move to next area. Light some candles 
 or hit some blue lights. Move to next area. More enemies. Hack and slash. Feels like deja vu. Finally 
 a boss battle. Wow, that was a little underwhelming. 
  
  Next chapter! Rinse and repeat. 
  
  And that's your Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword in a nut shell. 
 
  
  Pros:
  
  -The gameplay using the stylus is pretty fun and innovative. The ability to string combos is great 
 and the special moves are easy and fun to perform. 
  
  -The sound is nice and the graphics are AMAZING for a DS. 
  
  Cons:
  -The controls aren't 
 as precise as I'd like. The game will mistake you wanting to jump instead of moving into the farther 
 section of the screen. The Reverse Wind is a little tricky because sometimes you'll be stuck throwing 
 shuriken stars instead of rolling because the controls can get a little mixed up when you're in 
 intense combat.
  
  -Story is really shallow. I didn't know why I was doing what I was doing nor did I care.
  
 
  -Repetitive (see above) and little replay value. 
  
  Bottom line: NGDS is worth playing but it's definitely NOT worth the $40 retail price. Buy it used 
 or borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesy_potatoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a high paced sword swinging game.
  
  First of all the story is a plain find all of these and you finish the game. you have to find 8 
 dark dragon stones the story isnt a new idea but the game can go on with out it
  
  The graphics for this game are awesome. Ryu really looks clear enough to look at. but the 2d background 
 really dosnt fit in real good but it still works. when it gets to a boss battle the background 
 gets 3d and looks amazing!!
  the animation is the best ever on a DS. 
  
  In this game you have to turn your DS sideways. the whole game is all controled by the touch screen, 
 and it really works well (not like LOZ phantom Hourglass which was broken) Ryu has tons of combinations 
 to use and they are all really fast and super animated this is really the best part of the game.
 
  
  the Wifi Connection is worthless but it is not needed
  
  this game is a game that all kinds of sword swinging gamers will love the best!!
  
  
  Good: 
 great graphics awsome animations tons of sword combos
  
  Bad: old story, 2d background is not good, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Browsing at my local Game Stop I came across Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword, and I figured hey, let's 
 give this series a chance, considering I haven't had much to do with it as of yet and ninjas always 
 seem pretty cool when it comes to face offs against nautical adversaries. 
  
  The game starts you off pretty quick into the action and doesn't go fooling around, you immediately 
 gain control of Ryu's quirky little understudy Momiji who you utilize through the tutorial stage 
 that gets you off to a good start and quickly into hacking and slashing any fiends that may mishap 
 into the path of your blade, snicker snack, ouch! Poor guys.
  
  Momiji is then kidnapped and it becomes your goal as Ryu to go and retrieve the unfortunate girl, 
 really, what's with chicks getting kidnapped all the time in games? To do so, you must gradually 
 make your way through the game collecting the Dark Dragon Stones which allow you to unlock portals 
 in the hub world off the shrine in your ninja village, sending you to a distant place where the 
 only way to progress is to kill, maim and kill some more, eventually leading you to the boss fight 
 which lays out differently than the overhead battles that you're initially pitted with, giving 
 the game a more 3-D feel to it and making for a bit of a refresher. 
  
  You're able to purchase different merchandise from your friendly neighborhood peddler that had 
 endured with Ryu during the Dark Dragon incident; if he's so chummy with Ryu, he should be giving 
 upgrades away, sadly you have to pay him off with the game's currency which looks like golden orbs 
 that spawn after you kill off an enemy, once you stand still they'll automatically absorb into 
 Ryu and add to his gold count. These upgrades serve to power up your sword and most importantly 
 add to Ryu's health bar, good for not dying, isn't that nice? 
  
  There are other coloured orbs that aide Ryu in his quest to save the princess- I mean Momiji, Blue 
 breath a bit more life into our hero while Red acts as the ki that reboots his Ninpo technique 
 if it has already been used. 
  
  After each battle Ryu recovers the light grey portion of his depleted energy, making gaming progress 
 a bit easier, but no worries, there's always a handy save point near by.
  
  The game is broken apart into chapters that typically end in a boss battle, you are then ranked 
 by your clear time much like Devil May Cry does, and you're rewarded with Karma, which acts as 
 your score in game; so sorry Shadow Runners, it doesn't do no good otherwise. 
  
  Most of the bosses have a really predictable attack pattern that you'll most likely be able to 
 read within seconds, it's easy to pick, dodge and be really cheap to bosses (using your various 
 projectiles to cause damage from a safe distance while you ensure your reaction time to any of 
 their telltale signs of attack.) Some of the later bosses were actually a bit disappointing in 
 the way that it really took no skill to defeat them, and at times felt like a matter of who was 
 going to run out of HP first. 
  
  As for puzzles, they don't take to much thought or engineering for that matter, leaving them relatively 
 unchallenging to the gamer, save points are pretty generous and over all the game is pretty kind 
 as far as first runs are concerned. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  Graphics: For the DS it's pretty decent, 3-D effects seem a little weird, cut scenes render some 
 nice anime-esque still scenes and are interesting to look at, especially the designs on the fiends; 
 the game is also presented in book format, where you have to hold the DS on its side, it works 
 out pretty well. 
  
  Sound: The music is nice and gives a feudal Japan vibe to it, nice to listen to and never steps 
 out of place, though you may be to busy hacking and slashing to notice it.
  
  Playability: Ninja Gaiden does well to take advantage of the touch screen features that the DS 
 offers and allows you to control Ryu's attacks; responsive and accurate, the attack movements do 
 little to fuss at your command and are easily executed. Though the summoning screen for Ninpo techniques 
 feel a little tacked on. Also, good news; you're given the option to switch the screen to suit 
 your dominate paw, so gear up lefties. 
  
  Entertainment: Story wise the game isn't going to set the bar or come up with any astounding twists 
 that'll shock and awe anyone, it's pretty typical when it comes to the end but seems heartwarming 
 in the way it upholds tradition. Game play after a while can become repetitive and monotones after 
 a short while and it feels like it becomes more of a beat-em-up rather than a action game; begging 
 for a bit more variety, but for being a hand held it's a pretty good experience and works well 
 for what it is. 
  
  Replay: Prizes! Everyone loves prizes, there are wooden planks spread about the whole game that 
 you can acquire, typically you can obtain these by either going through a gauntlet of enemies through 
 a previously active portal or by blowing/yelling into the mic whenever you hear the calling wail 
 of a bird, which appears on screen and you must hit otherwise it'll strike you repeatedly. These 
 wooden pieces yield bonus material that once the game is beaten it can be checked out on the main 
 game menu. There are also higher difficulty levels for the more adventurous gamers. 
  
  All in all: The game is rather short and could be played through in a single afternoon, barrowing 
 it or renting it is recommended if your not much of a fan to the series, if otherwise it's not 
 to bad of a price right now at Game Stop. Ninja vanish!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Many people, including myself, expressed a lot of doubt about having Ninja Gaiden on a DS. But 
 as it turns out, the game has far surpassed one's expectations.
  
  The first play-through will seem too easy for an action game veteran, but once you unlock the harder 
 mode, the real challenge begins. Depending on your point of view, this may be a down side or an 
 upside. But the way I see it, it helps to introduce, perhaps a crowd more used to playing casual 
 games to something with more action and adrenaline. 
  
  The controls for this game are excellent and very responsive. Ryu executes his moves with great 
 style and dispatches his enemies in a variety of ways depending on how you direct your stylus. 
 Blocking is easy with a touch of a button, so the game plays very well sideways (ie holding the 
 ds like you would an open book) .
  
  There is a good variety of enemies that get quite formidable as you play harder modes. Boss fights 
 are always epic feeling. The sound is excellent but there are no voice-acts, except grunts and 
 death cries, and the occasional gasps, laugh, hm-ha's and single word sounds in the story scenes.
 
  
  I didn't give it a full ten because the last three chapters of the game seems a bit rushed and 
 I wished they were actual fully fleshed out stages rather than just boss fights. 
  
  Overall, a must-have for any action lover and an amazing introduction for those who have never 
 played Ninja Gaiden or other similar games of this genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Want to take out all your anger slashing the crap out of fiends? I know I do. This game is very 
 fun and addictive even though it is very short and can be easy (except on Master Ninja Mode) . The 
 game stars Ryu, a bloodthirsty ninja whos ready to open up a can of whoop-ass on anyone who gets 
 in his way. His apprentince Momjii gets kidnapped. Typical Mario goes save Peach kinda storyline. 
 You use the stylus to slash, perform moves, roll, and even through shuriken. The games controls 
 I thought worked very smoothly and how quick Ryu went in to perform a combo even though he was 
 far away. You basicly use the stylus for everything except guarding. The games graphics I thought 
 were amazing for the DS. It looks very fluid and awesome. The sound is extaordinary i thought as 
 well. The game would be so awesome if it had a co op feature. But there is no multiplayer. Also, 
 thanks a lot for everyone on Wifi who cheats by putting there karma scores 999999999. You kinda 
 ruined the whole thing of competition. Anyway, this is a fun and addicting game. The boss battles 
 are great as well.
  
  
  
  
  Final Comments: A much less bloody side of Ryu, but still an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnerofface
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  A highly addictive innovative game which utilizes the ds to its fullest first off this game is 
 absolutely stunning visually its the best visual representation ive seen on the ds the combat is 
 highly addictive and fun you use the stylus for everything but blocking . you slash teh stylus 
 in the direction you wanna slash snd block with any button on the ds excluding start and select 
 the normal difficuilty may seem a bit easy for veterans of the series but once you beat the ame 
 head ninja and master ninja are quite challenging the combat uses three types of attacks melee 
 ranged and ninpo (Magic) the only melee weapon you get is the dragon sword but it really doesnt 
 matter becuase its fun to use over the coarse of the game you got three ranged weapons which include 
 shuriken a bow and a bow with explosive arrows the ninpo includes an array of different spells 
 from creating a fireball to healing yourself the different ninpo really keep the action enjoyable 
 and the healing comes in very handy in the 2 harder difficuiltys overall if your an action fan 
 and you own a ds this is definetly a game you should have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphical achievement, fast responsive controls, uses the touch screen really 
 well, not as hard as other NG games, fun boss fights
  
  The Bad: Way too short, uninspired story, gets repetitive after awhile, feels to similar to the 
 console games
  
  First I have to mention the game isn't brutally difficult like previous NG games. The game is actually 
 a perfectly set difficulty that will challenge you, but won't make you tear your hair out. You 
 play as Ryu Hayabusa who has to stop the Fiends from taking over the world with the Dark Dragon 
 Stones. You are the last member of the Dark Dragon Clan and you must protect your lineage. While 
 the story isn't anything special the game does sport beautiful cut scenes that were tailored for 
 the dual screens. The graphics are also the best on the DS with beautiful pre-rendered backgrounds, 
 high res textures and character models. You basically execute all attacks through the touch screen 
 by slashing enemies. You can use your projectile weapons by tapping enemies. I have to report this 
 works superbly and the controls are actually more responsive than the console games. You can use 
 your mana power for devastating attacks but you can only use these once until you get too another 
 save point. The save points are generously scattered throughout the short levels so things won't 
 get too hard for you. You can do other moves such as slashing up to jump and then slashing down 
 to do a slam attack. You get all the moves in Ninja Gaiden (Xbox) but there aren't any news ones. 
 While all of this sounds excellent it does get old by the end of the game. However, the game has 
 some fun boss fights to keep things interesting. You can solve puzzles by blowing out flames, lighting 
 torches, hitting orbs etc. but nothing that will strain your brain. The is very short and you can 
 beat it in about 6 hours. There are 13 chapters but the levels are really really short (you can 
 beat most of them in 20 mins or so) . Overall the game is really well done and any action fan needs 
 to own this especially if you're getting ready for Ninja Gaiden II (X360) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimdave21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5/ 10
  
  Extremely well-done stationary environments with average DS looking sprites. Good looking cut-scenes 
 and anime based characters. Some of the cleanest looking graphics I've seen on the DS.
  
  Music: 7.5 / 10
  
  Excellent soundtrack, though not the best, it definitely fits the mood of 
 the game. The sounds in this game are alright... You hear the constant Hai Ya-ing of Ryu Hayabusa 
 while performing attacks. As you walk around the village you hear some Japanese 1-liners from the 
 characters you live there. Also when you do your 'special hand symbol attacks' you can hear Ryu 
 counting down in Japanese.
  
  Gameplay 6.5 / 10
  
  The Good - The coolest part about this game is using the 'stylus to perform all your attacks'. 
 Another cool thing is performing 'special hand symbol attacks' by using the stylus to draw in a 
 Japanese symbol. It's also fun collecting "balls of energy" to pay for new special attacks. 
  
  The Bad - I'm growing tired of mindless action games. In this game you'll find yourself scibbling 
 all over you DS screen and giving yourself carpal-tunnel if you do more then one mission a day. 
 Another downside is bosses take way to much time to beat and are not very fun. As expected with 
 most action games the bad guys get increasingly more difficult to beat as you progress through 
 the game. If your into action games where you do the same attacks killing the same bad guys over 
 and over again, then this game is for you.
  
  Overall 7.5 / 10
  
  I would recommend picking this game up when it's on sale for like 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This games without a doubt uses the DS to full potential it uses every aspect of the DS and does 
 it so fluently that it doesn't feel tacked on you actually get comfortable with it 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  you hold the DS like a book the touch screen is your main screen while the other 
 is your map the game feels like a ninja gaiden game it captures all of ryu's moves and jumps the 
 game uses the touch screen to do everything jump, slash, walk, run, use nimpo, etc etc yet there 
 is a problem with it the game demands perfection while slashing and dodging yet sometimes when 
 you want to jump Ryu slashes or vice versa sometimes i feel that the game goes against you with 
 the controls even when there are tons of enemies on the screen 
  
  another thing about the controls is the game's enemies are very similar and sometimes hit you while 
 you know you dodged their attacks its happened to me once or twice and it just bothered me a bit
 
  
  
  yet the game when you use nimpo (Ryu's magical attack) the control's are flawless it uses the touch 
 screen to fill in a japenese symbol and then control the magic like for example you get a huge 
 fire ball and it follows the stylus around... great fun
  
  
  
  another cool feature of the game though is the microphone you use it to call a bird only if u hear 
 it and kill it and when you do you get a special item that unlocks many things when you beat the 
 game (more on that later)
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  i have to say the game's graphics for a DS game is great i mean seriously wonderful for a portable 
 game it was real eye candy for me
  
  
  Sound:
  i was also impressed with the sound the clang of swords, the expolisions, the screams of fallen 
 enemies i also enjoyed all of that 
  
  
  Overall
  the game is great not as hard as other ninja gaiden games (ya after you find out each of the main 
 bosses patterns it becomes easy) also unique controls and decent story line should keep you entertained 
 for a bit i just wish that they fixed up the controls a bit like i said it usually ends up being 
 a mess in the heat of battle and i also wish the unlockable content (you unlock stuff by collecting 
 wooden things from the bird you have to call via microphone) suck really bad like you get cutscenes 
 you saw already and diaries of various characters bio's.... ya but other than that it is a great 
 unique DS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAt0m
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think I would appreciate using the stylus to control Mr. Hayabusa, but I was stand corrected. 
 It really works well and is actually a lot of fun. I thought I was going to damage my DS from all 
 of the frantic slashing that was done on my screen! 
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. They are everything that one would expect from Team Ninja. 
 The visuals and backgrounds went above and beyond my expectations. 
  
  The sound in this game is extremely reminiscent of Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox. Team Ninja even went 
 as far as paying a small tribute to the original Ninja Gaiden games for the NES by using the original 
 music that is used before starting a new level. This is an excellent way to appeal to old school 
 gamers like myself! 
  
  Although this game is pretty short (about 8 hours) , the player may replay it again on a different 
 level of difficulty. There are items to find in the game that will eventually unlock character 
 bios and such. To be honest, although I enjoyed playing through the game, I really have no desire 
 to play through it again. I could care less about unlocking all of the game's "secrets." 
  
  Despite the short campaign, I feel that this game is worth a purchase. This is a matter of 
 quality vs. quantity. If you don't mind spending 40 bucks for an awesome 8 hours of gaming, I say 
 its worth the money... just don't expect to be incredibly inspired to keep playing after you beat 
 it the first time. 
  
  Game-play - 8
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 8
  Value - 6
  Tilt - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden has a long and storied history -- much of it involves punishing combat and infuriatingly 
 difficult boss fights. I've missed out on all that, however, and instead the DS iteration of the 
 Ninja Gaiden franchise, subtitles Dragon Sword, is my introduction to the series. I wasn't sure 
 what to expect going in, but having beaten the game and seen all that this awesome game has to 
 offer, I'm now on the hunt for ways to play more Ninja Gaiden. 
  
  The premise of the game is quite simple: you play as legendary ninja Ryu Hayabusa (and occasionally 
 Momiji, a female ninja of the same clan) . Dragon Sword occurs sometime shortly after the Dark Dragon 
 Sword Incident which, to the best of my knowledge, is the story arc chronicled in Ninja Gaiden 
 Black for the Xbox and again in Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the PS3. Momiji, the sister of the fallen 
 Kureha, has been kidnapped by the sinister Black Spider Clan, and as Ryu, you must track down the 
 clan to rescue Momiji and, along the way, uncover a far more sinister plot put in place by the 
 fiends Ishtaros and Nicchae (familiar names to veterans of Ninja Gaiden) . 
  
  Of course, this being an action game, the story certainly doesn't take front and center in Dragon 
 Sword. That said, it is fairly intriguing. I personally had a bit of trouble following it and found 
 myself piecing it together once the credits rolled -- however, if you've played this series a lot 
 and understand the references to past events, as well as all the many characters you'll come in 
 contact with, then you're going to really love this. The game lacks any cut scenes, but the story 
 is instead told through creative use of comic book-like panels with sparse animation. The art direction 
 in these storytelling sequences is fantastic. 
  
  Which brings me to the game's visuals: to be short and to the point, they're really fantastic. 
 I'd say the Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is certainly one of the best looking games on the DS. It's 
 about on par with Final Fantasy III (to me, possibly the high-water mark for graphical achievement 
 on the system) , which is even more impressive considering the constant action going on in this 
 game (compare it to the slow, turn-based combat of Final Fantasy III) . The environments are varied 
 and detailed, the animation for both Ryu and his numerous enemies is fantastic, and the game moves 
 along at a very steady clip even when there is lots of stuff going on at once. 
  
  Actually, the boss fights are probably the most impressive graphical showcase in Ninja Gaiden DS. 
 Bosses are big, ugly, and (in a technical sense, of course) look great -- and the battle to down 
 them is always epic. But these fights go far beyond simply "looking good" -- they're a heck of 
 a lot of fun as well. If you're used to boss fights that are over in a few minutes and where you're 
 consistently dealing large amounts of damage to the bosswell, then Ninja Gaiden DS is going to 
 be a bit tough for you to get a hang of at first. You'll have to be patient, attacking only when 
 the time is right and being content with dealing pitiful amounts of damage. While the biggest baddies 
 of Ninja Gaiden DS are certainly no pushovers, from what I hear they are noticeably easier than 
 those of past Ninja Gaiden games. 
  
  However, I'm leaving out a fairly important part of the game and as a result have rather got ahead 
 of myself. The biggest draw of Ninja Gaiden DS, aside from its expectedly stellar gameplay, is 
 the way it takes advantage of the touch screen to have you, the player, control the game. Simply 
 hold the stylus down to have Ryu walk in that direction, a la Animal Crossing or Phantom Hourglass. 
 Tapping will make Ryu attack with his projectile, while slashing in various directions on an enemy 
 will have Ryu attack with his sword -- for the most part, you've got 1:1 control of Ryu in combat. 
 Sliding upwards makes Ryu jump, and pressing any of the buttons on the DS will put Ryu in block 
 mode. Because you hold the DS on its side like a book (think of Brain Age 2 or Hotel Dusk) , you'll 
 end up using one of the shoulder buttons to block, as tapping a face button during the heat of 
 all this combat is highly unrealistic -- especially considering that you'll have to use the block 
 a lot. 
  
  Why? Because, frankly, the enemy AI in Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is fantastic -- so much so that 
 in the credits, a man is listed as responsible for the "enemy AI", as if it were a position like 
 "Graphical Direction" or "Executive Producer". Enemies are tough, smart, and work together to bring 
 you down. There's not a whole lot of variation in the foes you'll face, sadly -- there are only 
 about 10 or 12 different foes that you'll face throughout the course of the entire game, excluding 
 bosses. However, that's actually a good think because they all have a number of unique attacks 
 and strategies that you'll have to observe and exploit if you want to beat them. 
  
  While the enemies you'll face are fairly tough, Ryu has a couple of tricks up his sleeve to help 
 him take care of business. Throughout the game, you'll learn new combos that can be deadly when 
 used correctly. For example, there's the Cicada Drop, in which Ryu slashes an enemy upwards, jumps 
 up and grabs him, and then smashes him back down to the ground for an instant kill. There are other 
 techniques that can be bought or found that have similar effects. The other source of ammo Ryu 
 has against his foes is ninpo -- essentially his magic. Again, you'll have to find or buy ninpo 
 scrolls, but it's usually well-worth the money. To activate it, simply tap the ninpo icon, select 
 which attack you'd like to use, then trace the symbol that appears on the screen. Ryu will unleash 
 an elemental attack that is devastating against both regular enemies and bosses alike. Finally, 
 there's what's called the Ultimate Technique. Quickly scribble around on the touch screen and then 
 hold down the stylus and Ryu will begin charging up a massive attack. It's useful for shaving off 
 chunks of health from bosses or just taking out a room full of underlings. 
  
  The game's focus is on combat, so it's forgivable that the puzzles suck. They're laughably easy, 
 and there's very little variety. There are a few instances where you'll have to use the microphone 
 to wake somebody up or blow out a torch. Otherwise, the puzzles just involve using ninpo to open 
 up passages (you're directed how to do so by some very generous hints) or using your projectiles 
 to hit far off shiny objects. Honestly, these puzzle solving instances seem to be thrown in more 
 as an after-thought to the full-fledged combat, and while it shows it doesn't really prove detrimental 
 to the overall gameplay experience. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a fantastic game, but that's not to say there aren't a few problems. 
 Firstly, the game has this air of cheating that the development team labels as "difficulty". For 
 example: to solve one of the game's insanely simple puzzles, you may have to use your ninpo to 
 light a torch. Afterwards, you've got to face off against a massive horde of respawning enemies, 
 followed by another horde of some different respawning enemy, and then face off against a boss. 
 Without saving, and without healing. And because ninpo can only be used once (you'll have to save 
 to restore its use) , that little "puzzle" was just a barely-disguised way of stealing your ninpo, 
 which happens to be a very effective weapon against bosses. 
  
  Secondly, there are some occasional issues with the touch control, although considering how comprehensive 
 such control is, it's not a major complaint. For example, sometimes moves will get a little confused 
 when you're going through a sequence of attacking multiple different enemies in a row, or the game 
 will read a slice upward (a jump) instead as a tap (projectile attack) . Also, the other problem 
 that I had consistently was with the Ultimate Technique. Often my scribbling just wasn't enough, 
 apparently, to activate the attack, and so I watch as Ryu is slashing back and forth rather than 
 charging up, after which he is promptly grabbed by the boss, chewed up, and thrown back to the 
 ground. Ouch. Finally, one last problem mentioning is that the level design really isn't all that 
 great, and fighting hordes of respawning enemies can get a touch monotonous. The various rooms 
 and corridors are basically just "places to fight", and the game doesn't have a sense of these 
 well-designed, intricate locales. Additionally, at the beginning fighting enemy after enemy after 
 enemy seems a bit boring -- however, this problem is gone by the end of the game when you've got 
 tons of abilities and you're having fun chaining together massive combos that take down underlings 
 instantly. 
  
  Aside from these truly minor shortcomings, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a great game. Of course, 
 it would have been great if it were longer (I beat the game in just six hours) , but on the other 
 hand there are some seriously awesome unlockables and you'll have plenty of reason to play on the 
 harder difficulty settings. Ninja Gaiden DS is a fun, satisfying, and difficult gaming experience 
 that really needs to be played to be understood. At the very least, you've got to find some way 
 to play this game -- rent it, if you must. However, picking up this title certainly isn't a bad 
 idea, and Ninja Gaiden DS is easily the most impressive action title on the DS to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Team Ninja is known for a few things including graphics, violence, boobs, and high action. Ninja 
 Gaiden Dragon Sword makes good on all those with toned down violence and boobs. Here we have a 
 technically great and fun to play DS game unlike any other. 
  
  Set six months after the events in Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox (and set as a prequel to Ninja Gaiden 
 II for the 360) the game picks up with Ryu Hayabusa and a female ninja in training Momiji in the 
 rebuilt Hayabusa village. Soon enough the Black Spider Clan comes, kidnaps Momiji, and fiends start 
 showing up. So what's a master ninja to do? Cut up everything that moves.
  
  To do that, you'll be using the stylus. Actually aside from blocking, you'll use the stylus for 
 everything. You press a point on the screen to move, make slash movements to do attacks and trace 
 symbols to release kai attacks. The stylus play works extremely well and adapts itself to Ninja 
 Gaiden almost perfectly thanks to a simplified fighting mechanic. 
  
  Thanks to that simplified mechanic, the game loses its difficulty. I remember being challenged 
 by normal mode on Ninja Gaiden, but normal in Dragon Sword is pretty easy to get through. Some 
 die hard Team Ninja fans my find this to be disappointing thanks to their notorious difficult games, 
 but for a handheld game the difficulty suits it well.
  
  Overall Dragon Sword is a great game. It is one of the best looking DS games ever, and plays extremely 
 well. Any Ninja Gaiden fan should get it and anyone new to the series should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Now many may say that Zelda is, but i consider it as more of an adventure game, although Zelda 
 is fantastic.
  
  Ninja Gaiden now on the DS held up to expectations, 3d graphics, superb sound and non stop action.
 
  
  The bulk of the gameplay makes you use the stylus, and certain swinging motions would make Ryu 
 do different things, this may sound repetitive, which it is, but later on you'll get the use of 
 Ninpo (magic) and from time to time ranged weapons such as a bow and arrow.
  
  The story is as linear as the first one, but introduces a new female character. The village gets 
 attacked, she gets kidnapped, and Ryu now finds himself trying to save her and destroy a new evil.
 
  
  The audio is fantastic, some music brought from the Xbox version and some new ones, and they sound 
 just as good coming from those small speakers. 
  
  The graphics cheat a bit, with 3d character models and a 2d background, but the background is astounding 
 with beautifully drawn and painted canvas, and not as blotchy.
  
  Ninja Gaiden DS doesn't really live up to Metroid Prime Hunters, as the swinging motion of your 
 stylus can grow tiresome, but if you're a fan of action games, then this game belongs in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  -=|| INTRO ||=-
  
  I've been in love with the Ninja Gaiden series for as long as I remember. Ever since the first 
 side-scrolling NES platform ones all the way to what we have now. Ninja Gaiden was always known 
 for its difficulty and it's beautiful graphics, artwork, and all that jazz. Even though many think 
 Dragon Sword will lack what it's console-based counterparts have to offer, they will certainly 
 be mistaken once they pick up the game. When I heard Ryu was jumping into the DS, I was filled 
 with two very distinct feelings. "This is going to be ****ing awesome" and "I hope it lives up 
 to the hype." So, all in all, my hopes were pulled through.
  
  -=|| GRAPHICS ||=-
  
  +World:
  Team Ninja has done it again, pushing the limits of each console and insuring that gameplay 
 is not sacrificed through graphics. NG: DS as you might have read uses pre-rendered backgrounds. 
 So instead of a true 3-dimensional world, Ryu is cast into a 2-D one. It might sound a tad shaky, 
 but Dragon Sword makes it work great. The backgrounds and foregrounds are nicely drawn and everything 
 flows together.
  
  +Cutscenes:
  Ninja Gaiden games always have great cinematics. The story telling although isn't the most in depth, 
 has great charm and character. Dragon Sword, the cut scenes are told through anime-styled characters 
 and vivid background drawings. Both screens are used as a whole to play these cut scenes.
  
  +Animations:
  Almost straight out of the console version. Ryu can flip, hack-and-slash, jump, 
 and do all that crazy ninja **** he does in the other games. Everything is smooth and does justice.
 
  
  +Frame Rate:
  It rarely slows down, it's always fast. Basically like its console counterparts.
  
  -=|| GAMEPLAY 
 ||=-
  
  +Killing ****:
  Just like the other NG games, Dragon Sword delivers a satisfying combat experience like none other 
 on the DS. Sometimes I feel as though Dragon Sword maybe be just as fast if not FASTER than Ninja 
 Gaiden, probably because of the repeated use of the 'Continuous Flying Swallow'. The stylus control 
 is great, I don't even think the game could be play with the D-pad and buttons because you need 
 to attack so much **** at the same time. I thought Zelda: Phantom Hourglass had a responsive stylus 
 control, NG: DS blows it out of the water.
  
  +Difficulty:
  Some say it's too easy for a Ninja Gaiden game. They might be right. I'm sure the people that are 
 reading this know of Alma. But sad to say there's none of that fun frustrating stuff here. I guess 
 it's easy because you don't have to worry about health or ninpo anymore, because every save point 
 heals that **** right the **** up. NG: DS is just right in this department.
  
  +Items and Upgrades:
  Just like in previous games, you collect essences from fallen enemies and 
 spend it on **** like techniques and what not. There really isn't a need for potions anymore, because 
 like I mentioned before, savepoints heal. I wasn't expecting to find a lot of items like on the 
 console version, and there aren't, but it works nonetheless.
  
  +Secrets and Bonuses:
  Remember those golden scarab things you needed to find in the previous games that unlock cool **** 
 Well, this game has you going around, tracking down these damn sea swallows and killing them to 
 collect these pieces of wood. How do you track them down? Well, the sound AND mic are important 
 here. You gotta listen to the chirp chirp sound and then hunt those ****ers down either by way 
 of sword or shuriken, pick your poison.
  
  -=|| Audio ||=-
  
  +Music
  WOW, there are some really familiar tracks in this game. I didn't even know the DS could play such 
 wonderful tunes... You'll have to hear it for yourself.
  
  +Ambiance:
  You'll hear the occasional ominous sounds, blowing winds, and waterfalls. Solid here.
  
  +Effects:
 
  Everything meshes nicely. From the footsteps in the water, to the slashings sounds of Ryu's sword. 
 It's fan-****ing-tastic. Really.
  
  +Voice:
  There are a few dialogue parts in the game. You know, **** like "HUH?!" "SAKURA" and what not. 
 I didn't even think I was going to get that on the DS, but I was proven wrong. Thank you Ninja 
 Gaiden: Dragon Sword! (thumbs up)
  
  
  -=|| MULTIPLAYER ||=-
  
  +WiFi:
  From what I've seen you can show off your skills to the world by uploading your karma score to 
 online scoreboards. Etc... I haven't gotten the chance to try it yet because my routers being a 
 bastard.
  
  +Multplayer:
  N/A, but who really needs it? It's a goddamn Ninja Gaiden game for christ sake, LOVE IT.
  
 
  
  -=|| OVERVIEW ||=-
  
  +Value:
  An all time classic for all Ninja Gaiden Fans and DS fans should have in their collection.
  
 
  -=|| OUTRO ||=-
  
  Great game, must buy for the DS. BECAUSE THIS ****ING GAME, ROCKS. HARD. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: babingka
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is a perfect action game for anyone looking to be a "Ninja on the go". 
 Basic combat is straight forward and I've noticed a lot of reviews mentioning that it's just too 
 easy. In my opinion, that depends on your play style.
  
  If you prefer to just slash your way through the game, it's possible to be pretty mindless about 
 the whole thing. However, if your objective is a high score and lots of orbs, then the challenge 
 becomes a bit greater.
  
  Team Ninja did a great job translating the control scheme over to the touch screen with very little 
 lost. You still have the old man selling you your upgrades and you get upgraded projectiles as 
 well. I was hoping for more weapons than just the sword, but considering the control scheme I feel 
 that it was the right decision in the end.
  
  My biggest complaint is some of the camera angles don't really do justice to the perspective of 
 the scene. It might not actually be the camera and more related to the artwork, but these areas 
 are few and far between and don't really affect the overall experience.
  
  Anyone who was a fan of the previous Ninja Gaiden installments will likely enjoy this title. ESPECIALLY 
 if you played the latest Zelda on DS and liked the touch screen controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is a game in the Ninja Gaiden series that stars a ninja called Ryu Hayabusa. 
 No, these aren't like the show-off Naruto ninjas, these are serious, high action slashing ninjas 
 that really mean business. In this game, you ward off two enemies called the Black Spider Clan 
 and the fiends. A girl named Mojimi is held captive, and it is up to you to save her. Along your 
 quest, you'll collect these orbs called Dark Dragon Stones. The stylus is put to good use in this 
 game, so much that every action (with the exception of the guard and pause buttons) is done with 
 it. My only gripe is that you can't really slash forward, since an upward stroke will cause Ryu 
 to jump instead, but the formula still works well if you adapt. You can also perform these multiple 
 aerial slices called Flying Swallow attacks that really help in putting the hurt on the enemy, 
 especially against the challenging bosses in the last 4 chapters of the game. So far, I've only 
 played on normal difficulty, but those looking for a serious challenge will find it when they complete 
 it again on a higher setting. The adventure lasts a good six hours on the first playthrough, so 
 it is a little short, but the awesome controls more than make up for it. Hopefully, this series 
 will eventually come to the Wii, a system that could really use a boost in the action genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosiefShadow
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden for the DS?
  
  This game make use of the stylus and yes, its pretty much fun! Using your stylus, you can perform 
 jumps, slashes, throwing shurikens, etc etc. But suffice to say its just plain hack n slash. There 
 will be a lot of slashing with your stylus to get through this game.
  
  The fights are easy.. even on hard mode. You just cut everything u see and thats about it (even 
 the monstrous-gargantuan bosses you will encounter will be underwhelming) . 
  
  Against enemies, you can make use of some of the moves/ combos and they are fairly easy to grasp. 
 Other than that... the story too is pretty much straightforward.
  
  One thing i like about the game is the graphics. Its the pre-rendered picture in the background 
 and 3D characters running around (like Onimusha 1 in PS2) . This graphic suits the DS well in my 
 opinion.
  
  Personally, i find the game to be quite simple. And this game doesnt hold that long for me to spent 
 hours on it. Its short and simple (and thats not bad i suppose) .
  
  For hardcore ninja gaiden fans, this game wont disappoint you. Its well worth the addition to the 
 series.
  
  Well, if you like ninjas and plain fun hack n slash (with your stylus!) , this game is good on the 
 go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword continues the story of Xbox's Ninja Gaiden in 2004 and takes full advantage 
 of the capabilities of Nintendo DS.
  
  It's been six months since the Black Dragon Incident, or the story of Xbox's Ninja Gaiden released 
 in 2004. Hayabusa Ninja Clan has been able to re-establish their village when suddenly Black Spider 
 Clan attacks the village and a shrine-maiden called Momiji gets captured. The holder of the legendary 
 Dragon Sword Ryu Hayabusa now needs to rescue her. Unfortunately there's more at stake and soon 
 he finds himself fighting against zombies, ghosts and fiends who are looking for the Eye of the 
 Dragon.
  
  This time there actually is a back story to all the action and in the game's opening demo much 
 is explained, which did not happen in the console game. You will also spend a lot of time talking 
 to different people in Hayabusa village, which makes you care about what happens and brings more 
 depth to the story.
  
  Graphics are pretty much the best that you can expect from the DS and the use of colors is surprisingly 
 rich. Story is told through cartoonish cutscenes and the many different conversations with characters 
 are done by using a nice still image and text. There are some very limited voice acting involved, 
 but still they fit the overall package nicely. 
  
  Environments are 2D backgrounds, but the characters on screen are rendered in 3D. Exceptions to 
 this rule are the boss fights, which are all in 3D. Unfortunately both the environments and the 
 boss fights are mostly recycled from the original Xbox's Ninja Gaiden, but at least they feel familiar.
 
  
  Familiarity applies to the sound effects and music as well. They are mostly taken from previous 
 game, but still music sounds very good and it's a pleasure to listen. Sound effects are of course 
 centered mostly on combat, and they do their job just like you might remember from 2004, when the 
 console game came out.
  
  Gameplay is a little different when comparing to most games on the DS library. You hold your DS 
 sideways like a book and control all action with a stylus by using the DS touch screen and on the 
 upper screen you can see a map of that area. It all works to a point, but sometimes you'll find 
 Ryu Hayabusa jumping multiple times when you were just trying to make him do quick slashes to an 
 enemy.
  
  Game's signature special moves are Ninpo attacks, which are done by performing some kind of kanji 
 mark with the stylus. It may sound difficult, but it's actually quite fun and satisfying. Surprisingly 
 the DS microphone is also in use from time to time, so prepare yourself to make some weird noises 
 along the way.
  
  After the tutorial you'll soon notice that Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword has a linear structure to 
 it. The Hayabusa Village works as a center place, where you'll begin your next mission. Goal is 
 to collect 8 Dark Dragonstones in order to well see for you self.
  
  You'll notice early on that you fight against a bunch of enemies and move on, solve a light puzzle 
 and move on, fight a bunch of enemies and so it goes on. Gameplay gets repetitive after about 3 
 hours, but still the story itself moves forward so this game is at its best when played in small 
 doses.
  
  Gameplay also features some RPG elements, since you can buy different upgrades from a merchant 
 called Muramasa in Hayabusa Village. Dragon Sword can be upgraded, new Ninpo techniques can be 
 bought, new combos can be learned and a longer health bar can be achieved. This aspect too along 
 with the progress of the story creates a feeling that the player is constantly moving forward. 
 It takes about 6 to 7 hours to guide Ryu Hayabusa through his quest, which is divided into 13 chapters.
 
  
  Difficulty is not so high and unforgiving as I intuitively expected from a Ninja Gaiden game, which 
 is a good thing, since the controls are not as precise as you would need when playing a console 
 version of Ninja Gaiden. Save system uses those same Dragon Statues as save points you might remember 
 from previous console game.
  
  Game is also Wi-Fi aware in which you can download your karma points to a leaderboard and see how 
 other players have succeeded when comparing their result to yours.
  
  This is a nice clarification for the events of the previous console game and at the same time a 
 great preview for the real sequel - Ninja Gaiden 2 - in summer 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axle800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword for the Nintendo DS is an absolute masterpiece. The fighting flows together 
 extremely well, and it's fun to slice your opponents in any direction you please with the stylus. 
 Although the game looks absolutely beautiful it is built upon a 2D back ground with 3D characters, 
 but all boss fights and a part of the game is in full 3D. There is also more ninpo to aid you on 
 your journey, but they fall under certain categories, either commanding your ninpo around the screen 
 using the stylus, tapping an enemy or obstruction to eliminate it, or support (such as the art 
 of flame wheels and the art of divine life) . The story isn't so immersive, in fact you'll most 
 likely be looking to carve up the next fiend in your path rather than the next cut-scene. The game 
 is also easy in some parts, some bosses or groups will give you a challenge but it's nothing like 
 the console version. The game features wi-fi as well, you can see how you rank up against other 
 ninja based upon your karma. Even though i've said more bad things than good, the good will completely 
 overwhelm every flaw or quirk, and if you are a fan of ninja gaiden, or even have a ds for that 
 matter i recommend that you pick up a copy of Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword.
  
  ~Axle800 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  This is the only recent Ninja Gaiden game I have played since the days of the Nintendo version.. 
 This one is completely different from the side scrolling platformer of old.. It is played in a 
 slasher type of way which kind of reminded me slightly of the lord of the rings return of the king 
 game but this one gives you more control over the enviroment.. The thing that sets this game apart 
 from other ones is that how you control it and that the Ds instead of being held horizontally, 
 in this game you flip it so you are playing vertically.. All of the actions is done on the stylus, 
 from fighting to moveing, the only other buttons are all used for blocking.. For me on normal mode 
 it really didnt seem to have much challenge to it and was somewhat repetitive.. Since you can pretty 
 much kill most enemies with slideing the stylus rapidly over the screen. There are other moves 
 to like the jump downward slash, and to charge up an attack slide back and forth until a cloud 
 appears around you then it will fire off blades.. The graphics on the game are very good and especially 
 in the cutscenes, the anime type characters look great.. THe bosses in the game are all pretty 
 much awesome looking and well designed but on normal mode they go down pretty easy except for the 
 2nd to the last boss.. There is no real voice acting in the game except for grunts and sighs at 
 the start of a character talking.. THe sound effects are pretty good but nothing that great and 
 the music didnt really stand out too much to me.. This is a great game overall and worth playing 
 maybe after the price drops a bit.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok this games i s really just smash and hack you only tap line tap on other thinhs but the gameplay 
 is alright it ain'nt those repedewin one (ok i didnt spell it right) But this game is hard you 
 can make way too munch mistake i lost one's to the boss cause i accidlent threw an arrow instead 
 of the sword that really piss me of @!#$ ok i just press shift 2,1.3. and 4 (duh) Ok i insited you 
 do not get this lame game hey that rhyms ok i have nothing else to say expect this game is not 
 that all bad. ok some other things uhh...... well this game doesnt give muncg clues like chapter 
 2 or 3 in the village you gotta speak with an man you gotta use the microphone it gave my friends 
 problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden DS is a risky move for any company and the outcome usaully fails, porting an amazing 
 console game to a handheld sounds sucide, but this company got it right!
  Now, let me start out by saying this was made by Team NInja and not some other company with the 
 rights to Ninja Gaiden. 
  The game is great and the graphics set it apart from others, but how does the combat fell when 
 its predossecor was one the the best games on Xobx 1 and the sequal for 360 is coming out this 
 year? Well, it's fantastic and is the first game on the DS of its kind (besides Zelda) . You basically 
 slash your stylus at the enemy to swingt Ryu's sword and you poke you stylus to either use shrukien, 
 bow and arrow, or explosive arrows. Every other button on the DS is the block button. This formula 
 works very well and is one of the most reposive of its kind, but there are problems. First, the 
 game is too easy even on the hardest difficulty and the boss battles feel like enlarged and esy 
 opponets. Secondly, it's short and there isn't much replay value. And lastly, not only does the 
 two things you would least likely find in a Team Ninja game, but to pu the icing on the cake about 
 every enviroment from the first game is recycled here and there are maybe one or two new places (I've 
 seen the Vigoor Cathedral, about 100+ times throught both games) .
  Like I said before the game pans out great for a DS game but is held back because its bigger brother 
 is one of the best games of all-time. Ninja Gaiden DS is worth checking out, but don't go in and 
 expect a sequal to the first or anything near it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword brings Ryu's action-packed awesomeness to the little system know as the 
 Nintendo DS and I must say he's made the transition better than most.
  
  I didn't question buying this game because I know Team Ninja is all about action packed gameplay, 
 tight controls and good lookin graphics. There was no doubt in my mind that they somehow would 
 find a way to bring all the Xbox Ninja Gaiden awesomeness into this little portable system in a 
 way that no other company has done yet. And of course, they did.
  
  The game is all stylus controlled, minus blocking which can be done with any button. Most comfortably 
 will be the Dpad (if you're right handed) . Most games that try to be all stylus controlled fail 
 in one way, or all ways. For early DS games it made them feel gimmicky, now it just makes them 
 feel crappy because there are plenty of games that have a good balance to compare them to. Ninja 
 Gaiden suprisingly pulls it off. 
  
  At the start of the game it feels kinda like a hectic lottery scratch off, but, with a bit of time 
 and through fighting a few different enemies it starts to feel more naturally although I wouldn't 
 say I was ever completely sure of what Ryu would do when I swiped. I felt much more comfortable 
 scratching an enemy than just a quick swipe and putting faith in Ryu doing the right thing.
  
  I also found often that when I was trying to run, just holding the stylus in one spot, he would 
 start jumping and swinging like I was doing some awesome move in the middle of battle. On the other 
 end, sometimes in battle when I was swiping all over enemies he would just stand there. I'm sure 
 it's easy for him to get mixed signals with all the different swipes this game encompasses, but 
 it can be frustrating.
  
  However, I was relieved to find that this wasn't another straight remake of the Xbox NG. It featured 
 many of the same environments, and you'll recognize them if you've played the Xbox version, and 
 also many familiar enemies. Thankfully though, no military. 
  
  The levels in this game were much shorter than other renditions though, and the fighting significantly 
 easier. You probably won't even break a sweat fighting most bosses, including the final one. The 
 whole game didn't take me much over 4 hours to complete either. Granted, the challenge in NG is 
 going back through the harder modes, and by no means do I think a game should be long just to be 
 long. It was a pretty solid 4 hours, but still, 4 hours. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden is really all about the fighting though. Enter a room, battle away, rinse and repeat. 
 There are very few platforming segments, which is good because stylus platforming in 3D doesn't 
 sound fun. You'll definitely feel yourself become more skilled at the fighting as the game goes 
 on to, which is a good reward.
  
  NG is one of the most solid DS experiences out there and is worth picking up to DS fans, actions 
 fans and NG fans alike despite my minor discrepancies with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zensword
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought the DS Lite just because of NG: DS. I 'd had hight expectation for this game, fortunately 
 it hasn't disappoint me at all. 
  
  The graphics are simly amazing. From the chareacter models, backdrops, to the comic book style-cutscenes, 
 all were beautifully crafted. This game is definitely one of the best looking games on the DS, 
 absolutely on par with any DS games like The legend of Zelda: PH or Mario Kart. 
  
  The sound, and the music are also really great.
  Now we comte to the meat of the game: gameplay.
 
  The stylus controls are intuitive. The combat is very fast, intense and exciting. The enemies 
 are very agressive, and varied. 
  The main character, Master Ninja Ryu Hayabusa, can perform many normal as well as special attacks 
 like the Flying Swallows, Izuna Drop ... and super attack called Ultimate Technique. This super 
 attack are extremely powerful and it looks very cool. Whenever I unleash this attack, I feel like 
 a badass. The gameplay of this game is very addictive, and it's hard to put it down.
  
  When you finish it on Normal mode, you unlock Head ninja mode (then Mster Ninja after beating Head 
 Ninja mode) , hedden Master Kunoichi .
  
  The story, in my opinion, is interesting. 
  
  Many people complained that this games is short, they claimed they finished it about 5 hours, but 
 personally I took about 13 hrs to complete it on my first playthrough.
  
  But it's relative short length is not a problem for me at all becauce I had a blast playing this 
 game. This game is a masterpiece that any DS owners, especially those who like action games, must 
 buy. It's absolutely worth the $35 price tag. Even if it were $40, I'd have still bought it without 
 any hesitation. 
  
  Kudos to Team Ninja and Tomonobu Itagaki-san for making this gem which satysfy my carvings for 
 ninja action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wckman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin this review by saying that this is one of the most polished games I have ever played. 
 The amount of time spent in every facet of this game is great. The graphics are amazing and will 
 leave you awestruck when first turing your DS on. Sound effects, music, art design, story... Strictly 
 top-shelf production values.
  
  The gameplay is very solid too. Its not quite as good as the production values thanks to a relativily 
 easy normal difficulty setting. The touch screen controls work really well and are extremely satisfying. 
 I really love the story to this game, not really because of the plot, but because of the beautiful 
 comic-book style cutscenes.
  
  What really saddens me is the length. Its only about 6 hours long and it left me pissed. Just as 
 I was in the groove, the game ended. This goes to show that not all of the production values in 
 the world cannot make a short adventure any less annoying.
  
  Thankfully, there is some replay value with some unlockable difficulty settings. Though its not 
 perfect, this is an extremely well made game that deserves to be in any action fan's DS collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarPAaron
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is my favorite game for the DS. You use the stylus to move, attack, jump, 
 etc... You use start to pause. The rest of the button just make you gaurd. So as you can see, there 
 aren't any real complicated controls in this game. 
  Some people have said the challenge level in this game is "underwelming". I like the chaallenge 
 level a lot. You don't beat every boss on your first try. 
  One of the great parts about this game is that you can make up your combos. There is an unlimited 
 choice of attacks because you choose what angel to attck, what direction, how hard, how fast. You 
 do anything you want. 
  You can also revisit places that you have already been (like the Forest of Shadows) anytime you 
 want. 
  Overall, it is really great game! Definitly worth buying! 10/10
  
  
  
  
  Sorry about the sort review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  NINJA GAIDEN DRAGON SWORD
  
  Pros:
  -Gorgeous graphics
  -Great sound
  -Awesome boss battles
  -Controls work very well
  -Gameplay is always fun
  -Well rounded
 
  -Cut scenes are some of the best on the DS
  
  Cons:
  -Relatively brief
  -Can get repetitive
  -Sometimes get pixilated look
  -No multiplayer whatsoever
  
  Ninja 
 Gaiden is an action game for the Nintendo DS. The DS is held like a book, and all controls are 
 on the touch screen, except for blocking. The story begins with Ryu Hayabusa, the last of the Dragon 
 Lineage. It is six months after the Dark Dragon Blade incident, and Hayabusa village seems peaceful, 
 but when evil fiends attack, Ryu is pushed into another battle for the sake of his people.
  
  Ninja Gaiden excels in so many areas. The gameplay is always intense. While there is a small 
 variety of enemies (Archers, axe wielders, even a Cyclopes) , by the end of a chapter, those fiends 
 are getting close to the expiration date. Ninpo (Magic, such as a flaming ball) really adds some 
 strategy to the fights. It's not just scribbling, you really have to think (and quickly!) about 
 what moves and when. Occasionally the game would slow down if there were a lot of enemies on screen, 
 but that does not happen very often. The game itself is fairly easy, except for some boss battles. 
 The battles are usually pretty fun. Three or four were beatable in one try, while the others required 
 a few, or a lot more. 
  
  There is also some strategy to purchasing items. Upgrades and new Ninpo can be purchased for Essence, 
 little golden orbs that are given off by defeated enemies. Essence can be the healing kind, or 
 can replenish your Ninpo. Greater amounts of Essence can be earned by doing the Ultimate Technique.
 
  
  The controls work really well. While the whole touch screen thing has been done before (a la Phantom 
 Hourglass) , it works great. Jumping and moving is a breeze, and slashing as well. The controls 
 don't induce wrist pain, too.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Ninja Gaiden looks great. The environments are 2d, but characters and enemies are in full three 
 dimensions. Boss arenas are also in 3d. When characters move to the back of the level they get 
 tiny and a pixilated look. This does happen quite a bit, but can be avoided as long as you stay 
 up close. All the enemies look detailed, and just plain great. When the action gets intense, Ninja 
 Gaiden remains as gorgeous as ever. Little details that keep the game looking great are tossed 
 in. Things like blue slash marks and purple portals where enemies pop up add to the already fantastic 
 visuals.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Dragon Sword's audio portion is sweet. The sound of shurikens and blades flying makes the game 
 sound really cool. The music keeps the game in a certain mood, but gets the heart pumping during 
 intense battles. Ryu's slashing and yells make good, too. Like the graphics, it's these little 
 inserts that make the game great. The sound never slows during intense gameplay, either. Sometimes 
 the sounds do get repetitive, though that occurrence is slightly rare. A surround sound setting 
 also brings out the sound content of this game.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Dragon Sword's biggest flaw is its value. The story (on normal) can be beaten within 8 hours, and 
 there isn't much of a reason to go back. There is a chunk of unlockables. None of them consist 
 of mini games or anything. The game is a lot of fun to play, so hopefully you'll be going back. 
 There are multiple difficulties after normal, and with those there are more secrets to unlock. 
 An additional 4 hours would make the game worthwhile. If you don't have the money) don't want to 
 spend $35 on 7 hours) , but still want this game, ask for it as a gift. The gameplay really does 
 help to compensate for the low value.
  
  No multiplayer or trading or anything is available. You can post your scores online, and if you 
 want to conquer the leader boards, this is the game to try it on.
  
  Value: 6/10
  
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is the best action game for the DS, but with one big flaw.
  
  Overall: 
 8.5 Out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a Ninja Gaiden game arrives that isn't a rehash, or a rehash of a rehash. Ryu Hyabusa's 
 first handheld outing also provides him with a new adventure, and I think we can all be thankful 
 for that. Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is ultimately one of the few great action games for the DS.
 
  
  When fellow ninja Momiji is kidnapped, it's up to Ryu to go out and save her, and eliminate an 
 ancient demonic force while he's at it. Dragon Sword doesn't feature story-telling at its best, 
 but it gives you reason enough to go from level to level without not knowing what the hell you're 
 doing.
  
  The game only utilizes the DS's touch screen, but surprisingly, it works extremely well. To move 
 you simply hold your stylus down on the direction you want to go, to jump you flick your stylus 
 up, and for basic attacks, you just slide your stylus across an enemy. Of course, Ryu can perform 
 dozens of actions beyond just the basic ones I mentioned. But once you get to more advanced techniques, 
 you'll often end up performing the wrong action, but as the wrong attack still serves to damage 
 your enemy, it's not all that annoying. The irony of it all, though, is the fact that instead of 
 turning into a button masher, Ninja Gaiden turns into a stylus-slider. But, in the end, the stylus 
 controls work very well, and it's a wonder how Team Ninja managed to pull it off.
  
  Though the controls, and combat may feel radically different from the console game, Ninja Gaiden 
 Dragon Sword still has the same basic formula. You'll still go from level to level hacking away 
 at enemies, and then top off the level with a boss fight. The merchant, Muramasa, is also there 
 whom you can purchase new abilities from. Though, in a neat little twist, this time around, you'll 
 have a central hub of sorts from which you can access the next level, chat with the villagers, 
 or purchase new stuff from Muramasa.
  
  The game definitely isn't as difficult as the recent Ninja Gaiden games. Most disappointingly is 
 the fact that certain bosses you can take down with ease, while only barely getting hurt. But fear 
 not, the game still has many tough areas that you'll have to play again multiple times in order 
 to master.
  Technically, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is great. The game uses 3D models on a 2D plane (though 
 boss arenas are fully 3D) . The 3D models are all great, and their animations are very fluid. And 
 while I'd normally complain about a game using pre-rendered 2D backgrounds, the ones featured in 
 Dragon Sword are beautiful. The combination of 2D and 3D ultimately ends up making the most sense, 
 as the game doesn't slow down at all, and it looks superb.
  
  The sound department isn't quite as awesome. The voice-overs are very limited (at most you'll only 
 hear the characters utter their names) , and the music is sparse, so what you'll be hearing most 
 of the times are the battle-cries of Ryu and his enemies. But, when the music does kick in, it 
 sounds great, and in general it's nice to have the amount of sound bytes the game does.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword is only an 8 or so hour adventure. But, seeing how it's one of the only 
 action games on the DS, and at that it's great, those desperate for some white-knuckled action 
 on Nintendo's portable will probably find them coming back to this game again and again to replay 
 old levels, or conquer new difficulties.
  
  All in all, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword has great gameplay, awesome graphics, and is of a reasonable 
 length. But, the sound department is lacking, and the touch screen controls do suffer some minor 
 problems. In the end, though, DS action games are rare enough as it is, and it's even less often 
 that a good one comes around, so any DS owner who likes action/adventure games should definitely 
 pick up Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Ill be honest: Ive never played a Ninja Gaiden game before. But this game surprised me! It has 
 gorgeous cenarios and ... acceptable music.
  
  Kill monsters. Thats the only thing you do in this game. But its incredibly fun! You just have 
 to "cut" the enemy with your stylus! There is also a wide variety of moves and spells to master.
 
  
  I think its probably the best-looking game available for the DS. Thats all I need to say.
  
 
  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword tells the story about Ryu, a young man who has the Dragon Sword. And 
 the rest of the story... well... youll see when you progress through the game.
  
  I dont know what to talk about the music, because while in battle, you only hear Ryu shouts.
 
  
  Do you know Dragon Quest Swords for the Wii? This game is a kind of clone, but its much better.
 
  
  Slashing monsters can be much more exciting then you imagine...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Bow to mah ninjah!
  
  Many written reviews tend to add padding for length, but I'm going to tell you exactly what you 
 need to know. This is, Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword.
  
  
  The gameplay is fast and furious, and quite satisfying. The potentials for sword combos aren't 
 exactly daunting, but they're deeper than most other action titles on the DS. It is possible to 
 chain different attack combos together, which can throw off tougher enemies, making things all 
 the more interesting.
  
  The controls are great, and are as good as you would expect from this developer. The stylus controls 
 work nearly perfectly. You will actually have think about the strokes you make.
  
  The ninpo ended up being somewhat disappointing, simply because the most useful ninpo is the one 
 you start with. I found myself using many of the other ninpos in a strictly puzzle-solving role. 
 Only one other time did I use a ninpo separate from the original during a battle (to regain my 
 health whilst in a boss battle) . The the saving grace here is that the original ninpo is really, 
 really awesome.
  
  This is easily the least difficult Ninja Gaiden game, but it's welcome on a handheld. I found it 
 perfect for the first run-through, which took me right about six hours. It unlocks a harder difficulty 
 once beaten, and the enemies pack an upgraded punch. I'm on my way through the game a second time 
 on said difficulty.
  
  This second play-through highlights the game's value and replay potential. It's very similar to 
 my experience with Gears of War. The single player campaign can be beaten a few times without losing 
 the fun-factor. The increased difficulty only adds to the fun, because loading is quick and saves 
 are frequent. Never will you be forced to play long portions all over again. Hurrah!
  
  The sound is perfect. Nothing more to say about that.
  
  The Mac Factor: Buy. The great action, 
 combined with spectacular replay value makes for a winner in this single player title.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalzargahoughan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Team Ninja was making a Ninja Gaiden game for Nintendo's handheld system 
 and that they where going to make it primarily touch screen controlled I was indifferent. How could 
 you possible make a game that implemented Ryu's rather extensive library of moves onto the touch 
 screen with-out making the game either ridiculously complicated, or pathetically cheesy, but if 
 there was one development team that could pull off this near impossible feat, my money would be 
 on Team Ninja. And I am happy to say that my bet was well placed.
  Ninja Gaiden DS takes place six months after the 2004 Xbox game and features everyone's favorite 
 modern day super ninja as he searches for the Dark Dragon stones so that he can save his damsel 
 in distress and once again save the world for an unspeakable evil. I hate to start out with a bad 
 point, but the story is most definitely the weakest part of the game. The Xbox's story wasn't perfect, 
 it had some holes and was kind of hard to follow, but it was at least half-decent. Dragon Sword's 
 feels like it was written for a lame 7 year old Saturday morning cartoon show, and contradicts 
 its Xbox predecessor in several obvious and significant ways.
  
  Luckily the actually gameplay more than makes up for the games terribly clichd storyline. For 
 most of the game you will once again reprise the role of Ryu Hyabussa. The DS is held on its side 
 like a book. You move by holding the stylus to a point on the screen, you jump by sliding the stylus 
 up, you attack by sliding the stylus any way but straight up, and you throw shuriken or shoot arrows 
 by taping quickly anywhere on the screen. You block by using any button on the DS (most will probably 
 chose the left arrow on the D-pad) and you roll by tapping on the touch screen while blocking in 
 the direction you want to roll. You can also charge up you're ultimate techniques by scribbling 
 wildly on the screen and activate your ninpo (magic attacks) by tapping on a small symbol in the 
 top left corner of the screen.
  
  Overall the controls work well and are very responsive. You can chain together several attacks, 
 and several fan favorites from the consol versions are performed intuitively. (Izuna Drop: Slice 
 down, slice up, slice up.) (Flying Swallow: Slice up, slice across) Understandably Ryu doesn't 
 have nearly as many moves as in the consol versions, and unfortunately the combat is occasionally 
 reduced to button mas uh, stylus scribbling. Jumping onto a ledge can be a bit tricky and ultimate 
 techniques seem just a little too hard to pull off (Though that may be a good thing since it keeps 
 you from spamming it) But I am making the combat sound worse than it actually is. It usually works 
 out just great. It's exciting, fun, and challenging. And most of the time if you do "stylus scribble" 
 you won't last very long.
  
  
  
  
  Those who played the Xbox or PS3 versions of this game will get an almost overwhelming sense of 
 Dj vu. That's because almost all of this games locales, enemies, and even boss battles are taken 
 straight from the consol version almost completely intact. They've been tweaked of course to fit 
 with the games combat system, but they're definitely the same enemies. It's kind of fun to fight 
 these things with a different combat system, but a little more creativity would have been appreciated.
 
  
  Graphically this game is beautiful. True, most of the levels are just 2D backdrops made to 'feel' 
 3D, but it still looks fantastic. And the production values of the cut-scenes in this game are 
 through the roof. (Unfortunately the story these cut-scenes tell are almost bad enough to make 
 them worth skippingalmost) The Sound is just as good, most of the music and sound effects are 
 taken straight from the Xbox version, which is very impressive. There is very little spoken dialog, 
 and the little that there is, is all in Japanese, but I didn't really mind this small demerit.
 
  
  In the end this is an amazing game that makes use of the touch screen as no other DS game has before. 
 Unfortunately it's both relatively short and easy. I was able to beat it in six and a half hours, 
 even with deaths. A harder difficulty setting does add some replay value, and this difficulty setting 
 is almost as hard as Black is on normal. But in the end it simply doesn't have as much lasting 
 value as its consol brethren. But what can you realistically expect, this game may not reach the 
 gleaming heights of Black or Sigma, but it does justice to the Ninja Gaiden name, and makes for 
 an exciting and fun adventure game that makes better use of the touch screen for action than any 
 game I have ever played which is an impressive accomplishment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Ninja Gaiden game I ever played so , unfortunately, I can't compare this game 
 to the previous ones.
  
  The graphics were simply awesome, with those beautiful environments. The gameplay is surprisingly 
 smooth with high frame per second rate. The unique thing about this game is that you hold the DS 
 like a book (just like Hotel Dusk) .
  
  Furthermore, you don't attack using buttons like those other games but instead you use your STYLUS 
 which makes the game far more interesting than others. The controls are very easy as you do most 
 of the stuff using the touch screen and to block is to press any button.
  
  You attack by swiping your stylus to the right, left or down or any other direction to attack the 
 enemy which is awesome because you control where to hit the enemy. Besides slashing enemies, you 
 can do all kinds of tricks like jumping slash, throwing shurikens and Ninpo magic which are definitely 
 thrilling.
  
  One of things that I am disappointed about this game is that there are not many special techniques. 
 Bosses are not challenging at all as you can just simply do the same thing over and over again 
 to beat it. The game is too short as I wished there were more chapters because I just can't help 
 slashing Fiends!! :D
  
  I have to admit that the boss looks awesome and scary but sadly, they are not as hard and scary 
 as they look. 
  
  Lastly, I truly enjoyed the game and amazed at the beautiful visuals.
  Here is my final score:
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sounds: 9/10
  Story: 8/10
 
  
  Final Score: 9/10 - AWESOME
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pettigol
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword kicks a whole lot of butt on the Nintendo DS. Visually, the game's a 
 stunner, and the action is intense and almost non-stop. I don't think the game makes the ultimate 
 case for touch-screen exclusive control in action games, and I certainly don't think stylus control 
 is better than traditional control for the Ninja Gaiden design. But what Team Ninja created for 
 the Nintendo DS definitely works in turning something traditional into something different and 
 unique without forgetting about the fun, too.
  The overall difficulty isn't tremendously challenging, and it's certainly not as hard to finish 
 as the console Ninja Gaiden games. You can plow through Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword in six to seven 
 hours of game time, which, after a few inevitable trial-and-error deaths, boils down to about eight 
 or nine hours. Beyond that, you'll unlock a much more vicious difficulty level, and you have the 
 ability to get your scores ranked on the Ninja Gaiden Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection server. And there's 
 a few hidden treats you can snag along the way, but to get them all you'll definitely have to play 
 through the game at least twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limaan_97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  the gme is very intrestin and fun ver adventurous and imaginary it takes a valiant (brave) person 
 2 take a risk of playin this gme and this aint no joke i played it the other day n i am only on 
 chapter 4 but it is qoite hard 4 beginners and trust me it somtimes plays with ur mind a lot so 
 try and stay tranquil (calm) right if u wer thinkin this game wd be borin well then... u wd b sad 
 2 hear that it is only 8.5 well thats game spots scor u giv it a try and giv it ur own scor out 
 of 10 i think igave it a 8.9 even 4 points cd make a difference trust me so giv it a go and the 
 name of the ninja ryu hyabusa sounds like a real ninja name the story is amazin and it cd get u 
 dribble dont b afraid of the story bcuz it neva made me cry (maybe a little) try even lookin at 
 the ign pics or look at gamespots they just look amazin and not that scary but 2 find the dragon 
 sw... better not go on or i will spoil it 4 u well all i am sayin is giv it a try and surely u 
 will enjoy the game it dos make u a bit lethargic (tiring) but u shd lov it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I love this game... I got it a few days ago and I haven't put down my DS since. This is my favorite 
 Nintendo DS game and one of my favorite games on any console, handheld or otherwise. With a DS, 
 I didn't expect much graphics wise, but Team Ninja did well with what they had, because the graphics 
 are probably the best on the DS. Character animations are smooth, sounds great, and the game makes 
 great use of the touch screen.
  With some DS games you have to use a stylus for the game to recognize that you've touched the screen, 
 I guess it has something to do with how sensitive the game designers make the screen for the game, 
 but anyway, this game doesn't require a stylus (it does help a bit though) . 
  The control can be summed up in one word: fluid. Although players may have small issues with jumping, 
 it doesn't really hinder the gameplay at all. To slash an enemy you make a slashing movement with 
 the stylus on your enemy, tap to throw shuriken, and use multiple movements to score combos and 
 use techniques (directions on doing so explained in game, easy to remember) .
  The bosses in the game look nice, but usually you just attack them normally to kill them, there's 
 no puzzle to find a weakness in them or a specific way to kill them like in Legend of Zelda games. 
 That being said, I should be grateful that they made this game as easy as it is because I suck 
 at Ninja Gaiden games on other consoles. 
  Score:
  Graphics:10
  Sound:10
  Gameplay:10
  Value:10
  Final score: 10.0/10.0!
  
  To sum it all up, Ninja Gaiden is a great 
 action game for the Nintendo DS that raises the bar on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AEZAC
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is one amazing game on the Nintendo DS. I have played a lot of games 
 in my life time and never have I played a game as fun as this. Every movement is controlled on 
 the touch screen which makes the gameplay simply revolutionary. Team Ninja did something with the 
 DS no developer had even thought of. It was a risky choice but in the end it has come out to be, 
 hands down, the funnest game on the DS. There are a total of 13 chapters throughout the game and 
 it will take around 5 hours to complete on normal difficulty. There are 3 different difficulty's 
 in the game so if you want a challenge go up a difficulty. Besides the control's the best part 
 of this game would have to be the graphics. Man do the graphics look sweet on the little DS portable. 
 Boss battles run at 60 fps, which couldn't get any better. The levels are designed as 2-D backgrounds 
 with
  3-D character's, which in all honesty you can't tell the difference. One of my favorite things 
 in the game were Ninpo magic. You can cast different Ninpo magic by drawing the symbol for what 
 effect you desire. When you are getting torn up in battle just cast a Ninpo and you feel like you've 
 just owned the enemy's. There are a lot of unlockable things in Dragon Sword so you will not have 
 to worry about replay value. Besides you will want to replay this game a few times just for the 
 action. Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword is the most action packed game on the portable systems and it 
 looks and feels sweet. If you own a DS buy a copy today, if not, buy a DS and get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkyshinks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  When Ninja Gaiden DS was announced by Team Ninja last year some new fans to the franchise may have 
 turned their noses up in disgust that their favourite games would be coming to the DS, in apparently 
 reduced form. I myself was sceptical also as to whether you could recreate sufficiently some of 
 the console game experience on the humble little DS.
  
  Ninja Gaiden in it's modern form away from it's spiritual home on Nintendo NES concentrates very 
 strongly on fast paced combat of the highest calibre. It is a game filled with depth of control 
 that requires you to attack in a rhythmic fashion and to block so also. Watch a noob play and it 
 seems like just another slasher, but watch a expert play and it can be wow worthy enough for you 
 to drop your jaw. Also add in the fact it is notoriously hard. Trying to replicate that level of 
 intensity depth and difficulty on the humble the DS must have made some weary of it all, not solely 
 because of the machines technical limitations but also because of the DS user base and how it's 
 populous would take to the game. This is partly because of what they are normally use to.
  
  
  Ninja Gaiden DS is made by Team Ninja, not a second string team, but in fact the real deal 
 headed by Tomonobu Itagaki himself, that fact alone tells you how important they see this title. 
 So the question is has their commitment been worth it, and in turn does it mean the DS has got 
 a great action game, well that will be answered in the conclusion of this review.
  
  The Ninja Gaiden DS story is set 6 months after the one told in xbox game which was based around 
 the Dark Dragon Blade Incident. It revolves around the story of Kureha and her sister Momnji in 
 regards to the Eye of the Dragon, the jewel that will transform the Dragon Sword into it's true 
 nature. The game opens to a beautifully drawn Anime style cut scene cut scene of which there are 
 many in this game. You see a village elder Muramasa calling upon Kureha at her grave, she then 
 appears to him as he then reminisces about how she and Ryu were once inseparable. He tells her 
 little sister Momiji and Ryu are practising now....
  
  The game starts with a degree of novelty, it sees you involved in a interactive cut scene with 
 you actually in control Momnji, a beautiful female Ninja who is Kureha's little sister. You are 
 sparring against the main protagonist Ryu Hayabusa in the Forest of Shadows by the foot of a waterfall. 
 This area of the game acts like a tutorial teaching you the very basic combat techniques using 
 stylus strokes. It's actually really more of a play around before the actual tutorial takes place 
 when you set off on a journey and are attacked by monsters. The tutorial works well enough, but 
 ideally I found that if you find a quiet area and actually take the time to practise as you learn 
 new techniques it's a lot better.
  
  The game as you may know requires you to hold the DS in book format, all attacks and movement and 
 selections are controlled by the touch screen, all the buttons on the DS as well as the D-Pad act 
 as a block, and block only. It all works very well and efficiently. I found it to be very comfortable 
 to play in such a way and am sure others will do also.
  
  The Ninja Gaiden series is about being able to employ defensive and attack manoeuvres seamlessly, 
 Ninja Gaiden DS does this also, and it does so very well. Basic movement of your character is done 
 via the sword-stylus, when you touch close to your character with the stylus held down on screen 
 your character can be moved around the screen in the directions you guide the stylus. Slashing 
 across enemies with the stylus causes Ryu to attack them with a series of swipes which is dependent 
 on the number of times you slash across them. When you slash across a enemy while at distance Ryu 
 charges over towards them with a sword swipe. When slashing upwards with the stylus, you see Momiji 
 or Ryu jump upward. You can also double jump with two well timed upward slashes and also initiate 
 attacks while up there. When double jumping you create more time to plan a route of attack even 
 it it is a mere milliseconds. It comes in very handy when playing the game on the hard difficulty 
 which I thoroughly recommend this game is played at, *sighs*, but I will get to that later.
  
  When performing a double jump, by slashing down on a enemy below while in mid air causes Ryu 
 to charge down on the foes with a downward double handed sword slash. While you jump and slash 
 horizontally across the screen it sees you perform a Flying Swallow attack. And yes, it looks as 
 graceful as it sounds. Tapping on enemies directly at distance causes your character to throw Shurikens 
 at them, while jumping and tapping on enemies while in mid air sees you float down gently while 
 continuing to throw at your selected foes. There is also the powerful Izuna Drop that adds some 
 depth into your attacks. By slashing downward on enemies then twice upward it causes Ryu to thrust 
 up his sword at a foe making them fly up into the air, he then grabs them while in mid air and 
 slams them to the ground with speed and jumps back into combat stance immediately. There is also 
 the classic wall jumping of previous games to be found within the game. Zig zagging or double slashing 
 upward with the stylus makes Ryu or Momiji rize upward in a acrobatic manner.
  
  It all looks very cool and stylish, and it's a hallmark of the series. When you play Ninja Gaiden 
 DS you will you are playing a Ninja Gaiden game, all the small subtleties are there like the stance 
 Ryu takes as he enters a new area. It all looks great and will be appreciated by all regardless 
 to whether you have played a previous game or not.
  
  The Dragon Sword is your primary weapon in the game, Shurikens and a Bow act as distance weapons, 
 as well as that you also have "Ninpo", that's Ninja magic to the ill educated Ninja. By tapping 
 a Sanskrit icon in the top left of the screen when you have the required energy you go into a character 
 input screen as Ryu shouts "Nin-po!", you are then required to fill in a Sanskrit character with 
 your stylus to initiate the special move. It works well. The first Ninpo you get in the game is 
 a large fireball which can be moved around directly using the stylus in order to take out enemies. 
 Ninpo is also used in the game in order to solve physical puzzles and open new areas.
  
  The controls in the game work very well for the most part, however, their are some issues. Due 
 to the nature of some of the 2D water colour styled environments and the way the playing field 
 has been constructed with alternating playing angles there are at times where the accuracy diminishes. 
 These areas tend to be when your character is in the far distance and you are expected to employ 
 the same deft touch as required elsewhere in combat in the foreground. I myself found that keeping 
 my stylus locked onto the touch pad and drawing enemies out of distance was a way around the issue 
 in heated combat, even still it's far from perfect. It's certainly a shame, it should not be a 
 problem with clever level design to work around it. Thankfully though it does not impact the game 
 too badly as the combat elsewhere is wickedly fun.
  
  Combat can be blistering fast at times requiring you to perform series of attacks and combos in 
 quick succession. Touch input, the DS working to it's strengths have in a way brought about a great 
 Ninja experience where reflexes are paramount. Combat for the most part sees you drawn into what 
 are essentially combat arenas where you have to defeat foes thrown at you via the dark portals 
 that appear. Only after removing the foes can you move onto the next area. It's old school and 
 cool and it works well.
  
  There are sections in the game where after missions you go back to your Ninja village and speak 
 to Muramasa the town elder, while taking the time to upgrade your basic abilities. It's a nice 
 distraction for the combat and acts to add to the whole story. The combat is where this game really 
 peaks though of course.
  
  On the subject of sound, Itagaki as some of you will know has a liking for the ladies, some of 
 the sounds Momiji makes at the start of the game sound suspiciously like little orgasms to me. 
 That aside, the main combat sounds are fantastic and aid the intensity of the game very well. The 
 soundtrack is composed mainly of Edo harmonies and the sound of Taiko drums that seem to try to 
 persuade a degree of rhythm to your fighting style. There is speech, the odd line and murmur but 
 it is nothing really note worthy even if cute and stylishly done. The game uses it cool comic book 
 style cut scenes which hark back to days of old on the games on the NES which were noted by many 
 at the time. They looks beautiful and use the dual screen ability well.
  
  Sadly Ninja Gaiden DS is a easy game, especially for those that are seasoned Gaidenz. It will take 
 six to seven hours or so in the default difficulty setting. It is understandable to some degree, 
 but as I have said earlier Ninja Gaiden games previously have all been very difficult. The bosses 
 in the game can be easily beaten when you apply any decent amount of attention, it's simply a case 
 of working out their attack patterns and doing away with them. Very rarely will you have to lose 
 life. Also add into the fact the game molly cuddles you with save points that litter the game.
 
  
  In the normal difficulty you can stylus slash like a maniac and get through to the near later stages 
 of the game with rarely having to use your block that much. This is a first for the Ninja Gaiden 
 series, and a disappointing one for the purists. However, and this is a big however, after completing 
 the game once the the hard difficulty is unlocked and this entire game becomes a bit of a revelation, 
 foes will now take a much harder beating in order to die and blocking is all important. The bosses 
 also need a serious battering requiring the very best of your skills you are capable of. The game 
 then will last nearly twice as long and the experience far greater. I cannot fathom why the hard 
 difficulty was not selectable from the start for those that wanted it straight off, it is shame 
 in my eyes as it would have made the initial experience of the game superior for the seasoned players. 
 Itagaki has stayed true to his word though, there is much depth to be had in the hardest difficulty, 
 so much so that in fact it's only WiFi functionality allows you to post your stats and high scores 
 via Nintendo WFC. This is something which will please the purists with fast reflexes.
  
  Ninja Gaiden DS is certainly the best action game of it's kind on DS, and it also acts as a shining 
 light for other developers to be so bold as do something only seen here so far. Itagaki and his 
 team have created a little gem. It has excellent fast paced gameplay and excellent artistic direction 
 and story well told for a handheld action game. I thoroughly recommend you all try before you buy, 
 it's been available on demo booths in both Japan and the U. S. The demo is also available via The 
 Everybody's Nintendo Channel for Wii owners to check out.
  
  This game really deserves to be played by all, not just Ninja Gaiden fans alone. As Itagaki himself 
 says "when you play this game for the first time you will wonder why nobody has made a game like 
 it before" it's true.
  
  Do buy this game if it's your thing, heed my advice and see what this game is really about in the 
 hard difficulty setting, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortaldawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  -=|| INTRO ||=-
  
  This is my first game review so I'll try to make it as complete as I can. I've been in love with 
 the Ninja Gaiden series for as long as I remember. Ever since the first side-scrolling NES platform 
 ones all the way to what we have now. Ninja Gaiden was always known for its difficulty and it's 
 beautiful graphics, artwork, and all that jazz. Even though many think Dragon Sword will lack what 
 it's console-based counterparts have to offer, they will certainly be mistaken once they pick up 
 the game. When I heard Ryu was jumping into the DS, I was filled with two very distinct feelings. 
 "This is going to be ****ing awesome" and "I hope it lives up to the hype." So, all in all, my 
 hopes were pulled through.
  
  -=|| GRAPHICS ||=-
  
  +World:
  Team Ninja has done it again, pushing the limits of each console and insuring that gameplay is 
 not sacrificed through graphics. NG: DS as you might have read uses pre-rendered backgrounds. So 
 instead of a true 3-dimensional world, Ryu is cast into a 2-D one. It might sound a tad shaky, 
 but Dragon Sword makes it work great. The backgrounds and foregrounds are nicely drawn and everything 
 flows together.
  
  +Cutscenes:
  Ninja Gaiden games always have great cinematics. The story telling although isn't the most in depth, 
 has great charm and character. Dragon Sword, the cut scenes are told through anime-styled characters 
 and vivid background drawings. Both screens are used as a whole to play these cut scenes.
  
  +Animations:
  Almost straight out of the console version. Ryu can flip, hack-and-slash, jump, 
 and do all that crazy ninja **** he does in the other games. Everything is smooth and does justice.
 
  
  +Frame Rate:
  It rarely slows down, it's always fast. Basically like its console counterparts.
  
  -=|| GAMEPLAY 
 ||=-
  
  +Killing ****:
  Just like the other NG games, Dragon Sword delivers a satisfying combat experience like none other 
 on the DS. Sometimes I feel as though Dragon Sword maybe be just as fast if not FASTER than Ninja 
 Gaiden, probably because of the repeated use of the 'Continuous Flying Swallow'. The stylus control 
 is great, I don't even think the game could be play with the D-pad and buttons because you need 
 to attack so much **** at the same time. I thought Zelda: Phantom Hourglass had a responsive stylus 
 control, NG: DS blows it out of the water.
  
  +Difficulty:
  Some say it's too easy for a Ninja Gaiden game. They might be right. I'm sure the people that are 
 reading this know of Alma. But sad to say there's none of that fun frustrating stuff here. I guess 
 it's easy because you don't have to worry about health or ninpo anymore, because every save point 
 heals that **** right the **** up. NG: DS is just right in this department.
  
  +Items and Upgrades:
  Just like in previous games, you collect essences from fallen enemies and 
 spend it on **** like techniques and what not. There really isn't a need for potions anymore, because 
 like I mentioned before, savepoints heal. I wasn't expecting to find a lot of items like on the 
 console version, and there aren't, but it works nonetheless.
  
  +Secrets and Bonuses:
  Remember those golden scarab things you needed to find in the previous games that unlock cool **** 
 Well, this game has you going around, tracking down these damn sea swallows and killing them to 
 collect these pieces of wood. How do you track them down? Well, the sound AND mic are important 
 here. You gotta listen to the chirp chirp sound and then hunt those ****ers down either by way 
 of sword or shuriken, pick your poison.
  
  -=|| Audio ||=-
  
  +Music
  WOW, there are some really familiar tracks in this game. I didn't even know the DS could play such 
 wonderful tunes... You'll have to hear it for yourself.
  
  +Ambiance:
  You'll hear the occasional ominous sounds, blowing winds, and waterfalls. Solid here.
  
  +Effects:
 
  Everything meshes nicely. From the footsteps in the water, to the slashings sounds of Ryu's sword. 
 It's fan-****ing-tastic. Really.
  
  +Voice:
  There are a few dialogue parts in the game. You know, **** like "HUH?!" "SAKURA" and what not. 
 I didn't even think I was going to get that on the DS, but I was proven wrong. Thank you Ninja 
 Gaiden: Dragon Sword! (thumbs up)
  
  
  -=|| MULTIPLAYER ||=-
  
  +WiFi:
  From what I've seen you can show off your skills to the world by uploading your karma score to 
 online scoreboards. Etc... I haven't gotten the chance to try it yet because my routers being a 
 bastard.
  
  +Multplayer:
  N/A, but who the **** needs it? It's a goddamn Ninja Gaiden game for christ sake, LOVE IT.
  
 
  
  -=|| OVERVIEW ||=-
  
  +Value, Tilt, Whatever that **** is:
  It's hard to rate a game in that... everyone has difference perceptions of games. Like, me for 
 example. Advent Rising is one of my personal favorites, even though it's basically **** So, I guess 
 anyone can find what they like in any game, it's just ****ing personal preference and ****.
  
  -=|| OUTRO ||=-
  
  Great game, must buy for the DS. BECAUSE THIS ****ING GAME, ROCKS. HARD. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmaul5488
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Like most, I was skeptical if Team Ninja could pull of the the fast, furious and challenging gameplay 
 that the the series is known for... I'm happy to say that they really made an enjoyable experience 
 for the little hand held. 
  
  The story in the game takes place about six months after the events of the first game. It involves 
 you playing as Ryu (of course) and you are trying to rescue a young ninja named Momiji from the 
 hands of the Fiends. The story is told through comic book like cut scenes, which made alot of sense 
 since you turn your DS on its side to play. The characters are beautifully drawn, and while there 
 is no voice acting, I really didn't mind just because the characters were such a treat to look 
 at.
  
  Lets talk about the graphics. They are fantastic. The characters are well designed and your enemies 
 are unique. This especially holds true when it comes to boss fights. I have to say, I was intimidated 
 when I saw a few of them. The environments are also really nice to look. Which is good considering 
 the various locations you visit throughout the game. It made look forward to what I was going to 
 see next. This game, I believe, is one of the best looking I've ever seen on the DS.
  
  Sound is also a nice little treat. The grunts and yells of Ryu make you feel like you are doing 
 some of the moves... Especially when your swords connects with an enemy., it sounds like a sword 
 whacking the side of a Fiend should sound like. Now as I said earlier there is no voice acting. 
 I didn't mind it in the cut scenes because of the comic book style of it. But when are talking 
 to the inhabitants of the Hayabusa village it kinda takes you out of it when all they do is grunt 
 and sigh. 
  
  Okay so this game has nice graphics ,sound, and a good story. All of this would not matter if it 
 had bad gameplay.. Thankfully that isn't the case.
  Whats great about this game is that it is full touch screen controlled, with all of the face buttons 
 acting as your block move. Also it's none to complicated you have your basic side slash, down slash 
 and so on. There are a few more moves you can buy later on, and they feel as usufel as your basic 
 attacks, which is nice. I was afraid they would feel like they were just thrown in there for some 
 variety factor. In some tighter rooms though, the touch screen can work against you. These events 
 are rare though. I heard that some didn't like the fact that your move base isn't as big as the 
 Xbox version. I really didn't see it as a problem. 
  The DS mic is used a little here, for solving some puzzles and waking the old shopkeeper when he 
 falls asleep. The main use though involves a creature called the "Sea Swallow". When you hear it 
 yell, you blow into the mic and it will come swooping down, at this point you strike it and you 
 receive a wood talisman, which comes into play after you beat the game.
  
  I noticed that throughout the game the difficulty is quite low, even in boss fights, there is one 
 strategy that you can use on every boss. Stay long range with your bow or your throwing knives, 
 and when they fall beat the crap out of them with your sword. Except on the final chapter, when 
 the difficulty ramps up to "true" Ninja Gaiden form. Which got a little frustrating because you 
 aren't used to that the entire game and then it jumps you.
  
  Beating the game will unlock the "Head Ninja" difficulty and the ability to cash in your talismans 
 you collected on your adventure. They say the game clocks in at about 8 hours. I beat it in just 
 under 6.
  
  The complaints I had in this review are all minor compared to what you get out of this game. If 
 you want a game that shows off what the DS can do on alot of different levels, or if you are just 
 looking for a game to kill the weekend with, pick this one up.. You will not be disappointed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMH74767
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I preordered this game and picked mine up on day of release, I enjoyed the demo, but I hate to 
 say it, this game as a whole gets too boring too quickly, I highly recommend playing this game 
 in short sessions, the production value is high, but that alone doesn't really save this game, 
 it is better than most DS games out there, but if you're looking for something to satisfy after 
 beating Zelda Phantom Hourglass, you may be disappointed in regards to the puzzle aspects, but 
 in terms of action, its definately full of it, its just too bad you can't rent DS games because 
 to me, this would be a rental. Most likely you'll want to buy this and play it for yourself, to 
 you I say go ahead, beat the game, then trade it in while the credit will still be high.
  
  To those who haven't played Zelda yet, please get zelda first, its a much better well rounded game, 
 anyhow back to Dragon Sword, you're either going to love it or hate it, Me personally, I think 
 its ok, I'm probably going to be trading this game in soon to put towards Mario Kart Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Although I still haven't beat the game, this is the best looking DS game to date. I guarentee it.
 
  
  Music: I'm on chapter 6 currently, but I can already say the music is great. They did take the 
 music from the other games, but its still refreshing. Too bad they don't have too many new soundtracks. 
 Not that I'm complaining, for I'm actually happy that they've done that. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: As most people know, this is a fully stylus game. I haven't had any problems with the 
 comtrolls, and you'll have you hand sore in just a few minutes. It's just that intense 9.5/10
 
  
  Graphics: Easily the best looking DS game to date, and truly a creation of Itagaki. The bosses 
 look smooth, and like the console version. I'm amazed at Itagaki, once again. 10/10.
  
  DIfficulty: It's not too hard, but it's still a Ninja Gaiden game, and you know what that means. 
 It left my hand sore due to its continously satisfying gameplay, and the fiends, monsters, and 
 other ninjas kept on coming. The normal mode is still not so hard, but the Hard mode should fix 
 your craving. 9/10
  
  Overall feel of this game: To be honest, I haven't had this much fun with my DS, ever. Thanks to 
 my Hori screen protecter, my screens are still alive. Anyways, I'm enjoying this game very much, 
 and I'm getting the rush I've been looking for in DS games. 
  9/10
  
  
  Score: 9.1
  
  Also, due to the abnormal sales of this game in Japan, BUY THIS GAME, for yourself, and your 
 friends. We want Itagaki and Team ninja to know that there are fans out there that supports him 
 very much.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Sword is the hotly anticipated portable action ninja title for the DS. How does it perform? 
 Like you would expect a Ninja Gaiden title to perform- fast, deadly, and a lot of fun with a dash 
 of frustration.
  
  Graphically, this game is gorgeous on the DS. Enemy animations are fluid. Ryu moves gracefully, 
 much like in the console counterparts. Backgrounds are nicely varied and detailed. The frame rate 
 hold up as well. Granted, several environments are recycled from the previous titles, but they 
 translate well.
  
  Sound is a treat. The Japanese voice actor of Ryu Hayabusa reprises his role with more audio bits. 
 Enemy battlecries and screams are rich. There is also a nice mix of, yet again, returning music 
 from the console titles, along with some new scores.
  
  Control is smooth, but not quite perfect. It can be slightly off when the camera is zoomed out 
 too far. Otherwise, the game controls smoothly and fluidly.
  
  The bottom line is that fans of Ninja Gaiden will enjoy this title. It is a little short (my first 
 playthrough ran about 5 hours) , but the amount of action packed into that is incredible. Fans simply 
 must play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furan-San
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  (I just did a journal about this so I'll copypaste it here)
  My thoughts:
  
  The looks. The game is gorgeous. (I'll try and put aside my loyalty/geekiness to the game as I 
 do my review) , and the movement and feel is just awesome. It's like playing an adult version of 
 Zelda Phantom Hourglass. Of course, 13 chapters in all are a tad short, but most of the story keeps 
 you busy and you really don't feel the shortage of chapters in the game. Plus the Wooden Tabs quest 
 will make you play it again and again for perfect completion.
  
  The music. Is wellNinja Gaiden /Black/Sigma with of course - and THANK GOD - one original theme 
 from Ninja Ryukenden where you go to the next chapter. That little tune brought me back to my childhood 
 playing Ninja Ryukenden and cursing the life of the birds that killed you in one swing. Aaah the 
 good ol' days. A few new themes are inserted witch is cool, but they COULD HAVE done new themes. 
 You knowor remixes like they did in FFVII Crisis Core. The movement/controls. I have the Ryken 
 stylus (coolest **** evah!) and the movement is very easy going and fast paced. The controls do 
 connect as you go, but if you tap frustrated wanting to do an Izuna Otoshi you will end up with 
 the Tsubame Gaeshi. Like I mentioned before, Zelda Phantom was just training for this game. The 
 DS sideways thing is a nice touch since Brain Age introduced it to us and well, I block using my 
 thumb and the R button so it's like a book to me. The menu piss me off a bit cause I have to stop 
 all my movement and press Start in order for me to view the menu and well you get hit mid-battle 
 when doing so. They could at least made the use of one of the buttons to get a quick access to 
 the menu like Zelda has. But all the buttons are block hence start/select that is the menu. The 
 failed a bit there. The Ninpou/Weapons. Its way better than Ninja Gaiden Black/Sigma I'm telling 
 you that right now. I'm very impressed of what they did to the Ninpou and you can changed them 
 during the moment you activate it making it even MORE AWESOME! They could have thrown a couple 
 of extra weapons, but then the menu would look crowded or it might need another file. Still I missed 
 the Windmill Shuriken, Hayabusa is NOT Hayabusa without it. Still, I understand why the lack of 
 extra weapons. The story is about Ryuken after all. Thanks the maker its infinite shuriken and 
 arrows we have here. *grin*
  
  The art. Sorry people, but I loath the art here. I love the colors and the special effects, but 
 the style doesn't really pop with the dark look of Ninja Gaiden. Hayabusa looks awful when he has 
 the mask off and it's just weird in some scenes where Momiji or the bad guys are in some perspectives. 
 The way they present the story line is very well done, but I can't make it with the art. I respect 
 it, but I just can't feel it. No smiley face there.
  
  The Characters. I you though Hayabusa couldn't smile or do a face  you have seen NOTHING yet. 
 Here the characteristics and personality development of Hayabusa changed drastically and took me 
 by surprise. He is actually being cute with CHILDREN so yeah, the end is near. At first I was skeptical 
 about Momiji to the point that I swore it was another Kasumi, but she proved me wrong. An ok character 
 to me (the thing I hate is that she has a similar look of Furan and I created her about 4 years 
 ago so I feel a little raped. The kids are annoying and adorable so yeah, the kids have a plus. 
 The Ninjas from the clan ARE COOL even though they don't have names, but the outfit rocks. Loyal 
 to the Ninja Gaiden/Ryukenden theme The bad guys are the same bad guys but they make game interesting 
 as usual.
  
  The Bosses. Same ol' Ninja Gaiden if you have bosses ten times your size, but the drawback is that 
 99.9% where copy pasted from the original NGonly 2 or 3 new. This includes the enemies around. 
 We get the damned cats and we got werewolves of some sort so the variety is just minimal. Still 
 the bosses are very annoying in some points if you go kamikaze like I did, you have to go tactical 
 and with patience or else get killedlike me. The last boss is a son of a ****  one word  BEWARE! 
 and DON'T go KAMIKAZE like FURAN NO BAKA DID!!!
  
  The stages. Another copy paste but with some re decorating involved. You get to blow windmills 
 and blow torches to the point that you have to lit torches and burn spider webs. It's interactive, 
 but most of them have been seen before in Ninja Gaiden Black/Sigma. Other than that seeing the 
 Hayabusa Village from top to bottom was damn cool. The village BG also appears in Ninja Gaiden 
 II, but better.
  
  The difficulty. Well, I just got past Normal that was the most easiest thing ever. Now Head Ninja 
 is really getting to me. If there is another difficulty I'll post it here (or if someone is way 
 ahead of me can fill me in) .
  
  The story. oh yes, I like the story very much. Putting all this ordeal six months later from Ninja 
 Gaiden Black/Sigma was a very good idea. You can go inside the Hayabusa Village and see it being 
 build back from scratch is a very refreshing feel. Unlike most stories that, well, they just leave 
 one poor soul the heir and last of the clan and no way means to revive it yadda-yadda. So this 
 is a very smooth road from back in NG to NGDS and then going to NGII. It a nice touch for a mid 
 game story/continue.
  
    Is the game addictive? - For me it is. Must........ slash.......!!!
    Should they do a part 
 2? - If it connects story wise.
    Is it worth my money? - Yeah. There is always buy used or rent.
  
  Overall, is a pocket sized, 
 travel and squeezed in Ninja Gaiden and damn I've been wishing for this since Ninja Gaiden arrived 
 on the Xbox. For me is a great game and you should try it. If you are a NG geek like me is obviously 
 you have it (or will soon have it) . Not a NG fan at all? Screw it and give it a try. Slashing demons 
 while waiting for the dentist is a cool and relaxing feat. I rate this game an 8 out of 10 cause 
 well, it's a -1 on the music and -1 on the art. They could have done a weeeee bit more, but overall 
  DAMN  they did a good job for a first. Now lets hope the time was well spent on NGII and I'll 
 be a happy gamer chick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectHeadshot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is just pure gold on the DS. It has a very unique control sceme that fully utlize the 
 touch screen and stylus. Ryu slashes his way onto the DS with magnificent graphics. This game has 
 everything you expect from a ninja gaiden game: Great graphics, superior animation, (sadly there's 
 no blood, so that's the five points deducted) ninpo (magic) and a compelling story. I don't want 
 to spoil it for you, but try to power up Ryu a LOT before the final battle! She's really strong 
 if you're playing on the harder difficulty! It's your choice: Get this game or leave 35 bucks hanging 
 around. Make your best bet and get this game now!! Yeah, so that concludes my review. Since I am 
 required to write more, I will end it... Ryu-style! RAAAAAHHH!!! Ninpo!! Fire magic! Thunder!!! 
 Wind ! Ice ! Argh... Heal!!!! Darn you !!! Die!!!  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Wow, where to begin? I wish I could add the game's opening soundtrack to this review, so as to 
 help express my overflowing appreciation of Dragon Sword. But alas, suffice it to say, I love this 
 game! I had been waiting for it for a long, long time, and now it's finally here in all its glory.
 
  
  Know, reading this review, I haven't actually played another Ninja Gaiden game before this one 
 (well, I did play the old Ninja Gaiden on the NES, though it's quite different from what we now 
 have with the series) , but I am a lover of this sort of action, and the DS is sorely barren when 
 it comes to serving up this type of excitement. So, when Dragon Sword was officially revealed quite 
 a ways back, I was all over it with both feet.
  
  If you're reading this review, you likely know the Ninja Gaiden basics. If you don't, well, think 
 God of War, Devil May Cry, Onimusha-style, mature action, and you'll be on the right track to understanding 
 where this game is coming from. But it's on the DS! Not only on the DS, but Dragon Sword makes 
 perhaps the very best use of the system of any game I've yet played. Everything, except blocking, 
 is done using the stylusand it feels great!
  
  You play as Ryu, and he's a ninja who doesn't hide in the shadows waiting for an easy kill. Rather, 
 Ryu is the type of ninja who's fast and furious, and fast and furious is what Ninja Gaiden seems 
 to be all about. (That's probably why the two series  Devil May Cry and Ninja Gaiden  are often 
 compared.) You command Ryu to move by simply pointing on the touchscreen where you want him to 
 go, much in the same way as moving Link in Phantom Hourglass, or moving your character in Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World; it's simple and works great. Equally simple  and incredibly rewarding, I 
 might add  is commanding Ryu to attack and jump. Simply slash over enemies to attack, slice up 
 to jump (or slice up twice to double-jump) , and perform various combos and special techniques using 
 a certain combination of touchscreen scribbles and commands. As mentioned, the only thing you don't 
 do with the stylus is block, and for this you simply press any button on the DS. You can then roll 
 while blocking by tapping in any direction on the touchscreen. The controls are very "intuitive" 
 and a ton of fun. The action has you feeling like you're in Ryu's sandals in no time.
  
  You'll actually begin the game playing as Ryu's ninja student, Momiji, and while playing her in 
 the first chapter, you'll learn all the basics. Soon thereafter, Momiji vanishes, and Ryu takes 
 over. The start of the game takes place in Ryu's home village, but soon moves into a netherworld 
 of sorts, with Ryu's village playing game hub for the duration of the story. You'll be fighting 
 demons and demon ninjas, as well as other various baddies, and there are plenty of bosses along 
 the way. The game's broken into chapters, and the level progression is spot-on for a game meant 
 to be played on the go.
  
  That doesn't mean, however, the game doesn't come close to the epic quality of its console counterparts, 
 because it does. The story is told through dialogue, of course, but also using gorgeous storyboard 
 artwork and cinematic direction. It's a wonderful presentation from start to finish, and not something 
 most folks are likely to expect from a DS action title.
  
  Which brings us to: the production values
  
  Wow! Double Wow, and FTW, triple-freakin' wow! 
 This game isn't just impressive in terms of technical quality, but the art style is just sky-high 
 with love and attention to detail. The 3D character models over lush 2D backgrounds allow the framerate 
 to zip along and Ryu to glide like the lightning-fast ninja he proposes to be. The storyboards 
 are woven into the gameplay so wonderfully, you just can't help but simply get lost in this game. 
 
  
  The sound, too, is no less exciting. Authentic Asian instrumentals one minute, hard-rockin' tunes 
 the next. Everything fits the visuals and actions onscreen perfectly. As an entire production package, 
 Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword rivals anything Nintendo or Square Enix have yet to do on the DS. The 
 game is simply beautiful.
  
  Beautiful but short. Yeah, it's as short as you've heard (or may not have heard) . About eight hours 
 the first time through, but what a glorious eight hours it is. That said, there are a ton of cool 
 unlockables, including difficulty settings that should offer extra challenge to Ninja Gaiden vets. 
 I found the game to be a nice challenge the first time through, though many of the bosses were 
 relative push-overs. The bosses, however, were still all very fun to fight and amazing to look 
 at, regardless of the difficulty setting. 
  
  But the second difficulty setting was pwning me fairly quickly. On the harder difficulty, spamming 
 moves won't get you through (most of the time) . You'll have to learn the enemies' attacks, and 
 map out an appropriate strategy to defeat them, all on the fly. There isn't nearly as much combat 
 variety in Dragon Sword as I've seen and heard about in the Xbox Ninja Gaiden game, but the enemy 
 attacks are also not as varied, either. So, the difficulty matches up well with the skills both 
 Ryu and the enemies he faces possess. From what I've watched and read about regarding Xbox Ninja 
 Gaiden, the harder difficulty in Dragon Sword offers a comparable combat challenge for players. 
 There are no easy enemies.
  
  "Wait, so you've really nothing negative to say about the game?"
  
  Only one thing, really, 
 and it's in regards to the controls. Yes, the controls are easy to use, and yes, they're fun as 
 all hell. But occasionally, Ryu will do things you don't intend him to do. I attribute this to 
 the touchscreen's sensitivity, coupled with the way certain level areas come in and out of scale. 
 Ryu might be right up toward the front of the screen one moment, but then make his way toward the 
 rear of a room the next, and this can cause the DS to misread your touchscreen command. That said, 
 it's kind of rare and negligible, since it never really hurts the overall experience.
  
  Well, there you have it. To sum up: buy this game! The DS has seen its share of quality titles 
 among the hordes of shovelware, but we haven't seen many good action games of this sort on the 
 system. Dragon Sword goes beyond good and carves a new paragon for quality on the DS. Thanks Team 
 Ninja!
  
  One last thing
  
  This is a DS game, not an Xbox game. When I review a game, I consider it in the context of the 
 system it's on, as well as everything else that's on that system. So, I won't compare a DS game 
 to every other Xbox game available, nor rate a PSP game poorly because it doesn't offer touch control. 
 For the system that it's on, as well as everything else currently available on the DS, Ninja Gaiden: 
 Dragon Sword is a masterpiece. Keep that in mind when approaching this game. I've watched video 
 reviews of Ninja Gaiden for Xbox, and the game looks out-of-this-world amazing, but Dragon Sword 
 is not that game. Dragon Sword is an abbreviated version of what you would get from its console 
 brethren, and that's fine by me. Itagaki (the creative director) and Team Ninja (the development 
 team) made art on the DS, and that's all that should matter.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
