-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/nintendogslabradorandfriends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lifelike, endearing puppies.
 Easy-to-use training interface.
 Lots of unlockable accessories, dog breeds, and other items.
 Great in short- and medium-length bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few restrictions feel unnecessarily limiting at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,718 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Aug 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. 

  You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. The game's boisterous and affectionate young canines are 
 impossibly endearing, making the tasks of caring for them, training them, and simply interacting 
 with them a joy. That Nintendogs occasionally limits some of your activities in what is already 
 a streamlined set of options is pretty much the only bad thing you can say about the virtual puppy 
 game. However, the game is at its best in short, satisfying bursts, and is suited to dog lovers 
 of all ages.  

          Behold the awesome power of your adorable new puppy overlords.     

  When you start 
 the game, you'll immediately be whisked to the Nintendog Kennel to choose a companion from among 
 six different breeds of scampering cuteness. The breeds you have available to you at the beginning 
 of the game depend on the version you're playing, though all versions can eventually unlock all 
 18 types. Each individual dog has its own personality, from shy to daring, from willing student 
 to determined truant. Every time you bring up a particular breed listing, the puppies you can choose 
 from will shuffle to a random selection of colors and personalities, so you can hand-pick the type 
 of pooch you want. Pay the adoption fee, and then head home to bond with your new cold-nosed friend. 

  The bonding comes easily with Nintendogs, due in large part to the high levels of care and detail 
 that went into creating these digital canines. It's not just that the puppies have been given the 
 accurate appearance of their given breeds -- though the representation is quite authentic, down to 
 the different coat and color patterns. It's that a great host of doggy mannerisms have all been 
 captured just about perfectly. Every enthusiastic gallop after a tennis ball is just right, the 
 way their eyes close in satisfaction and their tail blurs into motion when they're patted, the 
 way they sometimes flop over each other for a sudden nap, and each tongue-lolling, panting stare 
 filled with happy adulation is pure puppy. So it's easy for you to become rapidly attached to your 
 new virtual pals, and it's hard for you to resist the occasional sad-eyed face and plaintive whine 
 of a Nintendog begging for attention.  

  Once you get your dog home, you'll be able to name it using the game's voice-recognition software, 
 repeating it a few times until your pooch "learns" his or her name. After an initial adjustment 
 period in which you'll shower your new puppy with attention, you can begin training it. As a puppy 
 performs an action it can learn as a trick, a lightbulb icon appears in the corner of the screen. 
 Quickly tapping this icon lets you record a command to associate with that action -- for example, 
 linking the word "sit" to when the dog sits down. Then it's a matter of associating that same word 
 with the same action multiple times, until your puppy learns the trick. A successful training session 
 results in another lightbulb above Rover's head and a happy yip; if your dog is confused, red question 
 marks appear over his head to let you know you need to speak a bit more clearly next time. Blue 
 question marks appear if you're trying to teach a command that sounds like something the puppy 
 already knows, so you don't risk overlapping your tricks.  

          Some dogs learn faster than others, but they can all be coaxed into obedience.     

 
  Once you've taught your puppy a number of commands (the amount of time this takes depends on whether 
 or not you picked one of those daring, headstrong dogs, which seemed like a good idea when you 
 bought it) and raised your trainer level a bit, you can begin preparing your dog for the various 
 contests you can compete in. There are three different types: obedience, which rates your dog on 
 how well it follows verbal commands; disc, which lets you show off your dog's Frisbee-catching 
 prowess; and agility, which is a hectic romp through an obstacle course. How well your puppy does 
 depends on how much you've been practicing a given activity and how strong your bond is. Placing 
 in the top three earns you a sparkling trophy, prize money, and a boost to the next level of competition. 
 If you lose, you're knocked down a level, so you'll have to move your way back to the top.     
 

  It's not all about trophies, though -- a lot of the most rewarding interaction between you and your 
 puppy happens in the course of your many more-mundane activities. You'll interact with your puppy 
 a lot with your stylus, using it to pat the dog and position it for tricks, as well as to throw 
 toys for pooch to play with. Your puppy will alert you any time you tap the stylus on the touch 
 screen and come to you if you continue to tap, though you can also call your puppy's name and get 
 it to trot right over. The dogs are eager to interact with you and will either follow the stylus 
 with their eyes, jump to maneuver their heads underneath it, or lick your presented hand happily. 
 If you toss them toys, they'll also routinely bring them back to you, sitting their front paws 
 on the touch screen and waiting patiently for you to play.  

          Winning competitions earns you money for food, accessories, and most importantly, new puppies! 
     

  Taking your dog on walks around town is a good way to stretch their legs and work those paws, and 
 your puppy will also discover various accessories lying around (from collars, to toys, to Mario 
 hats, to strange items for your house) , play with other neighborhood dogs, and try its darndest 
 to get that burrito out of the trash. As you continue to go on walks, your dog's stamina will improve 
 to the point where you can roam all over town, visiting parks and gymnasiums that let you practice 
 disc-tossing and the agility course, as well as discount shops that sell all-new items for you 
 and your pampered pooch. Besides walks, necessary maintenance includes feeding and watering your 
 dog when it's hungry or thirsty and bathing your dog when it gets dirty. An interface you can access 
 from the menu lets you see your dog's vital information at a glance, in case your prized pooch 
 is in need of a flea-ridding scrub. Pups can go for some time without a certain level of care, 
 but if you completely neglect them, they'll eventually run away -- as well they should, from such 
 a heartless master!  

  The more you play the game, the more items become available for you to purchase, like different 
 foods and toys. Passing certain levels of achievement will, as mentioned previously, unlock even 
 more dog breeds for you to choose from. You can have up to three puppies in your house at any given 
 time that will romp around with each other, and a nearby "dog hotel" can help house anyone you 
 might not be able to care for.  

  The game does have a few limiting factors, however, as the puppies can't run all day indefinitely. 
 You're restricted to entering three contests a day; you can only take your dog out for a walk every 
 30 minutes or so; and your dog can only learn so many tricks in one day before its canine brain 
 calls it quits. This isn't something you'll run into unless you try to engage in a marathon of 
 activities, and when you encounter it, it can be a bit off-putting, especially if you've only got 
 one Nintendog to lavish all your considerable affections on. For that reason, this is a game that's 
 really at its best when played in multiple bursts throughout the day or one action-packed extended 
 session a day, as opposed to repeated long sessions. There's still plenty of content to unlock 
 and lots of puppy playing to do, so the restrictions aren't all that onerous, but there will be 
 occasional times when Fido just can't keep up, and you'll need to put the system down and do something 
 else for a while. At least your puppy is always happy to see you.  

  You can also interact with other Nintendog owners wirelessly, through something called bark mode. 
 Setting bark mode puts your Nintendo DS on the alert for other Nintendog games with the mode activated. 
 When in range, bark mode signals you to the presence of another puppy, and then both puppies can 
 play together on the same screen. You can choose to bring one of your items as a present for your 
 new friends, and you'll automatically exchange trainer information and add the other user to an 
 in-game friends list. It's a nice way to hook up with your friends' puppies, or perhaps even see 
 what dogs might be lurking in a crowded store or street. The one curious thing about the mode is 
 that the two DS systems don't sync -- your playing puppies' activities are local to your own handheld. 
 However, considering the presence of two human masters able to call and command both puppies with 
 impunity, it's easy to see why it was designed that way -- to prevent unintentional games of pup 
 ping-pong.  

          Won't you take me home?     

  The game's visual strength is mainly in the dogs themselves, with their lifelike expressions, mannerisms, 
 and motion. The rest of the game consists of a variety of simple backdrops -- your sparsely furnished 
 home, the streets of town, the venues for the different contests -- that serve to quietly be a place 
 where the puppies can romp without distracting from the game. The game's gentle, upbeat tunes are 
 a nice complement to the assortment of yips, barks, fearful whines, plaintive begging, playful 
 huffing, squeaking yawns, and other such doggy noises that round out the great sound.  

  Just about anyone who enjoys the adorable antics, manic activity, and the tender nurturing that 
 is central to raising a happy, healthy puppy should certainly give Nintendogs a look. Its simple 
 interface, appealing subject matter, and its friendliness to multiple short sessions, with plenty 
 of items and animals to unlock, makes it easy to recommend to a wide variety of gamers and nongamers 
 alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (231 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marcogamer07
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game may look appealing at first, but trust me on this. It is a way to waste time when you've 
 got nothing better to do. Why not get a real dog? Sure it may be fun to play this puppy-loving 
 simulator, if you can't afford a dog that is. But still, this game is a waste of space. More like 
 to stock up the shelves. It is also one of the most overrated titles on the DS. The part that annoys 
 me is that I don't see what is there to hype about. From a gamer's perspective, there really isn't 
 anything that interests me about this game. Anyways, on to my review.
  
  So what is there to do? You buy a dog from the kennel and take it home. The first thing you have 
 to do when you take it home is give it a name. After you give it a name, you have to repeat the 
 dog's name for what seems like a couple hours until it understands its name. Unfortunately, the 
 microphone you have to say the dog's name into can't really detect your voice well and your voice 
 will come out as a random noise that the dog can't really understand. For example, if you name 
 your dog "Jack" and say Jack into the microphone, it'll sound muffled and sound like "Shack" and 
 the dog won't understand you. This part is really tedious and you always wish "Oh my god... when 
 is this gonna be over..." 
  
  When you're finally done if you haven't even fell asleep playing this game yet, you get to start 
 taking care of dogs. You feed, you give water, you bathe, you groom, you train them to do tricks, 
 you play, it's dog owning on the Nintendo DS! Very creative! You can walk them, but this is really 
 repetitive. Walking the dog is not fun at all in this game. You use your touch-screen to move and 
 your dog moves very slowly. Along the way yo meet dogs and you eve get to pick up its poop, but 
 these are so dull and boring I won't even get into mentioning them.
  
  There are stores you can go to buy pet supplies, like food, water and toys. I never minded buying 
 stuff in games, so this is actually pretty cool, where you get to buy stuff. There's also a dog 
 hotel, where you can keep dogs, and the kennel where you can buy more dogs when you get enough 
 money. You earn money by winning in competitions. This is really the only fun part of the game, 
 the competitions. It is here that you can actually take this game seriously. There's competitions 
 for obedience training, frisbee throwing, and agility courses (my favourite) . However, getting good 
 at them is a pain because you need to train your dogs for competitions! Couldn't let you off that 
 easy, you know! Training is a pain because you need to walk your dog there which is tedious as 
 it is, then you have to go to a park, obedience school or agility courses and spend another tedious 
 hour dragging your dog to do useless tricks that don't even matter! It never ends! Finally when 
 you're ready you can enter competitions. When you win competitions, you get medals and money. You 
 use money to buy dogs and supplies from the pet store. You then go back, play with your dogs, walk, 
 bathe, feed and do it all over again. 
  
  That's all there really is to the gameplay. It is just not fun. It gets boring and repetitive, 
 even though it might be fun to play at first, especially if you've never owned a dog, but trust 
 me, you will get bored quite quickly. Don't buy this game because it is simply not worth it. It 
 is not worth your time and money when you can just get a real dog. Now, if you can't afford a dog 
 or simply don't want a dog but still want to be able to experience having a pet, it is up to you, 
 though I don't recommend it. Taking care of a pet will have more benefits in your life. This is 
 another game where it is simply there to stock the shelves up, and a game for people to relax and 
 waste time. If you got a lot of time to spare or are just simply a die-hard dog lover, then go 
 for it, otherwise just stay away from it. I would just stick to walking a real dog instead of tapping 
 the touch screen every 5 seconds for half an hour. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan099
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:28 am PT
Review:  LIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED 
 this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this 
 game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game 
 but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but 
 over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over 
 it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it 
 nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED 
 this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this 
 game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game 
 but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but 
 over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over 
 it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it 
 nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED 
 this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this 
 game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game 
 but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but 
 over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over 
 it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it 
 nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED this game but over it nowLIKED 
 this game but over it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  well why could say of this game?? It had every thing to be the best game on the nintendo ds, the 
 first time you play its fun and adcting, the second time is okay and then you begin liking it and 
 getting involved, but this game has many restrictions like you can onlly go on competition three 
 times a day and only go walking after your puppy rest, and it would be better game if had an online 
 option, but on the other hand it uses very well the stylus. If you like games that uses stylus 
 and are simulation and you dont have a dog and want to have like me, buy this game. And i think 
 it would have every thing to be the best game, i still play i think has many unlockbles like puppies 
 and everything but its too restricted the game , that is the why many rpgs, like the world ends 
 with you is better, so think in your money and the gameplay before buying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMind
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs makes you want to spend sleepless nights just taking care of your dog (s) for contests, 
 happiness, or just for your own fun. It's the second must buy for DS (Personally I like Dual Strike 
 better) . 
  
  Gameplay: Touch Screen and Voice has never worked better. You use the touch screen for scratching, 
 playing, or picking up your dog's belongings. Talk allows you to give your dogs trick commands 
 that feels like you have a real dog inside your DS. Even the minigames such as contests or washing 
 your dog uses the touchscreen and voice well.
  
  Graphics: Dogs are fantastic, Framerate's even better, items look well done, the only complaint 
 here is that the backgrounds for Nintendogs is only O. K.
  
  Sound: Barking, Growling, Music etc. are all perfect, it's just a shame that some of the music 
 is a little repetitive. It's not to the point annoyance it's just something I wish was different.
 
  
  Value: I can see my self playing Nintendogs for a LONG LONG time for many many hours a day. There 
 are so many unlockables (toys, accessaries etc.) you can do anything to your dog you want.
  
  Tilt: NIntendogs is extremely fun. The only reason I took of one from tilt is because I lose 
 track of the time so much I've been late for a lot of things.
  
  Bottom Line: Nintendogs is for any one who wants a dog, but doesn't want to clean up after it or 
 anyone who loves dogs at all. Even people who loves cats will love Nintendogs. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Mark: 8/10
  Rank: Excellent and Fun
  
  THE GOOD
  Has a wide range of adorable puppies | Excellent method of teaching your dog tricks | Easy tutorials 
 | You really get attached to your dog.
  
  THE BAD
  Slightly degrading to dogs | One save slot | Your dog will forget commands very quickly.
  
 
  THE REVIEW
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  At first Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends seemed a little dodgy to me because, to tell you the 
 truth, I've had other pet games before and they were disappointing. But I was surprised to see 
 how creative you can get with the game, from simply teaching your dog tricks to entering it in 
 contests and holding up your trophy in boastful glory. The first dog you get will usually be your 
 favourite, and let me tell you, you will get very close to your dog quite quickly - if you're that 
 kind of person. I wouldn't recommend this game to people who don't like animals.
  It pretty much starts of like this: You get your dog, teach it its name and then teach it to sit. 
 It is extremely rewarding when your dog learns a trick but it takes a lot of hard work to get them 
 to do so. Then you find you're able to take your dog on walks - which is very fun and peaceful 
 - and each time you take your dog on walks, the further it will go. By the time you have been playing 
 it for about a month, you will be able to go to the gym, the shops, the park, the beach, plus you 
 will meet new friends and pick up useful items on the way. Also, you will be able to train your 
 dogs for competitions in which you get money as a prize, which you can use to buy many cool things.
 
  Winning the competitions is great. You get a great feeling from watching your dog bite the trophy 
 in triumph while the other dogs whine and sob, and you cackle and brag and brag and brag.
  But there's a slight problem: you can only enter your dog in a competition 3 times a day, so now 
 you want to get another dog - if you have enough money. You will get more and more dogs until you've 
 got the maximum - 5 dogs, 3 with you, 2 in a sleazy motel.
  Overall, Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends is a really great game, very enjoyable, very imaginitive; 
 if, once again, you're that kind of person. It's matter of whether you like picking up poop from 
 the streets and the secret pleasure of teaching your dog to heil to you - if you're the kind of 
 person who just loves doing those things, this game is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  nintendo dogs labordor and freinds the game was made in august 2005. the game is not that great 
 fun simulator but the problem is u cant train your dog to kill other dog and u cant train it to 
 eat reese's peices and whoppers : (. besides the point the games diffuclty is pretty easy all u 
 do is just take it and feed it and train it u get to choose from 3 events to take your dog to the 
 disc trail the obedeance trail and the agility trail. but the bad part about it is that u can only 
 do the events 3 times a day which makes the game alot more boring . at the beginging of the game 
 u are givin a tutorial to your dog about the basics of training and such after u get done with 
 the tutorial u now get to use this game however the game is kinda like a mmorpg game the fact that 
 u can quote on quote level up your dog by taking to parks and places when u take it for walks u 
 also pick up stuff along the way like water bottles food. the control is really bad the microphone 
 is like a cuting edge trash can but game is good overall. last question is this game a to buy or 
 rent game its nethier just buy a canibalist rabies dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  . lifelike, almost real-seeming puppies.
  . One of the best animal-caring-for-games out there.
  . Quite a lot to do.
  . Verrrrrrrrrry 
 realistic.
  . Contests.
  . Teaching your puppy tricks.
  . A wide range of breeds to choose from.
  
  Bad Stuff:
  . You MUST play it pretty much every 
 day.
  . The almost impossible to do tutorials at the start of the game.
  . Only allowed to keep 3 dogs at home at a time.
  . Having to walk one dog at a time.
  
  
 Those "Bad Stuff" points are what are keeping this game from being the best DS game. The main two 
 are the first two. Seriously, the tutorials at the start are near impossible and the first time 
 I played on it, I was stuck on them for AGES. I mean you have to call your dog it's name about 
 100 times and then it says "Your puppy has forgotten it's name bla bla bla" Or something like that. 
 The fact that you must play the game once pretty much every day makes it more of a choir then a 
 game. I'm just saying if those "Bad Stuff" wern't on the list, then this would be the best DS game 
 by far.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics on the DS! I mean, have you seen those cute puppies?! 10/10
 
  
  Story: It doesn't REALLY have one, to be honest. N/A
  
  Sound&Music: The sounds of the dogs barking and other stuff are very realistic, and the music's 
 very catchy too! 10/10
  
  Gameplay: see "good Stuff", "Bad Stuff" and the summary. 7.5/10
  
  Overall: This game could 
 have been the best on the DS, but the bad things in this game keep it from being that, but it's 
 still highly reccommended for people who like animals and have a DS! 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant169
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game was the first game I ever got for my Nintendo DS. It did not leave my DS for a very 
 long time because it is extremely addicting! This game has tons of depth and uses all of the Nintendo 
 DS's features including the microphone. There are like a billion different breeds on here to choose 
 from and it is a ton of fun teaching them to sit, shake, roll over, lie down, and lots more. You 
 can also meet up locally with a friend which is a ton of fun but pretty boring. There are tons 
 of items to collect on here when you take your dog on a walk which is a ton of fun also. You must 
 go on once or twice a day because this game runs on the DS clock so it runs on real time which 
 is pretty neat. If you do not go on for a while your dogs will get dirty and fleas so it is a good 
 idea to take care of them daily. It is also rumored that if you leave it in you DS for a certain 
 amount of time and do not go on your dog will run away and come back with a present. I still own 
 this game and I have had it for like two years and I don't plan on turning it in anytime soon because 
 I still enjoy playing it a lot. There are also contests you can enter with your dog like obedience 
 trials, disc throwing and catching competitions and and obsticle course you have to take your dog 
 on. I think I have covered most of this game I will add more when I think of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjyellowbelt
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  well, hello... this is my first reveiw, so i'm gonna give it all i've got.
  
  Story: 0/10 No story, but that could be good i guess.
  
  Sound: 8/10 amazing sound, but when 
 i go over to Kita's house, well, she owns a doggy day camp, and the yipping of my little Shiba, 
 Kibo, makes her think that one of the dogs is being killed, so that's why i gave it an 8/10.
  
  graphics: 10/10 i gave this a perfect 10 because it's the best detail i've ever seen on a handheld 
 console
  
  now i'm gonna do the in-game details
  
  Contests: 6/10 the contests aren't quite the best, in one contest i entered, Kibo was getting all 
 jumping catches,10, 11 points a throw, i threw it right in the last seconds of the contest, it didn't 
 go any farther than it went before, and she missed it!! something about that is messed up
  
  
  Walks: 7/10 the fact that your puppy can find presents for you is pretty cool, but i feel 
 that kibo, luke, and sam all run into other pups way more than they find presents, and they find 
 garbage on almost every walk, and it's dang hard to keep them from eating it
  
  
  i can't think of anything else to add, so here's my overall reveiw
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N1nt3nd0gam3r
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first game I got for my DS. I remember the first time I ever played this game 
 and it was an incredible expirience. This game will keep you playing for hours on end! With lots 
 of collectable items to pick up on walks there is no end to the fun. With local Wireless function 
 it has a few disadvantages as it being one of Nintendo's first DS game. Multiplay can only have 
 2 people communicating at once which is a disapointment but you can bring each other presents and 
 play with the other persons dog. This game plays in real time so if you don't go on for a few days 
 you dogs will get dirty and hungry. It is even rumored if it is kept in your DS for more than 2 
 weeks one might run away and bring you back a girft after a few days. There is no end to the competions 
 you can enter and mantinece that must be done daily, don't get me worng it is great fun! This is 
 a game that uses every element of the DS including the microphone. The graphics are suprisingly 
 good for one of Nintendo's first DS games, actually one of the better games in terms of graphics 
 and depth. The dogs move around in a really really realistic way, they almost seem life like. I 
 would recomend this game to anyone and any version is great I think Dalmation and Labrodore are 
 best though. So go to your local gamestore and go get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for all, for the first five minutes of playtime you will be taken away! It is stylus 
 involved so make sure you take away any screen protectors or anything so its easy reach and easy 
 touch.
  Just to clear things up I see their a lot of questions if you play as the dog, the answer is no. 
 You play as yourself and you use the stylus for petting, combing, bathing, walking, whistling, 
 throwing at everything else. the buttons on your DS for this game are just decorations since it 
 is stylus involved completely.
  You have a wide range of choices for puppies and different coatings for each. This game is very 
 entertaining and much like real life. For instance, your dog will be too tired if you walk to much 
 and it will be thirsty if you don't give it water after competitions and walks.
  By far the best graphics on any DS game, their is no game with such amazing graphics like this 
 one it is marvelous. 
  Famous Famitsu magazine originated in Japan gave nintendogs a perfect score of 40/40, only 8 games 
 ever in history have passed 39 and Nintendogs is one of them!!!!
  I assure you that this game will keep you amazed it is much life like and you can do amazing things 
 again and again and again! This game does not get boring since their is just no end! Very well 
 done with the unique microphone settings and stylus use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  My brother got Nintendogs and let me keep a dog on it. When buying your dog, it's kind of a hit 
 and miss if you want a specific dog because at the shop they sell 3 dogs. Then if you leave the 
 shop and come back later they will have 3 different dogs than before. Just when you start the game 
 for the first time you can't leave the shop so my brother didn't get the dog he wanted. Also, there's 
 the fact of getting the right gender. You pick a dog and then it comes up saying "Type in the name 
 of your dog". Let's say you typed in Buddy and then, to our disappointment, it might say "Her name 
 is Buddy!"
  
  Uh-oh! I called my dog Buddy and it turns out to be a girl. Oh, man. So I guess if you meat up 
 with one of your friends just lie and say it's a boy. If only you could change the name. 
  
  At your house you can keep up to 3 dogs, but you can own 9. Just put six of them in the dog 
 hotel, so just remember you can own 9 dogs. It incourages you to visit your dogs every day but 
 you don't have to. YOU'RE DOGS NEVER DIE. So don't worry if you miss a day because you have to 
 save your progress and when you open your DS again your dogs will be just as you left them. But 
 why does the date change?
  
  There's no doubt that Nintendogs is a game that uses the DS's microphone the most. When you see 
 your dog doing a trick like sit, you need to say "SIT!" into the mic. You have to do this a lot 
 of times until your dog knows that what he's doing is sit. Once, after a long boring time of teaching 
 your dog, you can take it to an obediance competition and show off your dog's tricks, but believe 
 me, it never goes as planned.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs can be really fun because it takes a great use of the stylus and the graphics 
 are fantastic considering it's a DS game.
  
  GAMEPLAY -----------8/10
  GRAPHICS -----------9/10
  SOUND ----------------8/10
  MULTIPLAYER -------5/10
  OVERALL --------------8.0
 
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on great (and not so great!) DS games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigifan323
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  First, you will have to choose a type of dog that you would like to own. After you click on it, 
 if you don't like the colors or descriptions of the three dogs that are displayed, you can go out, 
 and then go back in, and see if their are any dogs you now like. Sometimes, you may have to do 
 this 4 or 5 different times until you find the perfect dog for you!! Once you've bought your dog 
 you are ready to name it! To name it, you have to press the orange button in the middle if the 
 screen, when you press it, it should make a whistle noise and the bottom screen should show your 
 dog playing around, doing whatever. If it dosn't work you can just keep trying until it does! Then 
 you tap the bottom of the screen with your pen until your dog comes near you, then you rub his 
 head, belly, and back untill it goes into the naming screen. It will ask you to think of a name, 
 say it a few times, and spell it out. Make sure you choose a name and spelling you like because 
 you can not change it!! After that is done you can teach it tricks, feed it, give it water, take 
 him out for a walk, bath it, enter it in contests or anything you want!! So, I hope you like the 
 game and if you have any questions or want helpful tips or advice like how to get Ist place gold 
 on championship, just send me a message! My user-name is Luigifan323!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Nintedogs: Labrador (as well as Chihuahua and Dachshund) is a great game for everyone. The game 
 starts in a kennel, where you choose your first dog. With your dog, you can train it, play with 
 it, feed it, enter competitions and more. In one day, you can do a lot of playing before it gets 
 tired.
  
  In Nintendogs, you earn money by entering competitions or by selling items. The competition system 
 are of different modes you can compete in. The competitions offers a lot of fun and money, if you 
 win.
  
  The dogs in the game are there plenty of. You can have more than one dog, but only three of them 
 can be in the house at the time. As you get more "Trainer Points" in the game (which you earn from 
 playing Nintendogs) , more dogs will be available in the kennel. There are plenty of dog races, 
 so you'll never get tired.
  
  Overall, the game is very fun with a lot of caring and cuteness. The game last very long, if you 
 are the one who likes to visit your virtual dogs often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMelissaxpopx
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Cute game! The dogs are well animated and have some adorable actions. I like the way that the touch 
 screen has been used, and the controls are extremely easy to get the hang of. Perfect for a dog 
 lover! 
  
  Once you've done everything a few times it can get boring, and sometimes you just can't be bothered 
 to switch on your DS just to feed them, taking them on walks can drag on and the contests are repetitive; 
 but this is the same in reality. 
  
  The toys can be quite entertaining; I for one never get tired of watching my dogs chase after a 
 balloon just to squeal when it pops in their faces, but don't worry, no real cruelty can take place 
 in this game. If you starve your dog other owners will moan at you, and they will eventually run 
 away to find themselves some food, 
  But this only happens to the REALLY cruel owners.
  
  This game could last you several months if you are a dedicated dog lover.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  The entire Nintendogs series are very addictive games, good graphics, good controls, yet I wish 
 you could do a bit more, like meet trainers on Wi-Fi. You can own 3 different dogs, (8 if you leave 
 5 in the Dog Hotel) , ranging from many different species, and it is very fun to care for your puppy, 
 teach it tricks, walk it, take it to contests, and more. The different contests, and the ability 
 to train your dog a lot of tricks, save the 14 trick maximum. It is also very realistic, which 
 I find to be very attractive. With very interesting touch screen controls to pet your dog, walk 
 it, go through menus, in fact, you can't even play this game without a touch screen. Also, the 
 microphone makes for a great game experience. This game is good for any dog lover. In fact, even 
 some neutral people may become a dog lover because of this game. I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought our DS specifically for Nintendogs. Well, that's not ENTIRELY true. Nintendogs was the 
 excuse I needed to convince my girlfriend that we needed a DS and she took the bait.
  
  And now I will somewhat admit to a great sin of reviewing... I never played Nintendogs. But I have 
 an excuse, I sat on the couch next to my girlfriend while she played constantly for weeks. I picked 
 up the stylus here and there, tooled around a little, but I never got into it. I was exposed enough, 
 though, to have no qualms about reviewing it.
  
  As usual, for me, I'm not going to cover the bases that the GS review has already adequately touched. 
 You pick out a pup, take it home, name it, and start teaching it tricks or playing with it. You 
 can take it for walks and pick up its poop and keep it from behaving poorly around other people 
 and their dogs. You can get it outfits and accessories to dress it up, toys and treats to delight 
 it watching it enjoy. You can take your pup to shows and try to prove your training prowess.
  
  And that's about it. Really, there isn't much of a game here. Like the little tamagachi keychains, 
 it is an indulgence that quickly grows tedious and boring to give your attention to. There isn't 
 enough to DO with it to keep you coming back. The voice recognition is alright and seems really 
 neat at first, until you start to annoy your roommates by talking to your game all the time or 
 get strange looks from neighbors as you interact with your handheld toy.
  
  The graphics and audio were great but the gameplay, while somewhat innovative, wasn't polished 
 enough to really shine and $30 for an experience very similar to what you can get out of a keychain 
 drops the value considerably. No, it wasn't a superb masterpiece worthy of being an Editor's Choice, 
 but a neat trend that died almost as quickly as a puppy with parvo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my DS, it was mainly for this game. Being the dog lover that I am, I couldn't 
 resist. And when I got it and played it, it was everything I thought it would be. Cute, fun, widely 
 interactive... but as time went by, I was sure glad I had other DS games too.
  
  You start by getting a single puppy, naming it, teaching it its name, playing with it, walking 
 it, training it, competing, etc. That's super fun at first. And then... you unlock more dogs and 
 get more puppies! Oh, yay! Buuuuut... it's the same exact process. Feed them daily, walk them, train 
 with them, compete... every time you turn on the game. Yeah, you can throw around a tennis ball 
 for them and stuff... but you can only watch them chase each other around for so long.
  
  So, if you're like me and already have the real thing, make sure you buy this on clearance or something. 
 Don't pay the full $30 for it, it's not worth it. You're bound to get bored with it at some point 
 and either you won't ever touch it again or you'll turn it on every couple months out of boredom 
 (only to be bored again) . 
  
  It's cute and worth the money, just not a price tag of $30. But if you can get it cheaper and you 
 have a DS, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurachinp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is a realistic game of training dogs or just simply having fun with them. You can take 
 them for walks, play with them and enter contests. It gets repetative after a while but is a good 
 game for short spells of play. It uses good use of the touch screen and mic, although you can't 
 do much on bark mode so gets a bit boring, but it will take plenty of time to unlock all the breeds 
 and get all the items (you need to trade with other people who have different versions to get some 
 items) .
  
  Pros: good use of the touch screen and mic. great graphics, good simple play, good packs with blue 
 and pink dses, many tricks to teach your dog
  Cons: very repetative. won't keep you that intrested for long. boring bark mode, not enough depth
 
  
  Overall nintenogs is a good game for puppy lovers and for young people who like simple play. It 
 is also good for people who can't have a real dog and for dog lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I, along with 90% of American children, wanted a dog when I was little. My three cats just didn't 
 cut it -- I wanted a pet I could play with. Now, years later, I've got an awesome 3-yeard old rottweiler 
 -- but before she came along, I decided to purchase Nintendogs. The DS is all about innovation, 
 and what could possibly be more innovative than taking care of and interacting with your own virtual 
 puppy? It was hailed by one particular critic as "all the fun of a real puppybut without the poop". 
 Perfect! But as I later found out, that wasn't quite the case
  
  Non-games, as they're often referred to, can actually be quite good. For example, the hugely popular 
 Animal Crossing games are huge successes, yet revolve around nothing more than interacting with 
 others and living out a second life. Unorthodox? Certainly. But it's also surprisingly fun. But 
 what needs to be present for a non-game to be worth spending the cash of a real game? Naturally, 
 it's got to be engaging. There's got to be something about that game that will keep you coming 
 back for more. Optimally, a good non-game could be an even better value, and even more fun, than 
 a traditional game, if the replay value is all there.
  
  Nintendogs, however, just didn't really get things right. At first, this title is a heck of a lot 
 of fun -- you begin by picking out your own dog. There are now several different versions of Nintendogs 
 (I can't even keep track of them all) , and each of them feature different starting breeds to choose 
 from. You'll visit the kennel and observe the selection of dogs -- there are usually a few dogs 
 of each breed. You get to choose yours, give it a name, and take it home.
  
  From there, the real uniqueness of Nintendogs kicks in. It's not enough just to type in a name 
 for your dog -- you need to make sure that he responds to it! The game makes good use of the DS 
 microphone, and you'll speak your dog's name multiple times, out loud, until he "learns" it. From 
 there, it's pretty much up to you to do whatever you want -- feel free to power off your DS now, 
 or you can keep up the interaction, take care of your pet, and a bunch of other things.
  
  Essentially, there are two major courses of action you can take with this game. You could take 
 the more linear path and teach your dog tricks, enter them in contests, and expand your space to 
 get more dogs. Or, you could just do "normal" stuff that you might expect to do with a dog: pet 
 it, play with it, feed it, groom it, take it to the park, and all that jazz. In actuality, however, 
 what you'll most likely end up doing is doing both.
  
  Regardless of how you decide to play this game, all the DS's features come heavily into play -- 
 in fact, buttons are not used at all in Nintendogs. Petting your puppy is a rather boring activity, 
 and really just involves rubbing the dog with the stylus -- not a lot of fun, even to a young child 
 or a non-gamer. Pretty much all the interaction that occurs in this game is performed just to somehow 
 touching your dog.
  
  Additionally, there are a few accessories and tools for you to purchase. Each dog can only wear 
 one at a time (pretty stupid, I know) , and it's not even that much fun to dress your dog up. Tools 
 include such items as brushes and shampoos for cleaning and grooming your dog, and again, all these 
 are used just by selecting the item, after which you're taken to a screen where you use previously 
 selected item on your dog. All in all, I'd say it's pretty boring.
  
  So, that collectively is one of the bigger problems: while it tries hard to emulate what a real 
 dog might do and how it would react to what you do, Nintendogs just doesn't hit the mark. These 
 mundane actions that you might perform with an actual dog are unsatisfying and boring. They may 
 be interesting at first, but after that, they quickly become tedious and somewhat useless, and 
 you'll probably spend very little time just playing around with your dog.
  
  Luckily (or so it would seem) , there's that other course of action I mentioned, which gives Nintendogs 
 a chance to redeem itself. Teaching your dog tricks is actually pretty fun at first, if uninspired. 
 You slide the stylus around to get your dog to do what you want -- when you see a little light 
 bulb at the top of the screen, this means that what you've just done is something that your dog 
 can remember and do for itself. Tap the light bulb and say the name of the command, repeat, and 
 in a little while, your dog can sit, stay, roll over, or whatever it is that you want him to do. 
 So, for example: slide the stylus down on the screen, coming across your dog's head, and he'll 
 sit down. A light bulb will appear on the screen -- tap it, and say "sit" into the microphone. 
 Do this several more times, and your dog will not sit down when you say "sit" into the microphone.
 
  
  There are, however, a few noticeable problems with this whole process. First off is the fact that 
 there's no real exploration aspect to the trick-teaching process. The game actually gives you a 
 master list of tricks, so it's really just up to you to pull it out and start ticking off items. 
 Secondly, there's a stupid restriction on the number of tricks that your dog can learn in a single 
 day, for whatever reason. Look, if we're going to be so brazen as to pretend that my dog can learn 
 to roll over on its back after a few tries, please don't place this stupid restriction. It's an 
 obvious attempt to lengthen the game, and it frustrates more than anything else.
  
  You can also enter your dog into contests to win prize money, but again, there's no sort of challenge 
 here at all. If you taught your dog to sit, he'll sit -- really, as long as you taught your dog 
 all the tricks that you need for the competition (which takes no more than a few days, thanks to 
 the restriction mentioned above) , you'll win. Your prize money can then be used to purchase dog 
 food (which, incidentally, your dog doesn't even need) and similar mundane items, or even to upgrade 
 your house (a useless undertaking, as it doesn't affect the game at all) or purchase new dogs. 
 Great. Now you've got two dogs to be bored out of your mind with.
  
  All told, Nintendogs is just a dead beat. The concept of the game is simple and straightforward 
 -- unfortunately, though, it's also broken. It's boring and ridiculously thoughtless, and is nowhere 
 near being worth the price. There's a reason you see so many Nitnendogs games at used game stores, 
 you know -- it's a disappointing title that, for some reason, got a lot of hype. If you're still 
 yearning for a puppy, you'd be far better off going out and getting a real one -- it would be far 
 more enjoyable than playing this "game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck1234526
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When the DS first came out, I thought it was the most innovative system ever and that games of 
 all kinds would be released on it. But I never thought of this. A puppy raising simulator? While 
 I don't think anyone saw that one coming, it delivers great fun and a surprisingly realistic puppy 
 to care for (beleive me, I know what it's like to pick up poop) . 
  
  In the beginning, you are brand new to dog ownership and go to the kennel to buy your first dog. 
 You look at the different puppies playing in the kennel on the top screen, while scrolling through 
 the different breeds and colors (different breeds are in different versions) . When you have found 
 the right puppy for you, you come back home, where you must immediately name your puppy and call 
 it's name just four billion times (try not to swear or your dog will probably remember that as 
 its name instead of what you have been shouting at it for the last hour or two) . 
  
  Once you have done that, you must teach your dog "sit" and go through another shouting session 
 with your dog. Then you may take your dog for a walk, take it to a contest, or pet it for a while. 
 While these are fun activities in many ways, there isn't much depth to them. 
  
  Negative aspects aside, the game delivers some of the most detailed graphics on the DS even now! 
 It's touch screen controls are used to do some of the most innovative things on the DS. 
  
  If this game is anything, it is an amazing simulation of actually having a puppy. You all know 
 that if you don't have a dog, your life is doomed to failure, and if you are allergic this is a 
 great substitute. Once again, I'm wrong saying that nintendo is for hard core gamers only, and 
 this proves it. This game is a must have for all Miyamoto and puppy fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo-X
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs was the first game i got for the DS but after playing it and doing all you can do basically 
 buy dogs, go for a walk and teach tricks. Also to earn money you can take part in competions making 
 it so you can buy supplies for your dog.
  
  If your not one of those people that love those virtual pet games i suggest dont buy this game 
 if you loves dogs and constantly checking up and feeding your dog you may like it but after the 
 novelty of wow i can stroke my dog with the stylus wares off it gets pretty repetitive.
  
  The good points of the game is that you can go visit your friends dog and unlock the first dog 
 you meet so make sure its a dog you would like to own. Other things are the lots of varied items 
 you can dress your pooch in or on your walk you can stop off at the park and play with other dogs. 
 The competions are fun but again they just become repetitive.
  
  Its an ok game all in all but if your easily board by looking forward to a walk every half hour 
 best to leave it but it does depend what type of game your into.
  
  By the way this is my first ever review i know it aint the best but I might as well get started.
 
  PLAY ON!!!! XD
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aSweetLifeeb
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  it isn't the best game but it is pretty good though
  in this game you can own up to 3 dogs, 8 if you have some in the dog hotel thing, you can have 
 many different dogs
  you get to raise dogs in this game and compete with them (in agility, obedience, and Frisbee) , 
 feed them give them food, the stuff you can do with a real dog its a good game for people who cant 
 have pets but i think real pets are more fun (but yea better than nothing)
  you can also take them on walks and they can interact with other dogs on the walks and on the walks 
 you can find present boxs and the dogs can leave presents if you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clickster_34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was made to simulate having real dogs, and it serves it's purpose. But whether or not 
 the game is actually fun depends on the player. You start off by adopting a one of six starting 
 types of puppies (A lab, corgi, shiba inu, poodle, pinscher or schnauzer) and must give it a name. 
 Unfortunately, Nintendogs should be played in a quiet place unless you turn the mic sensitivity 
 down. Naming a dog isn't exactly easy, Max, Max, Max, MAX! . I spent a half hour naming Max. Then 
 you must teach him to sit, not much better, because now you have to combine touch with voice. And 
 since I was 13 when I got it, my voice has changed too much for Max to remember me. But the game 
 is still something you can chew on for a while.
  Graphics- Probably the best part of the game because they look just like real dogs. The smooth 
 3-D is probably the best of any of my DS games. One problem though is that when another dog puts 
 his paw on your dog (or vice-versa) , they don't always make contact; and the leash often goes through 
 the dog's head, which is quite creepy.
  9/10
  
  Sound- It sounds like barking, scratching, panting ect., but there really are no quality sounds, 
 nothing you just WANT to hear.
  7/10
  
  Music- Adequate, but the only song I really like is Shredded Fur because it mixes up whatever you 
 record on your white record (the white record being what other dog owners hear when you play multi-player, 
 more on that later) . Then again, it's not bad or annoying, rather soothing.
  6/10
  
  Game-play- This is what lost me. You have to feed, hydrate, and bathe your dogs regularly or they 
 might run away. You can also enter them in contests of obedience, agility, or Frisbee-catching 
 to win cash to buy dogs, decors, supplies, and toys. You can also take your dogs for walks, which 
 is the real meat of the game as you can find toys and junk, or train for disc and agility trials, 
 or play with other dogs. You draw out your course which gets longer as your dog grows older and 
 bigger. Meeting other people on walks usually just results in useless information Your dog looks 
 like a championship caliber They like people don't they? with the exception of Archie Hubbs: Someday 
 I want to go to outer space. Weird huh? Lately a cat has been marking it's territory in my house, 
 ugh! .
  5/10
  
  Multi-Player- You can link wireless to other Nintendog owners via Bark Mode and bring one item, 
 and interact as you would with other dogs on a walk (except for bringing a toy) . You can also record 
 a brief message on your white record. Unfortunately, I lost my rarest item this way because it 
 fooled up on me. 7/10
  
  It's not a bad game, it just wears down extremely fast. One should be able to enjoy this for short 
 sessions, not hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burn1n6t00th
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Maybe this game was created for people who dont have a dog and maybe there perspective is different. 
 But this review comes from the eyes of a dog owner so here we go. If you dont have a dog well you 
 can pay like 25 bucks for an entire array of virtual ones if you do have a dog its not worth buying. 
 In the game you do the same thing that you do with your normal dog but you take up your game time 
 while doing it and you will get bored after a day or to. This game takes the cuteness of dogs and 
 turns it inot pure EVIL your dogs will pester you again and again for you to do the same thing 
 over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Wow, I wish for &pound;30, I could buy a REAL dog, teach it cool tricks, enter it into competitions, 
 and walk it without the grueling experience of turning an old supermarket plastic bag inside out 
 and picking up the  Oh, well, 
 at least we can play Nintendogs! The Nintendogs series is an all new level to simulation games. 
 It's a perfect for puppy lovers, little kids, and actually, just about anyone! It's hard to play 
 Nintendogs with murderous intentions blurting off in your mind. The game features great graphics, 
 for the ds, although expectedly, it will have minor graphical flaws, for example, your dogs 'beak' 
 going through the water bowl as it slurps down the see-through goodness. I don't know what these 
 dogs see in water, it's a bit, yuck, to me. Anyway... throughout the game you'll be listening along 
 to the corny yet suitable background music, with the dog's barking of course. It's games like this 
 which make you thank the lord that dog's can be loud. Now, for a gameplay analysis. Caring for 
 your dog can be fun yet boring, and the game also has frustrating moments, like when the microphone 
 thinks your telling your dog to do one command, when your asking it to do the other, and also the 
 fact that you can only enter 3 contests per day. Some parts of the gameplay are repetitive, as 
 contests, playing, teaching/commanding and walking are just about the only things you can do with 
 your dog. However, there is a saviour... All hail bark mode! Wireless multiplayer lets you meet 
 your friends dogs, trade items, and more! And with that there too, you can't sit there and say 
 this game sucks! while throwing your DS or DS Lite to the floor, stomping on it and cursing, and 
 while your dog thinks your telling it to sit, when your actually screaming the word 'sh*t'. So, 
 with that in mind, yes, I recommend this title as a good choice for DS Gamers of all ages.
  
  Graphics: 8 - Not bad at all, for a handheld console
  Sounds: 7 - The music sucks, but dog 
 barking varies between breeds
  Gameplay: 8 - Quite a lot of things to explore within
  Value 9 - In all honesty, this is a great alternative if you can't afford a real dog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost never gets boring. Nintendogs lab and friends is a MUST HAVE for all nintendo 
 ds owners. You start off with 6 breeds, Labrador retrivier, minature schnauzer, toy poodle pembroke 
 welsh corgi, minature pinscher, and the shiba inu. As u play u can earn trainer points, which unlock 
 new houses and types of dogs u can buy. Whether, your walking your dog, teaching tricks to your 
 dog, going to the park, doing compitions, or just stay inside and feed your dog, this game will 
 almost never get boring. Also, the graphics of this game are amazing! So as a conclusion, i gave 
 this game a 10, it was perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I actually didn't buy Nintendogs, it's funny how I came across it, I'd rather not say though. Didn't 
 know whether I should have played it or not. I gave the game a shot. Oh well on with the review.
 
  
  ? out of 5
  Story: Hmmmmm..... No story here, just a man, or woman, with a dog, not interesting enough to write 
 a story.
  
  5 out of 5
  Gameplay: When I heard they were making a Nintendo DS game about dogs, I honestly believed that 
 it would be a dumb idea. But actually when I played it, the gameplay was very satisfying. Being 
 able to raise your own dog, feed it, nurture it, teach it tricks, take it out for a long stroll, 
 these features helped contribute to the overall greatness of the game. So many things to do, and 
 collect, this game is perfect for those who like to play for long periods of time and short periods 
 of time. For those people who had never had a pet because of parents, this is your calling card.
 
  
  4 out of 5
  Graphics: For a DS game, the graphics were well done. The movement, the gestures, everything that 
 the dog did seemed very convincing and real. The only thing that caught my eye was that during 
 walks the leash on the dog would go through it. Besides this, the graphics were wonderful.
  
  4 out of 5
  Sound: The sound that the dogs make sound so lifelike. The whimpering, the barking, 
 all the sound is realistic. There is a lack of music though in many parts of the game. But it's 
 okay, since the game is SUPPOSE to be realistic it wouldn't make sense if music started playing 
 from nowhere RIGHT?
  
  Overall: Nintendogs is a great game, especially for those who dream to have a real pet but can't, 
 give the game a try, how do you know if you like it if you don't try it right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Just look into their shiny marble eyes and tell me you dont want this game... In this game you 
 can pick out from many different breeds of dogs, then name them, take them for walks, play with 
 them, enter contests with a pretty anoyying judge, then buy a new dog and start the nurturing all 
 over whilst throwing your previous dog in a fancy shmancy free hotel for life.... As you earn money 
 from contests and presents from the sidewalk ( 0_0 ) you get to customize your dogs as well as 
 feed and clean them. If you like dogs but your mom won't allow you to get one, this is the game 
 for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kk-dslite
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a friendly, user friendly game. Even people who have no clue how to play video games 
 can get a hold of this. At first, you may not like this game, but as you continue to progress and 
 unlock new breeds, it will become a blast! You can train your puppy to do a variety of things, 
 and be the champion of a number of competitions. The only complaint I have is that rhe voice command 
 function does not work very good sometimes. Other than that, it is a fun game. I guarantee you 
 will spend loads of hours playing Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3112
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is asome if you dont have it you should buy it. Graphics are very improsive and if you 
 like to take care of dogs this game is for you. You can walk, train, feed, do contast, and much more. 
 The more you do contasts the more money you get so you can upgrad your house and buy food. When 
 you walk your dog or do contasts you also get tranier points witch unlocks new dogs if you have 
 a lot of tranier points. I highly recommed this game if you dont have it you should get it. Thats 
 the end of my reivew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelrocks
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The good: Tons of breeds, puppies are cute and well animated, plenty of things to do, puppies can 
 interact with a huge array of objects, as well as other puppies, voice commands are a nice touch, 
 excellent use of the DS's 3-D, touch screen and double screen capability.
  The bad: Has its fare share of frustrating moments, a few concepts, such as only being able to 
 enter three contests a day per puppy, or only being able to walk each puppy again after an hour 
 make sense, but feel limited, a few graphical glitches, your puppies suffer if you don't use the 
 game for a day or two.
  
  You start off at a kennel, buying a new puppy, when all of a sudden, they mutate into lobsters. 
 Nah, just kidding. Anyway, you start of at a kennel, and you get to choose a puppy to take home 
 for free. After you take your puppy home, you have to make it learn its new name by repeating it 
 into the microphone. After that, you can start to live your normal life with the puppy. You have 
 to start feeding it whenever it gets hungry, give it water or other liquid when it gets thirsty, 
 and bathing it when it gets dirty. You have an inventory that starts with the basics, food, water, 
 etc. You can go shopping fore more puppies, for items, and for new looks for your home. You can 
 earn money by winning contests, or sell items you don't want or need at the secondhand shop. You 
 can go through walks by drawing a path on a map with the touch screen. In this map, you'll find 
 various things and places, such as a park, a discount shop and some interrogation marks. (The interrogation 
 mark is either another owner walking his or her puppy, or an object on the floor that your puppy'll 
 give to you as a present. [Gee, he's so kind, isn't he??] ) Additionally, each puppy has a meter 
 that indicates how far it can go. Your puppy may also find presents on the way that, depending 
 on whether or not you play with him and how much you do so, he might give to you. This meter increases 
 the more you walk your puppy. The discount shop is self explanatory, as for the park, it's a wide 
 open space where you can find other puppies. You can use items from your inventory, such as discs 
 or balls, to play with the puppies there. As for contests, first there are the disc competitions, 
 where you basically just throw a frisbee around and hope that it catches it. The farther it goes, 
 the more points you earn. (As long as your puppy catches it.) Agility trials are contests where 
 a puppy has to clear a stage of obstacles in a given time limit, and not making a certain number 
 of mistakes. In Obedience trials, you have to show just how obedient your dog is by giving it voice 
 commands and hoping he obeys and understands them. You can earn money by winning 1st, 2nd, or 3rd 
 place in competitions. You can get all types of items, such as supplies, accessories for your dog, 
 toys, etc. That's pretty much it.
  
  Looks like nintendo's released it's first puppy sim on the DS. I&acute; m not saying it&acute; s 
 a bad game, it&acute; s just that it's a little overrated.
  
  (Note: All versions are pretty much the same. You can discover all of the breeds in all 3 of them.)
 
  (Note2: If you don&acute; t know how to train your puppy, you can consult a training manual in 
 one of the games menus.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is Pure cute and awesome. Since that im not Old enough to have my own dog. i have a dog 
 on the DS. Some times i can get dogs that remind me of my Passed dogs ( RIP CINDER ) . They don't 
 have all The breeds of Dogs Like a Saint Benard or something like that but its a big collection 
 (you have to unlock it though) . The Game has alot of Nintendo game cameos like a Mario or Luigi 
 hat ect. There is a bunch of things to unlock in the game. There is 4 things to get money for Food 
 and other things. These 4 things are Selling Stuff that your find on walks or Doing 3 Contests 
 ( Disk Agility and Obedience )
  each place has its own thing to practice at . The Disk place is a park which you can find on a 
 walk with your dog. The Agility practice place is the GYM near your house which you can go in on 
 your walk. the Obedience which is just Voice Commands (which work Very Very Well!!) and you can 
 do that at your House.
  Pretty Much the game Summary is If you love dogs and you have a DS pick this game up. My summary 
 is 8.8 out of 10
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerryfaScotland
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs Labrador and Friends is a great game! It lets you look after up to 8 dogs. You can play 
 with the dogs, train them for obeidience, agility and disc competitions, feed them, walk them, 
 go to the park with them and lots, lots more.
  
  When you are walking there are lots of places to go to. There is the discount shop, where you can 
 get lots of bargins and you can purchase things that you can't get at the normal shop, like dog 
 biscuits and balloon and even a keyboard, but these are not always in stock. You need to check 
 what they've got every time you visit the shop!
  
  The second place you can visit is the park. Here you can train for disc competitions. My dog loves 
 playing with it's football, so when we go to the park I just give him the football and leave him 
 for five minutes and he's always much happier by the time we leave. Other dogs sometimes visit 
 the park, but I've not seen any yet.
  
  Another place you can go is the gym. There you can train for agility competitions. The gym will 
 be different after every competition as it will have new things for your dog. At the first level 
 there is a small jump and a tunnel which takes about 15 minutes to train your dog how to do both. 
 At the second level there is a small jump, tunnel, long jump and a see-saw. In every other level 
 there is all 4 of those plus poles that you have to go through. It take about an hour to train 
 your dog completely.
  
  When you go on a walk you'll need to draw a path for you and your dog to go on. There will be lots 
 of blue question marks which will either be a dog or a present for you. If it's a dog you can try 
 to get them to become friends. If the dogs like each other your do will be happier but if they 
 don't like each other they your dog will be a little upset.
  
  If your dog does a poo while on a walk you will need to pick it up by touching it with the stylus. 
 If it does a pee you don't have to do anything.
  
  When you're at home you'll need to make sure your dog is well fed and has plenty of water. You'll 
 also need to keep the dog clean by washing him thouroghly and brushing him often. You can also 
 play with toys with your dog and change their accesories. My dog has buisness glasses which, I 
 think, makes him look really cute!
  
  You can go to contests by clicking go out. There are three types of contests, disc, agility and 
 obedience. If you win the contests you get prize money. You can also go shopping when you click 
 go out. You can buy new houses from the interior decorators and get new dogs from the kennel.
 
  
  Overall, I think that Nintendogs is a great game and recomend it to anyone who like dogs or would 
 like to get a dog and wants to know what it's like.
  
  Thank-you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends
  
  This game is fun to play and it is very addictive! The little dogs will just steal your heart because 
 they are that cute! I really like the way that you can teach them how to do tricks and enter them 
 in competitions too, the three competitions being - Disc Competition, Agility Competition and Obedience 
 Competition. My favourite dog in Labrador and Friends is the Shiba Inu, which kinda looks like 
 a miniture husky, with the curly tail and everything!
  
  And how do you teach the little rascals to do tricks? You actually shout through the microphone 
 until they remember the trick! I think it's really cool the way you can do that to teach them tricks. 
 You can also take them for a walk, where you can find things... well, your dog finds things, and 
 you can also meet other dogs, which helps your dog be more confident around other dogs. Well, I 
 really like Nintendogs, I think it's a fantastic game and you would have to be a heartless old 
 man to not buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-lewiis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  If there ever was a game to throw the criteria for games out of the window then look no further 
 than Nintendogs. Quite possibly the most adorable game ever made sees you choosing a puppy from 
 the kennel, then taking him home to begin training him. Of course first your new edition to your 
 DS collection needs a name. Hmmm... Spots? Truffles? Licker? Whatever name you choose the game 
 then has you speaking into the microphone on your DS which, after 10 minutes, just gets plain boring, 
 and in a public space will award you some funny glances. So we have already established the game 
 has its flaws. Welcome to the real world! However the minor imperfections aside this is the most 
 charming game you can pick up and is still in the game charts over a year after its release! The 
 games designers have clearly spent a lot of time and observation in getting your virtual pet right, 
 the textures and behaviour of the puppies are near flawlessly replicated and with such random behaviour 
 patterns you dont know what theyll do next! The game sets no aims for you to complete and is 
 based on being just a relaxing 10 minute job, rather like Animal Crossing Wild World. The main 
 aspects of the game include training your dog for competitions, Going walking with your dog to 
 keep him happy (and get some training for some competitions) and raising money to care for your 
 dogs (which you earn in competitions or by selling items you find whilst walking) or to redecorate 
 your place to make it look more like a retro diner, a tropical beach or even outer space!
  But this is where the main frustration comes in and it becomes clear that even the developers werent 
 quite sure what to do with the game, essentially its a 10 mins escape, maybe whilst on your lunch 
 break or on the train to work, so then why are there such ridiculously high prices for the more 
 decorative themes for your home?! Charging prices like &pound;100,000 when the most you can earn 
 for a competition is &pound;4000 it doesnt take a genius to figure out youll be on the game for 
 months to get the amount you need.
  
  Flaws aside this has to be a milestone in the gaming world which set the pace for games like it 
 such as Animal Crossing Wild World or Electroplankton, all of which are games not designed to be 
 games. Nintendogs appeal shows no sign of running out with the game having the planets population 
 going awwww all over public spots worldwide, and so long as you ignore the way it strips you 
 of dignity in public and throws its own genre out the window with frustrating price tags you would 
 have to be made of solid ice to reject these warm whimpering pixelated bundles of joy.
  
  John Lewiis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MizzDiamondz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs has been a favourite with many gamers, old and new, however, Nintendogs just doesn't 
 come up on my hit list. But I'm not saying I hate the game either. To be honest, it's quite a good 
 game, but if Nintendo would have added a bit more and not gone through the ' that's enough, I can't 
 be bothered to do any more on it ' routine, this review, and possibly other reviews would have 
 got a much higher rating. It seems to me that Nintendo didn't put enough effort in to get a perfect 
 score, and I know they probably regret that extra lack of effort. So, I'm going to make a POSITIVE 
 review, and maybe a couple of bad points to warn you of. So, to get it over and done with, I'll 
 do the bad points first.
  
  First off, I'd just like to say, ' WHAT? ONLY THREE THINGS TO DO? BORING! '. That's right, only 
 THREE things to try your hand at. Walking your dog, in which you can get items that you would not 
 normally find in the shop and meet other dogs, enter contests, either Disc Competitions, where 
 you throw a frisbee for your dog to catch, Agility Trials, where you dog has to get through obstacles, 
 and Obedience trials, where you give your dogs commands, and finally, (this isn't a contest) training 
 your dog. Unfortunately, every single one comes with disadvantages. You can only go for walkies 
 once every half-hour (per dog) , enter 3 contests a day, and teach your dog 3 or 4 tricks a day. 
 Another bad point is the microphone. When naming your dog or teaching it a command, you have to 
 get it EXACT. That means, if your friend comes round, and teaches (name here) a trick, the puppy 
 will only respond to your friend. Ugggh.
  
  Voila, we now have the good bits. Firstly, there are a total of 20 breeds of dog, 14 unlockable. 
 You can unlock 12 of these dogs by earning trainer points, and 2 of them are a secret :)
  
  The graphics are INSANELY good. However, a few jegged polygons stopped this from getting a 10.
 
  
  There is a use for the Touch Screen and Microphone respectively, however using the touch screen 
 repeatedly is boring.
  
  All of the dogs are cute, including Pugs and Boxers.
  
  The ability to dress up your dogs in hats, glasses and ribbons.
  
  The multiplayer mode is 
 good, but Wi-Fi would have made it better.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs is a pretty good game, and I would recommend it to anybody who is a beginner 
 to games, or anybody who has just bought a Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Will you enjoy this game? Yes, if you are one of the following:
  -A small girl
  -A very sensitive boy
  -Love deprived, petless and searching for an outlet for your nurturing 
 tendencies (and desperately so) .
  
  Otherwise? Youre probably just going to get frustrated innumerable times with this one. However 
 cute and adorable petting and playing with your dog may be (and this gets old fast) and how good 
 the whole thing looks and moves, the frustration lies in trying to progress to become a better 
 trainer. The game soon becomes a chore rather than anything else when you try to discipline your 
 mutt. Teaching your dog new tricks is fair enough, but getting your dog to do what you tell it 
 to can be a strain on your patience and nerves. Your stylus will suddenly turn into a stabbing 
 implement rather than a loving hand that pets and feeds (but to be fair, the microphone capabilities 
 are delightfully shown) .
  
  But maybe youre not like me and are actually bestowed with the virtue of patience (meaning youre 
 one of the aboveorvery strange.) It certainly is possible to get good at the game and raise the 
 perfect dog who catches frisbees and does flips on command. The path to such rewards however is 
 a long, laborious one where you have to spend time with your mutt quite literally once every day 
 (or else it will starve and eventually DIE. just kidding kidsthey just run away) . And the way 
 I see it, its not fun, so its not worth it.
  
  Or maybe you are a little girl and do find the prospect of raising a puppy fun, I dunno. Either 
 way, boys, steer clear of this one. I recommend getting an actual dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  With 160.000 units sold the first weekend, Nintendogs launch in Europe was the success Nintendo 
 had hoped. One of those cartridges was bought by me - as a present for my girlfriend, of course. 
 (With ulterior motives, I must say.) Here are some remarks.
  
  So; Friday evening, une bonne semaine ago, Yoshi, a male Shiba Inu, arrived at our appartment. 
 What first striked me about him was how excellently he was animated. The developers must have spent 
 quite some energy on perfecting the movements of the dogs. Organic and impressive stuff!
  
  The first hindrance in the game was to teach the dog his name. (After his short getting used to 
 the new place-face.) This was a simple enough excersise. It was just to say it clearly to the 
 microphone some times, and pet the dog on the head between the repetitions. Once he learned this 
 it was time to teach the new dog some other tricks from the Dog training-book. The game proposed 
 Sit down to be a nice one to start out with. This Yoshi learned very quickly. Good dog!
  
  After this we tought him other stuff, like to pretend to be shot while lying on his back when 
 we made a Pfiu!-sound, sneeze when we said Atsjo! and wag his tail in a prepare to jump-fashion 
 when we said 16th century to him. Fun!
  
  The game is basicly a collection of mini-games centered on dog training and dog keeping - packed 
 together almost as seemlessly as the skits the Monty Pythons made into the excellent Life of Brian. 
 The walk the dog-part, for example, is a combination of a maximise the bonuses while visiting 
 places with regard to the dogs stamina-maze game (which Lost Garden refers to as a Traveling 
 salesman-problem) and a influence the dog with the leash while picking up poo-sideways scrolling 
 game.
  
  After a week or so playing with Yoshi we picked up another dog from the virtual kennel; Queen Victoria 
 - a beige female Labrador. This gave an insight into more of the possibilities in the gene pool-system 
 of the game. Victoria has for example a shorter attention-span than Yoshi, is stronger and less 
 shy. Well; the fact that all the dogs has their personalities, combined with the graphics, is what 
 makes them likeable, I guess When you start up the game they come jumping and barking towards 
 you - like dogs do. Your dogs. Sweet as sugar, but rewarding
  
  The rewards in the game consists basicly of animations. (The competition prizes and trainer-points 
 really plays the second fiddle.) The dogs looks and acts happy if you do good. So you are happily 
 doing good. Moochy-schmoochy.
  
  There are some slight annoyances in the game as well. A minor one is the collision detection. Dogs 
 stumble into each other, the leash is dangling into the poor dogs heads etc. This is also not 
 really a game for the commuting with all the shouting involved. (Although I would rather be seen 
 talking to my nintendog than the cellphone on the buss) Commanding the dog around work (almost) 
 only for the owner of the dog as well, or at least the one who has taught him the relevant command. 
 (Anything else would have been too hard for such a tiny system as the DS, I guess.) Some reviewers 
 seem to complain about the fact that you have to wait half an hour (in realtime - not with the 
 game turned on, necesarily) between succesive walks with a puppy. For me this really hasnt been 
 a problem. The game has a more start to see how your dogs are doing and play with them a tiny bit. 
 No need for long sessions with them. And this works nicely.
  
  I must admit I like cats better than dogs. Rumours has it that the big N is planning a Nintencats 
 (that is; at least they dont rule it out) and after playing with Yoshi and Queen Victoria Im 
 sure they willl manage to make that entertaining as well. (Maybe a game just centered on trying 
 to get your cats attention?)
  
  All in all this nintendogging has proven to be a very meditative experience. Nothing much to do, 
 really, but really relaxing, cosy and fun. Almost too cosy and relaxing. After a session of this 
 you really feel the need for some meaningless violence. In, say, Prince of Persia - Warrior Within. 
 After which you feel the need for some cuddly relaxing nintendog-keeping, followed by more senseless 
 killing And so on in pretty much the same fashion as adjusting hot and cold water in showers - 
 the old school way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ymonkey1592
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs Lab. and friends is one of my favorite games. Personally dogs are my favorite animals 
 but a nintencats game would be just as good! I love the game and always will. My dogs are obedientand 
 know many amazing tricks I enjoy walking my dogs and playing with them in the park. My favorite 
 part of the game are the agility competitions! This game is amazing if I had to describe it in 
 two words i would say pawsitivly perfect! This is one of the many dog based games that i play the 
 others being dogz, the sims 2 pets, and all of the other nintendog games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBAhater
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It's Pretty Good, Here's What I Think:
  
  Gameplay: Gets boring after awhile, Earning trainer points is very hard. But taking the dogs for 
 walks and collecting presents is pretty fun.
  
  Graphics: Kinda Nice, but not very good-looking. Poodles look more like white mini-labradors than 
 they look like poodles. They look 64-bit, but what where you expecting from a handheld. Sound: 
 Very Nice Music, sounds kinda like Muzak (Elevator Music) . The sound effects sound unrealstic. 
 The barking sounds more like yaps than barks. Everything else is good, though.
  
  Value: WAY Overpriced! 36 U. S. Dollars for a new copy?!! Not worth it, buy a used copy instead.
 
  
  Miscellaneous: The Game's Realistic but at the same time unrealistic. For example, you find various 
 dog toys all over the place on walks. There are two Discount Dog Supply Stores on the map, there 
 is a dog gym, if you look at the background on walks, sometimes you can see Dog Cafe ; how many 
 dog Cafes exist in real life: Big Fat ZERO!!! Sometimes you meet other dogs and their owners on 
 walks, and what do they talk about, DOGS!!! Aside from the unrealism in the game, your dogs always 
 stay puppies. No Adult Dogs, no Mating, and no dogs getting hit by cars. There's also a lot of 
 waiting in the game. You have to wait 30 mins. to go on another walk, you can only do 3 contests 
 per day, even if you fail. Kinda reminds me of Webkinz. Other than all that, it's a pretty good 
 game, just make sure not to buy Labrador and Friends, you get all the boring dogs and boring items, 
 buy Chiauwawa and Friends or however you spell it or Daschund and friends. They're more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendogamer94
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I kinda like nintendogs. although it gets pretty boring after a while. you have to feed the dogs 
 and take them out on walks and wash them. when you stop playing it for a week, once you play it 
 again, you have to pretty much over feed the dog, you have to take it on really long walks, and 
 you have to wash it because it will be filthy. you also have to train your dog and enter it into 
 contests which you have to go to every day. but its kinda cool to collect stuff on walks. and you 
 can buy stuff at stores and you can collect money from the contests. I think its a good game, but 
 it gets very boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amxbox
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  the graphics were good but the game moves very slowly and i would stay away from this game if you 
 are a hard core gammer (like myself) . this game is more for little kids. their isnt a lot to do 
 and you run out of stuff to do really fast. and you dont get a lot of money from doing compations 
 and it takes a long time to save up your money. i thought the game would of been a lot more fun 
 but i guess i was wrong.
  its the type of game that you can put down and forget about it. its not a addicting game and will 
 bore you very fast. it appeals to my 1 year old brother he just likes looking at the dogs. so i 
 would recomend this game to a gamer that really likes slow moving games and dont like any action 
 in a game and for a younge child. overall i was really disapointed with this game.
  
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  It shows what the DS can really do. Great graphics, fun, and realistic... Yet TOTALLY ANNOYING. 
 The game is frustrating at first, when you name your dog. That thing will NOT listen! Next, came 
 single player. There is nothing to do! You do fun stuff once, and you can't do it again. It is 
 the same stuff over and over... You cant cheat either. You cant move the DS clock to the next day, 
 so you can continue to play it. You can do it on Animal Crossing, but not this. The game is not 
 the kind where you can sit down and play it. You play it for ten minutes, and you cant do anymore 
 until tommorrow. If there were no restrictions. This would be an amazing game. You could play it 
 for hours!! But you can only do one of each thing a day. Next... thye multiplayer! What multiplayer? 
 Your dog on the other persons screen is doing something completley different than what your dog 
 is doing! The game is fun... if you have no attention span. It is more of a DS tech demo, and shows 
 it's real capabilities. But it is not a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1239
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Good game i had fun it can keep people ocupide during the day and night and helps you know whats 
 its like having one for you self . this game will make you want to play it over and over again. 
 if i could rate it i would rate it 10/10. THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!! some people don't like it or 
 don't want to play it well i say they don't know what they r missing buy it and you will have fun 
 with your new dog. from halo1239 and if you have cheats for halo 2 tell me. buy halo and halo 2 
 and halo 3 !!!!! !! HALO ROCKS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  This game was a game i was expecting for a year i thought i was going to be great i was excited 
 it looked cool and fun and cute but when i got this it was fun for a week and then the game got 
 boring!!! there is no ending no game play its the same thing every day after the first week its 
 the same thing you get money by doing the ultra easy missions that a boring and easy. this game 
 is proberly fun for a long time for those who are kids and have no dogs but i have a real dog so 
 this game sucks it will properly receive my lowest score i will give a game relay i don't relay 
 give 1.0s or i might but this game is the worst game i own and i had to keep it so don't buy this 
 game if you relay want to buy a real dog this game is stupid and is fun for a week 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliver_475
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Litreally all nintendogs is, is a rip off of real dogs, ill advice you to get dogz 5 for pc as 
 it is way better! The gameplay of nintendogs is extremelly annoying and frustrating, for example, 
 my sister spent a whole hour trying to make my dog sit and it should have taken a few minutes! 
 The items you can unlock are really nothing but a distraction and they have no real purpose, as 
 well as this not any of your friends can play as it will never recoqnise their voice, whcih automatically 
 sucks! The contests are extremelly hard and you can really never win unless you play for like 10 
 hours a day! You can't even play for 10 mins without getting bored! You can also walk your dog, 
 but this isn't very exciting and seems like a timewaster and you can never leave the frggin apartment! 
 What's the point of a dog if you cant play with it outside? In a nutshell, the dogs may be cutsy, 
 but the frustrating gameplay and lack of options really drags it down and all of the others are 
 probably the same too... and i think it is an insult there making plush dolls for the brand! Go 
 for the Petz series with Dogz and Catz 5 as it is a cheaper alternative than wasting your money 
 on this piece of c**p! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxR0gu3Go0sexX
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay... I don't know what they (The stupid girl that reviewed this game) was smoking... I have 
 a real dog and I must say who ever thought making a game were you play with a dog was a good idea 
 must have been on Crack...
  
  I hope no one ever gets this PoS... this game is nothing like a dog... I have a real dog and it 
 would be sad to see some kid playing with a Dog in a video game... I once again do not know what 
 they were thinking. Real does love you bad and there is no way a game can capture that emotion.... 
 I guess it could look cute, but it is nothing like a real dog there for fails at what this game 
 set out to do...
  
  Final if you are some one that lives in a appartment and really wanted a dog, but because you don't 
 have a house you can't you still better not get this game because its nothing like having a real 
 dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curty_flurty
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  i dont like this game, it is boring. here are the pro's and Con's
  
  Pro's -good graphics, and great texture
  - good for the little kids, that dont have a clue what 
 a good game really is.
  - funny to see how much you neglect a dog, why not get a REAL one?
  - good use of the touch screen, and the microphone, thats if you dog isnt as dumb as mine
  
 
  Con's - everything
  - not much of a story, all you do is feed the pets, and play with them.
  - gets boring really 
 easily
  - just a thing youd rather play if... umm.. actauly, why would you play it? haha
  
  From Curt ***MPH FC CODE*** - 5240 - 7433 - 2299 pm me if you add me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abtmay
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is great for kids to know the tasks of keeping a pet. Dogs are so cute but perhaps after 
 a few weeks, you will lose interest in them, this will let kids know that keeping a pet is not 
 all that simple. The task for trying to feed the dogs everyday, take them for a walk, etc will 
 gradually become more of a chore than fun. Overall still a great game and worth to buy. Also it's 
 not just a game for kids, it can be for adults too. Just like me who have never kept a pet before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  Gamespot says You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly 
 wagging tails of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs . And I say your right for the first two days 
 but on about the fourth day of gameplay you will be so bored that you will want to return it to 
 walmart and get New Super Mario Bros (thats exactly what i did) this game is so dissapointing I 
 dont feel like giving this game a decent review and now I am going to play my New Super Mario Bros 
 a game that is a good 34.99 well spent. -Thank You- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppersmith
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game when i first got my DS, im telling you i is fun to name and play with your dog 
 is fun, but it got pretty old. the graphics are really good for a DS game, but the sound of the 
 game is pretty bleak with bad music. but the up's are really up. The gamepaly is really inovative, 
 but you need to be more in to playing with your dog. the competitions are fun, but a little to 
 easy. If you need a ds game for your ds, dont buy this as your first game, by mairo kart. Still 
 this game is the best simulator i've ever played (i hate simulators) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: busak
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game is really cute, puppies are adorable and they stay that way trough the whole game which 
 is a good and a bad thing. It is very inovative, and it uses Nintendo DS's touch screen a lot, 
 actually you use the touch screen for everything except for calling puppies where you use the microphone. 
 The bad thing is that after playing it a while it gets boring and you do same things that you've 
 been doing from the beginning. Graphic is very good, puppies are made almost perfect, but ambient 
 around puppies is very poor. My conclusion is that it is fun in the beggining but it gets boring 
 after some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be great. I love dogs and own one. This game looked like it would be 
 something I would love. After a week it went back to the store. The microphone doesn't work unless 
 you say something the EXACT same way every time. There were times I had to repeat the commands 
 so much it made my voice hoarse. If you have a dog don't get this game. Even if you like dogs I 
 wouldn't get this game. The game play is repetitive and becomes more work than fun. The contests 
 were fun for awhile until you got a couple of dogs to the championship and there was nothing else 
 to do but repeat it over and over. The obedience classes were pointless because again you had to 
 use the microphone to give the commands. It would have been better to have an option of saying 
 the command OR hitting a button which would say the command to the dog. But even that wouldn't 
 have made up for the fact that there wasn't anything to keep you hooked on the game. Once you got 
 to a certain point there was nothing else to do with the dog but repeat the same contests over. 
 Of course you could always buy another dog and do the same training all over again (which is still 
 repetitive) . At the end of the week of play I already had 4 dogs in the championship of agility 
 and disc. I don't see how it could be interesting to play for longer. Overall this game does not 
 deserve a 9 rating and definitely not worth the $35. Now that I have played it I wouldn't even 
 pay $10 for it. I'm glad I traded it in to get a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanutboy999
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  it is ok at first but it gets very repetitive doing the same thing over and over again the best 
 things are when you give the day a bath that is cool and the competitions they are cool too other 
 than that boring i do not know what the hype was all about sorry but only 5.8 dissapointing VERY!!!!! 
 and what is the difference between all 3 of them except they have different dogs i know a girl 
 with all of them but she is strange lol graphics ar ok but other than that game is pretty rubbish 
 like the sit and lie down it doesnt work very well i had it for a month and then sold it but thats 
 the way it is : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic3333333
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs.... Im telling you, Nintendo has really done it this time!
  Nintendogs is an awesome game containing everything you can do with a puppy.
  Your Dogs are immortal 
 and always puppies. You can feed them, water them, walk them, enter them in a contest, and more.
  Really, its hard to even scratch the surface of Nintendogs. Seriously, when you rate it, you should 
 give it a 20.00!
  There are Agility Contests where your dog jumps over hurdles, navigates through slalom poles, runs 
 through tunnels and more.
  There are Disc Throwing contests where your dog must catch a Frisbee.
  Last, but not least, (most 
 in prize money!) there are Obedience Contests.
  You can probably guess what to do here.
  Your Dogs can learn tricks from Sit to Breakdance.
  This game really has it all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diobolical22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  if you want one of the best game's that feature dogs as the main attraction then i'd say get nintendogs 
 it so great it keeps you coming back for more. I your the kinda guy who say's which is the best 
 edition all of them are as you unlock everything in the other editions so there's no reasons to 
 go buy all 3 all you need is one and one very loving heart.
  
  GAMEPLAY: its gotta be a 10 its well worth it you won't regret it. It is a great game if you love 
 dogs. To me it is one of the best virtual games I have ever played! You can bring you dogs for 
 a walk. Sometimes, you can meet other dogs on your walk. You feed you dogs with different types 
 of dog food and same with liquids. You can give your dogs a bath when they need it. I thought that 
 feature was pretty cool! You can collect different items in Nintendogs. You can go in bark mode. 
 That means if you friend brother or sister or any other person you know that has any type of Nintendogs, 
 you can link up and you can trade different items. You can put your dogs in 3 contests. You can 
 own 8 different dogs. There are more than 20 different types of breeds you can buy.
  
  GRAPHICS: It's very good the eye's of the dog the tail moving the way they close thier eye's it 
 very real you have to be impressed
  
  SOUND: The only thing i really consider to be a downer it get's really repitive after a while
 
  
  value: well worth &pound;30 but now i belive its &pound;10 or &pound;20 so go grab it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dry_Bomber_2006
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  the point of this game is to pick up a dog from the animal shelter. then you must take care of 
 it. theres many differnt breeds of dogs you can get and own. there are contest you can enter your 
 dog in. the 3 are frisbee, obediance and obsticle. you can also take your dog for a walk and take 
 it to the park and practice frisbee. you can also buy and collect items for your dog and you give 
 it a bath. but the problem is that you probally only play it for 30 minutes a day. and it does 
 get really old doing the same thing over and over again. If they added wifi to it it would be alot 
 more better and it wouldent be soo repetitive and boring. even if its mediocre its the best pet 
 simulator around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. sure, the graphics are good and the system is innotive, but all round its 
 a tedious game. sure, for the first week i enjoyed it. then, everything became a chore. i got bored. 
 and the voice activation is stupid. it only reconises a certain pattern of voice, so you have to 
 say it JUST right every time. coudnt they have had another option, like a button or something? 
 I got bored very very easily. i abandoned it to the game case from whence it came back to the shop 
 to where to belongs, for some unfortunate soul to buy and find outhow aweful and tedious it is. 
 within 2 years you'll be able to buy 100th hand versions, because this game will last a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxybabe815
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  i love this game it was the first game that i eva got on my ds.... i just love the way that they 
 have planed it all out... its great...
  
  This is a little off the subject but i would like someone to make a game where its like the sims 
 but you are the person in the screen view and i can walk and drive a car by yourself, were you 
 can go shopping by yourself and go to work by yourself... i would also like to be able to do work 
 at work... if that makes any sence... i hope that some1 reads this and finks of making it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The ups: Good graphics, almost rivals the PSP, Takes advantage of dual screens, touch screen and 
 microphone, dogs are life like, being able to compete in contests, The downs: Not being able to 
 have more than one player in wi-fi, long introductions at the begining of a contest.
  
  This game has to be one of the best games I have ever played! The dogs are fun to watch when they 
 play and dance, like real dogs, when they play, the don't take turns for the ball/frisbee, they 
 all run for it, jump on eachother, trying to grab it from eachother, and at the same time, if you 
 leave them while they are playing, they get bored, so they want you to trhow it, and all the cool 
 stuff. Teaching your dogs tricks can actually be fun! You can choose if you want a loving dog, 
 a stubborn devilish dog, or a calm, easy going dog, depends on your patience and determination. 
 Summary: Nintendogs hands down, is an excellent game, even if you arent really into these types 
 of games, I still have no problem reccomending it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxus9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend for a period of a week and a half
  
  Gameplay: Its'l alright but it get old real fast. The contests are the best
  
  Graphics: fairly 
 solid. pretty good for the DS but the areas are very limited.
  
  Sound: The dogs sound realistic enough. I don't have a dog so it suited me just fine
  
  Value: 
 I was bored of it after a week but still played for another half of a week trying to kill the dog 
 XD.
  
  Tilt: It got old real fast. Don't buy it unless you can't own your own dog but you really want 
 one. Knock 10 bucks off and I'd buy it for my little cousin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marchello90
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  The game is fun, but you have no quests. But in some moments the game needs some action, so it's 
 not so boring at all. Graphics are good, sound is medium quality. I think the dogs in this game must 
 grow and have children. The are only two ways to earn money : to take part in competitions or sell 
 items. It's interesting to get new items in your inventory. The game needs your stylus, because it's 
 hard to do some actions with your finger or wrist strap. It's difficult to call dog or say commands 
 into the microphone. Totally, the game is interesting when you haven't played it for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanbandy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect with this game. Was it going to be just like a real dog, or was it 
 going to fail? Well, I'll tell you, it didn't fail, that's for sure! Even though there a some problems 
 with the game, it's still fun to play. I'll write the rest of my review in sections.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  All I can say is, Wow . I can't believe how beautiful the game is, and the pups 
 are so cute. There's lots of detail in the house, on the toys, outside, but mostly, the dog. But, 
 there are more textures then I thought their were be, for example, when you walking your dog and 
 you pass the tree, you'll see lots of light and dark squares. But those are minor, not a big deal.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Oh, I love the music, it's so happy and energitic. I want to give it a 10, but the music does get 
 very repitive, and sometimes annoying. But that's after playing it for a long time. You will love 
 hearing the bounces off the tennis bark, the squeaky bark, you can even buy a piano and play your 
 dog a song!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  I can't believe how realistic this is. Let me explain how it starts, you go to the kennel, pick 
 out your dog. You bring it home, and let it sniff around a little bit. Then you teach your dog 
 it's name, then how to sit. Am I on track, is this how we do it? I think so. After that, you should 
 feed your dog, give it water, teach it more tricks, give him a bath, go for a walk, .......... 
 There's so many things you can do. You can enter 3 compitions, Obedience, Agility, and Throwing 
 i think. it's so fun throwing the freezbee and your dog catching it, and bringing it back to you. 
 Unlockables: 9/10
  It's loaded. There are so maby things you can get, sunglasses, Mario's hat, special frezzbeis, 
 Big Dice, and so much more. You can also earn money by winning compititons, so much money that 
 you could get another dog!
  
  Replay Value: 6/10
  The sad part of the story. After you get yourself a dog, enter all the compeitions, and getting 
 your dog super far distances on walks, after that there's really nothing else to do. It becomes 
 very repetivie and boring. You'll probably never pick this game up again. I havn't touched for 
 awhile, there's no point in trying to start all over, you'll be use to everything, and you'll put 
 it down again.
  
  If they put a little extra kick in somewhere, i'd proabably still be playing. if your allergic 
 to dogs, maybye you won't care if it gets boring. But that dosn't mean I hate the game, I still 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktulu007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great game. It's got to be the cutest game i've ever seen. You train puppies for 
 agility, disc, and obedience competitions. The agility competitions are my favorite since they're 
 the most interesting to watch. Your puppy will go through tunnels, slaloms and over slides and 
 hurdles. There are twenty breeds available all together. Offering a wide array of small, medium, 
 and large dogs. There are different types of collars, ribbons, hats, and glasses for your puppies 
 to wear. You can find records that your puppies will dance to. There are also a lot of toys to 
 find including a peach kart, a rubber mushroom, and a ufo. One of the best features the game has 
 is the voice recognition. Your puppies will learn to recognize your voice and respond to you. They 
 also take some of the harsh realities out of caring for puppies. For example your puppies will 
 never grow up, they don't get sick, they don't get injured, they won't destroy things, and they 
 don't use your house as a toilet. It's a fun game which is meant to be played over a long period 
 of time, say an hour every day. My only complaint with the game is that you can't skip the contest 
 commentary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasoNight
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  i liked it alot its a nice game . although its hard to train your dog. i gave it a perfect score 
 . i like it soooooo much that i bought my sister one. and i gave her my ds . i like alot of nintendo 
 games. nintendo is a good company. i wonder why they would let you get empty juice bottles on walks. 
 and i wonder why they made it so you cant restart . its a mystery . i like potetoes. so all together 
 its a really good game. i cant wait untill i can get the new one . but at some times the game is 
 a littl bit weird . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PattyGoalie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is a great game if you love dogs. To me it is one of the best virtual games I have 
 ever played! You can bring you dogs for a walk. Sometimes, you can meet other dogs on your walk. 
 You feed you dogs with different types of dog food and same with liquids. You can give your dogs 
 a bath when they need it. I thought that feature was pretty cool! You can collect different items 
 in Nintendogs. You can go in bark mode. That means if you friend brother or sister or any other 
 person you know that has any type of Nintendogs, you can link up and you can trade different items. 
 You can put your dogs in 3 contests. You can own 8 different dogs. There are more than 20 different 
 types of breeds you can buy.
  
  Sound: Great sound. I like it how you can find different recordes on your walk to play on your 
 record player. The songs never get tiring.
  
  Overal or recommendation: I would highly recommend this game because it is again one of the best 
 dogs game I have ever played (and I have played a lot of them)
  
  Value: $60 with tax canadian and $45 with tax USA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay on this game is great. From petting and feading your dog with the styllus 
 to teaching it trick through the voice command this game does it great.
  
  Graphics: The overall look of this game is very well done. Though it might not look like a real 
 dog it comes pretty close.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is good. From hearing your dog bark to traffic outside your apartment. 
 It all sounds good.
  
  Value: This game is worth the new price of a DS game without a doubt.
  
  The Word: It comes 
 down to this; this game is really fun and can be enjoyed by anybody. From females and the look 
 how cute my dog is to guys who can say look how many trophies I've got. The more people you know 
 who have this game the more fun it is. If you have a DS you should most def check this game out.
 
  
  Holla at your boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_Levy
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  At first i was very happy with nintendogs, but after about 3hrs of playing it i realised there 
 was little to do. You can only walk your dog every 30 minutes in real time, and only enter competitions 
 three times a day. This makes the game extremely repetitive, after you've entered three competitions 
 a day and already walked your dog, you can only give your dog a certain amount of baths before 
 your become very bored. I strongly recommend that you dont waste your money on this game, you will 
 only be very dissapointed.
  
  Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling 
 up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling up space**Filling 
 up space** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willowrosenburg
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the greatest game on the nintendo ds. I mean you don'teven have to like dogs to like 
 this video game. It is raving with extrodinary animals, houses, and toys. This game will keep you 
 entertained all day long. The only bad things about the game is that you can only own up to 8 dogs 
 and only 3 can be in your home at a time. Another bad thing is you can only do 3 competions a day. 
 Sirecly why can't you go off the reality strak. Just because the game is supposed to be base on 
 real life it takes fun out of the game. The good news is there is a lot of fun qualitys in this 
 game like the items you can retrive in the walk like a frisby, stuffed dog and bear, lisa dog, 
 helicopter , bubble blower, tennis ball and soccer ball, and clocks. Each one of these items will 
 keep you entertained all day. Even the clocks you could just staire at them all day long. The best 
 part is the adorable accesorys you can get for your dog. Aw there so cute. The ribbons, hats, and 
 collars suit your dogs perfectly. They always have a look of happiness so put whatever accesorys 
 on your dog. There also competion that can be stressful at first but once you get the hang of it 
 you will love it. The learning curve is really depends on hoe hard you try and your dog. Oh and 
 you will love all of the pretty differnt style houses you can get. The shoresiede is so pretty 
 you might just play the game to get that house unlocked. This is a game I recommend for anyone 
 who likes dogs, and someone who has patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass-shager
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet. this game has sooo many good qualitys to it. you get a cool choice 
 of dogs to play with. you can have three dogs at home and six in a dog hotel, this is a fun qualitty. 
 another great part about this game is that the dogs have thier own personallity, which is fun. 
 if you have ever wanted a dog, yet your mum and dad constantly say no. then this is the game for 
 you. you have a certain amount of money at the start, and you can only buy one dog. and you have 
 to earn money buy winning contest with your dog. but somtimes your dog only wants to sleep, then 
 it starts to get slow. you can only let your dog learn tricks an certian amount of times, and the 
 same with contest. but in the end its a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gussie
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  firsts its fun then it just gets boring, soooo boring. teaching it tricks makes you look like a 
 bimbo! sitting there screaming at your ds saying sit, SIT!, NO DON'T WALK AWAY!! You feed good 
 food and when your out on a walk it tries to eat trash! it does it's buiness everywhere in town, 
 and as for what i can say for the competitions is just h! t.
  I suppose it would be a good game for a child but i think it's sad.
  The sounds when your on 
 a walk a bird sounds on a loop i mean, it get anoying!
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one of the greatest DS games ever. It has a very good gameplay. This game is really 
 really addictive. So read my rating of Nintendogs. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: The gameplay was obvisoly a 10 on here. You can choose between a bunch of breeds 
 of dogs. You can train your puppy to do tricks, find hidden items on walks, go in dog shows and 
 do much more when you play this game. What's not to like about this game?
  
  Graphics 9/10: These graphics were really great. Sometimes your dog would actully look like a real 
 dog they did these graphics so well. These graphics are not perfect but there all most there.
 
  
  Sound 10/10: The sounds and sound effects were really good on here. I loved the music for this 
 game it just was so great. I love the sound effects in this game they are just so cool!
  
  Value 10/10: 30 bucks for this!? That's a pretty good deal they gave me on this game. It is just 
 priced so well.
  
  See you all next reveiw.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ice_Fire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a purely terrific game! Addictive, Adorable, and they put allot in it so you never get 
 bored. I rented it from GameFly, and its adorable!!! I'm going to buy it soon. ^^, when buying 
 the dogs thiers many different ways of choosing them from, When you start out, and when you pick 
 a dog, you get home, and let them settle in, like in real life! Then, you name them, say their 
 name out loud 'till they recognize it and you type it in, kinda like in real life, just without 
 the typing! Then you can pet him/her, play with them, put them in contests, adopt more, and even 
 re-modle you're house for you're dog!! Purely designed for all ages, this makes a great gift for 
 families who can't afford dogs, and for people with dogs, and people that don't want them, ect.! 
 They also find tennis balls, sticks, and thing like that on the street when you're out for walks, 
 like in real life! the bad things are: thiers almost NO collision detection. aaand thats practically 
 it. A must buy, Buy it or I'll sick Kairin, my siberian husky orginated from a wolf on you. 
 
  
  --ZSW
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  When I saw Nintendogs premire at the E3 2005 Nintendo Press Confrence. I dismissed it. Then almost 
 a year later I'm addicted to the game. It really is enjoyable and fun. I recommend it to every 
 DS owner. Its one of the systems must have games. The touch screen and microphone create a very 
 immersive experince for the player. Even though its a non game I enjoy it after a game of Advance 
 Wars Dual Strike or Resident Evil Deadly Silence. After those games playing Nintendogs is a nice 
 mellow down and It's also suprisingly addictive. It is flawed seeing as you can only walk your 
 dog every so often and getting the outerspace room is near impossible. It does have an ifinity 
 value but I do wish You could go a bit further. Perhaps with Nintendogs Wii... 
  
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nacoolkid
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Very fun game with great graphics. Worth playing and fun to get your game much better. Worth the 
 price. A very addictive game. I highly recommend this game to anyone any age. Great practice for 
 actually getting a real dog. One of the best games Ive played. These dogs are very lifelike and 
 are very adorable. You will fall in love with them. This game is easy and you will learn about 
 it quickly. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh... puppies are so cute. I was so thrilled to get this game and make a digital avatar of my 
 real life dog. And she was cute... in a kinda not furry pixelated way. This is a breakthrough in 
 voice recognition and AI interaction but sooner or later you'll run out of things that you want 
 to do and find that you're just doing it out of habit. Oh sure I played it for months and months... 
 that's why I'm getting around to writing this review now, but alas I haven't touched my puppy in 
 about a month. Appropriate fondling aside: if you like cute puppies and are still on the fence 
 about this one after... oh the six month period it's been out, then you should probably stay clear 
 because though it'll hold your interests for a short time it'll only leave you wishing you had 
 a real flea biting puppy. On the other hand if you're into cute puppies and you happen to be a 
 10 year old Japanese girl than you've already got this and you're only reading this review because 
 you've run out of puppies to train. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is fun out of the box, but dosnt last long enough, You start with 7 breeds of dogs, 
 and by washing your dogs, go into competitions, walking and feeding your dog you get trainer points, 
 and as you earn trainer points you unlock new breeds. The game is great, and entering competions 
 is quick and easy, and when you go on walks, you can get new things to dress your dog with. but 
 sadly the game gets repetitive, and you can only do 3 competitions per dog a day, and only can 
 take a dog for a walk every 15 mins. Dog lovers will enjoy this game alot, but its far too repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDutch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  In the beginning you start with choosing your own puppy. My first dog was the black Labrador I 
 named Joey. It's realy nice that if you train your dog you can have after a while more things doing 
 with your dog. They learn more trics and get better in compettions. Also meeting an other nintendogs 
 owner in the bark mode is realy cool. That way you can have faster new dog breeds unlocked. 
  
  The only thing what I find disapointing, is that you need such a long time to gain more trainerpoints. 
 For example, I realy would like the Husky. But you need so much trainer points. So I have to find 
 somewhan whit the Husky in bark mode. What I lucky will have becose my friend has a husky in nintendogs. 
 But for the rest is it a realy nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amz310783
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  This game starts off great, you get really excited about using the microphone and touch screen 
 in one game, its also very cute.
  
  I loved it to start with, I started by training my dogs to win the competitions, so I could keep 
 buying more stuff, loved buying or finding things on walks, but pretty soon this all gets a bit 
 boring, as you can only enter 3 competitions a day, and walk every half hour theres not much else 
 to do, the dogs can only learn 3 tricks a day as well.
  
  As for trainer points, at first I wanted to keep playing so I could get them as high as possible 
 and unlock more things, but even that got boring.
  
  I haven't even looked at my dogs since about a month after getting it.
  
  If you like cute, 
 used to have tamagotchi's that didn't die and have a lot of time, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr-Poque
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has made their new philosophy quite clear: in addition to pleasing their traditional audience 
 with epic installments to the Mario, Metroid, and Zelda franchises, among others, they intend to 
 attract non-gamers to the market with simple, more unique games than we are accustomed to seeing. 
 Yet while titles embodying that philosophy are being released frequently in Japan (the Brain Training 
 series and Electroplankton included) , America hasnt seen the release of any of these non-games. 
 Until Nintendogs, that is. Shigeru Miyamotos latest creation has been massively successful in 
 Japan, to an extent that must have even surprised Nintendo. Many would argue that Japan is more 
 accepting of toy games, but Nintendogs is proving that puppies are irresistibly cute no matter 
 what country theyre in, as the game has held steady on the North American sales charts and caused 
 a 700% increase in European DS hardware sales during its first week in that territory. So obviously 
 everyone loves puppies; the real question is if the game is actually any good or if we really are 
 too dumb to say no to a cute face, even if its going to turn around and poop on your couch.
  
  The game begins when you knock on the door to enter your home, then proceed to the kennel to 
 buy your first puppy. Initially, the kennel has six breeds to choose from, depending on which version 
 of the game you own; the Lab & Friends version contains the Labrador Retriever, Miniature Schnauzer, 
 Toy Poodle, Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Miniature Pinscher, and Shiba Inu. For each breed, there are 
 three different dogs to choose from, each with a different set of traits or genitalia (or both) . 
 Once you select your dog, it comes back home with you in need of immediate attention. Because of 
 its new surroundings, you must get your dog used to its new home and owner by petting it for a 
 few minutes. Once that is done, you will be asked to teach the dog his/her name by speaking into 
 the microphone a few times. You enter the name in text after your puppy has learned the spoken 
 name. After this has happened, you get to view a short tutorial explaining the various options 
 in the game; to prevent the tutorial from being obnoxiously long, you are told that there are books 
 you can read for more detailed information. After the tutorial, you and your puppy are free to 
 do whatever you like together.
  
  In order to keep your puppy happy and healthy, there are a number of things that must be done each 
 day. To see if your puppy is hungry, thirsty, or dirty, view the status of each dog by tapping 
 its name on the home screen. You are then responsible for feeding your dog, giving it something 
 to drink, or bathing it by choosing the appropriate item from the supplies list. You should also 
 walk your dog at least once a day. During your walks, you must clean up after your puppy or risk 
 being scolded by the neighbors. You can also stop along the way to play fetch at the park, practice 
 for an agility competition at the gymnasium, or purchase items for less at the discount shop. If 
 you drag the stylus past a question-mark box when planning your route, you will find either another 
 local puppy to play with or a gift to pick up. Unfortunately, these daily tasks can become a little 
 boring. Luckily for us, Nintendogs has a lot more to offer.
  
  Many virtual pet simulators and open-ended games (like Animal Crossing) can become boring after 
 a while due to a lack of things to do. With Nintendogs, however, that is not the case. Similarly 
 to Animal Crossing, Nintendogs runs off the internal clock of the DS system, so your puppy will 
 be sleeping if you turn on the game at 2am (you can wake them up though) and your puppy will be 
 extremely hungry and filthy if you dont check in for a few days. Nintendogs has longer lasting 
 appeal than Animal Crossing mainly because you will become far more attached to your puppy than 
 you ever are with any of the characters in AC. However, the three competitions included in Nintendogs 
 add even more depth to the game. Each puppy can perform in disc, agility, or obedience competitions 
 up to three times per day. For each competition, you will need to rank in the top 3 to win a prize 
 and move up to the next difficulty level. Your puppys skills will improve based on how often you 
 compete and practice. Unfortunately, there is no form of multiplayer competition, but the three 
 single-player options are fun nonetheless.
  
  As another way to make sure you dont neglect your dog (s) , Miyamoto and his team made many aspects 
 of the game proportional to your time playing and added plenty of unlockable content. The first 
 time you take your new puppy for a walk, it can hardly make it to the park and back. However, the 
 endurance of your dog increases with each walk, so eventually you can make your way around the 
 entire town, collecting every item on the map in the process. Trainer Points, which you gain for 
 various accomplishments during the game, unlock new items, interior decorations, and dog breeds 
 as well. The quickest way to unlock new breeds is to connect wirelessly with another DS system 
 that has a different version of Nintendogs from your own. For example, if you have the Lab & Friends 
 version and you connect with someone who owns Dachshund & Friends, you might learn upon returning 
 home that your kennel has just received a litter of Golden Retrievers.
  
  In addition to unlocking new breeds through Bark Mode, you can have your puppies bring each other 
 a gift. It is fairly common to end up with 3 copies of the same item that a friend has never seen 
 before, so trading items with one another is a great way to build up your collection of puppy accessories. 
 The odd thing about Bark Mode is that once you find a wireless partner and your information is 
 exchanged, the wireless connection is turned off. As a result, both dogs exist on both screens, 
 but they are doing completely different things. While having your dog cloned doesnt seem logical 
 at first, it actually makes sense because it allows for both DS owners to individually control 
 which toys the puppies play with and when the visit ends. By going to your music collection under 
 the supplies menu, you can record up to five seconds of audio on the white record by speaking 
 into the DS microphone. That sound clip is then sent to your friends game card when you visit 
 one another using Bark Mode. While viewing your Friends List, you can play the white record for 
 each person youve connected to wirelessly.
  
  It is quite apparent that the development team wasnt focusing as much on environmental detail 
 as they were on making sure the dogs look, move, and behave realistically. Your home and the neighborhood 
 around it are both very simple and bland. As a result, your puppy stands out more in its environment, 
 which is good and logical. The puppies themselves are very well modeled and animated, and they 
 react very realistically to your actions. The games audio is excellent; there are many different 
 audio tracks for various situations, which can be unlocked as records in your music collection 
 so you can listen to them whenever you like. In addition, the puppy noises are very accurate for 
 each breed in the game, and the games other sound effects, such as sirens and crowd noise, also 
 sound great through the Nintendo DSs speakers.
  
  To put it simply, Nintendogs is just the latest masterpiece from the video game industrys most 
 famous man, Shigeru Miyamoto. However, the game is the first true example of Nintendos effort 
 to reach new audiences in North America. People who dont typically play games will buy Nintendogs 
 because puppies are just too damn cute to resist. But traditional gamers should also embrace Nintendogs, 
 because the experience is deep, the control is excellent, the audio and visual quality is superb, 
 and the game is a lot of fun to play. If you dont already own a copy of Nintendogs, you ought 
 to go out and buy one. As a matter of fact, if you dont already own a DS, you ought to go out 
 and buy one, because Nintendogs is a unique game that you cant find anywhere else.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is quite attractive, is always nice to have a dog when you don't need to clean his mess 
 and pamper it. But, what seems to be a good idea can turn into a bad game.
  
  Graphically the game is perfect, it shows how far Nintendo DS can go. The dogs are awesome and 
 the way they will react when you touch the screen is even better. You will also talk to your dogs 
 and teach them some tricks using the microphone, but sometimes it seems that the microphone won't 
 work, you will need to speak really well and smoothly for it to work.
  
  Although this is a game that graphically shows how far the DS can go and how innovative the touching 
 screen is, there are some problems. 
  
  First, and worst, you will have lots of fun here, but after a while there won't be anything different 
 to do, you will only turn your DS on, feed your dogs, take them for a walk and nothing else. 
 
  
  There are also some contests that will make you spend more time, but as time goes on there won't 
 be much to do. There are three different contests, in one your dog needs to jump obstacles in a 
 short period of time, in another he will need to obey your commands over the microphone and in 
 the last you throw a disc for him to catch. All this contests have 4 different levels and are quite 
 hard to beat.
  
  So this is a must-rent game. Play it for four days and if you still feel drawn by the dogs, just 
 buy it, but if you get tired, just buy a real dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liontamer106
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It plays mainly as a stylus and voice recognition game in which you spend most of the 
 time teaching your dog (s) to do tricks. Once you have taught them to do tricks then you can take 
 them to the obedience contest or you can train them in the park for Frisbee contests or at the 
 gymnasium for agility contests. winning these contests in the top three places earns you money 
 to continue to feed and care for your dog along with buying more dogs.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and makes it seem like a real dog down to the dogs tongue 
 hanging out of the mouth when it is thirsty. 
  
  Sound: The sound is okay but a bit repetitive. In a short while you will probably simply keep the 
 sound off except when training your dog (s) .
  
  Value: This game is just a little above average overall unless you are a major dog fan or simply 
 don't want to have a real dog to clean up after considering cleaning up after this dog is just 
 a click of the stylus.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJG24992
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out, and at first i loved it. A week later I found myself becoming 
 bored and stopped playing. I think this game is way to over-rated. Sure the graphics are awesome, 
 the sound is clear, but the game doesn't last long at all. Once you've got all of the toys and 
 got bored of the 3 competitions, your Nintendogs will soon be collecting dust... All in all it 
 is a waste of money, but a decent rental. This game is not for everyone, especially if your into 
 action games. Fans of The Sims will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnolio369
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  When playing Nintendogs the first thing to come to mind was "Nintendo you've done it again"
  
  One of the reasons its SOOOOOO good is they get a very cool idea and make it so straight forward, 
 all you do is pick it up and touch and pet your dog.
  
  You can choose from a list of 8 dogs (each different depending on what version you get) but as 
 you progress more breeds become available until you can get any breed from all 3 versions!
  
  Once you choose a dog all you do is name it, call it by its name until he learns it, teach it 
 sit and your off to do what ever else you want to do. You can go and enter competitions too: Disc 
 competitions, Agility trials and Obedience trials.
  
  You use the touch screen to do the following things: pet your dog, scrub and clean your dog, through 
 balls and other items for you dog, take him on walks, and the list goes on, but you also use the 
 microphone to teach your dog tricks and call his name. Saying all that i can safely say its the 
 most interactive game to date on any console.
  
  As well the graphics, gameplay and sound on Nintendogs are amazing! i own a dog and i honestly 
 can't tell the difference between my real dog and my dog in Nintendogs, my dog in Nintendogs looks, acts, learns, 
 sounds and reacts just like a real dog, but thankfully he doesn't smell like a real dog!
  
  If you don't have or not allowed a dog, why not get the next best thing? Nintendogs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan785768
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This is a great vurtial pet game from nintendo. It has lots of dogs and lots of items. And on walks 
 you can take your dog on a walk and meet other dogs. Some may be nice but , some can be mean, and 
 also its just normal so your dog will be curious. The dogs are easy to care for and the contests 
 can be hard. 
  
  There is three contests. Their names are disc compatison, aglity trail, and obdecice trail. You 
 should buy this game. Also a person who is evil and has a stone heart would not like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstryking
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Truthfully, I thought that this was going to be a great game because I've heard so many great reviews 
 about it.. I mean people even bought DS's just so they would be able to play the game. It was very 
 interesting and a little addictive the first time that I played it. I thought that it was great 
 how you could interact with the dog through the Mic and the Stylus. It started to get a little 
 boring to me though after only a week of playing it... You start to get the hang of feeding the 
 dog everyday, taking it out for walks a couple of times a day, and even beating the competitions 
 once you perfect them and all of this really gets old... Don't take me wrong, it's a great game 
 with great sounds and graphics for the DS, but I don't recommend it if you are use to action games 
 and other games that hype you up.. You should borrow a friend's for a while and see how you like 
 it then you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Althought raising a dog virtually makes the world look lazy, it's still an excellent and innovative 
 creation. When you think of it, we live in an incredibly lazy world. Think of it, TV broadcast 
 on your cell-phone, diet pills, web browsers on DS/PSP, Even devices that you put in your pants 
 so you don't have to get up and walk all the way to the bathroom just to go do your business. Well 
 now we have the latest addition to our lazy generation-Nintendogs. If you ever thought raising 
 a dog was too timetaking and hard then you can now have Nintendogs, where it is impossible for 
 your pixeled pal to die! But even though Nintendogs can be categorized for the lazy, it can be 
 helpful. For example, I have a friend who is allergic to dogs so unfortunately he cannot have one 
 so he resolved his problem by getting Nintendogs.
  
  When you look at Nintendogs from a visual perspective you will be amazed of how much this looks 
 better than most games on Nintendo's newest handheld system. The backgrounds aren't incredibly 
 detailed and when you take your dog for a walk it just shows clips of random city backgrounds switch 
 around which isn't very impressive but the dog looks extremely realistic from its eyes to its tail. 
 The items that you will collect throughout the game have as much detail as they should. In some 
 games, a soccer ball would just look like a white pixeled ball but the soccer ball in Nintendogs 
 looks like a soccer ball would in real life and that goes for all the items. There are a lot of 
 items which is impressive and even though some items are blocky, we are playing a DS not an Xbox 
 360. Keep that in mind.
  
  The music is well, average. Nothing special. Nothing original. You'll really pay almost no attention 
 to the music, as it plays a little part in the game. The dog is the reasltic part. It makes all 
 of the realistic barks and cries. Items also make noise, but some items make ridiculous sounds 
 when thrown that sound nothing like what it would sound like if you threw that object in real life.
 
  
  When I first started to play Nintendogs, I looked around and skimmed through all of the opertunities 
 for gameplay. Unfortunately, of what I saw it did not look like the game had that much to offer. 
 But the strange thing is that even though Nintendogs is not jampacked with everything that you 
 would want, nor is it even close to being a large game, I have found it packed with plenty of replay 
 value. Every night I turn on my DS to play Nintendogs, occasionally on the bus but mostly for thirty 
 minutes each night. Also, after recieving more items and experiencing bark mode, walk mode, contests, 
 etc. I found much more gameplay opertunites and extended my play from thirty mminutes a night, 
 well up to nearly fourty-five minutes to an hour each night which is impressive when you multiply 
 it each night I've played it, and I do not only play it each night. The controls work very smoothly 
 and it is very fun to just mess around with your dog. Once you've actually run through everything 
 Nintendogs has to offer it will seem like a much bigger game than when you first started playing, 
 and that brings a conclusion to my Nintendogs review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddrmaxchick
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game for a while, ever since it came out, but I never bought 
 until recently. What really gripped me into the game was the fact that you could play, walk, train 
 a puppy in your free time. The first couple weeks it was great, but over time, when your puppy 
 just randomly starts barking at you after you give him a command, it gets a little old. Hmmm maybe 
 I got a defective game. 
  
  Okay, seriously though. I would've really loved this game even more if the puppy could actually 
 age. Heck, even back when I was like ten my classic keychain tamagotchi aged. Taking your puppy 
 for a walk is fun, but just watching it use the restroom for the billionth time is old. It would've 
 been better if there were more places to visit, other than the gym, a couple discount stores and 
 a couple fields. Maybe I wanna take my puppy to the salon? Get him/her fixed up professionally. 
 And how come my puppy doesn't get sick? It would've been cool to go to the vet. There's not much 
 to do either. Unless you like to constantly feed and pet and walk your puppy. 
  
  There are good things about this game though. It teaches you to be responsible for a pet (in a 
 way anyway) . Over time, your puppy becomes smarter and won't even hesitate when you give him/her 
 a voice command. 
  Overall it's a good game, and you'll find yourself going out of your way to take care of it . Definately 
 a chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananabill
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is one of the planned burst out titles for the nintendo ds and it does a great job of 
 letting the player feel like really owning a dog. nintendogs comes in 3 main versions and 1 sub 
 version; lab and friends: chiuaua and friends and daschund and friends. then theres the best friends 
 version as well. nintendogs uses all aspects of the ds hardware very well, because of this, you 
 get to talk to your dog, rub your dog and so on. this feature makes tamagotchi and other virtual 
 pet games obsolete. the gameplay is quite simple yet complicated, because of the many tricks and 
 things you can do and teach to your dog, the game presents many ways to play. the graphics are 
 nicely done, environments seem realistic and your house is spot on, but when you play for a little 
 while, you might seem to think that the graphics are getting boring, but your puppy is always well 
 presented and animated. the sounds are good, because each pup's bark and noises are well presented 
 whenever needed. the game costs about 25-30 bucks but its well worth it when you think about how 
 long and how many pups you will get. i felt happy when i got to teach my lab the handstand for 
 the first time, and i kept on making him do it... T-I-L-T that?!
  
  OVERALL... it gets a 9.2
  "IT'S SUPERB BABY YEAH!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  A game where you own a dog and you need to take care of it, take it for a walk, feed it, bath it, 
 train it, etc.
  it is really nice because you can buy toys (or find it laying around) and other things that are 
 really interesting. You can also take your dog to trials: Obedience, Agility or Disc Competition.
 
  As you become a better trainee, you get points which unlocks other things, new scenarios or new 
 breeds.
  All Ndogs are almost the same, the main difference is with which breeds you start the game. There 
 are other little differences in some of the objects you get but they are rather irrelevant.
  This game can get highly addictive at some times as you wish to progress in the game, but it also 
 can get a little repetitive. All in all it is still worth playing because while you're addicted 
 to it, it is plain fun and you also get addicted to it from time to time. In addition the graphics 
 are good and it explores the properties of the DS very well, the touch screen and the mic.
  Congratulations to Nintendo for being able to make an interesting game out of a simple idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashbolt
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest game I ever played. This game is such a masterpiece. It is very cool 
 how it is based on a life with breeding your own dogs. Though it stinks how how you only enter 
 three contests a day, or how you can only own up to eight dogs, unless you donate a dog or two, 
 though you will see those dogs again. But those are probably the only two bad things. I love how 
 you can get cool items. My favorite item is either the Combat copter or the bowser kart. This game 
 isda bomb ". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supotnik123
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game. Highly recommended to those afraid of dogs, but would love to tend for one or 
 more.
  
  The best thing about this game is that no matter what version you get, you will be able to access 
 all breeds. The only thing you would consider to decide when choosing versions is what breed you 
 would like to get immediately.
  
  It's so good how Nintendogs take advantage of the capabilities of the DS. You know, petting with 
 the stylus, speaking through the mic, everything. It's so good. There's one little downfall in 
 this, though. It would be hard to play in places where silence is required. How you would say, 
 "Sit." or "Jump." inside a library, and everybody would just look at you with their "What's with 
 you" look. It's just embarassing. But hey, why would you bother go to the library, anyway?
  
  There's also this feeling of achievement or fulfilment or whatever you call it when your dog 
 wins contests, or learns new tricks, or simply goes to you. You don't need to bother training for 
 the contests, they're not mandatory. That's the good thing about this game. There's no story line. 
 You decide what happens next. The flow of the game is all in your control.
  
  I'm writing this review, because I started to like dogs because of this game. Ever since I was 
 a child, I became afraid of dogs. I mean, really scared. I hated them. But then, after playing 
 the Nintendogs, one thought came to my mind: "Dogs are not that scary after all." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman00
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I love dogs, so when I heard about nintendogs I was so thrilled. I was literally counting down 
 the days. So when I got it I was in love. Everything was so aweome, such as feeding, petting, teaching, 
 and walking my dog. Those enjoyments eventually became a hassel. Thegame lacks enjoyment. There 
 is not much to do and its replay value isnt that great. Also there are not many unlockables. Your 
 dog needs washing and feeding every day!!! And the puppies never become DOGS! So overall I loved 
 it the first couple days but after awhile It got boring and dumb!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biobug
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  A great game. It is no wonder why it sold millions. It is fun for everyone and has nearly unlimited 
 replayablility. The stylus is used so perfectly along with the mic. The voice recognition software 
 is supperb. It was a great show off of the capabilities of the DS and i can not wait for Nintendogs 
 2. The selection of breeds is vast and there is always something to save up for. Another great 
 product delivered to us from Nintendo. It might be kiddie but it delivers an experience not available 
 anywhere else. Defidently worth 30 bucks or so to have such great gameplay, it shows why Nintendo's 
 philosophy on focusing on gameplay is so great and will provide its fans with more great non-games 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  YA, its a dogy dog world out there
  I like this game because you can have your own dog and play like in real life you have to fead 
 it give it water take it on walks, compititions, buy more dogs, rent hotels, and change you house, 
 and do stuff like that but ya thats mostly why i like this game becasue i get to have a dog and 
 take cvare of it and just love it ok now as soon as i get done writing this 100 word text im goint 
 to check on my dog killer I LOVE THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This is my sister's game and I played it because I had nothing better to do. Normally, I hate dogs, 
 but I changed my mind once I played this game. I'm so sick of real dogs barking at me because I 
 look like a big shady character. A digital dog wouldn't do that, so this is why this is an interesting 
 game. With the touch screen, you could pet the dog, comb it with a brush, or even play fetch with 
 it. Who thought of this? This is better than buying a real pet. I felt like tthe Grinch. When I 
 looked at the puppy, it felt like my heart grew two sizes that day. It feels so real for a virtual 
 simulation.
  
  I could only recommend this game to girls. If you are really that curious, borrow it from your 
 sister. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  This is probably the most simplicit, addicting, and cute game ever. The dogs are beautifully rendered 
 in full 3d and there are 18 unlockable breeds, and 2 secret dogs. The gameplay is fun, sweet, and 
 addictive. There is alot to do. You can walk, play, and train with your dog. Then you can enter 
 it in obidience, agility, and disc competitions. Only the most evil, cruel, sadistic, cold hearted, 
 nintendo-hater, with ice running through their veins, could not sigh in awe of these little pooches 
 cuteness. This is a must have for ds owners, simulation geeks, and dog lovers. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is definately one of the games that people have to either hate or love. Most of the 
 people I know love this game, I am one of them, but after a while, it soon becomes obvious that 
 you're running a regular routine, with no new challenges. 
  
  Overview
  Nintendogs is a Nintendo DS game, making use of the DS's innovative features, including mic and 
 touch-screen. Rather than relying on the D-Pad and letter buttons, Nintendogs was perhaps the first 
 game to actually use the DS's features to an extent. The game solely rely's on them, and making 
 this a perhaps must play game during the lifetime of any DS owner, especially being cheaper than 
 the DS's other games.
  
  Gameplay
  This is definately one of the most ambitious, innovative and newst ideas that has popped into Nintendo's 
 head. Whilst more realistic than games like Mario Kart or Animal Crossing, it doesn't subtract 
 from the games light-hearted, fun and overall bubbly experience. Teaching your pooch of choice 
 is amazingly easy, and with voice commands making your job as an owner so simple. Whether it be 
 throwing a flying-disk with the flick of the wrist down at the park, telling your pup to lay down 
 or leading him through a tunnel, they all use the new and innovative featurs of the DS. So, onto 
 your pup. Basically, you have to feed, water, groom, train, compete and spoil it with new collars, 
 shampoo and treats. You can take him for walks around the neighbourhood and meet fellow dog trainers, 
 you can make him compete in various competitions such as disc catching, obstacle courses and obidience 
 trials. However, outlined above, is pretty much all you can do in the game. After playing for a 
 while, unlocking new dogs, playing bark-mode and nurturing your dogs is all that seems worthwhile, 
 making after a few hours play (about 18) you seem to realise that you're going in circles. You 
 would only occasionally pick it up after that, and even stop playing altogether. Overall, it's 
 a fun game whilst it lasts.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Graphics
  Suprsingly, the graphics on Nintendogs are quite good. The dogs look marvellous whilst frollicking 
 around, adding to the laid-back fun to be had. The environments also look good, and the tricks 
 what you can make your dog do look hilarious, such as break-dancing, handstands and backflips. 
 Whilst comical, most of the other tricks are realistic, as does the game overall. The dog breeds 
 are recognizable, and look good in polygon form. All in all, the graphics in Nintendogs are superb, 
 and could be admired by anybody.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Sound
  Sound is one of the let-downs of Nintendogs. Although great, it does get a bit infuriating, making 
 you want to switch off the barking and turn on the iPod. The relaxing tunes are nice to hear, but 
 the constant barking for no apparent reasons does get a bit tedious. Sometimes the voice commands 
 doesn't seem to want to listen to your voice, and just basically refuses. Consistency is required 
 whilst doing voices, but sometimes, it's hard to find it. The sound effects are quite low in number, 
 but just add to the laid back feel to the game. At the end of the day, the sound is great, but 
 was let down in some areas.
  Verdict - 8
  
  Value
  Nintendogs is arguably the best value-for-money game on the DS yet. Being cheaper than it's cousins 
 such as Metroid Prime: Hunters or Mario Kart: DS, it makes it a worthwhile purchase if you are 
 in need of a new DS game but are a bit strapped for cash. 
  Verdict - 9
  
  So, overall, Nintendogs is a game with awesome gameplay, pretty graphics and great sound, and at 
 the cost of a low price-tag. The only let-down of Nintendogs is the repetitiveness, but is a great 
 gaming experience whilst it lasts.
  
  Overall - 9.2 - Superb
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbaez1
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games I have ever play in my whole life. This game can entertain 
 you for a little time and then the game is incredibly boring. This is game is only for very little 
 kids that do not know how to play good games. The only thing this game has is that you can do several 
 things with your pet but even with that the game is incredibly super boring. I do not recomend 
 this game to gamers that like action and exciting games because this game has everything but action. 
 To finish everything the game is bad itself. I recoment that anyone buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Most people would think a game of dogs would be boring. There have been previous games on dugs 
 and they sucked.
  But Nintendogs offeres something dog-lovers and DS owners will enjoy. It offeres fun competitions, 
 it offeres teaching tricks to dogs and a lot more.
  
  The thing that is so "cool" about this is how the game design is the best yet for any dog game. 
 You can teach your dog new tricks using the microphone. You can take your dogs to competitions, 
 give it walks and let them talk to other dogs.
  
  The game is very realistic. You can give your dogs baths and feed it, play with it and train it. 
 The game is totally different from other games. 
  
  The graphics are very good.
  
  Nintendogs is something rare. Even when the game is already superb it's got multiplayer to back 
 it up even more. The multiplayer is exceptional, it's the best multiplayer game you'll play.
  
  Overall, this game is worht owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is certainly fun for a while but in the end i soon became bored. The gameplay is certainly 
 fun and the fact that you can only walk you're dog every half an hour and enter 3 competitions 
 a day does add a sense of realism. The interaction between you and you're dog is also fun and well 
 done. The game does a great job of using the mic/touch screen and will undoubately be used in DS 
 pet sim games for years. The graphics are also good especially the backgrounds for you're house 
 and the detail in your dogs (VERY cute) . The music is typical nintendo and is upbeat and cheerful 
 and reflects the style the style of the game. The game is, in theory, endless. However i found 
 after a few hours i was bored. There are however a lot of items and new breeds of dogs to collect 
 which should add to its length. 
  
  All in all Nintendogs is a fun game that will amuse younger people for a lot longer than mature 
 gamers but everyone should try it at least once if just to experience its unique features that 
 have reinvented a genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilstuffs
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  ok, heres my review on the cutest game ever
  
  GAMEPLAY
  ur a guy who owns dogs and u take care of your dogs as if they were real, without the smell! its 
 really fun for the first two weeks, but then u realize : "hey... didnt i do this exact same thing 
 yesterday?" then ur cute puppies start to get predictable, then they seem much less realistic, 
 then u forget to play the game for two days, then ur scared to play cuz ur dogs might hate u, then 
 u realize when u feed them they dont hate u anymore, then it just seems like a video game more 
 than a puppy like it was at the beginning.
  
  GRAPHICS
  really good graphics
  
  SOUND
  does "bark bark!" mean anything good to u?
  
  VALUE
  i guess its worth your money 
 if you REALLY want it.
  
  TILT
  its good, but eventually it seems so fake, which it is, but its not suppodsed to seem that way.
 
  so, u shouldnt buy it. instead, play with your friends dogs or get a real puppy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the one game that Nintendo put out there to hopefully get people to buy the Nintendo DS. 
 It takes full advantage of the stylus capabilities, you use the pen to feed you dog, water your 
 dog, take them out for walks, even petting your virtual pooch. I think the real draw to this game 
 is the fact the fact that there are so many different breeds of dogs. The selection of dogs ranges 
 from pugs and poodles to Dalmatians, and German shepherdes. I personally perfer the shiba-inu. 
 Anyway, one of the cool things about this game is the voice recognition system, which means that 
 you can teach your dogs to come when you call their names, you can teach them to do tricks like 
 roll over, play dead, and many, many more. The only negative thing about this game is that after 
 a short while the game gets boring, fast. So there you have it, if you have a DS then buy this 
 game or rent it if you are not a big dog fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSDSkid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i had Dachshund & Friend but it had the most amazing Graphics Sound was Amazing 
 it was like there were puppys in my house!! it didn't take long to learn i was a tiny bit Disappointed 
 when you got done walking feeding watering contest you had nothing to do in all i say it gets a 
 9.4 but any ways i still love the little Nintenpups with all 20 Breeds 2 Special Breeds Which i 
 have only locked one of the Special Breeds all in all this game is pretty good i Would recommend 
 for you to buy this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't think puppies are cute? Well, as cute as they may be, it takes a lot more convincing 
 to get me to play with a polygonal puppy on a video game platform. Regardless, Nintendo does do 
 a good job of emulating the innocent charm of a real dog, without all the hassle of real life poop-scooping, 
 and the terrible smell some dogs have. Not until the DS3 will Nintendo come around to making a 
 dog THAT realistically annoying in a video game. Even so, with Nintendogs, you'd be hard pressed 
 to find a more life-like Dog simulation on the market.
  
  Let's get one thing straight here: The graphics on this game are astounding. High framerates and 
 convincing AI of the pups are some of the many pleasures of viewing this game on your duel-screened 
 portable. However, that is not to say the visuals are absolutely perfect. Despite having full camera 
 control over your living room, right off the bat you'll notice that backgrounds are merely rotatable 
 drawings with low polygon furniture and objects thrown in to secure the illusion of a true 3D room. 
 The same goes for outdoors, which is considerably worse, as you'll see whole buildings and waterfronts 
 disappear before your very eyes when you turn a corner while out taking your pooch for a walk. 
 It's nothing that'll make you forget about all the hard work the developers put into the rest of 
 the graphics, but it's something I'm sure could've been done better. Other than that, most everything 
 else, including unlockable items and play toys are in full 3D, even in the examination menus and 
 shopping centers. When a handheld with 32 bit visuals can make a Dog look semi-realistic, you'd 
 agree that it is pretty good for the most part.
  
  Speaking of graphics, one of the more notable aspects of Nintendogs is the extensive use of convincing 
 physics when hangin' with your dog. It's quite impressive to be able to throw your dog a stick 
 or chew toy using the touch screen, and to have it feel like you are in control of how far it goes 
 and where it lands. The same goes for frisbees and jump-ropes, which all have their very own real-life 
 look and feel when you play with them. Even your leash you hold when walking your dog is very responsive 
 with a complimentary 3D polygonal handle, and gives you the satisfaction of being entirely in control 
 of your puppy. Although, my personal favorite activity is the pull rope, since you can have a blast 
 dangling your dog in mid-air, and it looks and feels amazingly realistic. If there was one department 
 I admire, it would definitely be the physics. Hopefully, future DS games will take a page from 
 the nifty 3D touchscreen mechanics seen here and make something useful out of the DS to conquer 
 its overabundant 2D library. 
  
  Audio, on the other hand, isn't quite as ground-breaking. Sure, you get to hear your canine pet 
 bark your ears off, but outside of that, music and sounds are forgettable to say the least. You 
 hear cutesy jingles when your puppy presents you with a gift, makes a friend or gets chased by 
 a rival dog in the neighborhood. Music when walking your dog is catchy, but gets old eventually, 
 as does most of the other tunes throughout the game. You do have the option of making your own 
 music using a vocal sample in the microphone, but it is just a randomized remix that leaves you 
 with a sour taste in your mouth instead of truly sounding good, and you only get to listen to it 
 indoors. I can't say whether or not I would consider the audio "good", but it gets the job done 
 as far as puppy simulators go.
  
  All in all, the game has pretty unique ambitions, aside from taking care of a dog, that is. The 
 built-in microphone can be used to teach your pet tricks, which is another innovative and much-touted 
 feature of the game, but you are not forced to use it if you don't want to. Of course, You are 
 expected to name your dog upon aquisition and teach it a trick or two, just to familiarize the 
 game with its owner. You can enter your puppy into various contests and obedience trails, which 
 is one of the main methods of attaining a paycheck. However, constant maintenance of your animals 
 can be quite frustrating, as you'll need to feed and water them as well as bathe and exercise them. 
 This is probably the games biggest downfall, though it can be avoided if you keep your number of 
 pets down (preferably only one) . You are penalized for not picking up your dog's "doo-doo" when 
 out for a stroll, and other citizens may criticize your pet if it smells bad or looks malnourished. 
 Thus, you are obligated to play this game at least once a day in order to maintain your status 
 quo as an upright animal owner, and having multiple breeds in the same house is just asking for 
 repetitious gameplay. Sadly, if your schedule does not have room for your virtual puppy in your 
 daily routine, coming back to play this game over long periods of hiatus can be a BIG chore. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, where this game does begin to show its ugly side, is in its monotony. Along with 
 all the fun and joy you'll have playing with your dog, you musn't detract your attention from the 
 dog's physical well being. You must have a constant supply of food and shampoo in order to keep 
 your dog well-groomed and healthy, and it helps to feed them milk and other snacks to keep their 
 mood happy. However, if Fido is downright filthy and infested with fleas (a result of long-term 
 lack of play) , expect to spend much more time in the shower, scrubbing away at the mutt. This can 
 be murder to your touch-screen, and it certainly isn't fun to scrub a dog for 10 minutes just to 
 keep it healthy. What's worse, is that you only view ONE SIDE of the dog while bathing him, meaning 
 you'll feel like you're cleaning only half the dog. It might have been a lot nicer to have a full 
 360 degree display of the dog while cleaning it, as it would've assisted in making the game feel 
 that much more real. As for exercise, A lot of times you won't even feel compelled to take the 
 Dog for a walk, since your dog's tolerance for total walking distance is increased ever so slightly 
 every time you go out. This makes for long walks and short attention spans, not to mention you 
 can only get so excited after finding a tennis ball for the hundredth time while out on your route. 
 It will be difficult for anyone to not eventually get bored of doing this every single day, unless 
 they establish a genuine connection with their cute widdle puppy-wuppy. 
  
  However, this game is meant for short bursts of play, not hours-on-end hardcore gaming. If you 
 can restrain yourself and play this only a little bit every day, you'll find yourself satisfied. 
 But if you jump in and expect to unlock everything while owning 8 different breeds at once, you 
 may not be the target consumer for this game, and you'll feel cheated. I can't say I don't recommend 
 this title, I just don't think it's for everyone. I guess the whole idea is to convert your love 
 for hardcore gaming you would usually devote to "beating a game", into dog years. It takes a lot 
 more of a down-to-earth lifestyle to truly find long-term enjoyment from this title. Nintendo themselves 
 said this game was to attract casuals, and I can see how this game would appeal to that demograph. 
 Nevertheless, with a few tweaks of your gaming habits, you'll find that this is the kind of game 
 even core gamers can fall in love with. Sure it's cute and innovative, but you have to be a committed 
 casual to even break the potential of this game. It grows on you, but don't let the weeds take 
 over... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Nintendogs for the first week I had it. I just got tired of taking my dog for 
 a walk every day. It's a great game and a totally rad concept, but definitely not something I have 
 time to invest in every single day for little to no reward.
  
  The gameplay is fun and simple and addictive, but just not for a terribly long time. It's really 
 fun to have a digital pet that's so advanced to actually learn voice commands, and it is technologically 
 pretty rad, but beyond teaching your dog a few tricks and entering some competitions... and taking 
 them for walks... Yeah, you aren't left with much else.
  
  Controls are cool, you basically act that the stylus is your hand to rub your dog, throw a frisbee, 
 walk them, etc. If Nintendo is trying to make non-gamers into game players, this game is accessible 
 to everyone, regardless of age or experience. If nothing else, that has to count for something 
 these days.
  
  Sound is what you'd expect. Elavatory music throughout mostly, with the occasional barks and such. 
 Nothing terribly exceptional, but it suits the game quite well, regardless.
  
  Gameplay is overall quite solid. The game SEEMS like it is very deep at first, then you start to 
 realize how much there is... and how much you can do in a day's time... And you start to get bored. 
 When you're expected to play with your dog on a daily basis, it's a good idea, but how many people 
 actually do that? I have 2 real dogs to worry about, amongst other things. Like most other things, 
 it's fun for a while...
  
  Overall the game is highly recommended for anyone that wants something different, doesn't own a 
 pet, or has a young one around that they need a game for. It's a brilliant concept that is executed 
 well, it just isn't totally my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs was prettty awsome when I got it. I'd wake up every morning just to play with my dog. 
 It was pretty fun. My favorite part of the game is where you say a command into the mic and they 
 would do what yo tought them. I tought my dog many many tricks in my day. But after awhile it got 
 kinda boring. Been there, done that. Once you start doing the same thing everyday, you know that 
 you have mastard the game. But overall, I thought it was pretty cool from when I got. If you were 
 going to get it, go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Not really, for the first month or so it is the best game on the planet, but after that, it is 
 the most dullest game on the planet... You get bored of doing the same things over and over again, 
 once you have completed the competitions with one dog, its is boring... all you can do it walk 
 it, get it more toys, and feed it. I to say that the graphics are spectacular for a hand-held games 
 console, probably the best at te moment for the nintendo DS, and the cintrols and sounds are good 
 too. But it is just too easy and i am quite dissapointing in it, i got the game on release date 
 and i was counting the days up to it, now i dont play it anymore because there is really no point. 
 If you think of buying this game i would highly recomend renting it first for about a week to see 
 what you think... What are you views on the game???
  Play on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_govi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends is the best real life game I ever played!!! Its like The Sims 
 but you can call him, touch him, blow, call him, play with him and many many many more!!! The dogs 
 are soooooo cute ^_^. Dogs are favortie animals ever!!! aaawwwwww... If you love dogs and your 
 mummy dose not want to get one you get really angry right?! Thats what she says to me -_- ... If 
 yes than get Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends cause its like a real one. But never like Nintendogs 
 more than real dogs!!!
  PERFECT GRAPHICS, GREAT GAMEPLAY, FANTASTICE BACKGROUND MUSIC, CUTE, ALMOST REAL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  The game has excellent graphics especially regarding the Ds' capabilities. Fun gameplay and unique 
 ideas. It's a one-of-a-kind game for sure.
  
  When you start the game you choose a puppy to take home with you from the pet shop. You can choose 
 from various breeds of dog depending on what version you have. 
  
  Though i respect the design, making three of the same game with the only difference being what 
 dogs you can get, really cheap.
  
  You take your new dog home and teach it it's name. Which rather then just typing a name has you 
 calling his name, yes actually talking to your cyber-doggie. When he knows his name you can call 
 him and he'll respond and walk over. Using voice commands as well as the touch screen you can teach 
 your dog an assortment of tricks. If you've taught your dog lots of tricks and taught them well 
 you can enter competitions, by winning these you can finance a new puppy. You can have any three 
 puppies at a time. 
  
  You can map out a path for your dog to take on walks, visit pet shops, go to the park, play frisbee 
 and loads more with your dog.
  
  You use the touch-screen and microphone for the game and the latter is too embarrassing to do out 
 and about sometimes, especially if your he doesn't respond much. 
  
  I'd say this game is one of the best on the ds; fun, unique and cute. But it just can't keep you 
 playing for very long. Shouting your dogs name grows old fast, but the game in general is quirky 
 enough to be a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is one of those games that, at first is BRILLIANT. You can do soooo much with your dog 
 and it is really cool. Unfortunatley it doesn't last.
  
  The premise is simple, you take care of dogs using the DS's unique features. You pet them, clean 
 them, feed them, play with them and walk them. You can even talk to them.
  
  There are also contests to take part in which will earn you trainer points which unlock new dogs, 
 homes etc.
  
  There are also about 200 items in the game, these include accessories, toys and sports equipment.
 
  
  Unfortunatley the fun doesn't last, after about 2 weeks the gameplay becomes monotinous and you 
 find that, actually, there isn't much to do.
  
  Gameplay
  Fun at first but ultimitley shallow. Uses the DS's features better than any other game though
 
  
  Graphics
  Probably the best on the system, but apart from the dogs there isn't much else to look at
  
 
  Sound
  Nice dog tunes but everything else blends into one long background melody that doesn't offer much
 
  
  Value
  SHORT, fun at first but boring quickly
  
  On the whole a fun game, if only for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananaman29
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  this game was so much fun when i first got it. but then the dog barking the annoying noises and 
 the lack of money made it pretty stupid. not to mention the dogs hardly understand what you say 
 and if the dogs are stupid it gets very fusterating. this game needs alot of work and a better 
 selection of dogs and toys. i hated how you couldnt decorate your house and the dogs never got 
 older the wireless was pretty gay to. maybe if they made a game where you are a dog and you are 
 doing something it might have been a little more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is the kind of game you shouldn't buy. Instead, you should rent it (if DS games are 
 rentable) or play your friends copy of the game. 
  At first, the game is pretty cool with the cute little dogs and you learn how to teach them tricks. 
 Sometimes the voice recognition can be frustrating because it doesn't always respond and then you 
 start yelling at the poor dogs through the speaker.
  The dog contests can be really challenging which will keep you trying, but you can only do 3 contests 
 a day which is another flaw.
  Even though you must gain trainer points to unlock new breeds of dogs, you will quickly get bored 
 with this game.
  On another hand, the graphics of this game are AMAZING. The dogs have lots of detail.
  Overall, 
 you will be obsessed with it at first, but within a few days you will grow bored with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meemee100
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is so cute! I was amazed at the graphics. The dogs looked so real. I 
  have 2 corgis, 1 lab, & 1 schnauzer. They are all so cute! The good thing is, you can also change 
 your house style! But to anyone out there who has this game: DO NOT get the desktop theme! It's 
 not a bad quality, it's just for anyone 
  who's REALLY funky. But, I tell you guys this because,: Instead of the desktop coming in as new 
 furniture, you live ON TOP of the desktop!!!! It would be for you people who wear a brown shirt, 
 baby blue leggings, and a red top hat.
  (Please don't think I'm criticising you if you do wear these things, your just people I call FUNKY.) 
 But other than that, the game is the best dog game ever invented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game was realy good for me becuase my dad is alergic to dogs so i cant have one so i kinda 
 have one now! Its pretty fun you start out going to the kennel and buying one dog they play with 
 him and get used to the game and then it will let you name him for example my dogs name is Spiffy 
 and he is a choclate labrodor and he likes to run so pick a name taht matches your dog! One of my 
 favorite tools of fun is the jump rope i dont know if they sell it in this game but i got it from 
 my freind who has the one with the brown dog on it. well have fun with this game see ya also i am 
 a boy so this game can be for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockakos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a puppy simulator which lets u first buy a dog and then feed it train it and take 
 it to competitions. This it self sounds very shallow, but the game has a surprising depth . The 
 graphics are awesome and the dogs are surprisingly Life - Like . from the models to the reactions 
 and their moves everything seems to click . 
  The sound is also great. you may think that it features only barks and other dog sounds however 
 the game also features some music records from great composers and other music, The bad thing about 
 the sound is that sometimes it gets a little childish, but it mixes perfectly with the atmosphere 
 .
  The gameplay it self is very innovative using both the touchscreen and the microphone to their 
 fullest potential. You can give your dogs voice commands and much much more .
  The game aso has a big time value since there is a ton of breeds to unlock, including 2 secret 
 ones and much much more. 
  
  The drawback of the game is that the dogs have some limitations . eg only 3 contests a day or only 
 4 commands, which can prove to be annoying. Also another thing i didn't like s that the dogs stay 
 puppies forever ( but one can understand that this was done to make the game cuter)
  
  Anyway at first glance Nintendogs may seem a game for children and girls ,but it can prove to be 
 quite fun and addictive for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cItYoFtHeDaMnEd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends is an overal well thought-out game. The game is a lot of fun to 
 play. The game is solid, almost flawless. It is really based on the specific dogs, down to the 
 last characteristic. The game lives up to the hype. When I first played the game, it reminded me 
 of the title Hey You Pikachu! in the final months of the N64. The dog reacts to your movement, 
 voice command, and teachings. The game really put you in the light with a real trainer. The dogs 
 are very realistic, and there are plenty to choose from. Nintendo developers worked hard on this 
 game, and it was worth the effort.
  
  The game is basically about training the puppy you choose in the beggining of the game. I chose 
 a Mini Poodle. There are several dogs to choose from, including the cover dog, the Labrador. You 
 raise and nurtutre the pup. Give it a name and teach it tricks. You cater to its every need, including 
 bath time! The puppy needs exercise, food, water, and love to truly be happy. The game lets you 
 take your dog on a walk. On the walk you might encounter other dogs, unusual gifts, and garbage 
 that makes the puppy sick. You can sell the gifts at the store for money. The walks take you to 
 parks, discount stores, and the gymnasium. You can train in these places for competiions. In competitions, 
 you can enter your dog in agility contest, frisbee contest (my personal favorite) , and the obediance 
 trial. The contests are a challenge, make sure you save before each challenge, so you can repeat 
 if you mess up (which happens quite often) .
  
  The most annoying part of the game is teaching the dog tricks. The obediance tournament is definitely 
 the hardest part of the game. Your dog can learn tricks you teach it such as sit, shake, rollover, 
 etc. The dog can confuse the tricks with other tricks if you mispronounce them. The game signals 
 you if the dog is confused, with a red or blue question mark. Blue for mixed up tricks, red for 
 mis understanding. After the millionth time repeating the trick to the dog, he learns it and you 
 move on. 
  
  On the statistical front, the game scores high. The game never really ends. You have to beat each 
 competition with every dog in the game. The graphics are amazing for a hand-held. Truly amazing 
 to see the development of graphics on such a small system. The game really comes together at the 
 end. Every peice falls into place. The game is complete at the end. This game is a treat for all 
 video game lovers, and a good first game on the DS.
  
  Bottom Line: A solid and highly addictive selection, a real treat for the passionate video game 
 lovers, and first timers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbioonthebloc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is what i think of the game ok?
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was very impressive, it was cool how you could take your dogs out for a walk. 
 You can also play with your dog and feed and teach it tricks. The only downside of the gameplay 
 was that you ended up if u only had one puppy just sitting there and petting it comes a point when 
 you can not walk, teach, or enter in conteststs
  
  Graphics: The graphics fopr this game where very impressive I LOVE the way that they did the models 
 for the puppys just that the german sheperard does not look very accurate
  
  Sound: The sound for this game was Inccerible i love the bark and squeels there not many sounds 
 tho soo thats a little bit of a down side but this game is still terrific 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkslider99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I got this game when I first got my DS, which was around the same time of the release of the game 
 itself. Don't ask what suddenly sparked me to write a review, because I honestly don't know.
  
  For starters, I'm only focusing on gameplay, and value. This game, when I first played it, 
 blew me away. I loved it, however, after 2 week, i found I was starting to lose interest. I'd play 
 it less and less, and than I'd stop playing it for week on end, and than randomly get back into 
 it again for a few days. you can train your dog, feed him, walk him, take hi to contests, etc. 
 However, this all begins to lose it's charm after awhile. I often found myself playing just so 
 I could unlock a new breed of dog, during which time I'd be bored. After I got the dog breed i 
 wanted, I'd stop playing again. As of now, last week was the first time I played the game in over 
 a month, near 2 months in fact. And I only played it for about...4, 5 minutes. Only played it that 
 long because bathed them and was in the middle of a walk..
  
  So, this game, comes with a warning. At first, it'll be great. However, it soon wears thin. A great 
 idea, and good game at first, but loses your interest far too quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctownsoldier09
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh Nintendogs.... Where to begin? Nintendogs had amazing Japanese sales, and solid North American 
 sales, so what could possibly be bad about this game? The simple answer is, this isn't a game. 
 This is exactly like an upgraded version of those little pocket pets the kind of dorky kids had 
 back in junior high. I will try not to bash this game, but I have no promises.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Although the environments are a little bland, the dozens of breeds of dogs are 
 well animated and have their own distinct personalities. You can most likely find your favorite 
 breed of dog in this game, and it will look rather accurate to the real breed. The AI of the dogs 
 are pretty smart and lifelike, but as I mentioned before, the environments are just too bland.
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  This is where Nintendogs runs into its first major problems. All of the breeds of dogs bark pretty 
 much the exact same, and the constant sound of cars zooming by every 15 seconds even while you're 
 inside your own house gets rather annoying. For a DS game, Nintendogs is very staticky at times, 
 and can get very nerve-racking.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  When you first begin to play the game, you adopt your breed of puppy from the pet store and begin 
 feeding it and cleaning it. You teach it a variety of tricks and walk it, and even blow bubbles 
 at it. When doing this for the first time you believe that this game couldn't get any better, but 
 aside from this, there is really nothing to do in Nintendogs. You can participate in frisbee contests, 
 obedience contests, and agility contests for cash, but you can only buy more breeds with this cash. 
 The contests get old rather quick, and the lack of Wifi gives this game even less replayability 
 value. Put simply, there's not much to do in the world of Nintendogs.
  
  After the first few times you play this, it begins to feel like a constant grind to feed and bathe 
 your dog. If you don't do these things daily, your dog will begin to dislike you. Nintendogs is 
 a game that requires a lot of commitment, and that is not the kind of game I would like to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang610
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is so life like. How they crammed distinct attitude, anger, forgiveness, happiness, 
 memory, territory marking, other dog characteristics, breath-taking environment, and other amazing 
 features into such a tiny DS cartridge is beyond me. You would like this if you like to start out 
 with practically nothing, and using what you already have to get other cool things. Such as funky 
 accessories for your pups, gnarly toys, sweet sports supplies, soothing music, and up to 8 dogs! 
 You need to take the responsibility of taking care of your dog a few times a week, because even 
 if you turn the DS off, your dogs will get hungry and thirsty while awaiting your return. If you 
 have a dog already, don't think you wouldn't like this, because it's a whooooole different experience... 
 Trust me. Then again, I must agree with the others who say that this game eventually get boring. 
 Not completely although. This game will only get boring if you are not a true dog lover. I come 
 from a family with a gigantic history of pets, especially dogs. Therefore, this game is still very 
 enjoyable for me. I just never get tired of spending time with my virtual puppies! I don't think 
 that it's possible to accomplish everything. Every item, every room, every breed, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE!
 
  
  All in all, you like dogs? You'll love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriceOfGas
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Sure Nintendogs is a cute idea, but thats really all it is to me. I mean you start off picking 
 and choosing between many little pixelated pooches and start thinking you'll have a good time with 
 them. When I finally pick one I have to give it a name and repeatedly shout that name at my DS 
 until a vein is about to pop straight out of my head. After that you train your pup to do little 
 tricks like rollover or jump. Eventually you take it to competitions that are ever so frustrating 
 because of all the useless text you have to try to ignore. Through the competitions you earn money 
 to spend on the dogs food, shampoo, chewtoys, etc. 
  
  Overall, its a mini-game at best. Something you rent and get sick of before the due-date maybe. 
 I know everyone seems to love this game, but I don't really think of it as a game, I think of it 
 as something parents buy there kids so they don't have to get a real dog that takes real dumps 
 on the carpet. My suggestion is to rent it for a day, just to remember what tamagotchis used to 
 be like, or get a real game for your DS like Meteos, Castlevania, or Mariokart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanss35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  A really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound 
 dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I 
 mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A 
 really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound 
 dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I 
 mean it might sound dump but itA really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. isn't. A 
 really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound 
 dump but it isn't. A really fun game I mean it might sound dump but it isn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  You don't have to be a woman or a sissy to love this game. In fact, it's hard not to. I have spent 
 hours training my dogs, and believe me, it's very rewarding.
  
  Accually, rewarding is a great word to describe this game, as you really feel that you have accomplished 
 something. The dogs are all very cute, and filled with personality. It's hard to not believe that 
 you are training a real dog. There is a lot of things to do with your puppy/ies. You can wash them, 
 pat them, play with them, train them, buy accesories for them and feed them. You can also meet 
 other dogs through the bark mode, and they can play together. I nice touch, but I have only been 
 able to do this once, as it is hard to find other dogs.
  
  You can spend a lot of time on this game, and as I said earlier, it is very rewarding. It takes 
 a real man to buy this game and not just say its too sissy. Swallow your pride and buy Nintendogs, 
 which is more like buying real puppies, than buying a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  I picked this up for my 5 year old son as a sort of replacement until we get a bigger house and 
 can get him a proper puppy. I was shocked, therefore after playing it with him for a while just 
 how much fun it is to play. So much so, I bought another copy for myself for my own DS.
  
  There is not really too much that needs to be written about this game, it is essentially just a 
 puppy simulator. Your goal is to keep your puppy healthy and happy and that is about it.
  
  "Doesn't sound much fun" I hear you all say. Well, there are plenty of ways of keeping said puppy 
 amused that you become quite engrossed with it and compelled to keep playing.
  
  For starters you can train the puppy with your voice, yes you heard correctly and it does work. 
 Then there are competitions you can enter (frisbee, time trials and obedience) that allow you to 
 collect up money to buy more for the dog and his environment.
  
  The animation is spot on and the sounds are great as well, it really has been well put together 
 and thought out.
  
  So yes, grab a copy if you fancy something totally different. It really is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Nintendogs is supposed to be one of the best games for the DS, it is supposed to be a whole 
 new platform for gaming and attracting a huge amount of new players, but is it really that good? 
 Read to find out.
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  The graphics are very good and all the dogs look very realistic and have been done very well. Backgrounds 
 may be a little simple, but they fit into the game well and without a problem. Acessories, food 
 etc. for your dog also look good and are very good for showing what they are just through picture. 
 The only little problem is the graphics edges can be a little rough, but that is more of a DS than 
 Nintendogs thing.
  
  Gameplay 7/10:
  Nintendogs should be pretty self-explanitory, but i'll give some info anyway. You get to buy your 
 own little dog and look after it, feed it, pet it, teach it tricks, take it walking, play with 
 it and put it in competitions. Kind of like an advanced Tamagotchi. While this sounds like a lot 
 to do and keep you occupied with it is actually very easy and does not take much effort to do. 
 Teaching your dog tricks the the most fun thing about the game, using the microphone you have to 
 kee telling your dog what to do and thenm patting it when it gets the trick right, but you will 
 have to keep practicing or it will forget. Competitions are also good fun, but it won't take you 
 long to get good at them adn win them easily. You can lso walk your dog out on the street and it 
 can find presents. This is fun for a while, but will soon lose its appeal and become more of a 
 choir, kind of like havign a real dog. 
  
  Sound 6/10:
  Background music is virtually non-existent in this game, the little that there actually is, is 
 so soft you can't hear it over your dog barking, which brings me to my next point. Your dog barking 
 is not as annoying as it may sound, it is quite cute and is very realistic, also throwing a tennis 
 ball or frisbee and it landing also makes some good sound effects.
  
  Replay Value 9/10:
  Well it is a tamagotchi type game and you can have up to three dogs, so there is plenty of replayability 
 as long as you don't get to bored of it. You can also spend some time unlocking all the breeds 
 to buy and all the accessories which adds a lot more to the game.
  
  Conclusion 7/10:
  If you want a dog of your own and your not allowed to have one, for whatever reason, then you will 
 probably find this game more enjoyable, but for those of us that have dogs this game isn't much 
 less work than having a real one and having a real one is much more rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs has been released with 3 diffrent versions. A total of 18 breeds. All are unlockable 
 on every versions. Actually there is 19 counting the Dalmation which you need to find a "Fireman's 
 Hat".
  The dogs are relistic. Maybe one of the best looking DS games yet. The gameplay can be repetive. 
 You can feed your dog. Give it water and milk. Take it on walks. Teach it tricks and just have 
 fun. All using the microphone. You can also get records to listen to. You have a white record for 
 messages. You can take your dog to "Bark Mode". You can also enter your dog in contest. Disc, Alglity, 
 and the hardest Obidence. You might look like a idiot playing it in public but big deal. The value 
 is great. Nintendo has once again been very innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuggerBushy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you are like me, you don't usually judge a game by it's color. I went the other way though, 
 and looked at the faces of the puppies.... they are so cute. Honestly, you can't NOT like the puppies, 
 if you do... well that's just cold on your part. This game is a great game for the Nintendo DS and 
 uses most, if not all, of the capabilities of the Nintendo DS.
  
  The game play is good, but then again it is slightly repetitive in a sense. You can do many things 
 with your dog, such as take it for a walk, go practice for tourneys, ram it with an RC kart (you 
 did not just see that) , and there is plenty of stuff you can do WITHOUT your dog, such as go buy 
 stuff, remodel your home, it's all good. You can train your dog to do tricks voice commands and 
 much much more.
  You can even go to bark mode with a friend to contact them wirelessly ( another plus of the ds) 
 and trade items and dogs. Everything that this game has is well detailed and nothing is looked 
 over.
  
  The controls on this game aren't really controls... the only thing you use is your stylus and I 
 guess your voice counts. The stylus can be used for many things like petting your dog or helping 
 him / her learn tricks. The voice is using the microphone in the DS and you can use your voice 
 for the tricks you teach your dog. When you say the command in a similar tone the dog does the 
 trick you taught it.
  
  The sound in this game is superb. The DS speakers play the sounds loud and very crisp and clear 
 that is pleasing to the ear. Dog's barking or when your at a competition the people cheering, it 
 all sounds great.
  
  This would be a perfect ten, had it not had such limited things for training and contests, and 
 maybe a wider vareity of items. Nintendogs 2 anybody? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Your own virtual dog. Sounds like an intriguing, unique idea. And let me tell you that Nintendogs 
 is the closest any console has ever come to displaying the relationship between owner and dog. 
 But this shows something else as well, regardless of how much aplomb Nintendo pulls this game off 
 with, it still ends up being a bit of a "rental" sort of game, even if you wouldn't want to part 
 with your dog after two days. 
  
  Right from the start Nintendo have really poured good ideas into it, like politely knocking on 
 the door of the kennel with the stylus. Choose your pup and you are launched into an epic story 
 involving two warring sides that fiercely battle throughout the land of *insert long complicated 
 fantasy name here*. 
  
  Well yes, the DS is sort of a playground for innovation, and Nintendo have put the stylus, touch 
 screen and microphone to good use. The stylus lets you affectionately stroke your dog, hold its 
 lead, bath him, and throw sports objects such as tennis balls and frisbees. The microphone is a 
 great touch, as the good voice recognition system easily lets you call your dog by its name and 
 make it do all manner of tricks... all through your voice! Tell it to sit, shake, spin, roll over, 
 lie down... the only drawback with this great feature is that you really can't play this on the 
 bus or train, as if they see you shouting "Maxwell" or "Brian" into a handheld they will call the 
 men in white coats and you will be locked up in a desolate asylum for the next two decades. Or, 
 even worse, the bubble blower, which requires to blow into the microphone like you're forcing the 
 dust off an ancient prehistoric relic you found in your grandmother's attic. 
  
  And while all this is very, very good and can certainly kick the crap out of anything the PSP can 
 come up with in terms of creativity, there are a load of annoying hindrances in the game that really 
 spoil what's otherwise a simply unforgettable virtual life sim. First there's the hunger, the thirst 
 and the sheer neglection. Abandon this game and your dog will probably run away to the open arms 
 of the RSPCA, and poor Lucky won't have an owner anymore, regardless of how much a cold-hearted 
 sod he is. And then there's the feeling that there's essentially NOTHING HAPPENING. It's all kind 
 of pointless and makes Nintendogs feel like a DS tech demo which shows off all its gizmos. I thought 
 to myself after opening my thousandth tin of dry food, why the hell am I torturing myself by caring 
 for a dog that doesn't physically exist?!? Why?!? And why am I not really doing much except walking 
 a virtual labrador to the park and back for no apparent reason?!? 
  
  And all this hardship is made worse at how cute and innocent the dogs look. These are beautifully 
 rendered blobs of canine adorableness, from the splendid animations to the brilliant way he cocks 
 his leg up to mark his territory. It actually hurt when my dog ran away simply because I couldn't 
 be bothered sparing any money for a water bottle. I'm so sad that I put Nintendogs at the bottom 
 of a very deep pit and went to play some Advance Wars: Dual Strike, which I might add is the best 
 DS game I've played so far. 
  
  There's a lot to learn in Nintendogs. One, owning a virtual dog is cute and memorable, but the 
 core gameplay of the game isn't very good. Two, that the dogs are so cute it actually hurts when 
 you put the cartridge away. I actually woke up in the middle of night and heard a dog crying out 
 in a hurt way in my conscience, so much that I HAD to pick up my DS and find that Sheba had ran 
 away. I really wanted to love this game, but at its heart, Nintendogs may as well have been called 
 Nintendevils... they're cuite asnd remarkably, but look past the sheen and you'll find the dog 
 is just a spiteful little sod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clank_master9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  awsome thats what this game is pure fun and really good the dogs are really realistic and it's 
 fun to take them fora walkand thow frisbe and play catch and fatch and teach your dog tricks and 
 win competiotions and really you can do tons of stuuf its really fun great ds game the dogs act 
 so reall wtch is just amazing. any one who iis a dog lover or just wants to have fun should get 
 this game. its a fun game theirs no deynying that this is a fun fun fun fun game full of dog goodness. 
 it's pretty easy thought somtimes your dogs can be real idiots really dumb. and they can get in 
 fights with other dogs, but this is a great game so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BountyHunterNH
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game is possibley the worse game ive ever played. No one should buy this game until it's 5 
 dollars because if you get it now you'll throw it away and u dont want to do that. This game should 
 never been made. You can only enter three competions a day and it takes a year for you to unlock 
 every single dog and once you do the same thing happens you get bored. This game is cute but is 
 horrible i should know because im a dog lover. Buy this game for 5 dollars and if so get dashund 
 it's the best of the three.
  
  But still it won't make much of a difference of doing the same thing over and over again. I basically 
 threw it in the trash this game was so boring. So what if you are a dog lover nothing will make 
 it better. Sure they're cute but there is not much to do in this game. So if you plan to getthis 
 game get it for 5 dollars maximum! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyGuy_45
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, if you haven't tried it out get it. Im giving it a 10.0 it's just like real 
 life!!! You take your dogs out for walks and much more, Pick it up! It's awesome, believe me, i know.!
 
  The game is hard, you've gotta do tricks for your dog teach it's name is harder than it looks, you 
 might get fustrated, but dont. You've got lot's to do in this game, just not walk dogs and stuff, you've 
 gotta enter contests, Earn Money for More stuff for your dog... Just like real life!
  I am surprised about the graphics in this game, they are very well done, even for a Portable Ds,
 
  I hope they come out with more! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manaalq
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  this is game Quality i like. Precious precious i like i like. U like? i like this game interesting 
 game. idiot dogs i have 0. precious precious. I like part when dog shakes it butt hole. Bow wow 
 how pow yow ha ha haha hahah ah ah snoop dog dog i like i like precious precious dog with big butthole 
 hhahahahahah u like? me like bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow bow 
 word word word word word word word word word ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is highly inovative, and is an instant amazment to most users, however the excitement 
 only lasts about 3-5 days and the fun is over. There is not near enough to do in the game everyday, 
 and the contests are dull. Taking your dog for a walk is very boring and I do not consider it fun, 
 after doing it like 5 times a day. There is nothing new to do after about 5 days, except get a 
 new dog, and I don't see any difference in any dog's character. I got this game mainly becuase 
 of the amazing graphics. Besides tahat, I wouldn't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_of_Chaos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Its good like the dogs are fun to play with and all and the compititions and finding stuff but 
 training them is hard. To make them sit is hard and then getting the right tone of voice is hard 
 also. But Overall good game. I had fun training the dog and everything. Im still unlocking most of 
 the stuff and theres more dogs that i need. I never tried bark mode so anyone out there thats tried 
 bark mode mail me and tell me how it is. Ohh yeah i heard there was like a rare item in the game 
 a mario hat or something mail me if you found it too i want to know how you got or even know if 
 there is a such thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniaticMeat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  So, everybody i know is practically bragging about their new Ds' and Nintendogs game. As i was 
 one of the few of my friends that didn't get a DS for christmas, i wasn't too sure, but the next 
 day, my friend brings in her game and it is seriously so cute. You just look into those cute little 
 puppy eyes and... anyway, so now i have this best selling game and it's great, even though i've 
 had it for two days. It serioulsy is the best game i've played on my Ds yet. It's good for a lot 
 of people, becuase it's not so much of a competition game. You can go at your own speed and pace, 
 but won't get boring if you speed through it or take your time. The thing is, there are so many 
 qualities for this game. There are competitions, Tranier Points, Money, and the best of all, the 
 cute little puppies. Gradually, dogs will add to your avalible list along with the Trainer Points 
 you earn, so i advise you, to get a couple of starter dogs, then work your way through with them 
 untill' a few more are avalible, then get one new one and so on. As you are only allowed eight 
 dogs, as my friend learned the hard way, it would be a shame to get eight starter dogs then notice 
 this really cute one you want. It's a well built game, based on the love and relastionships between 
 dogs and their owners. If you don't have this game, i seriously advise you to go out and get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasvegas126
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  If you wanted to buy a DS game I would strongly suggest a Nintendogs game. Nintendogs has good 
 graphics, sound, and a lot more stuff. Nintendogs is my favorite game for DS. I love Nintendogs! 
 ( If you haven't gotten a Nintendogs game, you should.) Dogs are my second favorite animal. If 
 you have any Questions about Nintendogs, e-mail me at cowlover@insightbb. com. I have two dogs in 
 my family. One is a Golden Rietriever named Bailey. The other one's name is Cooper and she is a 
 Yorkie Poodle mix. I hope you like Nintendogs if you have it. Thank you for reading my reriew for 
 Nintendogs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is unlike any other game you have ever played. Instead of the general idea that a game 
 is win or lose Nintendogs is a game that never stops surprising and entertaining.
  
  Like I mentioned above, Nintendogs is not a normal game at all. Instead of the concept of win/lose 
 Nintendogs proves to be an innovative experience by offering an experience free of constraints 
 bound by win/lose games. It is arguable that you could lose in Nintendogs by neglecting it, but 
 I disagree. Losing in Nintendogs would be to have your dogs die (which they dont) .
  
  In Nintendogs you are charged with the care of one or more puppies of your choice (depending on 
 which version of the game you purchased) and then raising it to be a successful show dog. During 
 the course of this game you will never stop finding something that really intrigues you in a way 
 a game never has before. The first time I selected a bubble wand and then blew into the microphone 
 and my wand expelled bubbles I was blown away. Sure I have blown bubbles in real life, but have 
 you ever had that interactivity in a game?
  
  There are a variety of things you can do with your pet in Nintendogs. One of these activities includes 
 going for a walk. One of the simple pleasures in Nintendogs is walking you dog, perhaps its so 
 effortless that it makes walking a real dog look. not so attractive? While going on a walk you 
 will have to obey leash laws and have a leash on the dog, which you can lead it around with. During 
 your walks you can stumble upon which may contain various items, picking these up can significantly 
 increase the amount of useless abstract items in your collection (including Mario hats for your 
 dogs) .
  
  Besides walking your dog you can do a variety of things with him in your apartment. From disc throwing 
 to blowing bubbles, there is something you can do to entertain yourself and your dogs. In the beginning 
 of the game you only have 1 toy, but you quickly acquire more at a steady pace.
  
  You also have the option to bathe or comb your dog at any time you want (assuming you have the 
 necessary supplies) but this is the only time you may be disappointed with the realism aspect (if 
 you are going to be looking for the little issue, it will be here) then you will dislike the fact 
 your dog stands perfectly still when getting washed. I bet you all wish your dogs did that eh?
 
  
  The competitions are fairly straightforward and there is a limited replay value on the competitions, 
 but the replay on this game as a whole is incredible. There will always be something to do with 
 your Nintendog that you will find entertaining.
  
  Nintendogs is one of the only games I feel was truly innovative, and it is readily apparent from 
 playing this game for any length of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongeyfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  i like this game it's so cool cause of these reasons.
  1. You get to call your dog's name.
  2. You get to feed your dog.
  3. You get to enter your dog in contests.
  4. There's a record 
 thing here you can record your own voice.
  5. You go to the shops (oh wait that's boring)
  see how this game is fabulous
  all though you have to teach your dog stuff before you can enter 
 the contests
  but this game is really cool
  really really cool it's awesome even very very very very very very very very very very 
  
  
 very very very very very very very very very very 
  
  very very very very very very very very very very 
  very very very very very very very very very 
 very 
  very very very very very very very very very very 
  very very very very very very very very very very 
  AWESOME!. and that's why children i give 
 this game a 10 kk!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlabre02
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  If you were to ask almost anyone, they would say that a game with a review of 9.1 is basically 
 the perfect game for almost anyone. This is not the case for Nintendogs. I am 14 and I figured 
 that it must be a good game given that it has gotten such good ratings. Who cares if it is a dog 
 game, it must be fun. This is not the case.
  
  Sure, the graphics are great and the dogs do act like real dogs, but that does not make a game. 
 The first time you play this game, you will notice how "cute" the dogs are and you will probably 
 sit down and have the time of your life. This will not be true for long. A few days later, you 
 will be sitting there, scrubbing your dog with soap, and just be thinking of what you are doing. 
 The game will begin to feel like a chore. The replay value of this game is ZERO.
  
  There is not even very much that you can do in this game. There are three competitions in this 
 game, which are the obedience test, frisbee throw, and gymnasium stuff (jumping the bar... running 
 through the polls) . You basically do these to get money to take care of your dog. The rest of the 
 game is taking care of your dog.
  
  I am not saying that this is a terrible game, I am just saying that I would only recommend it to 
 someone that feels that they can have a good time sitting down with a fake dog everyday. However, 
 it is the perfect tool parents to see if their child is responsible enough to have dog of their 
 own, as you will need to be with your dog everyday in order to keep it happy and fed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydertots
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs lab and friends was my "OMG i gotta have it!" of the year. But then I thought what if 
 people laugh at me? But ounce i got the game i didn, t care, I brought the game everywhere. Bus, train, crowded 
 city, etc. It is truly a captivating game. One that will not only astound you but keep you exited 
 for a long time. Most people wonder if the different games matter. just go with the flow (or with 
 your favorite dog.) As for me i loved pugs but also loved labs, soulotion? I did bark mode with 
 a friend that had a pug. Bark mode is a fun little perk to the game that alowses your dog to play 
 with another persons dog. I Jadertots, proud member of gamespot. com highly recomend this game to 
 anyone around the world.
  
  Jadertots 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flying_fury
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I dont know mabye its just me but the game seem to .... odd and most of the time frustrating the 
 dog never lisstened to a thing i said (mabye he/she was deaf or something) and overall the game 
 is just stupid if you want the experince of having a pet go to your local animal shelter and buy 
 a dog or a cat and save its life instead of wasting yours on a game about a fake dog or cat.
  if you cant bring a pet to your house then at least stop by the shelter to play with the ones that 
 are less fortunate and don't say "I don't have the time" thats total bs if you have time play with 
 a computer dog or cat then you have time to play the local animals down at the sheltor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waytogo24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I am glad to say this is one of the best games I ever played. The graphics are amazing. If you 
 thought it was a real dog I would not be suprised. The graphics seem so real it should be voted 
 best graphics. Nintendo really accomplished something when this game came out. Everyone is playing 
 it except people without DSs. It is so great. You can enter compitions with your dog and earn lots 
 of Moola. You can go on walks and meet other dogs and find things on the walk like frisbees, collars, 
 and even sticks! You can play in the park with your dog teach it tricks and do all sorts of things. 
 You can even meet your friends and play with their dogs and after you meet their dogs you can buy 
 the breed of dog you played with! It is an amazing game if you have a DS and don't have this game 
 you are at a loss my friend by it now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJPasadena
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I ended up picking up 'Nintendogs: Labs' pretty much so my girlfriend could check it out. By the 
 way, I consider myself lucky to be dating a girl who is an actual gamer. Anyway -- back to the game... where 
 was I? Oh ya, so I picked-up Nintendogs so we could check out the game and hopefully have a little 
 fun playing it together. 
  
  I still can't believe it, I am totally amazed at how much I like playing this game. I literally 
 put down 'Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories' on my PSP and have been playing Nintendogs non-stop 
 of late whenever I get my itch to play a game on a hand-held.
  
  You know a big reason why this game works is because of what Nintendo knows about games and gamers 
 and then how they impliment this knowledge into a game. I know this might sound dramatic, but the 
 interface is perfect, the concept is perfect, and with the exception of a little redundancy... this 
 game is perfect, worth buying and adding to any collection. 
  
  There's just something to be said about being able to "pet" and "play catch" with your little pup 
 who really just wants a warm and safe home... uhh... ya well... you know what I mean right? RIGHT!? 
 All playing aside, this game is what happens when Nintendo grabs ahold of Tamagotchi and is allowed 
 to add their own personality into the mix. 
  
  I'm kind of left wondering how Nintendo follows this little title up, besides adding different 
 breeds and such. Just as long as the don't go the whole "urban" way (which is so popular these 
 days) and call it 'Nintendawgs: Rotties and Friends'
  
  The only real negative I have run into since picking up 'Nintendogs: Labrador & Friends' is having 
 to hear my girl wax on about how right she was and how she has the real game-picking talent in 
 the house.
  
  Yup, you were right dear... this game owns!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintyfreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Here doggy, doggy, doggy.... who's a good boy?
  
  Yes, that's right, it's a dog game. Forget Dogz for the PC, there's a new animal in town, ready 
 to be released on unsuspecting gamers.
  Nintendogs gives all those people who don't have dogs a chance to get one.... or three, or a maximum 
 of eight I believe. Train your dogs to sit, lie down, roll-over, beg, shake, and many more tricks. 
 Bring them to dog shows and test their ability to catch frisbees jump over fences, and understand 
 you. Get money from competing in shows and buy your doggy food, water, toys and awesome accessories. 
 I have a Luigi hat, it's so funny.
  Bring your dogs for walks and meet other dogs, on the street or in the park.
  Multiplayer allows 
 you to connect to your friends DS and send one of your dogs to meet one of theirs. Very funny.
 
  So, Nintendogs is a pet sim, a great one. Not for everyone, but well worth playing if your an 
 animal lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabesttoad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I was totally in love with the game at first and everything was cool but the teaching tricks can 
 get annoying. (i almost smashed the DS) . good game but it gets boring after about a month or so. 
 Everything becomes old but its still pretty fun! the touch screen interacting was very fun but 
 i rarely play this game anymore, ive moved onto mario kart and animal crossing wi-fi. If you like 
 dogs alot i highly recomend this game. although its not a long time game while you still like it 
 you love it garunteed. real life puppy simulator but i got really bored of trying to earn new dogs 
 it took a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splitmetaphor
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, whether or not you like this game depends on whether or not you enjoy games like 
 Animal Crossing, the Sims, etc, that have no clear purpouse.
  
  Now let's get on with it.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Technically, this game looks very good. The dog models 
 look VERY good, especially for the DS, and each breed is easily recognizable. The backgrounds (house, 
 while on a walk) are very simplistic, but have a certain style that fits well with the game. The 
 menus look crisp and clean, and the competition arenas look fairly good as well. The only problem 
 comes in the form of some slowdown when you meet other dogs on a walk. This slowdown is completely 
 random - you'll have slowdown maybe 1 in 5 times you meet a dog on a walk - though it doesn't make 
 the game unplayable or anything, and if you don't like it, you can simply press the return button 
 and return to your walk instead of letting your dog play with the other trainer's dog in practical 
 slow motion.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  As I said above, you'll either love or hate this game. Either way, you're going to have to spend 
 at least a few hours a week feeding, training, walking, washing, brushing, and competing with your 
 dog. This isn't a pick me up game, and there's only one "save file", so it's meant for your full 
 attention. That aside, the game gives you good reasons to be motivated. It's fun to watch as your 
 dog goes from clueless when you get it to fully trained, and bringing home the money. You'll enjoy 
 collecting the insane amounts of items in the game, and will most likely enjoy simply being with 
 your dog as well. Not to downplay your commitment to this game, but if you ever do get sick of 
 it, you can send your dog (s) to the "Dog Hotel" for a while to stay, until you decide to start 
 playing the game again. This is a welcome addition, as this game will not hold your interest forever, 
 and taking breaks from it helps keep your interest. The game utilizes the touch screen VERY well, 
 and the buttons are rarely used. A good game all in all to show off the functions of the DS.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound here is great. While some dogs have the same barks, mostly the sounds are 
 varied, and the music is fantastic.
  
  OTHER GRIPES:
  There are a few more issues:
  -The mic can be hard to use when telling your dog to do a trick. Sometimes you'll get frustrated 
 when you say a command clearly and your dog simply stares at you blankly. The trick is to teach 
 your dog the tricks in a monotone voice, so it's easy to emulate later.
  -There are some collision detection issues, such as the dog appearing to eat the edge of the foodbowl, 
 the leash going through the dogs head, and two dogs slightly clipping into each other when interaction. 
 These aren't major problems though, and don't get in the way of anything.
  
  All in all, I can really reccomend Nintendogs to anyone who thinks they'd enjoy it. Now if you 
 hated Animal Crossing or games such as that, don't buy this game - most likely, you'll hate it. 
 But if this is your territory, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningrod767
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  You must think that this game may be girlish and babyish. It's not. It is super cool to have a 
 virtual pal! This is also one of the first DS games that allow you to talk into the microphone. 
 You first knock on the kennel door to start the game. Then, you get to choose one out of 6 puppies. 
 They are all different in each of the three games. So choose wisely. You get to take your puppy 
 home to teach him his name and get him to know you better. Soon, you get to teach him tricks, take 
 him on walks, meet other dogs, bark mode, and a lot more! Even competitions! Oh, and they never 
 die! They stay puppies forever. You get to keep up to eight dogs. So doggy fans and animal fans 
 of the world, get your virtual puppy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I got a nintendo DS on christmas with the game nintendogs labrador and freinds of course when I 
 got the DS and the game I fell back and didnt look where I was falling and hit my head on the fire 
 place. This game is like having a real dog. I do not have a real dog so I play this game every day. If 
 you do not have a dog you should buy this game if you have a dog you should buy this game. If you 
 have a cat and buy this game keep the volume down so your cat dose not get scared. I already have 
 3 dogs and I have a toy poodle a shiba inu and a labrador retreiver and they are all afraid of 
 a stick my question is how can I make them not be afraid of a stick. If anyone knows please tell 
 me. All of my freinds have a nintendo DS except one of them and he bought a micro. He thinks micro 
 is better than a DS but I think DS is better. I still cant believe my dogs are afraid of a stick 
 they are also afraid of a bark ball and tissue box. It just makes me say why the heck are you afraid 
 of a stupid stick. I get over 1000 dollars every day with my dogs. To make a long reveiw short this 
 is the best I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a very cool game that pushes the DS to its limits. What I mean is that the touch 
 screen and microphone are used to their full potential. Thank to Nintendo, I got the game nearly 
 20 days before it came out. Its really cool how the dogs react to touch. They love to be pet. The 
 microphone is used for voice commands or tricks. The dog even responds to the name u give it. The 
 multiplayer is cool because u can get new breeds and new items. You actually get attatched to your 
 dog/dogs and anyone will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Dogs in your DS!?!?!?
  
  Can it die!?!? :D
  
  No? : (
  
  Who wants a smelly dead corpse of a dog in your DS anyhow? ;)
  
  Ok basically this game is 
 pretty... weird... well concept wise anyhow. I was VERY sceptical that this game was even going to 
 shift ONE copy off a game store's shelf, but after seeing how those dogs are animated... man... i 
 just wanted to hug them.... shame they're in my DS : (
  
  But in anycase, it has some nice features this game however it takes too long to earn enough trainer 
 points to access other dogs and then at the end of the day... thats about it anyhow.
  
  So fun at first, but then soon gets boring fast... and before you know it you'll be neglecting your 
 dogs for about 2 months coming back now and then to feed and wash them out of guilt! ;)
  
  Summary: Get a real dog, its more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  People kept on going on about this silly little pet simulatory game called nintendogs for months 
 before release. it was really annoying me. Dont u guys keep talking about a game which nobody else 
 cares about to your friend ok? good. 
  
  I told my buddies i was getting this game just so they would shut up. but one day my friend showed 
 me the actual game. and i was very very impressed. so impressed it was almost top priority on my 
 christmas list. Nintendogs : labrador & friends it was then. 
  
  I told myself i wouldnt play the game til boxing day since i thought about all the fuss you need 
 to go through before you start (which isnt much when i think about it now) . but i couldnt help 
 myself, i opened the little box with the little doggies on it and put in the little game cartridge 
 into my little ds and the moment it started my little face had a smile on it from ear to ear. 
 
  
  i never thought i would say this but... i actually do love that lil piece of software. call me 
 sad if you will but if you played it and named your dog and saw its face when you called its name... 
 you would love it to. it helps if you give em a cutie name (i called mine Dee Dee, shes a girl 
 by the way) . 
  
  i am addicted to this lil game. some people might find it boring feeding a dog every half and hour 
 and walking it but not me. i think this is a brilliant game for those who like dogs but dont want 
 their horrid breath, their furr dropping all over the carpet and them licking your mouth when you 
 are asleep. 
  
  Buy this game... BUY IT NOW!!! as an added bonus, when they poop it doesnt even smell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:23 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't necessarily say that Nintendogs is te very best game on the DS but its by far the best 
 original title to come to DS. There is no game quite like it and it's stands out in a very positive 
 way. The graphics of the dogs themselves are superb and the animation of them is even better, however 
 the game does suffer ever so slightly from poorly drawn walking backgrounds and unimaginative houses.
 
  The gameplay is simple and very repetative, which isn't a bad thing, but its best to play the 
 game in shortish bursts unless you have more than one dog. The gameplay is by no means bad, infact 
 it's very good, it's just that you can run out of things to do very quickly if you only have one 
 dog.
  The sound is solid. The value of this game can vairy depending on what position your at in the 
 game, the more you have done in the game then the more you can do; well up to a cirtain point. 
 It's seems odd but it's true. If your not a serious gamer then you may get frustrated by the real 
 time element of the game. There is no way to speed up time in the game it self, but I little trick 
 I learned if you want to move onto the next day is: Turn on your ds, do not start the game yet. 
 Go onto the calender in settings and change the date to the day previous to the current date, then 
 go onto time in settings and change the time to 23:59 on that same day.
  Nindendogs is great and highly original game, cirtainly one for dog lovers and one for people with 
 patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  What can i say? I thought this was gonna be just a crappy game for kids, but i buy it for my little 
 sister for Christmas and i found myself playing with it more than she does! This game is great! 
 It is something new and different and it is really addicting. The dogs looks great and are just 
 so cute! And they sound cute too. The great part of this game of course is being able to take care 
 of a virtual puppy. I had more fun with my husky puppy than i do with my real dog! You can take 
 your dog on walks, enter it in dog shows, and the best part is that you can use nintendo wi-fi 
 and play with other peoples puppies! Please dont judge this game by its cover go pick it up, you 
 wont be disapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Starting off to pick your dog was difficult, but it gets very easy to train them and buy a friend. 
 I keep winning money in the competitions, and still not bored.
  One of the only problems in this game is that you have to look after the dog like you would a real 
 pet, and i mean the annoying parts like bathing it, brushing it, feeding it, watering it but it 
 is very fun to play with a pet them. go for walks by going out for walks it increases the dogs 
 capabilities and strength.
  every time you will go you will meet a dog or get a present if you take a walk to the gym you can 
 teach your dog agility and put it in competitions. Overall THis game is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Nintedogs is a good game it tons of fun for a while it is my little sister loves the game to death 
 , The graphics are very done for DS game they very well done the dogs are well draw , the game 
 play is fun just like haveing a real dog but it videogame & the dogs dons't grow up , you take 
 them on a walk & play with them as well , hower it get borning fast , that why Real life dogs are 
 beter , the sound is avange , it a good game if you like dogs or fun games get this , if you cat 
 persons or don't like pet games then rent , it a must buy , it a great game for kids as well ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMexican8004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to get this game. I bought my DS because i knew this game was coming out for 
 it , and boy it was worth buying it. 
  
  I had so much fun playing this game. The graphics are great the gameplay is great the sound is 
 great every thing is great but the bark mode could have done better. Why you might ask. Well because 
 all you really do is play with your friend's dog and thats it ( you can also give your DS friend 
 a item of yours ) . 
  
  All in all this is a great game and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. The game's boisterous and affectionate young canines are 
 impossibly endearing, making the tasks of caring for them, training them, and simply interacting 
 with them a joy. That Nintendogs occasionally limits some of your activities in what is already 
 a streamlined set of options is pretty much the only bad thing you can say about the virtual puppy 
 game. However, the game is at its best in short, satisfying bursts, and is suited to dog lovers 
 of all ages. 
  
  
  Behold the awesome power of your adorable new puppy overlords. 
  When you start the game, you'll immediately be whisked to the Nintendog Kennel to choose a companion 
 from among six different breeds of scampering cuteness. The breeds you have available to you at 
 the beginning of the game depend on the version you're playing, though all versions can eventually 
 unlock all 18 types. Each individual dog has its own personality, from shy to daring, from willing 
 student to determined truant. Every time you bring up a particular breed listing, the puppies you 
 can choose from will shuffle to a random selection of colors and personalities, so you can hand-pick 
 the type of pooch you want. Pay the adoption fee, and then head home to bond with your new cold-nosed 
 friend. 
  
  The bonding comes easily with Nintendogs, due in large part to the high levels of care and detail 
 that went into creating these digital canines. It's not just that the puppies have been given the 
 accurate appearance of their given breeds -- though the representation is quite authentic, down to 
 the different coat and color patterns. It's that a great host of doggy mannerisms have all been 
 captured just about perfectly. Every enthusiastic gallop after a tennis ball is just right, the 
 way their eyes close in satisfaction and their tail blurs into motion when they're patted, the 
 way they sometimes flop over each other for a sudden nap, and each tongue-lolling, panting stare 
 filled with happy adulation is pure puppy. So it's easy for you to become rapidly attached to your 
 new virtual pals, and it's hard for you to resist the occasional sad-eyed face and plaintive whine 
 of a Nintendog begging for attention. 
  
  Once you get your dog home, you'll be able to name it using the game's voice-recognition software, 
 repeating it a few times until your pooch "learns" his or her name. After an initial adjustment 
 period in which you'll shower your new puppy with attention, you can begin training it. As a puppy 
 performs an action it can learn as a trick, a lightbulb icon appears in the corner of the screen. 
 Quickly tapping this icon lets you record a command to associate with that action -- for example, 
 linking the word "sit" to when the dog sits down. Then it's a matter of associating that same word 
 with the same action multiple times, until your puppy learns the trick. A successful training session 
 results in another lightbulb above Rover's head and a happy yip; if your dog is confused, red question 
 marks appear over his head to let you know you need to speak a bit more clearly next time. Blue 
 question marks appear if you're trying to teach a command that sounds like something the puppy 
 already knows, so you don't risk overlapping your tricks. 
  
  
  Some dogs learn faster than others, but they can all be coaxed into obedience. 
  Once you've 
 taught your puppy a number of commands (the amount of time this takes depends on whether or not 
 you picked one of those daring, headstrong dogs, which seemed like a good idea when you bought 
 it) and raised your trainer level a bit, you can begin preparing your dog for the various contests 
 you can compete in. There are three different types: obedience, which rates your dog on how well 
 it follows verbal commands; disc, which lets you show off your dog's Frisbee-catching prowess; 
 and agility, which is a hectic romp through an obstacle course. How well your puppy does depends 
 on how much you've been practicing a given activity and how strong your bond is. Placing in the 
 top three earns you a sparkling trophy, prize money, and a boost to the next level of competition. 
 If you lose, you're knocked down a level, so you'll have to move your way back to the top. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjashaman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Labrador and Friends is a unique game for the Nintendo DS. It can get repetitive to 
 some. Each day, it goes by real time, you may enter your Nintendog in three competitions and can 
 teach it three tricks. After you finish using those turns up, all you can really do is walk your 
 dog and train it. There aren't very many places to go when on a walk. There are two parks and two 
 discount shops. You have to take care of your Nintendog which is a simple process. The game makes 
 excellent use of the touch screen and built-in microphone. It is a neat game you can quickly pick 
 up and play and there are many breeds of dogs. It has some of the best graphics I've seen on the 
 DS. Screenshots don't do this game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  WOW! Nintendogs is one game that's just... WOW! You basically just take care of your own dog, whichever 
 breed you choose. You train it by giving it voice commands, and petting it if it does something 
 good. You can take it for walks, bathe it, and buy, or find, new toys or accesories for your dog 
 to play with or wear. You can enter your puppies in contests, and earn trainer points which unlock 
 new apartments and breeds. It may not seem like much, but, the puppies are just so lifelike. However... 
 The game can get old, after a LONG TIME. After you think you have collected everything, you think 
 that there's nothing left to do. Of course you know that you haven't collected EVERYTHING, but 
 you think you have collected enough that that it is all the game has to offer. The gameplay CAN 
 get old, otherwise, the game is a great choice for ANYONE. This is the game that will make people 
 actually buy a DS to play it. It's THAT GOOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmewater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs Labrador and Friends Review
  
  Some of the ups in this game is that the game never ends and your dog just says take me for a virtual 
 walk but you don't have it proves wheather not or should buy a real pet skills in all the things 
 but you cant get a real pet just because you can take care of a virtual pet.
  
  Some of the downs of this games are you cannot just sit there your dogs they like you. Look into 
 the eyes of a dog its your choice if they live die run away and you never see them again its a 
 sad game also but if oyu stay with the dogs they will stay with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raaaani
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, I picked up this game when Europe got the release and I was really hyped! But... In the beginning 
 everything went wrong and the puppy didn't understand the name that I said. He's name should be 
 Hoppe. After a lot of problems I could continue with my Shiba Inu. Now it was funnier. I trained 
 him in the park, I gave him food 5 times a day, I washed him and other things. But maybe a week 
 later everything was all the same and it was boring. So I bought a new dog!
  
  Then it was just like before. I trained the dog and everything I did to Hoppe. But then everything 
 went boring again. The dogs was dirty and hungry and it wasn't fun anymore. The graphics was great 
 and the dogs was realistic. But maybe to realistic. You feel like a bad person when you think about 
 your precious dogs. How hungry they must be, how sad they must be. This is not a game that you 
 will play a long time. You'll just pick it up sometimes and play. This game... It's good but it's 
 too short!
  
  One month passed and I bought Mario Kart DS. Mario Kart DS don't hurt you, like nintendogs do if 
 you're not care about the dogs. nintendogs is not a enough good game to hold you playing it for 
 a long time. Or is it just a trick to sell the hardware, take cute dogs and put them in a game. 
 Three versions is only a trick to sell the game.
  
  "But I want all the dogs... Then I take all the versions."
  
  If you love dogs that don't die, 
 this is a game for you. If you're a action-game lover, buy another game. It's just not enough good 
 to get a better score. Nintendo, you can better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Aww, the cute little puppies finally rolls its way on the DS. Now, don't get me wrong, dogs are 
 great and have the cute little eyes, but after an hour or so, you may be asking yourself, Is that 
 all? . When popping Nintendogs into your DS, you are able to buy one dog at the start, until you 
 earn more money. The dog you start with, depends on what version of Nintendogs you buy. The main 
 idea of the game is to just take care of your new pup, making sure he's fed, groomed, walked, and 
 can be entered into three different competitions. Sounds great, but after you do it ten times a 
 day, you may want to be playing some other game instead. It's an excellent idea for a game, and 
 overall carried out very well, but the lack of material makes it a very short experience. Though, 
 some parts of the game can be very rewarding. After a hard day of training, your dog will be able 
 to do all sorts of tricks. To teach the dog a command, you simply put the dog into whatever position 
 for whatever trick you want to do, then clearly state the name of the trick. You'll have to do 
 this a couple of times, but eventually your dog will be smarter than ever! An interesting part 
 of the game is taking your dog for walks. Sometimes you'll meet another dog on the sidewalk, and 
 you'll talk to the owner. Sometimes your dog will get along very well with the other one, or it 
 may growl and bark and the dog. When taking a walk, there are many different places you can visit. 
 The more you walk your dog, the farther you'll be able to walk. On a walk, you can visit the park, 
 the shop, discount shop, the gym, and make sure you look for the presents on the map, which gives 
 your dog a new toy. The walks can be enjoying, but like everything else in this game; it's short 
 lived...
  
  Yes, the game is cute, and it is rewarding, but after a week, you'll find this game collecting 
 dust on your shelf. The competitions can only be done three times a day, and they don't get any 
 better after the first time. The walks are sometimes interesting, but once again, short lived. 
 You can teach your dog tricks, three times a day, but once you teach your dog all the tricks, there's 
 nothing else to do with him. You can purchase more dogs from the animal shelter, but it's just 
 going to be the same thing as your other dog, except he/she might be a different breed. Overall, 
 I'd have to recommend this game only as a rent, simply because there isn't enough to do. The voice 
 command and touch screen makes you involved in the game, but not enough to throw out $30. To say 
 it simply, good game, but too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fontes_Makua
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is good to play if a friend lent it to you... But after a while, you will get bored of 
 taking your dog for a walk, all the time, and entering competitions...
  
  The fun of this game is that people that don't have conditions to have a dog, can finaly have one, 
 even if they can't really touch it... There are lots of things you can do with the dog. From taking 
 it for a walk, from teaching him tricks with your own voice, entering competitions, and many more!!
 
  
  However, the one thing that bugs me is that if you will always need to take care of the dog, just 
 like a real one... if you keep your game off for a couple of days, the dog will get dirty, and 
 he might even run away. He will come back after a while, maybe with an item.
  
  In short, this game is very interesting, with a great inovation to the Tamagoshi style, however, 
 after some time, you will get bored... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iambean
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has outdone themselves! i mean come on, a ds, gamecube, ect. But this is the game i have 
 been waiting for! ever since i played dogs5cats, i waited untill nintendogs would corrupt me :P 
 a little afterwords i started browsing servers to see some stuff i could learn before buying this 
 excellent game, but i didnt. it parilized me everytime i looked at a screenshot or something. my 
 g/f played it, she loved it, my friends played it, they loved it, even my mother loved it! (i didn't 
 ask her to look at it btw) i suggest all new gamers of the world should play this game. Trust me, 
 it will wow ya. well, now is ab out time i gtg. : ( (Dont get me wrong, i adore this game!)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay I LOVE THIS GAME. I just love stragey games and really do love certain games when you need 
 to be responsible. I love how you need to take care of your dog or dogs and you can even wn alot 
 of money if you are a good trainer and love your dog and want it to achieve and be the best. I 
 also love how you can get mysterey presents on walks and go to a Discount Store or go train for 
 Disc or Agility contests. Also you can not walk your dog every second which makes this game even 
 more realistic. So if you have or are getting a Nintendo Double Screen I would highly and I mean 
 highly thinking about getting this game. It is very addicting if you like this type of game like 
 I said in the begginning. So I would get this game for your Nintendo DS if I were you. Nintendo 
 once again made a great system and a game. Well done! I would give this a nine point four hehe 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. This game is good and all but it gets boring after not long and it doesn't 
 really have much of a plot to playing it. The multiplayer was nothing special either... It's not 
 all that it is hyped up to be. I would pay 20 for it but 30 I think is kind of a waste... This 
 game isn't terrible but it just is boring really. But I did like it for the first few hours.. I 
 tihnk that the graphics look great on it though. And the dogs all act real but it doesn't make 
 it anymore fun. Overall I give it a C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninty_man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:45 am PT
Review:  nintendogs is cutest puppy loving game on the nintendo ds. It will have u hooked for a very long 
 time it is a very fun game to play as when u r taking your new puppy for a little walk guess what 
 u find a MARIO CAP is that the sweetest thing your ever gonna see theres even a luigi cap. Theres 
 hundreds of items and plenty of cute little puppies to unlock theres even remote controlled mario 
 karts on it and helicopters.
  
  THIS IS THE CUTEST GAME ON THE DS A MUST!!!!!!!
  
  IF U WANT FUN NINTENDOGS IS THE ONE
  THIS IS THE MOST ADDICTIVE GAME IVE EVER PLAYED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaggedon646
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm amazed at this game. The first time I saw a preview for it I was stalking it -- I can't keep 
 away from anything involving dogs. Not only are the graphics incredibly realistic, flawlessly copying 
 the exact movements of real puppies, but it's incredible how the dogs really depend on you. I accidently 
 left my DS at a friends house for a week, and when I got it back my two dogs were furious, filthy 
 and hurt that I couldn't have been decent enough to remember to feed and clean them. (It really 
 made me feel awful!) This game - Labrador, Chihuahua or Mini-Dachshund - is the pinnacle of, well, 
 cuteness. But not just that, it's the pinnacle of strategy games, because it gives you a reason 
 to keep playing it - who wants to see a little doggie unhappy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kantaroth
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the second game I've got for my DS and it was for my wife. She absolutely loves the game, 
 it is like having a real puppy. The developers did a great job of creating an experience that is 
 completely immesive. You get your new puppy like you would in real life by buying it at the petstore, 
 then you're responsible for it's care in every comparable way to a real puppy: You have to feed 
 and water your puppy, take it on walks, teach it commands, clean up its do/mess, wash, brush and 
 play w/ it. It even shows the economic responsibilities of having a pet by letting you experience 
 buying your puppy food, water, shampoo, toys, etc. 
  
  If I had a kid who wanted to have a pet of any kind I'd get her/him this game and say if you can 
 take care of your Nintendog w/o it running away or being in poor health for a whole year, then 
 you may be ready for a real pet. The game is just too cute, it makes you believe there really is 
 a dog on the other side of the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougkicksass
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  At first, i was amazed by the graphics, and all the things that you can do with your dog. You can 
 walk them, wash them, feed them, play with them, and even play contest with your dog. It's fun 
 at first, then after about 15 hours of play, you start getting bored. You do the same thing over 
 and over again. You feed them, play with your dogs for a while, walk them, and wash them. You do 
 that almost everytime.
  
  Nintendogs has a lot of items you can unlock for your dog. You can unlock different collars for 
 your dogs. Glasses, and hats. You can also unlock toys for your dogs. Tennis balls, frisbees, pull 
 ropes, you can even unlock a r/c helicopter. I can go on and on what you can unlock. This game 
 is all right. I recommend this game to dog lovers or someone that once a dog but can't have one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahermany8857
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is a classic already. guarenteed. there is NO game like it. even other pet sims (if 
 there are any. i dont know of them) are not like this. nintendogs is realistic. to the CORE. the 
 graphics are phenominal, the sound can get annoying (i play with the sound off) but it's supposed 
 to be light and fluffy, so it fits- IT'S A PUPPY GAME PEOPLE. the best way to describe this game 
 is original. and the most amazing part is it appeals to everyone. i'm 14 years old, 6'0"ft., and 
 i play football, so i'm not the kind of guy who sits around all day playing games (i have nothing 
 against those people buy the way) , and i like this game!
  
  i think the most appealing thing about nintendogs is there is no right or wrong. i mean, it is 
 difinately wrong to not feed or walk ur dog for days on end, but u CANT LOSE. u are always given 
 a chance to redeem yourself, so you cant get frustarted; theres no point where you have one life 
 left and only 10 shots worth of amo and your on the final boss level. belive me, i love those games, 
 but it's nice to have a game like nintendogs every once in a while. and in nintendogs case, it's 
 SUPERBLY nice
  
  my favorite game by far for the DS. I i didnt have a DS before, i would have bought one just for 
 this game. it's been in my DS since august (well, i do pop in mario kart DS occaisionally, but that's 
 a different storry) . but hey, dont just take it from me. go out and atleast buy a used copy of 
 the game. i guarentee it wont come out of your DS for 3 months either
  
  AND IF U CAN RESIST A PUPPY DOG FACE... GOD HELP YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafan01
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game, were as it is quick to learn, and has good graphics and sound, is very over rated. I 
 found the game boring after two days because there is nothing new in. i think this game could have 
 been better if they let you have more control. this game could have been better if it let you do 
 things such as going further into the house, instead of just that little circle. also it should 
 have been realistic as to let you hit the dog if it does something wrong. i dont blame the creaters 
 for the limited use of verbal commands, because it is still someting impressive to have, but it 
 does kind of suck that you cant yell "no" at it for doing something like useing the bathroom indoors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua0borja
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  First off, this is a good game for DS owners, keeps them busy for awhile. Not exactly the best 
 game, but unique some ways and innovative. The gameplay was allright and satisfying, it makes good 
 use of the touch screen ability, making you do different things with the stylus (throw a frisbee, throw 
 a ball, pet, etc.) You'll be able to enjoy walking your dog, feeding them, cleaning them, and signing 
 them up for contests (Disc Trial, Obedience Trial, and Agility Trial) . The downfall of the gameplay 
 style is just too boring at some times, it doesn't have much modes for your dogs to do. The graphics 
 were beautiful for a DS game, the framerate is satisfying and spectacular. Let's just say that 
 this game barely has sound in it. It only contains barks, swishes, and panting. I'm not sure Nintendo 
 put much effort into making the sound and barking quite realistic but sound isn't the most demanding 
 thing in a game. As I said before you get too tired after playing it for awhile so the value isn't 
 that good but the game also requires alot of effort to get the necessary items in the game. The 
 tilt was perfect, following every move of your dog (s) . The camera sometimes locks in on the dog 
 for better tracking of your pets. Overall this game is a recommendation for all fans of dogs. Maybe 
 it'll one day persuade YOU to buy a dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuy540
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:05 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game for the first time at my friends house, I sat there for 4 hours just playing 
 the game. The next day I came back and played for 9 hours and then brought it over my house and 
 played it all night. I unlocked half the dogs in 2 days. In addition, I bought like four of the 
 dogs. I just loved it. It was fantastic the dog variety the competitions the voice commands the 
 care training there were allot of things I loved about this game. Personally, this was the best 
 game I ever played in my life
  
  Yet there were some bad things like the graphics were not very hot and worst thing is the long 
 repeating of names and tricks and all that other stuff and the only able to enter three competitions 
 a day and you cant go on walks twice and your walking limit is limited.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-I have never seen a better use for the lovely touch screen than for this game. You pet 
 you r dogs, you throw balls, and many other little things for your puppy overlords. Awesome touch 
 screen compatibility.
  
  Graphics-Cute puppies. I think you get the idea.
  
  Sound-Thereare somemusic bits like when you walk your puppy, but except for the adorable barks 
 and cute little sounds your canine friend makes, the sound department is a little weak.
  
  Value-If you like dogs get it. Even if you are a guy, you will find a big enough space in your heart 
 for this cute little game.
  
  Closing comments-More activities for the dog is really needed. Only good in short bursts as you 
 can only walk yourdog or do competitions a couple at a time. Play it and you will know what I mean. But 
 still this game rules. So do the puppies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow to be truly honest this game looks amazing, i am getting it for Xmas and im very excited for 
 getting it, i hope santa gets it for me anyway i know he will he's my buddy.
  The graphics look OUTSTANDING this game could be compared to a psp game anyday as for the girls 
 and for the boys it keeps you gripped, as you look after your own virtual pet better than a tamagochi 
 ill tell you that for sure.
  You can give your dog a bath take it for a walk make it meet other dogs teach it tricks and a major 
 high are that you can speak into the DS and speak to your dog You just do not get anymore better.
 
  The sound seems good it plays really real dog barks and theres very "cute" music to match it as 
 your playing by god this game seems very gripping.
  
  11111 11111 11111 111111111111 1111 111 111
  11111 11111 11111 111111111111 1111 111 111
  11111 
 11111 11111 11111 1111 1111 111 111
  1111111111111111111111 11111 1111 1111 111 111
  1111111111111111111111 111111111111 111111111111111
  1111111111111111111111 111111111111 111111111111111
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a very fun, very creative game. You take your dog on walks feed it, care for it, 
 groom it, pick up it's s*** and the basics of caring for a puppy. At first it's amazing. You teach 
 your dog it's name, then teach it tricks and enter it in contests. It may all sound great, but 
 after you do all these things a few times, it gets VERY, VERY, VERY REPETATIVE!!!!! It truly does. 
 Now my Nintendogs are starving and thristy and unbelievably dirty. It is fun, don't get me wrong, 
 but after the fun road, you fall into a pit of never-ending boringness. Save your money for Lost 
 in Blue or Animal Crossing DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paratroopah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is (for me) the best Nintendo Game that I've seen. First when i saw the movies I was 
 so amazed. I just couldn't believe that you can actually talk in your DS and that the dog will 
 resond to your commands. Just by Seeing someone that interacts with his or her dog makes me want 
 to have it so badly.
  
  Though for people who like games, that they can play for hours and hours non-stop, I dont really 
 think they would like this game. There are certain limits. For example, you can only walk your 
 dog every 30 minutes and you can only go to 3 disc competions per day. Despite from those minor 
 things, Nintendogs is a great game.
  
  One thing I liked to was to be able to wash your dog. I think it's a really great add to Nintendogs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentau
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  First i saw some videos of the game and i thought it would be just another Tamagochi clone.
  But this game is so much more then just feeding and cleaning you dog.
  At the beginning you have 
 to choose a dog and if you train him well you can earn trainer points with him, when you have enough 
 trainer-points new races get available.
  you are able to do cool stuff with your animal friend like playing frisbee, practice tricks and 
 many more.
  you can give him cool accessors or play with him.
  Go for a walk, find new music or create your own.
  
  This game is for all of you who never 
 had enough time, money and space for a real dog. Now its your chance buy this masterpiece and enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanacore
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the lovable, adorable ,cutsie-poo idea of simulated pets is here, and really well done too! 
 You can play as an owner, choose a dog, walk it, teach it tricks, and earn money buy entering contests, 
 your house will change to a condo ($5,000) to a room in outer space ($10,000,000) , so drop Soul 
 Calibur, and pet a cute, lovable, (fairly) tame ball of FLUFF! (It CAN'T be housebroken! *sob*)
 
  It costs around $30, well worth it to a dog person! (And even to a cat person)
  So don't delay buy today! (Am I over the minimum limit yet?) Umm, so, *cheesy music plays la la 
 la!* BUY NOW! TODAY! HURRY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EikeofGaia
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:19 am PT
Review:  I love dogs; perhaps not as much as cats, but a cute dog is simply irresistable. Because of this, 
 I had high hopes for Nintendogs, but I was immediately skeptical -- how can a little handheld with 
 underimpressive graphics prove as cute and fun as a real dog? The answer? It can't. 
  
  I'll systematically lists my gripes with Nintendogs, starting with the graphics.
  
  Some people 
 seem to like the jaggy, low-polygon count pups this game boasts. I don't. Admittedly, my PSP makes 
 me jaded. It's very hard to be playing a heated race in Burnout Legends that looks nearly as good 
 as Burnout 3 and then head over to a DS to play Nintendogs. The weakness of the DS's hardware is 
 more than apparent here. 
  
  Gameplay -- this is some of the most boring, repetitive, and underwhelming gameplay ever. Have fun 
 grooming your virtual dog, petting your virtual dog, walking your virtual dog, taking your virtual 
 dog to virtual dog shows... See a pattern here? You guessed it -- virtual dogs. And believe it or 
 not, virtual dogs are awful. You can't touch them, so no matter how cute they'll always feel extremely 
 detached. 
  
  Overall, 4.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ETretts
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs; I was SO excited to get it. Every one said it was THE best DS game out there. When 
 I got it, I wasn't as pleased as I thought I would be. At first, you pick out a puppy and give 
 it a name; it is fun and exciting teaching it to sit, lay, etc. You get to take it on walks, feed 
 it, and enter it in competitions. I thought this was just *dandy* until I got bored with only being 
 able to enter 3 competitions a day, so I bought another dog. I entered it in a contest right away, 
 but UH-OH! I forgot. You have to train ANOTHER dog, walk it, feed it, and THEN earn money from 
 it winning in contests. This became *very* tedious after about ten minutes, so I gave up. I ended 
 up "donating" the dogs because I was sick of them. 
  
  TO SUM IT UP- For someone who doesn't or can't own a dog, this may be a good buy. For those who 
 do, it just gets tedious. ALTHOUGH, it is fun to play for maybe 20-30 min. a day, but any longer 
 and you get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaulding257
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  In this game you get to pick one of a few dog's. You'll spend a lot of time training them. You 
 can train them in a few different areas. One of them being thier ability to catch a frisbee. You 
 can enter them in contests, like a frisbee catching contests. This game is real time so yea its 
 second for second. you'll only be able to compete in three compitions per day and there is no way 
 to get around it that i know of. ( no you cant just turn it off if you lose because guess what 
 it saves everything!) and in case you were wondering, your dog accually gets dirty and this game 
 is so realistic you can comb your dogs hair, get fleas off him, and even call his name! just say 
 his name in the mic and he'll come to the upper screen. Best part is its voice activated! Your 
 dog will only respond to your voice. and you get to name him! It just keeps getting better right? 
 There isnt any storyline, you just get to take care of your virtual pet. Graphics are very well 
 done and you can buy your dog quite a few accesories. so if your a dog lover with a ds i recommend 
 this game to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: second_XD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I cant resist the face of cute little puppy especially if they have graphics. lol. My neice showed 
 me this game and I couldnt put it down, how can someone who DESERVES RESIDENT EVIL 4, play such 
 a cutey-wooty game like Nintendogs, lol. Weird right, heheh WRONG! I would recommend this game 
 for those peoples who love them doggies, espcially the ones with the cute little face, Its simply 
 so speacial I just want to hug them, UH... OKAY I HAVE TO GO NOW, I LOVE YOU BYE. lol. Serioulsy 
 Get this game it may sound stupid but its the !junk! If you think its dumb, were going to have 
 a problem. lol. 
  
  And its very challenging I dont even know what the **** to do on that game!!! lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdvr2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs labrador and friends = the best handheld game ever and if you havent played it do it 
 now! it is a great game
  
  all the different breeds of dog
  the superb graphics
  the great sound 
  gameplay can last for hours at a time 
  this is simply the best handheld 
 game ever
  
  you have to get this i got it on the day it came out and i am not dissapointed yet and i play it 
 every single day 
  
  so get this game 
  it is a nintendo classic
  it will be talked about for months 
  that is why you should get out there now AND BUY NINTENDOGS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game rules. You may be put by its approach and what you have to do but it will grow on you.
 
  
  You are a trainer. You start off with a sum of money and you go to the kennel and get a dog. You 
 give the dog a name and make it respond to you through calling its name through the microfone, 
 a genius thing to do.
  
  You can get money to look after your dog by training your dog to go on and win a contest or by 
 selling items you have found on a walk. Once you have enough money, you have an option to purchase 
 another dog.
  
  The graphics are the best on the DS by far. The sound is good too.
  
  This was a bold and brave move by Nintendo too release a game like this and it has paid off. You 
 need this game. Don't be put off by its looks and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avrilkilla33
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the worst idea, in the history of video games. Let's start with graphics, they 
 are pretty good actually, and really shows the DS's capabilities. Unfortunately, those capabilities 
 are on par with the N64, a console from 2 gens ago! The gameplay is an absolute borefest, I mean, 
 who want's to teach a dog tricks and crap on a DS? Another gripe I have, is realism. Why can't 
 the dogs die? Or why can't they Poop or pee? Why can't they fight and kill each other like real 
 dogs? 
  
  I'll tell you why, it's directed at kiddie gamers and not adult gamers. The sound is horrible, 
 controls are once again, gimmicky at best. If you absolutely, love yourself and have some simbliance 
 of a brain, please stay away from this train wreck of a game. The DS bombing hard with filth like 
 this, and if it continues, I'm gonna get rid of it and stick with my PSP. 
  
  Pros - Graphics are good for the underpowered DS
  
  Cons- That Nintendo would create such casual 
 filth in todays market, did'nt they trick enough kids into thinking Pokemon was good? Thumbs Down
 
  
  And remember people, it's just MY opinion, you don't have to agree, but you damn well have to respect 
 it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACDC1FANRF
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about a virtual sim pet. You start off with a starter dog of your choice although 
 you can eventually unlock the breeds that span from all 3 games. The way you own a dog is when 
 you get one you will have to repeat the name quite a few times into the microphone till ur dog 
 learns its name then you have money you start off with (about $300 if im not mistaken) you can by 
 by toys, care items, and sport like objects to play with your dog.
  
  Then you can teach your dogs tricks and enter them into contests (which can get a little frustrating 
 if your dog's not proprley trained. There are three diffrents contests. The disc competition where 
 you can earn points for having your dogs catch frisbees, you have a unlimited amount of frisbees 
 but only about a minute to get a certain amount of points. Which you can train for by going to the 
 park. Agility Trails, where your dogs has to run through obstacles in a certain order under a limited 
 amount of time. Note that you can only attend this contest when you train at the gym. And finally 
 the obedience trail, which you have you dog do tricks for points and this can be trained for a 
 home (the judges also look at how well your dog is groomed)
  
  You can take your walks every half hour in real time. during these walks you can draw a route on 
 the touch screen and on the map a question mark is a special event. This can mark a present, dog, 
 or garbage. You can also find random items on your route but your dog will only grab it if your 
 walking.
  
  There are stores that you can take you can go (or take your dog) to buy items. There's the secondhand 
 shop where you can sell items. The hotel where you can drop off dogs. the kennel where you can 
 buy dogs or play with them. The dogshop where you can buy items. and a place where you can buy interior 
 decorating for your house. Some placescan only be visited while walking. Like the gym and the park. 
 This game is good for rent but definently worth a buy. You can have the virtual dog (s) you've always 
 wanted. There are only too options too feel about this game, neither you love it or you love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KimimaroSan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a very nice game, if you ever wanted to raise a dog but couldn't, this might be the 
 game for you.
  In gameplay, it is very simple, and it's really fun even just watching your dog doing all sort 
 of things, the contests are pretty boring and it's more about your dog then it is about you, but 
 that can be a plus for some people, and it's making it more realstic.
  When I played, I trained my dog alot then bought, well, like most people do, more dogs, don't, 
 It is very anoyying having about 3 dogs and they are all playing togther and not even noticing 
 you.
  The whole "tricks" thing is the best feature I guess, it's really nice teaching your dog and seeing 
 him doing as you wish, Just a shame they couldn't put a more intellgent system so he will listen 
 to anyone saying the trick name, and not just the one recorded it (Stupid sister) .
  In graphics, it's pretty amazing for the DS, though the backround isn't as nice as the dogs, but 
 that's OK.
  Anyway, this game is really fun but after a while it gets boring doing all of the feeding and stuff, 
 I played mine everyday for like two hours a day for a week, then it was like once every three day, 
 and now I play it bearly an hour a month.
  Anyway, if you can rent it for two-three weeks, do that, if you will still continue to have fun 
 just buy the game. (Just don't get too attached to the dogs you make, and after you played it once 
 for like three weeks, you can get the same things in less then a week.
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7
  Value: 5
  In all: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the game we have been waiting for. Its fun, addictive, and we love cute little puppies. 
 
  The graphics are by far the best i have seen on th DS. The dogs are so real, you could throw your 
 old dog out. (But please don't)
  The sound is also very good. Everything is set nicely.
  The gameplay shines. You can interact with your dog and it just feels real.
  The only downfall 
 is you can only have three dogs, and you can only do a certain amount of things. Play with your 
 dog, teach it tricks, bathe it, walk it, do competitions, play with it, walk it, teach it tricks, 
 and you get the point. There is some multiplayer where you play with anothr persons dog and thats 
 about it. But nintendogs is a great game, please pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  Its a dog simulator, why dont I just get a real dog? - thats what alot of people would say when 
 they see this game, but for alot of us getting a dog is hard work and is a big commitment. Nntendogs 
 takes away the commitment but leaves all the fun of having a real dog.
  
  Nintendogs is one of those games, your either going to love it or hate it. To sum up the gaming 
 experience I would have to say its just like looking after a real dog, apart from if you get bored 
 of looking after it you can just stop.
  
  There is plentty to do with your dog such as take it for a walk, enter it into competitons, groom 
 it and one of the most enjoyable things you can do on the game is play with the items you find 
 out on the street when you are walking your dog. Just throwing a tennis ball around the room with 
 your dog chasing after it can take away alot of your time.
  
  Overall Nintendogs is a good game, of corse there is a limited amount of things you can do, which 
 could get a bit boring at times. But overall a fun experience which everyone should try out just 
 to see how much fun it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtrain3470
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a revolutionary game that any Dog lovers will drool over.
  
  The Gameplay in the Nintendogs is unique and wonderful. You start the game off with 1 dog and only 
 enough money to take care of him. Before i get started let me say money is a big thing in the game, 
 you will buy food, toys, houses, dogs, everything will pretty much revolve around you wheelin in 
 the dough which you get from tournements (like frisbee, obsticle course, and obediance) . The thing 
 you will find yourself doing with your dog is walking him; this is where your dog meets other dogs, 
 finds toys, trains for tournements, uses the bathroom and goes to the store. In between these walks (which 
 you have to wait about 30 minutes to walk them again) you can do all the things you would do with 
 your dog at your house such as petting, playing with them, clean them, teaching them. Everything 
 in the game gets better when you get three dogs; you can do everything you did when you had 1 dog 
 plus all the new things you get when you have 3.
  
  The DS uses its touch screen and microphone extremely well in this game. Everything you do to interact 
 with your dog will be used with the stylus, the use of the directional pad and buttons is almost 
 non-exsistant. Nintendogs uses the microphone to teach your dog tricks which are fun but very tiring 
 to do, and you use the microphone to call there names and to use some of the toys you get.
  
  The graphics in this game are mind-blowing. The dogs in this game act and move like dogs in 
 real life in every way possible, the dogs walk like real dogs and will do that little leg shake 
 that dogs do when you pet it in the right place which is always a cute thing. The only thing that 
 gets boring to see is the background which is almost the same every time you go on a walk and your 
 house can get a little boring after a while but i guess that is why they let you buy new "houses" 
 for your dog.
  
  The dogs in this game sound as if you were in the same room with them. If you get a Labrador it 
 sounds like a Labrador, and if you get a Toy Poodle (yes thats a real dog) it barks, whines and 
 sounds the way a Toy Poodle would.
  
  Multiplayer is a cool little thing that is always fun and refreshing to do. Nintendogs has a speacial 
 mode called "bark mode" in which if there is someone in range of your DS and has Nintendogs the 
 DS will "bark" to alert you someone is near. In multiplayer you meet the other persons dog like 
 the way you do on the walks, but a big reason to play mutliplayer is to trade items (the game has 
 more than 200+ items) you have with the other trainer and vise versa.
  
  Nintendogs is a game that will always be a legend on the DS for it's uniqueness and cuteness.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DalaiWolf
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I've had this for about two weeks now. At first I couldn't put it down, it was mindless entertainment 
 at the end of the day. There is a problem with this game, and I'm not talking about the graphics, 
 sound, or anything like that. Personally it feels more like an obligation to play nowadays. It's 
 still fun when I do, but even when I don't want to, I feel like I have to feed them, wash them, 
 walk them, etc. or they'll run away on me. The competitions get repetitive real quick too. Still 
 an overall good game, but it's innovative style is the biggest pro and con at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truegamer1988
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a masterpiece and acts on gamers like nicotine on smokers. Nintendogs clearly shows 
 the what Nintendo means by creating a gaming revolution. 
  
  First nintendogs is a pup raising simulation game which involves the touch screen, mic, wireless 
 and a innovative bark mode. the touch screen is used to pet wash give treats and tots to your dog 
 basically the games revolves around the touch screen. the mic is used to name your dog and name 
 its moves. The wireless bark mode is the multi-player aspect of the game, exchange items play with 
 other players dogs and to exchange your dogs stats. The game has a total of 24 dogs from Sheba 
 inu to pogs. The game features 3 tournaments such as disc competition, agility trail and obedience 
 trail.
  
  This game is one of the best game ever on the ds. A rumor has been going around that a nintencat 
 is in devlopment which i cant see having the hype and success of nintendogs but hey..... its only 
 a prediction.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruran
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Take the best qualitys of dogs and put it into a game this game is like owning a real dog except 
 with out the pooping and the cleaning up after in this game you pick from tons of diffrent breeds 
 and bring the dog home with you then you pet the dog till it feels comfortable neer you then you 
 give it a name and the best thing is it has voice command and recgonition so lets say you name 
 your dog Lily then all you have to do is say lily and your dog will come you can teach your dog 
 tricks using your voice. One of my favorite things is the Bubble Blower if you blow in the microphone 
 then bubbles appear in the game! there is onley one downside to this game and that is that after 
 a while you run outa things to do other than that a GREAT game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game was majorly overhyped. I think part of this has to do with the fact that DS owners were 
 still really waiting for that one killer title to make them glad they own a DS. Nintendogs was 
 going to be it. And sure enough, when it was released, it was selling like crazy. Now that the 
 dust has settled, though, it's time for an honest look at this game.
  
  I won't get into the details of how the game works, as the GameSpot review covers all that. I'll 
 just add my own opinion that this game was all hype. The game loses its replayability value very 
 quickly after the initial novelty fades. It's the same thing over and over again: feed the dog, 
 give it water, take it to competitions, take it on a walk, buy it toys, discover goodies around 
 town (probably the most exciting aspect of the game) . Yawn. Especially if you have REAL dogs, you 
 won't want to have the obligation of opening your DS every day to check up your virtual dog, especially 
 if you have other things keeping you busy in your real life.
  
  I haven't touched this game in ages. My dog has probably run off already, long ago. Ah well.. I 
 still have my real dogs to take care of, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 771992
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few days ago because I had seen all the excellent reviews scattered everywhere, 
 but when I had played it for half an hour, I was dissapointed and annoyed. Annoyed that I had spent 
 30 pounds on a game so boring, there's hardly anything to do, enter competitions, take your dog 
 for a walk and that's it. I appreciate nintendo's effort but it just doesn't impress, I took it 
 back the next day and got advance wars dual strike, and believe me, it's much better. I will advise 
 you NOT to buy this game unless you really love dogs and cant go anywhere without them, otherwise, 
 stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the perfect game for any animal lover. I own a Dog, cat, and fish. I bought a copy of Nintendogs 
 L&F and couldn't put it down since. You feed, walk, clean, teach, compete, and play with the frisky 
 little guys. You can dress up your dog with some items. Each version has a few items not avalible 
 in the others so that is a good reason to link up with with your friends. Out of all the Items 
 my favorite is the combat RC copter. I think this is a great game because it teaches great responsibility. 
 So if you are a parrent with kids who want a pet give them this game to see if they can be responsible. 
 It really grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediobitom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is easily one of the games you will have heard first when talking about the Nintendo 
 DS. Is it that good? Is it that outstanding? Read on.
  
  Nintendogs has three packs you can currently buy, Labrador and Friends, Daschund and Friends and 
 Chihuahua and Friends. Here I am reviewing Lab& Friends.
  
  Each pack comes with about 6-7 dogs, all different breeds. In Labrador and Friends you can get 
 other dogs such as a Poodle and Welsh Corgi. For Daschund and Friends you can get Shih tzu and 
 the Golden Retriever, and the list goes on.
  
  The main part of the game is to raise a dog. That's it, just raise a dog. You can enter obedience 
 tests, agility and a disc competition, however these are optional. It's a great game for the first 
 week, but after a while, if feels to become very repetitive and after a while, you may spend less 
 and less time playing Nintendogs. However, some gamers might really like it, and casual gamers 
 who love animals will really enjoy this. You can teach your dog (or dogs) to do tricks, such as 
 the simple 'sit down' to the 'jump!'. How do you this complex task you ask? Well, it is not very 
 hard at all. In fact it is very easy. Using the touch screen you can direct your dog on what to 
 do (you can find out this through the dog training book') and then after he performs the trick, 
 you shout the command through the built-in microphone. You need to this about several times.
  
  The game allows you to link up to a another owner's dog, through Bark Mode. The game encourages 
 you to bring your DS on Bark Mode and walk around with it, but it's very unlikely that you will 
 bump into anyone at all. In fact, you are better off keeping your DS at home, so it doesn't get 
 stolen while walking around Downtown, for one. This mode would be done best if you knew somebody 
 else that had Nintendogs and a DS.
  
  Graphically, this game is very well done. The backgrounds aren't great, but however the dog models 
 have a lot of detail on them, and you can tell that Nintendo went to a lot of care making the dogs 
 look like they're real counter-parts.
  
  While this game doesn't have much sound, the dogs sound much like real dogs, and they'll bark and 
 whimper according to your surroundings. It is quite amazing about the quality of the dog sounds, 
 because they sound very much like a real dog.
  
  This will really appeal to animal lovers, or maybe people that are allergic to dogs but they want 
 one. While you can't get as attached to a real dog than a Nintendog one, if you like dogs, then 
 you can't go wrong checking this out. The very simple interface, the simple and easy-to-use voice 
 recognition will appeal to all gamers of all type, and maybe get non-gamers to buy a DS.
  
  At the end, I think the game is a bit over-hyped but however, it is still a great game and you 
 can still have plenty of fun with your dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis_phong
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have played Nintendogs for about 3 weeks and i just cannot stand it anymore. I was lucky that 
 i could enjoy it for more than a week. I just think that there isn't enough to do to last you for 
 more than a week. For those three weeks that I had actually played the game I though it was so 
 innovative. The most fun i had with the game was mainly just going on walks, entering contests 
 and just playing with my dog.
  
  Overall I had fun with the game but I just wish the game had more to offer than it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GagPacMan
Rating: 1.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I was kind of ashamed to find myself playing this game for any longer than 10 seconds. I 
 thankfully didn't buy it or a DS. I played it at Wal Mart because I had nothing better to do and 
 sure the dog is cute, but it gets boring real quick and you're left in a state of video gaming 
 bankruptcy thinking "Why in the hell can't I just shove that dog's face into it's own feces and 
 laugh?" Horrible game if you didn't get the gist of all that. Overall, if you spend any more time 
 than a couple of minutes playing this game, you either don't have a real dog, or you think it's 
 amusing to grab the dog's paw and hold it up so that it stumbles about as you just pull it's paw 
 farther and farther away. If not, then what the hell is wrong with you?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrtyscott3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game EVER! I own a dog in real life (Yorkshire Terrier) and it is not as good 
 as my Nintendogs. My mom owns all three versions and has 16 dogs. My little brother and I share 
 Lab & Friends. So, it does not mean you have to be a certain age. This is probably such a fun game 
 because ALL my friends own the game and we have so much fun interacting! Even if you have no friends 
 : ( It is a fun Single player. 
  
  The sound isnt to great, but when you find the secret music the game becomes a whole lot better... 
 The accessories are also amazing. My dog in real life will chew up my Red Hat :) but this Nintendog 
 wont
  
  I play with my dog 24/7. Once your done walking your dog and your bored there are millions of things 
 to do.
  
  Feed him, Enter him into a contest, Buy another dog, Try on accessories, or buy another dog. With 
 endless possibillities you just cant get bored.
  
  The graphics are superb. The most realistic game I have ever played. With teaching it commands 
 through the mic. or petting it with the Touch screen, even the personallities are the same as real 
 dogs.
  
  If you ask me Nintendo did a great job :) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francoaraneta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a little overated but still a great game. The graphics are excellent, the sounds 
 are okay, the gameplay is pretty good, and the dogs are the cutest things I hace ever seen. I must 
 say nintendogs's couldn't have possibly gotten any better than this. The thing I'm complainings 
 about is that it's to damn short. Why can we only keep 8 dogs. It's kind of really dissapointing. 
 Sometimes you also get really bored with the commentary's every time you compete in matches. It's 
 too easy for it's own good too. If it were just a bit longer it could be better. Other than that 
 this game is pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Over the years, Nintendo have proved that they can produce some truly unique stuff. At this years 
 e3 they said, they have changed the game. As they said, the Nintendo DS changed the game . Well 
 with a new unique system, come new unique and innovative games such as Yoshi Touch 'N' Go, Wario 
 Ware: Touched!, Kirby Canvas Curse, Metroid Prime: Pinball, Meteos and Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 just to name a few, and there are tones more to come as well. But arguably Nintendo's most unique 
 creation yet, Nintendogs is easily one of the best Nintendo DS games. In Nintendogs, you'll be 
 taking care of up to 8 puppies (although you can only have 3 in your house at one time) by feeding 
 them, taking them on walks, cleaning and brushing them and by just being generally good owners. 
 Though it may sound like a task to some people, Nintendogs is actually a very fun game, though 
 there are a few things that may frustrate you, for the most part, Nintendogs is very enjoyable.
 
  
  When you first fire up the game, you'll be at the kennel choosing your first puppy. There are about 
 6 breeds when you start off, and there each different in the 3 versions, although all of the breeds 
 are unlockable in each game. I chose a Shiba Inu and named him Ace (don't ask) . I have the Labrador 
 &amp; Friends version, and the Shiba Inu just happened to be one of the starting breeds, as well 
 as a Toy Poodle, Miniature Pinscher, Miniature Schnauzer, Pembroke Welsh Corgi and of coarse the 
 Labrador Retriever.
  
  When you get home, you'll have around $400 left. You use that to buy stuff like water, food, shampoo, 
 a brush and maybe a toy or two you'll probably have around $360. After that, to get more money 
 you'll have to enter your dog in competitions. Although unless you want another dog immediately 
 you won't really need to enter you dog in a competition for a while, as $360 will last about a 
 week and a half if you have only one puppy, but hey, more money is always good.
  
  There are three different types of competitions, Disc Throwing, Agility and Obedience. Each competition 
 has 4 different difficulty levels, beginner, Open, Expert and Master. As well as the difficulty 
 going up, so does the pay (to actually get paid you have to come in 1st, 2nd or 3rd) . To train 
 your dog for a Disc Throwing competition, you'll have to take him or her to the park while your 
 on a walk and throw around a Frisbee. Your dog will automatically know how to catch the Frisbee, 
 but youre basically teaching him/her to bring it back after you throw it. It might also take some 
 time for you to throw your Frisbee properly as well. The Disc Throwing contests are probably the 
 easiest of the three, which sort of makes sense, because they don't pay as much as the other two, 
 although there is only a small difference in pay. You'll have to take your puppy to the gym while 
 on a walk to train him for an agility contest. You'll be guiding him through various obstacles, 
 by touching the objects on the bottom screen in the proper manner. And as you progress through 
 the Agility Contests you'll have to teach your puppy to overcome even more obstacles. Perhaps the 
 simplest contest would have to be the Obedience, which just happens to be the toughest. You'll 
 be training your mutt right at home for these contests, because really, you'll just be teaching 
 them tricks. You'll need to teach your puppies tricks like sit, lie down, shake hands, roll over, 
 spin (which is essentially your dog chasing it's tail) and ect. I know this sounds really simple, 
 but in practice it can be tough. Also if your dogs keep on performing the wrong tricks, it can 
 be very frustrating. As previously mentioned, the Disc Throwing competitions pay the least. The 
 Obedience competitions pay the most, which means the Agility, are in the middle. But the difference 
 in pay in really minor, and there only for if you come in 2nd or 3rd. In other words, if you come 
 1st in the Obedience Trial, you'll get the same amount of money if you come in 1st at a Disc Throwing 
 competition, but if you come in 3rd at an Obedience trial, you'll get even less at a Disc Throwing 
 competition. But as I said, it's only I minor difference.
  
  Another big aspect of the game is going on walks. While taking your dog on a walk, you can (as 
 previously mentioned) go to the park, the gym and also the discount shop. Your dog will also find 
 some gifts that just happen to be lying at the side of the street, wrapped up in white with a red 
 ribbon. You'll find some pretty cool stuff, or rather your pooch will. Such as accessories like 
 various different hats, glasses ect. And toys. Unfortunately taking your dogs on a walk can be 
 a bit tedious at times, especially if they constanty stop to do there buisness. Also walks can 
 take up to about 5-10 minutes, but taking you dog on walks is easiest way to get more trainer points, 
 so it kind of feels like needless tediousness.
  
  Not only will you find some interesting items on your walks but you'll also be rewarded trainer 
 points. You'll need trainer points to unlock some more items at the shop; some new designs for 
 your house, and most importantly, new breeds of dogs. There are various things that you can do 
 to earn trainer points. Winning contests, teaching your dog new tricks, walking your dog and a 
 few more things will give you trainer points. You'll need 50 000 trainer points to unlock the very 
 last breed of dog in the game, and there is about 12 dogs in-between that. And as you might expect, 
 it will take a very, very long time to get 50 000 trainer points (and i guess you could say you 
 finished the game when you acquire that amount) . So if your interested in finished the game, it'll 
 take over a month to do so, and that's if your dedicated.
  
  Unfortunately there are a few restrictions in the game, that can be disappointing at times. Things 
 like only being able to take your dog on a walk every 25 minutes, only being able to teach your 
 dog 3-4 tricks a day (and you can only teach him/her 15 tricks total) , and also only being able 
 to enter your mutt into three contests a day. These things aren't as bad once you have more than 
 one dog, but at the start of the game it'll prevent you from playing the game, as much as you'd 
 like to.
  
  The puppy models are real, real smooth. There probably some of the best 3D models on the DS. They 
 will also act life like. Everything your puppy does, is similar to the way your real dog/puppies 
 (if you have one) would react, it's in a word, adorable. But unfortunately, the environments don't 
 look nearly as good, especially, the environments you see while youre on a walk. It goes for a 
 certain 3d style, but doesn't succeed, and the result is some pretty ugly looking environments.
 
  
  Again, it's the actual sounds that the puppies make that are the most impressive part in the audio 
 side of the presentation. The dogs barks and whimpers sound so much like real puppies, it's just 
 really impressive. But the soundtrack (if you want to call it that) matches the tempo of the game 
 very well. The music is very upbeat and calm. Overall the presentation is impressive; the ugly 
 environments are my only beef with the presentation.
  
  Nintendos is arguably Nintendo's most unique creation yet, its in a genre of its own. Nintendogs 
 is also one of the best Nintendo DS games yet. If you do play Nintendogs, it's an experience you 
 won't soon forget, every aspect in the game is solid, and I would recommend any DS owner give Nintendogs 
 a try, because chances are, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight42092
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a video game, similar to a virtual pet, made for the Nintendo DS. The player is given 
 the ability to interact with virtual puppies via the DS stylus, touchscreen and microphone. It 
 began as a project for the GameCube, but was later scrapped and re-worked for the dual-screen portable. 
 The game made its debut at the 2004 Electronic Entertainment Expo as a tech demo for the system. 
 At one time, the U. S. version was going to be called Puppy Times.
  
  The game has been well received by critics, and in the May 2005 edition of the notoriously unforgiving 
 Famitsu magazine, Nintendogs received a perfect 40/40 score. Only four other games have attained 
 this score: The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Soul Calibur, Vagrant Story, and The Legend of 
 Zelda: The Wind Waker. It was also one of the first DS games to earn an Editor's Choice award on 
 GameSpot, the other being Advance Wars: Dual Strike.
  
  In the latest list of games given ratings by the ESRB, a new game has been added by Nintendo of 
 America: Nintendogs: Holiday Edition.
  
  The gameplay variety in Nintendogs makes for great interaction between the user and the puppy. 
 Using the touchscreen, the owner can play with, train, pet, and wash the dog. Using the microphone 
 that is built into the DS, the player can create voice commands that the virtual puppy will understand 
 and (assuming it is properly trained) follow. Outside of the player's house, the puppy can be put 
 on a leash and taken for a walk around the neighborhood. Competitions are also an entertaining 
 aspect of the game, as one can play frisbee with the dogs and enter them in agility contests or 
 obedience shows.
  
  Nintendogs supports two link-up methods through the built-in wireless network for Nintendo DS. 
 A player can link his or her system up with another person who owns a copy of Nintendogs, face 
 to face, to let the players' puppies play together. One can also enable the link up system in the 
 game option, then close the DS. Instead of putting the DS to sleep, it will continue looking for 
 other Nintendogs users. You may also choose to bring a present for the lucky person that you may 
 find. Your dog will carry around the present while you wait.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  The game is alot of fun, but it imbarasing i was out in the streets when
  i first got the game and i had to give my dog a name, so in the middle of
  the street i shouted 
 'LUCKY!!' lol 
  
  The game is defently worth playing its like haveing a realy dog and it
  fits perfectly in your pocket and does'nt leave a mess, and guess what it only cost 29.99 :D.
 
  
  and the GFX on the game is realy good for a NDS!!!!!!!!!
  
  You have to enter tournaments like disk throwing ect ect! wich is fun
  and if you win you'll 
 get a cash prize, earn enough to go a buy another dog
  or some play toys, food and acsessories! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  With all due respect to all the other good Nintendo DS games available right now, Nintendogs is 
 the killer-app that made me purchase a DS of my own.
  
  The game comes in four different versions; Dachshund, Chihuahua, Labrador, and Best Friends (available 
 with the limited edition teal/pink Nintendo DS bundle) . The only differences in each version are 
 the box art, title screen, a few exclusive to each version items, and starting dog breeds. So those 
 thinking about purchasing all the versions for all the dogs, don't, all 18 breeds are unlockable 
 from playing the game and earning 'Trainer Points'.
  
  Trainer points are awarded by simply spending time with your dog. Be it walking, cleaning, petting, 
 playing, teaching tricks, etc. So TP are not hard to come by but acumulated rather slowly so those 
 of you wanting a breed that's not one of the starting dogs of your version may have a lengthy play 
 session untill you finally unlock your breed of choice.
  
  Gameplay is really simple, it doesn't take little if any skill to play this game and enjoy it. 
 It consists of the basics of taking care of a real puppy like walking, cleaning, petting, playing, 
 teaching tricks, etc. Without all the hassles of taking care of a real puppy.... like walking, cleaning, 
 feeding, etc. Not to say you don't have to do these, but these are easily achieved with a few simple 
 touches of the stylus.
  
  You can also take your dog to competitions. There are three different types wich are disc catching, 
 agility, and obidience challenges. In order to actually place in any of these (getting in 3rd place 
 or above) it's pretty much mandatory to train your dog wich is accomplished by taking them to various 
 places and practicing. The first few difficulty classes are very easy to win and it shouldn't take 
 you to long to reach the higher classes of events. These become a little tricky so you will want 
 to train your dog in each respective event to be assured of a victory.
  
  Other than these basics there are a few extra things that don't really add to the game much, but 
 provide enough distraction to keep you busy for a good amount of time.
  
  The game is a good one, but with it being a first gen DS release, it does little to really push 
 the handhelds potential. While it does utilize all the unique fetures of the DS (touch screen, 
 microphone) . After extended time with the game you'll notice that the AI of the puppies is not 
 as good as it looked at the begining of your expirience.
  
  Even with the little quarks in the AI and graphics, the game is still a very entertaining game 
 that any DS owner should deffinately pick up sometime. I would have to say it's even worth picking 
 up a new DS if you don't have one. This game alone sold me on the handheld and i'm very happy it 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielpapps
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  If your a dog owner there isnt much point, if you dont like the sims there isn't much point. Like 
 nintendogs is cool but like i said there isn't much point.
  
  At a certain stage you begin to feel attached to your virtual puppy but then you just think hey 
 shouldn't i be taking my real dog for a walk and it kinda spoils the moment. Graphically the game 
 is superb, the dog look and act exactly like a dog would and the game has heaps of personality 
 but to me its not a proper game more of a tech demo.
  
  The best thing about this game is that when it came out Nintendo slashed DS prices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegoVader
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Great gameplay. You can take your dogs on walks, play with toys, wash them, walk them, so many possibilities!
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Great sound, the barks really sound real! The music is pretty good aswell. I was really shocked when 
 I saw you could play your own music aswell.
  
  Graphics:
  
  GREAT for a handheld. Everything looks so real, that includes the toys and the dogs.
  
  Value:
 
  
  You cant put it down. Great replay value since it never ends.
  
  So, overall, if you own a DS, this is a must have. Lego Vader out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliwoodx
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game was such a dissapointing waste of money. Sure it is inovative and fun for the first 3 
 days, but then you realize how stupid it really is. Then you think of the Japanese Corporate offices 
 of nintendo putting out this game just to make us mad. They know that Americans dont have the patience 
 to wait half an hour every time you want to walk a virtual pet. Thats rediculous. Then you can 
 only participate in 3 contests a day... even if you lose! and they limited the amount of tricks 
 you can teach them and those that they do know they dont perform. STUPID! I need to get my money 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayCensation
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game and can be interesting and pretty difficult at times, but once you have 
 cracked all tricks it can get very boring and will stand on on your shelf or be traded in soon 
 enough, in my opinion it may only be a rent first or buy it for buying sake
  although it can be quite entertaining as it feels like raising your own pup on a video game, it 
 was very well thought by the creators and still is a very good entertaining game for people who 
 like using the touch screen alot and people who just love and adore puppys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkBomb_Gr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  its very funny game, good for price this game
  
  
  Gameplay: very nice gameplay 0-10 hours playing its very nice
  
  
  Graphics: better graphics 
 from all games from super mario 64 ds etc
  
  Sound: dont have very good music
  
  Value: good
  
  Reviewer's Tilt :nice game
  
  BUY IT, BUUUUUUUUUYYYYYYYYYYYYY IT
  
  BETTER 
 FROM SUPER MARIO 64 DS 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! better from 
 
  OK I SAY DONT BUY  LOLLLL
  HERE CHEATS 
  lab and friends
  when you are for walk you collect ability points
  very good cheat
  next
 
  when you brush them 1 minute you collect point
  good cheat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RivalBattousai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  When this game was coming out I knew I had to get it. Once I got it I started playing it and lved 
 it. It was addictive at first but after a while I was bored. I got so made at my dogs that I I 
 almost broke my DS. Its very innovative and fun for children who cant have a real dog. Teacher 
 your dog new trcks is the best part. The worst is when you have to go to competitions to earn money. 
 Sometimes your dogs don't listen to you and sometimes they do. If you have more than one puppy 
 then you have to use more food and water which was very stupid cuz they would drink or eat all 
 of it. Overall this game was overrated to me. I know friends that bought this game and they just 
 traded it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lando_Griffin9
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  I was really looking foward to this game, after being desperate for any real nintendo ds game that 
 took full use of the systems power. 
  
  And in most ways it did:
  the graphics (for the dogs, cant sat so bout the backgrounds) are beutiful.
  The way your dog 
 moves, and breaths, and scratches itself are all perfect.
  
  The sound on the other hand is ok at best. Your dog sounds fine (pretty muchevery thing directly 
 with the dog is top-notch in the game) but theres only one song while walking your dog, which can 
 get really boring and irritating after a while (if you've ever played harvest moon: a wonderful life, 
 you'll know what im talking about)
  
  Gameplay: this is where the game drops the most, which unfortunate becuase all the games about 
 is the interaction with ur puppy.
  Yes at first the gameplay seems really fun, you can pet your puppy, play fetch, take it on a walk 
 (every 30 mintutes only though) and enter 3contests a day, all of this equals into about 1hr of 
 gameplay. So for those of you who like to play a game for like 10hrs a sitting will get bored extremely 
 fast. The only way to really play the game is like for 2 half-anhour shifts a day.
  
  Im not saying the game is bad im just saying i was a little dissapointed, and could have used far 
 more gameplay options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addy83320
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  First your dog needs to have some type of accessorie that he can wear. Take the accessories off. 
 When you take him fort a walk go to all the question marks first sdo you can get your gifts and 
 keep them. Then take your dog into the park and put on his accessorie (s) then when you come off 
 the supplies list it should save the game. After it has sucsessfully saved the game turn off the 
 power of your DS. Then when you turn it on you will still have all your accessories and you will 
 be able to go for another walk. (Note: If you go to your question marks after the park you will 
 not be able to keep the gifts your dog fetched) Also this will not improve your dogs stamina. 
 
  
  
  EMAIL ME On what you think of this tip on Addy8332@yahoo. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musiccounts
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs labrador and friends is an awesome game heres some hints:
  
  Platinum Collar: When you are on a walk tap the ground with the stylus doing this will make your 
 dog look harder to find items one item you can find is the Platinum.
  
  ? on the map while drawing the route: when you are drawing the route there are some ? in boxes 
 those symbol mean that there is either a trainer or a present there.
  
  Mario Hat and Luigi Hat: aventually on a walk your dog will Find a mario hat a luigi hat and a 
 rubber mushroom a ? box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  At first, I thought that Nintendogs would be pretty boring. Boy, was I wrong. This game is certainly 
 a great addictive gaming experience. Why is it so good, you ask? Well, it brings back the wonderful 
 fun of playing with a puppy. This game also has the responsibility of taking care of your dog such 
 as feeding it, walking it, giving it a bath, etc. You can also actually command your dogs tricks 
 (14 to be exact) in order to learn. One of the best parts of the game was walking your dog. Though 
 it sounds boring, it isn't at all (well, unless if you're meeting other dogs with owners who give 
 you useless advice. Then it is sort of boring. On the other hand, though, it is trying to be more 
 realistic, I guess.) . If you go far enough, you can get rare equipment/toys for your dog (s) to 
 make him/her look cooler, cuter, or whatever. Another great part is the contests. Depending on 
 how great you train your dog, you can win money prizes (up to 1000) and buy accessories, a new 
 house, or even a new dog. Now, here's what's bad about the game. all the dialouge is completely 
 useless and/or repetitive. Another thing is that you can only enter contests every 3 times (for 
 each dog) , and walk him every half hour, which is seriously limited gameplay. But still, it offers 
 some gameplay that can't be missed on the DS. Definately try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy for any DS owner. There is only one slight ploblem, there really is not a whole 
 lot to do after a while. After you fet most of the items there is not much piont to keep playing 
 it. There our alot of great items to get like RC Carts and talking birds. But still the dogs are 
 so **** cute! This game has the best graphics ever on a DS game! I am not joking, this game has 
 PSP graphics. For only 30$ you can't go wrong with nintendogs! Buy it now at your local Gamespot! 
 NOW NOW NOW I will give this game an 9.0. GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siepjeez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game that most of the hardcore gamers will call: gay.
  But when you think about it... we can be dog fans, we can buy it, it is cool!
  Nintendogs must 
 be your game if you think finally a good nintendo game, I'm gonna buy it!
  well that isn't very smart, I think you should rent it first because Nintendogs must be your kinda 
 game, Nintendogs is just like a real puppy: on the first day you think: yay a puppy: D but the next 
 day the problems are coming the fun is going off, this ain't fun anymore, it's so monotony.
  so i'll say rent it first for a week and then you'll see if it's fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is an addictive and enjoyable virtual pet sim for Nintendo's latest handheld system, 
 the Nintendo DS, but unfortunately, suffers from almost unbearable reptetition and it's frustratingly 
 gimmicky voice recognition system. (They just don't friggin listen!!!)
  
  Nintendogs is very nicely presented, and from the moment you start the game, you'll know what you've 
 bought or rented yourself quite a quality game. Menus are very easy to navigate through, (although 
 finding Trainer info was very frustrating at first) and you should be able to find any object that 
 you may be searching for with ease. 
  
  The graphics are really great on the DS as the dogs look very realistic, and same goes to the houses 
 in which your Nintendogs live in. Unfortunately some of the environments and objects (such as the 
 dog photo) look horribly pixelated.
  
  However repetitive, the sound and music of the game does it's job, although it's nothing special, 
 really. The voice recognition really sucks, and it's VERY difficult to teach your dogs tricks in 
 this fashion as your dogs will NEVER hear you the first nor second time. It takes several attempts 
 to call your dog, and often it only comes to me when somebody in the background says something 
 totally irrelevant, so yes, the voice recognition aspect of the game is no fun at all. 
  
  It's fun taking your dogs to contests and training it at parks with other dogs, although it gets 
 very repetitive quite quickly, and there's really not much more that your dog can do. 
  
  Although everybody would want to see what all the fuss is about, your Nintendogs will lose their 
 adorable appeal very quickly, and you may wish you could never play it again but unfortunately 
 you don't want your little puppies getting hungry. :-p
  
  And Nintendogs gets a "9" for value, as it's currently the cheapest available Nintendo DS game 
 in Australia, (I got mine for AUD$42) and all other games have a recommended retail price of at 
 AUD$69. Gosh, the standard American RRP of new release Nintendo DS games are an equivalent of AUD$40, 
 gosh, what a rip-off. :- (
  
  Nintendogs is a cute game you can play for around 10-20 minutes at a time, and nothing more. Play 
 any longer and you may go insane. Don't get me wrong, i'm still enjoying the game as i'm playing 
 it in small doses, but I feel that Nintendo should have added more content into what has become 
 a phenomenon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2005 4:04 am PT
Review:  As you all know this game was a big hit in Japan... whats all the hype about you ask, well, it is 
 possibly the best simulator to ever appear in stores. 
  
  To start, you buy a dog and begin to take care of it... this might not sound entertaining but it 
 is. The dogs are extremely cute and you can't resist but going "Awww" at their actions.
  Anyways, after naming it using the DS Microphone you have to start living with it. For instance 
 you can take it for walks, teach it tricks using the microphone, play with it using items you can 
 find and buy and competitions and so on... You can buy up to 8 dogs (3 with you and 5 at the hotel) .
 
  There isn't much more to add except of the pile crap multi-player which they call bark mode. All 
 you do is take care of the others dog while he takes care of yours.
  
  This may sound boring its the complete opposite, its just plain fun, spending time with your dogs 
 is a great experience and for any dog or animal lovers out there, this is a must buy game which 
 is suitable for of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superduperyoshi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 28, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I was very anticipated to get Nintendogs, and it was one of my select game purchases this year, 
 among some DS and PS2 games. I picked up my copy and unwrapped it right away. first, you have to 
 pick a dog, i picked a shiba. Then, you take it home with you. after a minute or two of playing 
 with it, the game asks you to give it a name (charlie) . Then, it shows you how to teach it a trick 
 sit. after that, you are given complete freedom. You can feed your dog, take it for a walk, or 
 play with it.
  
  I liked the graphics, the dog models looked good and acted very lifelike. The sound was top notch 
 also, with dog barks, and outside sounds, like cars and bikes, although the music does get pretty 
 repetitive. The interactivity is very good also, excellent use of touch screen and microphone. My 
 biggest complaint with the game is that ther's not much depth to it. After the intial session or 
 two, it can get boring. Overall it is a must buy for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, Shigeru Miyamoto took up gardening as a hobby. One thing led to another and, 
 as the story goes, Nintendo fans were blessed with Pikmin. As we all know, history never takes 
 long to repeat itself. The Miyamoto family recently came into the possession of some wonderfully 
 cute puppies and, as luck would have it, the gaming community was blessed once again with the wonder 
 that is Nintendogs. Quite the clever play on words, Nintendogs is the current generations reinvention 
 of the Tamogatchi. If youre unfamiliar with the brand, a Tamogatchi key chain landed somewhere 
 beyond the pet rock yet not quite as high as your baby brother on the evolutionary ladder. With 
 indicators to tell you when your digital pet was hungry, thirsty, tired, or bored, your task was 
 simply to keep the Tamogatchi alive. Innovative? Not entirely. Addicting? Like a drug. Kids everywhere 
 had to have one. It was one of the hottest toys of the 1990s. Like all fads, however, the Tamogatchi 
 eventually faded into pop culture history. Or so we thought.
  
  Enter Nintendogs. In this beyond cute, highly addictive, innovative pet simulator for the Nintendo 
 DS, there is on ultimate goal. There is no way to beat the game, and there are no high scores to 
 rack up. So whats the point? That depends on who you ask. With plenty of fun tidbits to unlock, 
 18 dog breeds to love, and a wireless multiplayer playground, Nintendogs offers quite a bit of 
 content on that tiny DS cartridge.
  
  When you first power up the DS, youll be taken to the Nintendog Kennel. There, youre given the 
 choice of six different puppy breeds to take home. Which breeds are available at the start of the 
 game depends on which version you own (Dachshund, Chihuahua, or Lab) , although its possible to 
 unlock all 18 breeds in each version through continued play. Each time you enter the Kennel, the 
 available colors and sexes are randomly mixed. If you dont like your first set of options, simply 
 exit the menu and return. Once you pay the adoption fee, you can take your new pup home. Hell 
 need a name, which you can give him using the systems voice recognition software. Train him for 
 a few moments so that he recognizes the name, and then begin your quality time together. After 
 you play for a few minutes, youll be able to teach your dog tricks using the stylus for control 
 and the voice recognition to give your tricks any name youd like.
  
  Once youve gotten to know your new pet, a number of options are open to you. You can go shopping 
 for supplies, take your puppy on a walk around the neighborhood, or enter him in one of three competitions. 
 To shop for supplies, simply go to the general store and pick out the food, toys, and other miscellaneous 
 items youd like for your dog. You begin the game with a budget of $1000, which quickly drops to 
 around $500 after you adopt your new friend. Youll find, however, that this is amounts to more 
 than enough money to spend on supplies.
  
  To exercise with your pup, take him out for a walk. After selecting this option, youre shown a 
 map of the neighborhood with which to plan your route using the DS stylus. Once youve entered 
 your course, you can use the stylus to keep hold of your puppys leash. Walks are typically the 
 most entertaining aspect of this simulator, as youll encounter other puppies from around the neighborhood 
 on similar outings, find presents along the road, and visit discount stores. You can also take 
 your Nintendog to the park for some fun, social interaction, and training exercises.
  
  The only way to earn money in Nintendogs is by participating in one of three competitions. Your 
 first choice is a simple game of catch, in which your dog has to catch and return as many throws 
 of the Frisbee as he can in 60 seconds. The farther the throw, the more points youre awarded. 
 Your next option is an agility trial in which you guide your puppy over hurdles and through obstacles. 
 Finally, the most financially rewarding and correspondingly difficult task is an obedience trial, 
 where you can show off your training prowess in terms of how many tricks your dog can correctly 
 perform and how long the tricks can be maintained.
  
  Nintendogs could only have been achieved on the Nintendo DS. The touch screen and microphone provide 
 a level of interaction that is unsurpassed. Youll find yourself quickly growing attached to your 
 puppies, making sure they are well fed, rested, and exercised. Part of this attachment stems from 
 the beautiful visual presentation Nintendo managed to squeeze into the title, making your puppies 
 seem incredibly life-like and endearing. The visual quality is matched by the magnificent audio 
 that so clearly describes each puppys unique personality. When your dog is hungry, tired, or mad, 
 youll hear it. You can even use the DSs wireless technology to take your puppy over to a friends 
 house. Your pets will happily play together on both systems, and you can share all of your toys 
 and supplies (if you so choose) with your new friend.
  
  The games only drawback is that it is best enjoyed in shorter, action-filled spurts. Youll find 
 that you can only play the game for 20-30 minutes at a time before your puppy gets too tired to 
 learn new tricks or go for a walk. Overall, however, Nintendogs is one of the first must-have titles 
 for the Nintendo DS. It appeals to dog-lovers of all ages, and both men and women will find the 
 game equally endearing. This isnt your big sisters Tamogatchi. Its a whole new generation of 
 virtual pet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netty500
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  Never have I played a game so simple yet so addicting in my life. The things in this game you can 
 do with your puppy is nearly limitless. You can pet your dog, make him do tricks, teach him tricks, 
 walk him, clean up his "messes" and meet others for your dog to play!
  
  You begin your furry adventure at the kennel, where you can choose from up to 6 type of puppies 
 to buy, after you've chosen, you simple click on the type of dog and click "buy." The best part 
 is when you get home. You'll have to create a name for your dog, you first have to record his name 
 with your tone of voice, then type it out. After calling out his name a bit, he'll remember it. 
 After that, you're free to do whatever you want. You can go shopping and buy food and water and 
 other supplies for your puppy, and son teach him new tricks!
  
  Teaching your dog trick is simple, simple perform the trick manually and then click on the lightbulb 
 in the top right corner. then say out the trick ("Sit Down!" "Lay Down!" or "Roll Over!" are some 
 very basic ones to try.) After a few attempts at this, your dog will successfully learn the new 
 trick and you, instead of doing it manually, can now just get him to do it by commanding him. 
 
  
  The most fun is the "Walk" mode. You'll take your dog on a walk and encounter events with other 
 dogs, and items found randomly on the ground to get your puppy to pick up. Your walk meter (How 
 long he can walk) starts very low at first, but the more you walk him the long the walks can get 
 and the more events you can goto.
  
  After teaching your dog some new tricks and treating him well, taking him on walks, you might be 
 up for a little competition. This competition mode is where you put all you've taught your dog 
 to the test. If you've bought a frisbee you can play the Frisbee competition, ehere you must get 
 your dog to catch disk, simple, but the hard part is getting him to get longer ranges for more 
 points. If you take your dog to the park for Frisbee practice atleast twice a day, I'm sure you'll 
 do fine in the competition!
  
  The best moments in the game are when you bu your next puppy, you hope you can get to know and 
 learn to love your new puppy, and that both your pups can get along playing. Training two dogs 
 is always better than one, so now after training is over your pups will now have someone to play 
 with.
  
  Even if you don't climb the ranks to championship in all the contests, you'll still have fun playing 
 with your dog, teaching them new tricks, and going on walks to find rare items to rack up some 
 more money, puppy lovers, nintendo lovers, hell, everyone will learn to love this game. Everyone 
 will be charmed by the life-like dogs in this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neosword
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 27, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since I first heard about it. I wanted it so bad I almost imported 
 one from Japan just to play it. Now it's mine (and in English, I might add) and it's great. The 
 puppies are incredibly lifelike and unbelievebly fun to play with. When you first turn play the 
 game you are told to choose a puppy to take home. Depending on which version you get, you will 
 have a different selection of puppies. All versions are exactly the same except for the dogs types, 
 so it doesn't matter too much which one you buy. When you get your puppy and bring him home there 
 is a tutorial you follow. It teaches you how to train and play with your new friend. It makes use 
 of the stylus and the microphone, so it's a very hands on game. After the tutorial is done you're 
 on your own. It's up to you to train your dog and keep him alive. You have to buy water and food 
 to feed him, and bathing stuff to give him a bath. You can take him on walks and pick up items 
 along the way. After you take him on a few walks his stamina will get better and he will be able 
 to walk farther. On the walks you can stop by the park and train for competitions. Competitions 
 are probably the best part of the game. You can train your dog and take them to compete for cash 
 prizes and their ranks will automatically move to what I like to call the dogs "permanant record". 
 It shows how hungry and thirsty your dog is, as well as how much time he has spent with you, how 
 clean he is, what tricks he knows and what he has eaten. The game is pretty simple and most of 
 the fun comes from just playing with your dog. The game is better played in short sessions as your 
 dog gets tired after a lot of activity. Overall, this is the best game on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical - but this is definitely the best pet type game out there yet. A must for dog lovers 
 too!
  
  I am not the type of guy who really enjoyed the Tomagotchi-type games at all. I had a few growing 
 up and for the most part they didn't come close to delivering the kind of game experience that 
 I would - overall - make me want to pick up something over and over and take care of it. I mean, 
 honestly..... when you have real life responsibilities and jobs, who wants to be taking care of 
 an inanimate object?
  
  Well, no one until Nintendogs - at least i think. Even from the very first time you boot up the 
 game and see the puppies running around you have this overall sensation that you are in for a treat! 
 (No pun intended) . The way the dogs are animated and interact with you and your other puppies is 
 simply amazing. The dogs themselves are just so darn cute that it's hard to choose which type of 
 dog to even start with!
  
  At first - the game feels very gimmicky. You and pet your pet and give it a few commands and after 
 the initial few things you do you wonder "What can I do now?" It takes a bit getting used to because 
 this is a pet simulator. It's not meant to be "beaten" overnight. You have to train your pet to 
 learn a whole multitude of different commands and get it to grow stronger while keeping it happy. 
 It takes a lot of work and depending on how you raise your pet - you will find it gains a certain 
 kind of personality - which you will either love or grow irritated by. This alone gives a sense 
 of depth to the game, however, as you delve into the game and realize there is a lot to unlock! 
 You can unlock other animals, accessories, items for your apartment - you think of something "dog" 
 related and Nintendogs probably has it.
  
  Yet even as a start this is just the first layer to everything. There are competitions that you 
 have to train your dog to get good at to earn money to help purchase items to raise your dog.
 
  
  One of the cutest moments I experienced was with my first puppy - as I over-zealously tried to 
 enter it into a Frisbee competition when it was only 10 minutes old. I would throw the Frisbee 
 and the dog would go run and get it. Only to just sit there and lick the thing while a timer counts 
 down - and you start to realize that the dog doesn't know anything. So I of course panicked and 
 called it's name over and over until it realized I was beckoning him and of course the silly thing 
 leaves the frisbie behind not knowing I wanted him to bring it back to me. Needless to say I scored 
 very bad and my poor puppy placed last in it's first competition. It was ok though because I made 
 sure to tell her it was ok (I named my first puppy Mandy) and gave her some dog food and pet her 
 over and over till she fell over.
  
  It is at moments like this that you begin to realize you really have a pet you have to invest in 
 and the game becomes very involving and adorable in small spurts.
  
  Then there is connectivity - as dogs love to play with one another - which adds a whole new layer 
 to the onion. I personally hope this game does really well and sets a standard to gaming because 
 there is a mode where you leave your DS slightly on so it can recieve signals from other DS's who 
 have Nintendogs. I almost wish this could be installed IN the DS so I don't have to have the cartridge 
 actually in the system to play - and could play with my dog inbetween Meteos and Advance Wars. 
 Oh well, maybe next time nintendo!
  
  
  My only major minor gripe with this game - is that from what I read - the dogs do not actually 
 grow up. The fact that they stay puppies is sort of a downer for me, because I am not sure if I 
 will stick with my older puppies if I can never actually witness them grow. Then again - with all 
 the competions to unlock and Trainer points to master.... I am sure I'll have a hell of a time 
 with my current puppies!
  
  *********************** Special Note to the Guys 
  
  Oh yeah 
 - for you guys out there - this is definitly a game that will get a girl's attention. I work at 
 a video game store and you would not believe the amount of females that stop and laugh and point 
 at this game!
  
  ~ Wakasm ~
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  For all my other reviews - Check my Profile
  or mirrored to gamespot at http://www. wakasm. com/videogamereviews. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themadshimsham
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  While I was planning to buy this game regardless, when it came time to purchase I was having doubts. 
 Mainly because I'm trying to conserve money and I was worried I was about to waste $30.
  
  I was wrong. 
  
  This game reeks of cuteness. It'd take a tentacle-raping maniac to not smile 
 when your dog runs up to you after you call its name and puts its front paws on the screen. In 
 the Labrador edition you get the choice of a Labrador Retriever, Miniature Schnauzer, Toy Poodle, 
 Pembroke Welsh Corgi, Miniature Pinscher, or a Shiba Inu as your starting pup.
  
  All breeds, (the other breeds available as starting pups in the other 2 editions of the game) are 
 available to be unlocked, no matter which version of the game you purchase. 
  
  The microphone built into the DS is implemented perfectly in this game. The only way you interface 
 with this game is through the stylus or microphone. As long as you can enunciate somewhat, your 
 pup should have no problem understanding commands you teach him/her and responding to its own name. 
 
  
  There are many different personalities in all of the dogs. When you go to choose your pup there 
 will be a personality synopsis about the pup you're looking at before you choose to buy it. Some 
 dogs are mellow and laid back, some are quiet mischievous, and others are hard to get along with. 
 There are others but I don't think I've seen all of them.
  
  Each breed has different coats, I've seen white, black and chocolate labs available. You are allowed 
 to have 3 dogs at a time. You can purchase more but if you have more than 3 you must keep the dogs 
 in a "puppy hotel" of sorts. It basically just takes care of them and you can change up which ones 
 you have out at a time.
  
  Don't expect this game to hold your attention for hours at a time. It's very much a game that is 
 a simple pick-up-and-play. I've played for several hours, yes, but not at one time. 
  
  It's fairly easy to teach the dogs tricks, as long as you speak clearly. However some dogs learn 
 easier than others so it sort've depends.
  
  The graphics are great looking, probably one of the best looking 3D DS games available. 
  
 
  The controls are responsive and there's not much else to say since you only use the microphone 
 and stylus.
  
  The sound is superb. All of the dogs don't sound the same, the sound is very clear and the barking 
 on the DS gets my real dogs attention easily. It's funny because when I'm telling my Nintendog 
 to sit down, my real dog is responding as well. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent. This truly is a puppy-sim. The dogs act very lifelike and I think that's 
 the best thing I can say. It all feels very natural and fluid. 
  
  I have to certainly recommend this game if you're a DS user already. If you don't own a DS I have 
 to recommend at least trying this game for a minimum of 10-15 minutes, just to experience it. 
 
  
  While there were a few collision issues, with a leash going through the nose of the dog or something 
 I can't really find anything else wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kbs64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 4:53 am PT
Review:  Yes, youve heard the ruckus. Dogs are taking over your portable space. No Im not talking about 
 Virtual Dogs. No my friends! Im talking about Nintendo very own, amazing, Nintendogs.
  
  You get to play with your dog and teach it tricks. Put it though enough training and youll be 
 able to put it though dog shows and earn cash. If youre allergic to real dogs or just had your 
 best friend (dog) die, like me ~ yes Im very sad :-) Then Nintendogs is your chance to experience 
 love a puppy, DS style. 
  
  Nintendogs is a graphically marvel. It really shows what the DS is capable of. The dogs move so 
 realistically that youll fall in love with them as soon as you turn it on. They sound so real. 
 Touching can be as awarding for you as it is for the dog. 
  
  Nintendogs is an amazing, unique, experience and shouldnt be missed. If you think that you can 
 interact with your PSP like this with this kind of gameplay... think again! And just like the review 
 says. If you dont own DS. This would be a perfect time to do so. Nintendogs is a must buy for 
 all you puppy lovers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrwindmddl77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs makes you want to spend sleepless nights just taking care of your dog (s) for contests, 
 happiness, or just for your own fun. It's the second must buy for DS (Personally I like Dual Strike 
 better) . 
  
  Gameplay: Touch Screen and Voice has never worked better. You use the touch screen for scratching, 
 playing, or picking up your dog's belongings. Talk allows you to give your dogs trick commands 
 that feels like you have a real dog inside your DS. Even the minigames such as contests or washing 
 your dog uses the touchscreen and voice well.
  
  Graphics: Dogs are fantastic, Framerate's even better, items look well done, the only complaint 
 here is that the backgrounds for Nintendogs is only O. K.
  
  Sound: Barking, Growling Music etc. are all perfect, it's just a shame that some of the music is 
 a little repetitive. It's not to the point annoyance it's just something I wish was different
 
  
  Value: I can see my self playing Nintendogs for a LONG LONG time for many many hours a day. There 
 are so many unlockables (toys, accessaries etc.) you can do anything to your dog you want
  
  Tilt: NIntendogs is extremely fun. The only reason I took of one from tilt is because I lose 
 track of the time so much I've been late for a lot of things.
  
  Bottom Line: Nintendogs is for any one who wants a dog, but doesn't want to clean up after it or 
 anyone who loves dogs at all. Even people who loves cats will love Nintendogs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
