-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nintendogs: Chihuahua and Friends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/nintendogschihuahuaandfriends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lifelike, endearing puppies.
 Easy-to-use training interface.
 Lots of unlockable accessories, dog breeds, and other items.
 Great in short- and medium-length bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few restrictions feel unnecessarily limiting at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,390 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Aug 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. 

  You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. The game's boisterous and affectionate young canines are 
 impossibly endearing, making the tasks of caring for them, training them, and simply interacting 
 with them a joy. That Nintendogs occasionally limits some of your activities in what is already 
 a streamlined set of options is pretty much the only bad thing you can say about the virtual puppy 
 game. However, the game is at its best in short, satisfying bursts, and is suited to dog lovers 
 of all ages.  

          Behold the awesome power of your adorable new puppy overlords.     

  When you start 
 the game, you'll immediately be whisked to the Nintendog Kennel to choose a companion from among 
 six different breeds of scampering cuteness. The breeds you have available to you at the beginning 
 of the game depend on the version you're playing, though all versions can eventually unlock all 
 18 types. Each individual dog has its own personality, from shy to daring, from willing student 
 to determined truant. Every time you bring up a particular breed listing, the puppies you can choose 
 from will shuffle to a random selection of colors and personalities, so you can hand-pick the type 
 of pooch you want. Pay the adoption fee, and then head home to bond with your new cold-nosed friend. 

  The bonding comes easily with Nintendogs, due in large part to the high levels of care and detail 
 that went into creating these digital canines. It's not just that the puppies have been given the 
 accurate appearance of their given breeds -- though the representation is quite authentic, down to 
 the different coat and color patterns. It's that a great host of doggy mannerisms have all been 
 captured just about perfectly. Every enthusiastic gallop after a tennis ball is just right, the 
 way their eyes close in satisfaction and their tail blurs into motion when they're patted, the 
 way they sometimes flop over each other for a sudden nap, and each tongue-lolling, panting stare 
 filled with happy adulation is pure puppy. So it's easy for you to become rapidly attached to your 
 new virtual pals, and it's hard for you to resist the occasional sad-eyed face and plaintive whine 
 of a Nintendog begging for attention.  

  Once you get your dog home, you'll be able to name it using the game's voice-recognition software, 
 repeating it a few times until your pooch "learns" his or her name. After an initial adjustment 
 period in which you'll shower your new puppy with attention, you can begin training it. As a puppy 
 performs an action it can learn as a trick, a lightbulb icon appears in the corner of the screen. 
 Quickly tapping this icon lets you record a command to associate with that action -- for example, 
 linking the word "sit" to when the dog sits down. Then it's a matter of associating that same word 
 with the same action multiple times, until your puppy learns the trick. A successful training session 
 results in another lightbulb above Rover's head and a happy yip; if your dog is confused, red question 
 marks appear over his head to let you know you need to speak a bit more clearly next time. Blue 
 question marks appear if you're trying to teach a command that sounds like something the puppy 
 already knows, so you don't risk overlapping your tricks.  

          Some dogs learn faster than others, but they can all be coaxed into obedience.     

 
  Once you've taught your puppy a number of commands (the amount of time this takes depends on whether 
 or not you picked one of those daring, headstrong dogs, which seemed like a good idea when you 
 bought it) and raised your trainer level a bit, you can begin preparing your dog for the various 
 contests you can compete in. There are three different types: obedience, which rates your dog on 
 how well it follows verbal commands; disc, which lets you show off your dog's Frisbee-catching 
 prowess; and agility, which is a hectic romp through an obstacle course. How well your puppy does 
 depends on how much you've been practicing a given activity and how strong your bond is. Placing 
 in the top three earns you a sparkling trophy, prize money, and a boost to the next level of competition. 
 If you lose, you're knocked down a level, so you'll have to move your way back to the top.     
 

  It's not all about trophies, though -- a lot of the most rewarding interaction between you and your 
 puppy happens in the course of your many more-mundane activities. You'll interact with your puppy 
 a lot with your stylus, using it to pat the dog and position it for tricks, as well as to throw 
 toys for pooch to play with. Your puppy will alert you any time you tap the stylus on the touch 
 screen and come to you if you continue to tap, though you can also call your puppy's name and get 
 it to trot right over. The dogs are eager to interact with you and will either follow the stylus 
 with their eyes, jump to maneuver their heads underneath it, or lick your presented hand happily. 
 If you toss them toys, they'll also routinely bring them back to you, sitting their front paws 
 on the touch screen and waiting patiently for you to play.  

          Winning competitions earns you money for food, accessories, and most importantly, new puppies! 
     

  Taking your dog on walks around town is a good way to stretch their legs and work those paws, and 
 your puppy will also discover various accessories lying around (from collars, to toys, to Mario 
 hats, to strange items for your house) , play with other neighborhood dogs, and try its darndest 
 to get that burrito out of the trash. As you continue to go on walks, your dog's stamina will improve 
 to the point where you can roam all over town, visiting parks and gymnasiums that let you practice 
 disc-tossing and the agility course, as well as discount shops that sell all-new items for you 
 and your pampered pooch. Besides walks, necessary maintenance includes feeding and watering your 
 dog when it's hungry or thirsty and bathing your dog when it gets dirty. An interface you can access 
 from the menu lets you see your dog's vital information at a glance, in case your prized pooch 
 is in need of a flea-ridding scrub. Pups can go for some time without a certain level of care, 
 but if you completely neglect them, they'll eventually run away -- as well they should, from such 
 a heartless master!  

  The more you play the game, the more items become available for you to purchase, like different 
 foods and toys. Passing certain levels of achievement will, as mentioned previously, unlock even 
 more dog breeds for you to choose from. You can have up to three puppies in your house at any given 
 time that will romp around with each other, and a nearby "dog hotel" can help house anyone you 
 might not be able to care for.  

  The game does have a few limiting factors, however, as the puppies can't run all day indefinitely. 
 You're restricted to entering three contests a day; you can only take your dog out for a walk every 
 30 minutes or so; and your dog can only learn so many tricks in one day before its canine brain 
 calls it quits. This isn't something you'll run into unless you try to engage in a marathon of 
 activities, and when you encounter it, it can be a bit off-putting, especially if you've only got 
 one Nintendog to lavish all your considerable affections on. For that reason, this is a game that's 
 really at its best when played in multiple bursts throughout the day or one action-packed extended 
 session a day, as opposed to repeated long sessions. There's still plenty of content to unlock 
 and lots of puppy playing to do, so the restrictions aren't all that onerous, but there will be 
 occasional times when Fido just can't keep up, and you'll need to put the system down and do something 
 else for a while. At least your puppy is always happy to see you.  

  You can also interact with other Nintendog owners wirelessly, through something called bark mode. 
 Setting bark mode puts your Nintendo DS on the alert for other Nintendog games with the mode activated. 
 When in range, bark mode signals you to the presence of another puppy, and then both puppies can 
 play together on the same screen. You can choose to bring one of your items as a present for your 
 new friends, and you'll automatically exchange trainer information and add the other user to an 
 in-game friends list. It's a nice way to hook up with your friends' puppies, or perhaps even see 
 what dogs might be lurking in a crowded store or street. The one curious thing about the mode is 
 that the two DS systems don't sync -- your playing puppies' activities are local to your own handheld. 
 However, considering the presence of two human masters able to call and command both puppies with 
 impunity, it's easy to see why it was designed that way -- to prevent unintentional games of pup 
 ping-pong.  

          Won't you take me home?     

  The game's visual strength is mainly in the dogs themselves, with their lifelike expressions, mannerisms, 
 and motion. The rest of the game consists of a variety of simple backdrops -- your sparsely furnished 
 home, the streets of town, the venues for the different contests -- that serve to quietly be a place 
 where the puppies can romp without distracting from the game. The game's gentle, upbeat tunes are 
 a nice complement to the assortment of yips, barks, fearful whines, plaintive begging, playful 
 huffing, squeaking yawns, and other such doggy noises that round out the great sound.  

  Just about anyone who enjoys the adorable antics, manic activity, and the tender nurturing that 
 is central to raising a happy, healthy puppy should certainly give Nintendogs a look. Its simple 
 interface, appealing subject matter, and its friendliness to multiple short sessions, with plenty 
 of items and animals to unlock, makes it easy to recommend to a wide variety of gamers and nongamers 
 alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (132 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  People who down this game are just heartless. Don't listen to them! This game has good graphics 
 for portable games and the puppies are mostly life-like. 
  
  The puppies have their likes and dislikes for toys which can get annoying if you have 3 and only 
 1 doesn't like the toy, then you have to not play with it again, or drop the dog off at the dog 
 hotel. Which believe me, can be annoying but is not a factor of the game. 
  
  The puppies need to be fed and bathed daily or every other day. Although, the rumors state that 
 if you let the dogs be alone for too long they will run away. That has never happened to me, so 
 don't worry about it. I would not recommend brushing unless they are "Clean" to get them to "Beautiful".
 
  
  Be patient! The dogs are just like normal dogs and it takes them time to learn a trick. If you 
 are teaching tricks, look at the personality of the dog before you buy it to make sure it won't 
 take an hour! And if you want an agility, look for the dog that is "Rambunctious" or is running. 
 For obedience chose "Patient". Just keep going in and out of the breed selection until you get 
 the right pup.
  
  Good luck to all with raising your pup in this Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiSphere
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  In Nintendogs, you basically raise your dogs, then put them in competitions to earn money, to buy 
 new dogs, decor, items, clocks etc.
  
  Also in the game you can:
  Play with your dogs
  Go shopping to buy new items
  Walk your dogs and find presents.
  Take your dog to the park
 
  Enter your dog in Disc throwing, agility and obedience competitions.
  Unlock new types of dogs by being a good owner
  Go in Bark Mode to play with your friends
  
 
  Each dog has it's specialties and weaknesses.
  Some are good at obedience, but bad at disc.
  Some are very energetic, but go toilet a lot.
 
  Some are very quiet, and don't play much.
  
  You can practise competitions in the park, and play with other dogs.
  
  You can upgrade your 
 discs, collars and items to give you a better chance in contests aswell.
  
  Nintendogs is as much of a strategy game, as it is a simulation game.
  
  Nintendogs is the 
 best selling DS game for a reason.
  
  I highly recommend that you should try, if not buy this game. =D
  A must-have for DS lovers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a , but I think Nintendogs is a pretty good game. This is one of the first Nintendo games 
 they made. It's not only for your entertainment but it sort of gives you an introduction to what 
 the Nintendo DS can actually do.
  
  First off, let me say this. There is no story mode. Why would you need one? That makes games limiting 
 sometimes. Especially if you are raising a dog. Now what happens is you start off with about a 
 thousand dollars, and you go off and buy a dog, which cost around $400, depending on what they 
 are. After that, you take it home and the first thing you do is let it get comfortable. It's going 
 to be scared. After that, it's time for a name. This is where the mic comes in. You teach it it's 
 name by saying it into the mic. It takes awhile, but during the game, you can just tap the screen 
 and it will come over.
  
  After that, it's time for some training. You have to teach it a trick, Sit. It's the same thing 
 as giving the dog a name, you talk into the mic, and after a while, it's learned it's name.
  
  After all that crap is done, you can finally do whatever you want. Now the game does have currency 
 that is sometimes a little expensive, but earning money is pretty easy. First off, you might want 
 to buy a comb, some food, and some shampoo. WAIT! You need to find out if your dog is a short-hair 
 or a long-hair. Just look around some, you'll find it.
  
  Ok, after all that and you feed and nurish your dog, he may want a walk. You can draw your own 
 path for walks, but at first, you won't be able to walk far. During walks, you may encounter gifts, 
 which your dog will bring to you. You may also encounter trash, which your dog will attempt to 
 eat. Gross! Also during a walk, you can visit a park and/or a discount shop. At parks, there will 
 usually be other dogs and it is a great field for disc contest training. At discount shops, you 
 will encounter everything at a discount, everything! There are also some items at discount shops 
 that you can only get there, not from a store, and some stuff, like the keyboard, are very rare.
 
  
  Ok, how do you earn cash? Well, you compete in these competetions. Theres a disc one, a track one, 
 and an obediance trial. If you win, you will get money, the amount is determined by what place 
 you landed in and what class you were in. Each dog can only compete in three total per day, which 
 makes the game a little limiting.
  
  Ok, no more spoilers. But the game does have wireless gameplay. No, not Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, 
 but wireless multi-card. What you can do is you and a friend can bring a dog to the park, and you 
 can bring a gift of any kind for the other player. Yes your dogs do interact. It's pretty good, 
 but online play would help.
  
  This is a great game for someone who just got a DS or someone who loves dogs. I'll admit that some 
 dogs are cute, but talking as a reviewer, this is a terrific game for those who love dogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I had seen such great reviews for this games I was excited to get it. Don't get me wrong, it's 
 a cool concept, just playing with your puppies, teaching them tricks, giving them different stuff. 
 It's a neat way to use the stylus, and the way they made the dogs interact with each other and 
 their toys, food, etc, is really pretty cool. It's fun for awhile, I guess you just have to really 
 be a fan of the whole dog raising sim. You can train it to catch frisbees, teach it tricks and 
 take it to shows, and train it to go through obstacles courses and win prizes that way. Of course 
 you walk your dog alot. It was interesting at first, but I found myself sticking it on the shelf 
 and just playing occasionally. I unlocked a few new breeds, but certainly didn't feel like investing 
 the time into another dog to make it do the same things my dog could do. Trade in time. Cool to 
 check out, but ultimately not my style of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davyc1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-The graphics are really good and make the dogs look real. If you look closely you can see 
 the dog breathing!
  
  Gameplay-There is alot to do! You can take your dog for a walk, enter it in a competition, play 
 with it , or go shopping. There are three different kinds of competitions agility, disc and obedience. You 
 get money for winning competitions .In shopping you can go to the kennel to buy a dog, get your 
 house decorated at the interior decorator , buy items from the pet supply, sell items to the second 
 hand shop or put your dogs in the dog hotel. There are lots of different kinds of dogs they are 
 chihuahua, dachshund, labrador, pug, yorkie, pinscher, shih tzu, kc spaniel, toy poodle, jack russel, 
 beagle, shetland sheepdog, schnauzer golden retriever, boxer, corgi, husky, german shepherd, shiba 
 inu and dalmation. You can also go on barkmode which is the two player.
  
  Sound-The sound is good and you can find records on a walk.
  
  Value-The game lasts for ages 
 (I have 90000 trainer points) . I am still trying to get a jack russel!! This game is a must have 
 for a boy or girl. IT IS NOT JUST FOR GIRLS!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francision69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  After spending 3months with my Nintendogs i think im ready to review this game. I think i've fully 
 scratched everything this game has to offer except the fact that i never tried the multiplayer 
 mode since no one around here owns a DS and a copy of the game. But i've already explored everything 
 else this game has to offer. Ok let me just start off by saying that if you love the old Tomagotchi 
 or if you just love raising virtual pets (Namely dogs) then Nintendogs is exactly the game for 
 you. I got my copy of Nintendogs on October18 and its almost been 3months since i first got my 
 cute little tiny Nintendog Chihuahua Marteny. Aww i really love Marteny... Hes such a cute little 
 Chihuahua... Anyways on with the review. The game starts off with you selecting what pup you want 
 out of the 5choices available. There are 20breeds all in all and you must unlock 15 of the other 
 breeds by playing the game for a long time. But first things first. There are 3 different versions 
 of this game. Just like Pokemon each version has a different dog in it. There is a Daschund version, 
 Labrador retriever version and finally the Chihuahua version. I asked Claire to buy me the Chihuahua 
 version since i love the tiny little pup. But let me point out that those different versions of 
 the game have different starting dogs. But you can unlock every single dog from all the versions. 
 So lets go on with the review AGAIN. After you have chosen your dog you must then choose what name 
 you want to give it and this is when the game uses the DS microphone. You must talk to the microphone 
 to name your dog. Repeat the name a couple of times and VOILA! You have you instant pup complete 
 with name. After you have named your dog you must teach it tricks via the DS microphone or take 
 your dog on a walk or feed your dog or go shopping for items or go meet other dogs through the 
 multiplayer mode. You can also enter in compettitions for money. You use the money to buy a new 
 house, new items, new dogs or other things. The dogs behave very life-like and react like real 
 dogs. I just really love this game so much. This is one of those games that just keeps going even 
 if the game is turned off your puppies are still awake and alive. And the game also runs in real 
 time thanks to the DS built in clock. This game will last FOREVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13apples
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Really good graphics, lots of stuff to do! Although the voice training does not work all the time, 
 I would still highly recommend this game for sure! Oh yeah, and super cute doggies! The contests 
 are really fun and you have lots of breeds to choose from. I kind of wish that you could have more 
 than 3 dogs out at the same time, you can get more than 3... but you have to keep them in the Dog 
 Hotel. The game takes advantage of the touch screen abilities very well, you use the stylus to 
 pet your dog, throw toys and guide it through the agility course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  If you have any dogs or you are just a dog lover and you have a DS, check this game out. It's one 
 of those games you will either hate it or love it. If you like animal crossing, the sims, or any 
 real time game, then this game might just satisfy your needs... And again, I have 3 dogs and let 
 me tell you, it is much less messier than the real thing. Cleaning up dog droppings, walking them 
 through the park, playing frisbee with them, teaching them new tricks, feeding them, and communicating 
 with them has never been so easy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  pwah! Real and all with great interactions and activities for your dogs but... that's it! You want 
 a fun game to stick with you then this isn't really a good choice. Not even if you're a dog fanatic. 
 This isn't super fun. Sorry.
  
  Competitions are limited, simple to learn, easy and repetitive. They just don't change. That's 
 the only way you can even get serious money, which even then, isn't that serious!
  
  Basically, that's all you can do, competitions that's as good as the gameplay gets, thats' where 
 it ends. You can go for a walk and unlock other dogs, but you should have all dogs available in 
 the beginning anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  i'm enjoying this game so far, its pretty easy, the training part is very enjoyable its cool to 
 see that your voice can change what happens in game, very good feature. The contests are fun, but 
 i enjoy the caring for more that the contests, its fun taking your dog on walks and interacting 
 with other dogs. The bark mode feature is good, especially as you can bring presents and so-on, 
 some of the features that have been brought about by the ds are fantastic, i am now glad that i 
 swapped my psp :)
  
  Overall this is a pretty fun game, reccomendable to anyone who likes laid back fun games, that 
 arn't paticuarly challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased my copy of Nintendogs, my primary reason was to raise my very own puppy to interact 
 with my niece's... I mean what better present can you give a pair of 3 &amp; 5 year old girls? 
 I was expecting something simple, but to my surprise Nintendo added so much depth to the game... 
 that it's almost like owning a real life pet. From petting &amp; playing to entering competitions 
 to earn money... you even have to walk, bathe &amp; feed your pups on a regular basis. My favorite 
 aspect though is the voice recognition as my dogs will come to my call and I can teach them an 
 assortment of tricks. People looking at me must have thought this 30 year old man has lost his 
 mind talking to a video-game... but then I show them my puppies and it's oh they're so cute and 
 they actually listen to you? If you are a gamer concerned about image, stop reading this review... 
 do not buy this game and move on with life, but I'll tell you this, Nintendogs is unlike anything 
 I've experienced in 24 years of playing video-games and you'll surely be missing out. You still 
 here... good, continue on and see how the DS's unique features are really put to the test.
  
  STORY
  
  You enter the kennel with hopes of going home with your very own puppy... do you 
 want a girl, a boy... from each description you get the detailed personality for each pup. There 
 are 3 versions of the game and the difference is the 6 starting breeds you can choose from... for 
 review purposes I have the Chihuahua &amp; Friends version and I chose to adopt a female German 
 Shepherd which I named Ruby. When you get home your dog is in an unfamiliar setting and it's your 
 job to make her feel welcomed... once the initial shock is over it's time to name her. With several 
 voice inputs via mic, your dog will now acknowledge her and and come to you when you call her. 
 This is how it begins... hours of fun and excitement await you and your new friend.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The stylus is used for nearly all controls in the game using the touch-screen selection. 
 Use it for petting, entering names... and making your pup do all sorts of tricks. The interface 
 is so simple that you will be interacting with your dog within the first minute upon arriving home. 
 On the home screen you just tap your dog icon and the camera will zoom-in on that pup... and you 
 can either tap the whistle icon or call your dog's name and she will come up to the screen to greet 
 you. The bottom screen will switch to interactive mode where you can pet and teach your dogs tricks 
 and you can pull-out toys to play with. From tennis balls, frisbees and all sorts of cool items 
 to see what your dogs reaction will be.
  
  After a nice session of fetch with a rubber bone or stick, your dog might become hungry or thirsty... 
 in the home menu you can tap the ? to see your pup's status... this will also tell if she is dirty 
 or clean. You must bathe your dog maybe once every other day to keep them spotless and brush their 
 hair with a beautiful shine for competitions. All of these items can be found in the care section 
 of the supplies menu which also includes manuals to cover all the basics. When you need more supplies 
 you can visit the store and purchase the care items you wish to use with your pup... be careful 
 to use the correct shampoo for short &amp; long hair dogs. There are many more items in the game 
 and you must find them on walks.
  
  When a pup has to go it has to go... but don't worry it won't go in the house, ah the beauty of 
 not having to paper-train your dog. You can take her out for walks around the neighborhood and 
 your town consists of 4 quadrants with 2 parks and a gymnasium. There are over 200 possibilities 
 for your town structure. When you first bring your dog out for a walk it's stamina bar will be 
 small and to build it up you need to take her out on walks as often as possible. There are ? blocks 
 scattered throughout town and if you walk your pup through one you either meet up with another 
 trainer and their dog or you find a pr esent with a new item inside... anything from toys to accessories 
 can be found to play with or sell.
  
  To buy more care and other items that appear in the stores you need to make money... you can either 
 sell the items you find on walks or enter competitions where if you place in the top 3 you win 
 $$$. There are 3 different competitions and each dog breed specializes in one. First is the Disc 
 trial where you throw a frisbee and your dog catches it, second is the Agility trial where you 
 guide your pup over obstacles and try to finish with the lowest time... and last is the Obedience 
 trial where you must give your dog verbal commands which they must complete or hold in a specific 
 period of time. There are 5 stages to each competition beginner, open, expert, master &amp; championship 
 which offers the highest rewards.
  
  Now this might sound all nice and dandy on paper, but descriptions can't compare with the real 
 thing... your dog is like a living breathing creature which you must care for and if you don't 
 your pup will not have a strong bond with you and become lazy. You can't beat or discipline your 
 dog ( this is a good thing ) and they will not grow up or die... so you are with a forever-young 
 pup and must care for it and play with it often. You gain trainer points for your actions and these 
 will unlock breeds in the other 2 versions and Interior Decorator Themes for your home. Don't worry 
 you can also unlock breeds and themes through Bark Mode Multi-player so you don't have to be the 
 best trainer in the world.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  There are a total of 20 breeds of dogs in the game and they don't all look the same, for example 
 the spots on a Dalmatian are almost always in different places. If you want a specific color for 
 your breed, it's not very difficult to find and the animations for each are unique for the breed. 
 They come in 3 sizes small, medium and large... a Chihuahua makes the Siberian Husky look like 
 a goliath. Your dogs movements aren't just fluid... they look like a real dog, be it eating dog-food 
 to drinking water, even when you bathe your dog she will shake to dry herself off. Interaction 
 goes well beyond just petting... as you must wrestle a frisbee from it's grasp or hold onto a leash 
 during a walk, ever swing your dog with the pull-rope?
  
  The main setting you will view during the course of the game is your home, which you can hire an 
 interior decorator to construct special themes. You have many choices to spend your hard earned 
 $$$, the Japanese Tami room looks tranquil, the Desktop Theme looks like cute and artsy... once 
 you get to the Seaside Theme your pups can bathe in the sun. The ultimate though is the Outer Space 
 Theme... nothing beats living above the Earth and eating breakfast among the stars. I've noticed 
 that with some themes... namely the Desktop, slowdown occasionally occurs when you own 3 large 
 dogs, this may also happen on walks when meeting other dogs, but in no way does it hinder gameplay.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  My favorite part of the game is to teach my dog new tricks through voice recognition via mic. Once 
 you name your pup it will respond to your call, in the park or at home... it will turn it's head 
 and come running. Using the stylus you can position her to do tricks such as Sit Down or Roll Over, 
 when your dog preforms the trick with your help a light bulb will appear... if you tap it you can 
 enter a voice command for that trick. You can name a trick ANYTHING you want... sit down can be 
 duck for cover but make sure commands do not sound the same as you can confuse your dog. When teaching 
 a trick if the command sounds like another one, blue ?'s appear and she preforms the trick she's 
 confusing it with instead.
  
  In addition to the commands there are a many records you can play to have your dogs sing along 
 or go to sleep. If you play the Flower Waltz Record be prepared to see choreography like none other 
 between your 3 pups... they will also sing and dance along to Mario's Theme. One of the craziest 
 things is when an Ambulance or Fire Truck passes by... all 3 will sit up and howl at it. Although 
 I love the music interaction... there is nearly no actual background music in the game at all... 
 music for a walk and one for each of the 3 competitions. The individual barks of each dog isn't 
 always unique either, sometimes my Husky and Dalmatian sound similar... and sometimes when meeting 
 other dogs the barks are generic.
  
  Closing Comments
  
  Every morning I get up and do my daily routine and feed &amp; walk my 3 dogs grin I actually feel 
 bad if I don't. They each have their own personality and I'm grateful that they all get along well. 
 It's fun playing with them and entering competitions even though I've bought just about everything 
 in the game. I love connecting with my Nieces through Bark Mode to trade items and interact with 
 each other's dogs. They get a kick when I send Ruby over with a Pirate Hat or Heat with the Fireman's 
 Hat, it's so awesome that Nintendo still makes games that the whole family can enjoy together. 
 Every time they come over they can't wait to see what new items I've found or what new decoration 
 I made to the house. Be advised, you can only exchange 1 breed or theme per trainer through Bark 
 Mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a virtual dog game for the ds that picks up more of a younger crowd then a 13 or 
 older male.
  
  The chicks dig it though... so it's not like this game is bad... but it's more for the girls then 
 guys.
  
  I find my sister playing it a lot more [ 20 Minutes a day ] While i spend about 13 - 15
  
  
 It's a fun, cute game that let's you enter your dog in competitions and give your dog toys to play 
 with...
  
  There's not enough objects in the game to keep you loving to play with that old rubber mushroom 
 or tennis ball... but objects like the bowser kart that are funny to use and watch your dogs react 
 to.
  
  In all this game needed a lot more items... and better music that would make more boys be loving 
 this game. Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun if your a pet lover!
  It's Awsome because you can train your dog and enter he/she in a contest!
  And plus you can let 
 your dogs interatic with your friends dog with Wi-Fi!
  And it never really gets boring!
  It seems sooo real!
  Plus you can have all the fun of taking care of a dog on here!
  And moms 
 happy!!!!!!
  You can feed your dog ,bath your dog, play with your dog, and train your dog!
  All of that in this little game!
  If you don't have this game I recommend geting it!
  Or any 
 of the other versions!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelrocks
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The good: Tons of breeds, puppies are cute and well animated, plenty of things to do, puppies can 
 interact with a huge array of objects, as well as other puppies, voice commands are a nice touch, 
 excellent use of the DS's 3-D, touch screen and double screen capability.
  The bad: Has its fare share of frustrating moments, a few concepts, such as only being able to 
 enter three contests a day per puppy, or only being able to walk each puppy again after an hour 
 make sense, but feel limited, a few graphical glitches, your puppies suffer if you don't use the 
 game for a day or two.
  
  You start off at a kennel, buying a new puppy, when all of a sudden, they mutate into lobsters. 
 Nah, just kidding. Anyway, you start of at a kennel, and you get to choose a puppy to take home 
 for free. After you take your puppy home, you have to make it learn its new name by repeating it 
 into the microphone. After that, you can start to live your normal life with the puppy. You have 
 to start feeding it whenever it gets hungry, give it water or other liquid when it gets thirsty, 
 and bathing it when it gets dirty. You have an inventory that starts with the basics, food, water, 
 etc. You can go shopping fore more puppies, for items, and for new looks for your home. You can 
 earn money by winning contests, or sell items you don't want or need at the secondhand shop. You 
 can go through walks by drawing a path on a map with the touch screen. In this map, you'll find 
 various things and places, such as a park, a discount shop and some interrogation marks. (The interrogation 
 mark is either another owner walking his or her puppy, or an object on the floor that your puppy'll 
 give to you as a present. [Gee, he's so kind, isn't he??] ) Additionally, each puppy has a meter 
 that indicates how far it can go. Your puppy may also find presents on the way that, depending 
 on whether or not you play with him and how much you do so, he might give to you. This meter increases 
 the more you walk your puppy. The discount shop is self explanatory, as for the park, it's a wide 
 open space where you can find other puppies. You can use items from your inventory, such as discs 
 or balls, to play with the puppies there. As for contests, first there are the disc competitions, 
 where you basically just throw a frisbee around and hope that it catches it. The farther it goes, 
 the more points you earn. (As long as your puppy catches it.) Agility trials are contests where 
 a puppy has to clear a stage of obstacles in a given time limit, and not making a certain number 
 of mistakes. In Obedience trials, you have to show just how obedient your dog is by giving it voice 
 commands and hoping he obeys and understands them. You can earn money by winning 1st, 2nd, or 3rd 
 place in competitions. You can get all types of items, such as supplies, accessories for your dog, 
 toys, etc. That's pretty much it.
  
  Looks like nintendo's released it's first puppy sim on the DS. I&acute; m not saying it&acute; s 
 a bad game, it&acute; s just that it's a little overrated.
  
  (Note: All versions are pretty much the same. You can discover all of the breeds in all 3 of them.)
 
  (Note2: If you don&acute; t know how to train your puppy, you can consult a training manual in 
 one of the games menus.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First, WAAAAAY TO MACHO! I like it, wel did for the first 10 minutes. Theres not alot to do, past 
 feeding your pets and playing with them. Theres the occasional walk or contest but beyond that 
 not much more. To the guys, dint fall into my trap. Dont buy it if you dont like girlish games. 
 Im gonna get arrested for being sexist but whatever. Very girly game. Even if it wasn't aimed primarily 
 at girls. Thats what it is anyway. To boring after a short time. Seems very pointless after 8 minutes 
 of trying to say your dogs name AND IT NOT RECOGNISING IT! Trying to teach your pets tricks is 
 long, tiresome and very tedious. Bark mode, being able to play with your freinds. No where near 
 as good as it sounds. Its virtually the same as going to the park on a walk in the normal game. 
 In conclusion, close but no cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_Sonic204
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Part One: Dog Selections
  
  Well, there are some good dogs here, but not that many good choices. First off, unlocking dogs? 
 Uh.. in my opinion, that's pretty stupid. If it were easier, I'd say go for it. I've had Nintendogs 
 since it came out and I still haven't unlocked the Jack Russel or the Dalmation. Second, I think 
 the dogs should grow up, and not be small for the rest of the game. It's.. kind of stupid and not 
 realistic.
  
  
  Part Two: Nintendogs 2 
  
  No. No is all I have to say. What part of No do you not understand? It just wouldn't work. Why? 
 I'll tell you why.
  
  (1) . A virtual pet game does NOT have a sequel.
  (2) . We have enough already. Dalmation and Friends was just pointless.
  (3) . If they did make another, 
 it wouldn't have a 2 in front of it.
  
  Part Three: Nintendogs Wii
  
  Heaven forbid. I just said no to Nintendogs 2, what do you expect here? This just wouldn't work 
 either. What would you use the Wii mote for? Grabbing poop and placing it on a sack icon on the 
 screen? Seriously, I'm trying my best not to be negative but I'm getting a kick out of people talking 
 about how it would seriously be a big hit.
  
  But sadly, it probably would be.
  
  Part Four: Realness
  
  Honestly, I don't think it's very realistic. The dogs don't grow up, 
 it's not really realistic. The dogs are pretty realistic looking, but everything else.. no.
  
  
  Part Five: Closing
  
  Finally, I'm done. In closing I'd like to say that Nintendogs 
 overall, stinks. I'll give it a final rating of.....3/10. *People throw tomatoes at me* If you 
 are a person looking for a new game do NOT get Nintendogs. Get something different. If you're a 
 fan of Virtual Pet games, then sure, go for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellgang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  A nice looking game with barely anything wrong with it. I highly recomend this game to people of 
 all ages. The graphics and sounds literally bring the dogs to life. They look so real that they 
 get my real dogs worked up. The only thing wrong with this game is that it will get boring after 
 a while, but for most people, that won't be any time soon. In this game you play as a dog breeder. 
 You can feed, walk, groom, teach, play with, bathe, compete with, and talk to your dogs (basicly anything 
 you can do with a real dog) . If you have a friend who has a DS ,you can have your dogs interact 
 wirelessly. So to sum it up, if you live in a house where your buttmunch landlord won't allow you 
 to have pets, get this game. Have fun!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  I'm pretty impressed with this game. I love dogs in general and have owned quite a few, but I'm 
 not a big fan of Chihuahuas, which happen to be my girlfriend's favorite breed. Since I don't have 
 the money to afford one, I was happy to get her this game to simulate the experience of owning 
 one.
  
  The game makes extensive use of the touch screen and microphone, allowing to pet your dog, teach 
 it tricks, and take general care for it. The game alternates between the screens depending on what 
 you are doing. If you're just in a watching mood, the dog will be at the top screen more than likely 
 playing or wandering, perhaps even sleeping. When you first purchase the dog, you're told to give 
 it a name and attempt to use the microphone in order for the dog to get used to its chosen name. 
 A prompt gives you the go ahead to say the dog's name and after a few tries, your dog will get 
 to know its name. After that and bring it home you can do most of the things you'd do with a real 
 dog. This includes feeding, giving it water, taking it for walks, bathing it, and teaching it tricks 
 among other things. The only problem in the gameplay comes when you attempt to teach it tricks. 
 While the voice recognition system is pretty good, it has trouble detecting the inflections in 
 your voice or another person's voice. You'll usually have to say the command in the exact manner 
 each time or the dog will become confused. The dogs also occasionally confuse one trick with another.
 
  
  You can enter them in competitions, but only so often, much like taking them for a walk or teaching 
 them tricks. While this does add to the realism of the game, it often seems restrictive, especially 
 with tricks which force you to wait an entire real-time day when your dog doesn't feel like learning 
 anymore for the day. A postiive note is that the dogs seem much more responsive to commands when 
 in the obedience competition. These minor problems don't detract from the game too much, but they 
 do make it frustrating sometimes. However, that aside, the basics of the game is really just to 
 take care of the dog which is quite easy and fun.
  
  The graphics are really wonderful. The environments may lacking and some minor graphics such the 
 dog show announcers likewise look pretty weak, but the dogs themselves are absolutely adoreable. 
 They have all of the expressions that a real dog would have and they're pretty detailed. They have 
 very lifelike motions and behave much like a real dog would. The only minor blemish outside of 
 the environments is the occasion collision problems that usually stem from collars, leashes, and 
 bows on your dog.
  
  The dogs, as they are in fact, neverending puppies, have all of the vocal traits of young dogs. 
 The sound does take hit here and there with the limited amount of music, but for the better part 
 you won't be concerned too much with it. You're more than likely to enjoy playing with the dogs 
 and hearing their barks and yips to be worried about some background music.
  
  The game gets a lot of its value from just playing with the dogs themselves. You're not going to 
 want to play with it for extended periods of time. Usually 20 to 30 minutes at a time seems to 
 be the right time. Of course, this doesn't mean the game is boring. You can still enter the competitions 
 and train your dog over time, but the game just doesn't seem suited for long periods of play. Much 
 like a real dog, you'll tend to spend several short bursts of time with it. However, because the 
 game does function very realistically, you'll probably be picking this game up quite a bit for 
 many weeks.
  
  From what I played, I enjoyed. You would either have to be a cat lover, someone who fears dogs, 
 or a serial killer to not enjoy this game. The dogs were so friendly that I couldn't help myself 
 and wanted to keep playing, attempting to teach them, or taking them for walks. If you're looking 
 for something different than the usual game type, this is the game for you. It's probably one of 
 the most excellent simulation games I've played in some time.
  
  The Good: Game makes great use of the touch screen and microphone, wonderful graphics really display 
 the cute dogs, many things to do with your dog, dogs are very lifelike.
  
  The Bad: Couple of graphical blemishes here and there, some restrictions make the game tougher 
 than it should be, voice recognition needs a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  The Good: 20 different breeds of dogs in three different colour types for each and has changing 
 personalities, dogs look Wii material, awsome 3D graphics.
  The Bad: Limits per day ruins the game.
  
  Nintendogs is a game that I thought would be great 
 but then once I found out all the daily stuff and limits, I just thought Nintendo, why have you 
 made this game TOO real? .
  With six dogs to start from, Nintendogs comes with three versions that each start with different 
 dogs (as my sister got Labrador and I got Chihuahua) . The game allows you to unlock them by meeting 
 them in the only multiplayer which is not long as the game stops the flashing green light once 
 the dogs meet, then you get the dog to buy, or you can earn enough effort points for it.
  The game has quite a lot of items as well as it comes from records to bones to ? blocks (Mario 
 fans would know) and even milk. The items are found by either buying or finding gift-wrapped on 
 the street. Each version has some items that are only found on certain versions which gives social 
 to quite some people.
  Your dog stays in your home which can hold three dogs. You can also keep another five in the resort 
 which is a bit too much... and you can walk them but only once every half hour. You can also enter 
 a competition for obediance, disc throwing or agillity. You get money (the only way) and are allowed 
 to go for more. You are allowed to do that three times per dog. The dogs eat as much as their belly 
 can fill but you can't save food that they havn't eaten...
  Dogs can learn tricks and there are quite a lot of them which you must do an action, then allow 
 the MIC. to allow the dog to know a command in voice. The tricks go from sitting down, to backflipping 
 and even sneezing. Each dog can learn 13 and also get tired from a while.
  In the end, this game works really well but just doesn't work well for the limits. Even tough it 
 just makes you have your own best friend, get this game if you like waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  What a great game! My only disappointment with this game is there is no calender function, for 
 scheduling training sessions and stuff, and the play becomes a little repetitive. The animal chaarcter 
 designs could use a bit more of a fuzzy factor, after awhile my Chihuahua didn't appeal as much 
 to me as the real thing would because it just didn't seem as cute as the real thing. Not as fuzzy. 
 I would have liked to be able to leave my Nintendog for a week and not have him suddenly run away 
 or something. Like the time is set up so that it starts off where you began when you turned it 
 off. The 'off' period is like a sleeping time or something. Training was a bit buggy because of 
 trying to get my commands to be exactly as I trained him, because he wouldn't understand otherwise. 
 I couldn't just say 'jump' it had t to be exactly as I said it. Better voice speech recognition.
 
  
  Otherwise great game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxds
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  well this looks like tamagotchi, being so, very very very BORING!!! If you look carefuly, who wrote 
 the Gamespot review was a woman.... well that says a lot... I bet you will not see a man playing 
 this game, that why none of the Gamespot male reviewers said anything, they would not say that 
 this game has anything good which is true... for once let a man review this game... there we can 
 see both sides of the story. I recomend this game if you a 10 years old MAXIMUM... I got this game 
 in my birthday, good reviews, decided not to trade it for something else.... I regret that and always 
 will... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that when I heard you could have a virtual pet, I was leery. Oh I've had virtual 
 pets before.. the cat that chased your mouse cursor, the GigaPet accidently punished to death while 
 absently watching TV, but these pets took very little attention and work.
  
  Nintendogs, ANY version, grows on you in the way only a tiny digital puppy can do. The starting 
 selection of pets is actually pretty good, being different for each Release Version of the game. 
 I chose a Boxer, and named him Bruce.
  
  You earn Trainer Points by feeding, grooming, playing with, and taking for walks, this digital 
 puppy. They have their own personalities, meaning you can get two boxers, with different coats 
 (3 colors per breed) , with different attitudes. This means they'll have favorite toys and toys 
 they hate, music they'll dance to and music they'll just wander in a Malaise in when you play it, 
 and even has a hand in whether or not your pooch likes the Neighbor dogs it meets on its walks 
 with you!
  
  Graphically, I was really impressed by this game. The Dogs look great, and their movements are 
 very realistic. The homeplace and neighborhood you walk in are very well done, and make you feel 
 like you have an actual virtual space to play in!
  
  In regard to sound, music, dogs barking, the noise toys make are very clear and impressive. The 
 ability to talk to your pooch and give it voice commands expands the game immensly, but can be 
 kind of tricky sometimes. Tip: Make sure you remember the exact inflection of the command you teach 
 your pooch, or you'll finf yourself retraining it.
  
  Value? this game is an obsessive compulsive's DREAM. With so many items to find and collect and 
 unlock and trade for, it can take a person a good long time to get them all. While some of the 
 walking and exhibitions can get repetitive, putting it down for a day refreshes your will to play. 
 (This occurs mainly when you see that cute dog bound up to you, begging to be pet and missing you!
 
  
  I LOVE this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milllkdude
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is fun fo two day really .At first a I heard all the grat reviews and I got it .Man 
 it was fun for a while .
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty good I wouldn't give it a bad rating but it's not revolutinary.
 
  Graphics: Ok the graphics are great .The puppies look real and act like the real thing
  Sound: annoying and poor most of it is just the puppies whining and barking
  Value: the price has 
 gone down so it's not that bad
  Overall It is okay but if you are looking for replay value don't even look at this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petman1325
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome. The graphics, the simulation of real dogs, it is like a cute chihuahua is 
 barking at a truck (you just hear them from your house) . One thing Nintendo out did was the clock. 
 It can be used to know when the dog should be hungry, thirsty, even gotta wizz (only on walks) . 
 You can walk them, enter them in contests to show off your skills. There are three kinds of contests. 
 Frisbee, where you have to throw the farthest and make your dog catch them. Obedence, where you 
 show off your dog's obedence that you teach it (tricks) . And agility, where you have to make your 
 dog go through an obstacle course in the quickest time with the fewest mistakes. Then you get these 
 trainer points, they increase or decrease, how ever you take care of your dogs. Then these trainer 
 points automatically unlock cool things, and they never go back to zero. Then you wash them, feed 
 them, give 'em something to drink, and play. You can buy, or find in the roads, toys to play with. 
 You can train them tricks. It is so fun. You can even use the microphone to teach, show off tricks, 
 and call them so you can love 'em. I am telling you right now, if you like dogs, or thinking of 
 geting a dog (a real one) , try this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj10
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  
  
  Okay, the game is alright for those who can't go near Dogs. but for those who can, what is the 
 point. all you do in the game is train it, feed it, wash it and play with it. but why bother.. 
 the Graphics are alright and its got voice control. but other than that. i wouldn't bother. maybe 
 some people would.
  the good side is you get loads of furry Puppys. the bad side is that it takes AGES just to tell 
 it to sit.
  
  i better off with an Actual Dog that can make you laugh, That it will bite you, whereas the game 
 don't let you do that. 
  
  but the Dogs virtual life system counts as well as the dog could die.
  but i can't see the fun 
 in them unless you like it that much, then i can't change you minds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay. It just gets soooooooooo repetitive. I will admit the dogs were excellently 
 done, but the things you do with your Nintendog are limited and get very boring. It was fun for 
 the first few hours but then everything became too familiar and boring. I'd prefer Animal Crossing 
 or The Urbz. Here are the pros and cons.
  
  Pros
  -graphics are great. The dogs were made nicely. Look just like the real thing.
  -sound is amazing. 
 The barks are so real.
  -fun contests. Fetching is very fun.
  
  Cons
  -Only sounds are the barks of dogs.
  -It gets so boring.
  -only way to get money is win contests
 
  -contests get repetitive
  -having to give orders while in public. Saying "Max" or whatever its name is on a bus can be embarassing.
 
  
  Younger kids should find it interesting. 
  
  Lucky for me, it's my brother's game so I didn't waste any money for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo111
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is just a game where you raise dogs. WTH? this was such a waste of money. I thought 
 they were gonna fight or something. Don't buy this. you can dress them up though, that's fun. I 
 also like going on walks and getting presents. But you find the presents on the ground? probably 
 some bum dropped it and thats why the dogs get fleas so often. Poor dogs. they never grow up either 
 or have kids. I give it 10 on tilt because ... i feel bad that it sucks so much (=
  
  Please save your money don't buy this game or the other ones. There is like 80 versions, what a 
 rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkSchulte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  So I buy Nintendogs at Target, right? Not a good idea to go public about owning this game, being 
 a dude and all. Any ways, the clerk guy who has too much acne had to call up the game, and long 
 story short, the whole town thinks I'm gay. When I took the game home, ashamed and depressed, I 
 started doing what I always do with a game: see if my cats like it. I put the game in the GBA slot 
 and my DS blew up right when I hit the power button. Now I had to go back to Target to buy a DS 
 and Nintendogs. They only had a Nintendogs- flavor DS with Nintendogs, so I bought it, and the 
 clerk called it up. Long story short, I am referred to as "Queen" by everybody. I put in the game 
 correctly and I heard a dog bark. I thought "cute", it might be realistic. But it blew my mind. 
 It was so realistic when I badgered my dogs and ticked them off. I never feed them. I did that 
 all day until I was evicted from the bathroom at Taco Bell with my sixteen kitties. My cats had 
 to eat their own feces to live, it turns out, and now I am in jail cell in Orange County, waiting 
 for the new pet based game Catcom comes out. Thanks Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armageddon_777
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Nintendo really hit home with Nintendogs. A wonderfully innovative idea, Nintendogs lets you care 
 for and raise puppies. The learning curve is very short, you could pick it up and be playing in 
 10 minutes.
  
  Gameplay-Excellent. What other game lets you care for puppies? You can pet the dogs with the stylus, 
 give them treats, exhibit them in a dog show and take them on a walk. If you're lucky your dog 
 will find a valuable present while you walk! With so many innovative features, I feel Nintendo 
 has really hit all the green lights.
  
  Graphics-Great. The dogs seem very realistic, and there are different backgrounds while you walk.
 
  
  Sound-Good. The dogs yelp, whine, and bark (which is realistic IMO) ; and there are different tunes 
 for walking and the dog shows. You can even hear the waves on a walk by the beach...
  
  Story-N/A. They're dogs. You care for them.
  
  Replayability-Decent. You can try to extend 
 your play time by getting every possible item, and winning countless contests, and caring for more 
 dogs. The game will get stale in about a month, though.
  
  Button Layout/Control-Perfect. This is very simple. You use the stylus most of the time (which is 
 very easy) , and occasionally use the other buttons for camera purposes. This is a part of why the 
 learning curve is very simple.
  
  Overall-Superb. I love this game. If you have a DS, you should get this game. 
  
  Extras-Cool 
 Items for your dogs, dog shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schox5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that i was a little afraid of spending my money on this game. I was hoping it wouldn't 
 be a gimmick, but this turned out to be a great game. 
  
  Your job is to get a dog and feed it everyday, and also take it out for walks. When you take it 
 out for a walk, your dog might find some gifts along the way. Some of the gifts are rare, and some 
 are very common. Also along the way your dog will meet other dogs walking around, and it will play 
 with the other dog. Another thing is that your dog will have to go to the bathroom a lot. This 
 is almost too realistic. When you go for a walk you may want to play Frisbee with it or have it 
 run to gain agility. Doing this will prepare your dog for the contests along the way. The more 
 you practice with your dog, the better it will become. 
  
  The graphics in this game are some of the best in a DS game so far. The dogs look very realistic, 
 they almost look like real dogs. The scenery is also pretty nice.
  
  The sound is pretty good, the dog barks once in a while, and the tune is pretty nice. And you also 
 have to speak in the microphone to call your dog, or to tell it to do tricks, like roll over. 
 
  
  There is one bad thing about this game though. This game becomes very repetitive, since you mostly 
 do the same things over and over again. So this will probably only last you 1-2 months. It may 
 last you longer, if you have enough patience. And the other way around if you don't have a lot 
 of patience.
  
  I would recommend this game to any dog lover, or a person who dreams of owning a dog, but cannot 
 get one for some reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  The good: Real life personality but i won't play woth dogs at school if i was you, cool personalities 
 to the dogs in thier opinions.
  
  The bad: Obedince can take a virtual but more than just an vowl of demorcrocay, Easy but not even 
 a game really, it's all about caring.
  
  Gameplay: Well it is necessary to interact with dogs to go walks if you want to but if you want 
 money because your broke, ENTER CONTESTS. (There useful) They also deliver practiceing and helping 
 to keep dogs and puppies lively and be happy to you. (I love chihuahua's)
  
  Graphics: Definatly the best of all than games but this ai'nt a game at all it's like when you 
 have a job taking care of people and babysitting. And everything seems perfect and in good condtion.
 
  
  Sound: I love the way they bark those puppies kill me with cute barks, but dog barks are ok but 
 about the other sounds are remarkable but if it wasn't for the dogs you should take care of them 
 and respect them, they grow on you.
  
  Value: Well the controllers are mostly at your touch screen but it's not even pretenious or anything 
 because touching dogs coat in real life can be fury but if they stink, make sure to have them baths 
 before thier normal and dirty. (Mostly thier nothing of value on buttons)
  
  Tilt: Love it and i couldn't stop playing with them, i do mostly play with them at home.
  Rate: 
 9.3
  Staff rate 9.1 (It's ok) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnolio369
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When playing Nintendogs the first thing to come to mind was "Nintendo you've done it again"
  
  One of the reasons its SOOOOOO good is they get a very cool idea and make it so straight forward, 
 all you do is pick it up and touch and pet your dog.
  
  You can choose from a list of 8 dogs (each different depending on what version you get) but as 
 you progress more breeds become available until you can get any breed from all 3 versions!
  
  Once you choose a dog all you do is name it, call it by its name until he learns it, teach it 
 sit and your off to do what ever else you want to do. You can go and enter competitions too: Disc 
 competitions, Agility trials and Obedience trials.
  
  You use the touch screen to do the following things: pet your dog, scrub and clean your dog, through 
 balls and other items for you dog, take him on walks, and the list goes on, but you also use the 
 microphone to teach your dog tricks and call his name. Saying all that i can safely say its the 
 most interactive game to date on any console.
  
  As well the graphics, gameplay and sound on Nintendogs are amazing! i own a dog and i honestly 
 can't tell the difference between my real dog and my dog in Nintendogs, my dog in Nintendogs looks, acts, learns, 
 sounds and reacts just like a real dog, but thankfully he doesn't smell like a real dog!
  
  If you don't have or not allowed a dog, why not get the next best thing? Nintendogs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Ever want a puppy in your life or a pet but you couldn't get one. Well, this game will give you 
 that opportunity, because you can actually own realistic puppy in your own DS. Nintendog is from 
 the maker of Nintendo themself. This is an innovative game which is life like. There are 3 versions 
 of Nintendog, Dachshund, Chihuahua, and Labrador. Nintendog starts you off with you choosing a 
 puppy. Depending on which version you get, there are different veriety of dogs. In Dachshund you 
 can get Siberian Husky, Golden Retriever, and a Shih Tzu. In the Chihuahua version you get a Chihuahua 
 of course, a German Shepherd Dog, and a Boxer. In the Labrador version you can get Shiba Inu, Labrador 
 Retriever, and a Miniature Pinscher.
  In this game you have to do the thing you do with a real dog, pet it, feed it, walk it, teach it 
 tricks, bath it, play with it, and even enter some contest. There is a disc competition, agility 
 competition, and obedience competition. Disc competition to see how many points you can earn by 
 how far you throw your disc and your puppy being able to catch it. Agility competition lets your 
 puppy run through obstacles in a amount of time to earn points. Obedience competition is to see 
 how well you trained your puppy on doing simple tricks like "sit". All of theses competition can't 
 be won without any training.
  You start out with a balance amount of money. Becareful though, spend your money wisely on food 
 and supplies. In the game you need to momentarily feed it depending on how tired and hungry it 
 is. You can pet and scratch your puppy too. Once a day you need to walk your puppy. When you start 
 out walking your puppy, you draw a route you want to walk you puppy on a map. You can expand your 
 puppy's stamina the longer you walk. Sometimes in your game you get to bath your puppy which keeps 
 it clean and stop it from itching and stuff. 
  In this game you have voice command. This allow you to call the puppy's name or to do tricks. Tricks 
 require you touching the puppy in a way which triggers the tricks. Once it is triggered, you touch 
 a icon which activates the mic on the DS, then you can yell in the trick name. 
  There is different items you can buy, like toys and food. You can also buy new puppies, in the 
 Kennel Store. If you're looking for pet supplies go to the Pet Supply store. There is a Dog Hotel 
 which allow you store your puppies in a daycare center. Sense you can only have 3 puppy in your 
 home you need to store some extra dogs in the Dog Hotel. 
  Overall, this game should appeal to anybody who wants a puppy. With some realistic puppies, I recommend 
 this game for any DS owners. Also, for anybody who want a game which involves the styles a lot, 
 well this game pretty much has it through the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldsmithson
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game gets boring after a couple months. Soon I got tired of waking up feeding my dog (s) and 
 taking them on walks. the goal of the game is to get trainer points to unlock dogs so you can get 
 up and feed more dogs. The contests are pretty fun the graphics are great. The dogs are not realistic. 
 They don't grow up they never die they don't pee and crap on your floor and somehow they run away 
 when your doors locked and real dogs don't need a bath every other day. taking the dog on walks 
 is OK. Finding the presents is a little fun. using the microphone is good to teack your dog tricks 
 and call its name. meeting other dogs is OK but gets boring if you only now two other people who 
 have the game. If your an animal lover then you would love this game. but normal people will get 
 tired of it in a couple months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yummy2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs has not many things to do on it. The things to do on the game: contests, feed the dog, 
 buy another room and just play with it. Thats not much to do on the game. Now i think that they 
 should make a copy of the game and make more things to do i think. And i think they should just 
 make one game of nintendogs i think. i'm just suggesting, but i think that you can take your dog 
 anywhere you what like to the shops and to work. And it would be cool to actually be your dog for 
 once in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboycawley
Rating: 6
Date: May 29, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, nintendogs is far from superb or perfection in my opinion. Sure the grapics are some of the 
 best on the ds so far and the puppies are very realistic, but that won't save a game completely. 
 The game is ok at first, but you are always limited to what you can do, and it just gets overwhelmingly 
 boreing. The barking and annoying music gets really annoying, and the microphone gameplay is really 
 tedious and difficult. My dogs never responded to my voice. The game just simply isnt good. I honestly 
 am socked at all of the high scores. Stay away from it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_big_kh_fan
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I wanted it so bad because it looked so dam cute! I have always 
 loved Chihuahuas because I've got one at home and her name is Rotty. I first heard about nintendogs 
 in November 2005 and I went onto this site to have a look at it to see if it was any good. I had 
 a look at the videos they had and the one with the Chihuahua and the tennis ball I showed to my 
 sis and all she said was "AAAWWWW!!! ITS SO CUTE!" Well I got Nintendogs Cihuahua and Friends in 
 December 2005 because i'm from Australia. Oh well it sure was worth the wait! :) If ya love dogs 
 then I think you should get this game for sure! I mean I like dogs but I love cats. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1KES
Rating: 2
Date: May 17, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I canot understand what is so fun about this game. It just seems so unbelievebly stupid and boring 
 to me. After one hour of gameplay i was totally bored of it and if i wanted to enter in more competition 
 i couldn't, i had to wait untill the next day. I think a terrible game is when they tell us when 
 we can play and not when i want to play. I really cannot comprehend what's with all the high scores. 
 I'll admit the graphics are ok, and the dogs look and move realistic, but its just not enough. 
 I don't wanna see the disaster that nintencats will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  A game where you own a dog and you need to take care of it, take it for a walk, feed it, bath it, 
 train it, etc.
  it is really nice because you can buy toys (or find it laying around) and other things that are 
 really interesting. You can also take your dog to trials: Obedience, Agility or Disc Competition.
 
  As you become a better trainee, you get points which unlocks other things, new scenarios or new 
 breeds.
  All Ndogs are almost the same, the main difference is with which breeds you start the game. There 
 are other little differences in some of the objects you get but they are rather irrelevant.
  This game can get highly addictive at some times as you wish to progress in the game, but it also 
 can get a little repetitive. All in all it is still worth playing because while you're addicted 
 to it, it is plain fun and you also get addicted to it from time to time. In addition the graphics 
 are good and it explores the properties of the DS very well, the touch screen and the mic.
  Congratulations to Nintendo for being able to make an interesting game out of a simple idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalasgalefist
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:   DID WE DO TO BE CURSED UPON WITH THIS  
 now i bet your wondering why i said this right? Well..... although the graphics are good, that is 
 the only good quality i see about this.... thing. The sound of annoying little dogs barking and yellping 
 is NOT something to look forward to when buying this game. The basic idea of the gameplay I've seen 
 in this game, is that you get some dogs, you care for them, torture them if your really cruel hearted 
 (that's the only reason I'd buy this game.... to torture the dogs) , and to take them for walks around 
 a town so you can cwatch them as they crap or take a wizz only to later pick it up... OH BOY THIS 
 IS FUN PICKING UP VIRTUAL CRAP!!!!!!! Now... I'm gonna take a line from my brother's review for 
 this game... is picking up virtual crap really better than picking up regular crap? Ok, If anyone 
 can show me 10 good qualities AND features on this game, I MIGHT actually get a DS and RENT it. Otherwise, 
 I say this game is a waste of time, and picking up virtual crap might have it's advantages to picking 
 up real crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxXIchi_goXxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs : Chihuahua and friends was the best game I played on the DS , It was actually the best 
 gaming experience I've ever had ! , Its really fun , and would keep you entertained for a fairly 
 long time ! With great graphics , game-play , and sound , its the best game released for the DS 
 .
  
  The game makes you feel that you really have a pet , you feed it , walk it , and even play with 
 it ! ..... You will even miss your dog when you go out , or at school !
  
  It suits all ages , and you will hardly get bored of it !
  
  So I recommend the game for all 
 dog lovers and DS owners! Thank you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is really trying to push innovation for its DS. This is one of its most impressive efforts 
 and probably the most successful and creative. Yeah everyone's heard of a pet simulator before 
 and all past attempts turned out to be stupid. However if you have a system that has a touch screen 
 and mic you got a winner. Pushing the boundaries of the DS, Nintendogs manages to capture the sound 
 of a dog and also the cute look of a dog. Which makes you just want to say "Aww!" when the dog 
 does something cute. The difficulty in this game also is pretty much easy though some will have 
 trouble mastering certain tricks of the more advanced kind. Other than that this game can last 
 you a long time which either may be put to a halt by... 1. You get a real puppy. or....
  2. You stop playing for a while and your dog becomes very upset and you can't handle it to make 
 it like you again so you erase your file.
  3. Unfortunately if you did number 2 than you probably don't want to restart all of your fine work 
 (which I happen to unlock all the breeds have almost all of the toys and recieved 1st place in 
 everything) or... maybe perphaps4. Started to play a different game.
  Anyways if your looking for something new to play this is definitely a recommendation. If your 
 looking for something more action-oriented best looking somewhere else lol. This game does start 
 to grow on you eventually when you play more and more and more and more and soon becomes an addiction 
 tell you stop in which 2 or 3 will happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs really shows off what the nintendo ds can really do it has gr8 graphics, gr8 use of 
 the touch screen and all the other ds gizmos, and is just plain fun. I really like netendog becuz 
 you can really grow attached to you dog as it really takes a mid of it own and it is simply amazing 
 in that department. Your dog can be trained, put in contests, and you can excessorize like a crazy 
 person and its alor of fun for awhile but after that while theres really nothing else today and 
 you lose all interests in it but that only happens for at least 100 hours of play but yeah all 
 ds owners need to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Chihuahua and Friends is the best game I've seen to utilize the touch screen, microphone, and 
 DS system overall. The game requires adeqaute use of the touch screen in order for you to take care 
 of your dog, as well as the microphone for calling your dog, etc. As you progress, you can buy more 
 dogs to your family.
  
  The good: The game's easy interface and incredibly realisic gameplay make for an authentic experience 
 that no other company can copy. The sounds, sights, and activities within the came are as close as 
 you can get to the real thing. What I appreciate about the game is the authenticity of you dog. You 
 do all that you would do with a real dog-pet it, teach it tricks, take walks, and play with it. You 
 even enter contests and hone you dog's skills with much practice. Also, you can unlock every breed 
 in every Nintendogs game. After increasing your trainer points to the appropriate amount, new dogs 
 will enter the kennel. The features the game holds are incredibly useful and make for the ultimate 
 DS experience.
  
  The bad: For others this is not a big thing, but for me, it is-you can only have three dogs at home. I 
 love having three dogs at home at one time, but there's moments when I want all of them to be together. Furthermore, you 
 are limited to three tournaments per day. It not so much the number of times you can do the tournaments, but 
 the tournaments itself. Sometimes, doing agility trials or obedience trials or even disc competitions 
 become boring and lackluster. The commentors for the contests are also very annoying at time.
  
  Bottomline: The game is nearly perfect. Despite some minor gripes with the game I might have, I 
 enjoy playing it whenever I have the chance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowzafreak
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  its a kind of bad game because it dosent have vets or hospitals. better if there you could make 
 your dog have babys and the kennel can be to get another breed and you need to unlock certain trainer 
 points to unlock new items to the discount shop and more breeds. better graphics, bigger neighbourhood 
 walking area and more contests. more sport items more music items and more etc, accesories and 
 you can beat mysteries with your pup and get $1000 for a easy mystery and $100 000 for a hard mystery. so 
 next time do more items and what i said nintendogs creators because this games horrorble and it 
 could improve in 100 or more ways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1leaf8
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  I think the game is so cool. I like games where you can raise your own pet.
  I havn't gotten much of a chance playing the game but for what I've done so far tells me the rest 
 is going to be great. The things that really made me like it are being able to teach your dog tricks, 
 entering contests. The voice command is really cool. I never tried the EAT THE LIGHTBULB trick 
 but it sounds fun. The one thing that didn't get it a 10 is that there are too many different versions. 
 For example, this may sound stupid but it's true, I don't know if I'm writing a reveiw for the 
 right one!! I also like how you can choose different kinds of dogs. My favorite woud probobly be... 
 the pug. In the game they make great use of the touch screen. In conclusion even though I said 
 this a million times it is a really great Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gourguzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The game chihuahua and friends the nintendog game is a learning type so you could learn how to 
 treat a dog.
  Like fetch or even teach tricks.
  Also i forgot to tell you there are obediace class where you show off your tricks what you did.
 
  Thers like a fetching class wher you throw your frizzby and the dog you own has to catch it.
 
  Oh yeah the more things you do the more money a cool things happen.
  And you could have three dogs and no more.
  Well if you want.
  You could have one or two dogs.
 
  Talk to them and pet, pet, pet!
  Well i told you enough already.
  (Ummm..... Bye One Now!!!!!) (You'll love it!!!!)
  
  By:
  Gourguzz
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PspSquad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This specific game contains all the dogs you would possibly imagine!!
  It has the dogs from every game in the series. (I think)
  I think it has the girly and the boyish 
 stuff in it.
  
  The graphics are over the top!! The makers of this genre really digged in the DS and got its power 
 to make this game. So remember that if you rent this game, you won't have your dog. 
  
  It has millionas of stuff you could do!! Walk the dog, feed it, etc.
  You could even put the dog 
 you choose to be in a contest!!
  
  If you love dogs, This is the game for you!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This is probably the most simplicit, addicting, and cute game ever. The dogs are beautifully rendered 
 in full 3d and there are 18 unlockable breeds, and 2 secret dogs. The gameplay is fun, sweet, and 
 addictive. There is alot to do. You can walk, play, and train with your dog. Then you can enter 
 it in obidience, agility, and disc competitions. Only the most evil, cruel, sadistic, cold hearted, 
 nintendo-hater, with ice running through their veins, could not sigh in awe of these little pooches 
 cuteness. This is a must have for ds owners, simulation geeks, and dog lovers. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is definately one of the games that people have to either hate or love. Most of the 
 people I know love this game, I am one of them, but after a while, it soon becomes obvious that 
 you're running a regular routine, with no new challenges. 
  
  Overview
  Nintendogs is a Nintendo DS game, making use of the DS's innovative features, including mic and 
 touch-screen. Rather than relying on the D-Pad and letter buttons, Nintendogs was perhaps the first 
 game to actually use the DS's features to an extent. The game solely rely's on them, and making 
 this a perhaps must play game during the lifetime of any DS owner, especially being cheaper than 
 the DS's other games.
  
  Gameplay
  This is definately one of the most ambitious, innovative and newst ideas that has popped into Nintendo's 
 head. Whilst more realistic than games like Mario Kart or Animal Crossing, it doesn't subtract 
 from the games light-hearted, fun and overall bubbly experience. Teaching your pooch of choice 
 is amazingly easy, and with voice commands making your job as an owner so simple. Whether it be 
 throwing a flying-disk with the flick of the wrist down at the park, telling your pup to lay down 
 or leading him through a tunnel, they all use the new and innovative featurs of the DS. So, onto 
 your pup. Basically, you have to feed, water, groom, train, compete and spoil it with new collars, 
 shampoo and treats. You can take him for walks around the neighbourhood and meet fellow dog trainers, 
 you can make him compete in various competitions such as disc catching, obstacle courses and obidience 
 trials. However, outlined above, is pretty much all you can do in the game. After playing for a 
 while, unlocking new dogs, playing bark-mode and nurturing your dogs is all that seems worthwhile, 
 making after a few hours play (about 18) you seem to realise that you're going in circles. You 
 would only occasionally pick it up after that, and even stop playing altogether. Overall, it's 
 a fun game whilst it lasts.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Graphics
  Suprsingly, the graphics on Nintendogs are quite good. The dogs look marvellous whilst frollicking 
 around, adding to the laid-back fun to be had. The environments also look good, and the tricks 
 what you can make your dog do look hilarious, such as break-dancing, handstands and backflips. 
 Whilst comical, most of the other tricks are realistic, as does the game overall. The dog breeds 
 are recognizable, and look good in polygon form. All in all, the graphics in Nintendogs are superb, 
 and could be admired by anybody.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Sound
  Sound is one of the let-downs of Nintendogs. Although great, it does get a bit infuriating, making 
 you want to switch off the barking and turn on the iPod. The relaxing tunes are nice to hear, but 
 the constant barking for no apparent reasons does get a bit tedious. Sometimes the voice commands 
 doesn't seem to want to listen to your voice, and just basically refuses. Consistency is required 
 whilst doing voices, but sometimes, it's hard to find it. The sound effects are quite low in number, 
 but just add to the laid back feel to the game. At the end of the day, the sound is great, but 
 was let down in some areas.
  Verdict - 8
  
  Value
  Nintendogs is arguably the best value-for-money game on the DS yet. Being cheaper than it's cousins 
 such as Metroid Prime: Hunters or Mario Kart: DS, it makes it a worthwhile purchase if you are 
 in need of a new DS game but are a bit strapped for cash. 
  Verdict - 9
  
  So, overall, Nintendogs is a game with awesome gameplay, pretty graphics and great sound, and at 
 the cost of a low price-tag. The only let-down of Nintendogs is the repetitiveness, but is a great 
 gaming experience whilst it lasts.
  
  Overall - 9.2 - Superb
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Non-games are slowly becoming popular among people who don't usually play games, aren't they? Parents, 
 grandparents, assorted adults and other people who don't usually play games are being drawn in 
 by the premises for these non-games. A dog caring simulator? I must have it! Look how realistic 
 it looks!
  
  Nintendogs could have been a game that everyone would enjoy. Have the realistic dogs with the whole 
 engine relating to their needs for people who don't usually play games, and a deeper, more complex 
 way to impliment the dogs into a tastefully done adventure mode or something along those lines 
 for the actual gamers. Although the prior was made for the game, and at first may seem like it 
 would have lots to it, it falls flat after a few days or so.
  
  Collecting toys and other dogs seems like a faux extension to the replay. Mario Karts and Helicopters 
 to control are supposed to make up for walking your dog every day? I don't know.
  
  If you don't have a real dog and would like anything close to the habits of the mutt and chores 
 you must do for the animal to keep it happy and alive... without the literal interaction, buy the 
 game. It seems a little disappointing that it wasn't more, despite the fact that the game has lots 
 going for it, like voice recognition and sophisticated controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the one game that Nintendo put out there to hopefully get people to buy the Nintendo DS. 
 It takes full advantage of the stylus capabilities, you use the pen to feed you dog, water your 
 dog, take them out for walks, even petting your virtual pooch. I think the real draw to this game 
 is the fact the fact that there are so many different breeds of dogs. The selection of dogs ranges 
 from pugs and poodles to Dalmatians, and German shepherdes. I personally perfer the shiba-inu. 
 Anyway, one of the cool things about this game is the voice recognition system, which means that 
 you can teach your dogs to come when you call their names, you can teach them to do tricks like 
 roll over, play dead, and many, many more. The only negative thing about this game is that after 
 a short while the game gets boring, fast. So there you have it, if you have a DS then buy this 
 game or rent it if you are not a big dog fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs seems more like a demo to show off the many different things the DS is capable of. There 
 really isn't much game here, and even though it is innovative, it really isn't anything more than 
 an experiment.
  
  Gameplay: You won't ever touch the buttons while playing this game. Everything is done with the 
 stylus. You also use the microphone just as much, and in very innovative ways. When you first pick 
 your dog from a group of different pups, you name it. Literally. You tell it it's name. Just by 
 saying it. When your dog learns it's name, you simply call it, just like a real dog. You can use 
 the stylus to "play" with your dog. Pet it, throw a frisbee or a tennis ball, etc. Most of your 
 time will be spent playing with your dog, taking it on walks, feeding it, bathing it, and even 
 going to the park to play. To go for a walk, you simply trace a path with the (You guessed it.) 
 stylus. The more wals you go on, the longer walks you can take. You can go to the park on walks, 
 go to the bargain store, and even meet other dogs. Walks are cool, but you can only take one every 
 30 minutes. The whole game goes in real time. This isn't a good thing. With the short list of things 
 to do, you have to wait way too long before you can really do anything again. You can teach your 
 dogs tricks, such as sitting, lying down, spinning, etc. This was the best part of the game for 
 me. You teach your dogs tricks by making it do certain actions with the stylus. For instance, pull 
 your dogs butt down, and it sits. Do this 3 times, telling the dog the name of the trick each time 
 he does it. Eventually he will learn the trick, and all you need to do is say the name of the trick 
 and bang, your pooch does the trick. There are a ton of different tricks to teach your dog, but 
 once again they constrain how many tricks you can teach your dog. You can teach them 14 in total, 
 but only 3 per day. As in every 24 hours. You can also enter constests, such as frisbee contests, 
 obstacle course, and trial. Frisbee is self explanatory. Obstacle course is where you guide your 
 dog through an obstacle course. Nothing particularly exciting. Trial is where you have to make 
 your dog do certain tricks. It will tell you which trick to do, and sometimes lets you freestyle. 
 At the end, you will get rated by three judges on a scale of 1-10. These competitions are really 
 easy if you try. Especially frisbee ones. All you have to do is go to the park and practice. You 
 dig will become a master in no time. You earn money buy doing good in contests. You can use money 
 to buy a multitude of things, such as food, shampoo, new toys, new room designs, and other random 
 things. You can have more than 1 dog, but then everything becomes a pain in the ass. You can't 
 focus on 1 dog, so teaching it anything becomes impossible. You can only enter 3 contests, so once 
 again, you are limited. There is a multi-player mode called bark mode. This is really interesting, 
 seeing how your dog associates with another. Eventually, your dog and someone elses will become 
 friends. It's actually pretty cool, but gets old fast. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. The dog models are especially nice, looking very realistic with 
 great, fluid animations. Everything animates well, and everything looks great. The enviroments 
 when you go on walks look good, but don't have many details. There aren't very many other graphical 
 things, but whats there looks great.
  
  Sound: There really isn't much sound. Your dog barks, and not much else. There aren't any voices 
 for the judges, who usually comment on your performences. There are cars in the backround when 
 you go for walks, but it is just the same pattern of car sounds over and over. Certain toys make 
 sounds, but not much else. Theres back round music, but it isn't anything worth noting. You get 
 sound boxes, which are boxes that play music. But you can't do anything while you listen to them, 
 making them pointless. There is very little sound, and whats there isn't good.
  
  Value: There are the aforementioned contests, but nothing else. All the restrictions they put on 
 the things you can do really hurt the value, and there just isn't much to do in general. It quickly 
 gets boring, and you can see everything there is to see in one play. That isn't good. Bark mode 
 helps, but really not much. There isn't enough here for a purchase.
  
  Overall: Nintendo seemed focus on making a demo to capitalize on the unique features of the DS 
 instead of making a game. There are some really good ideas here, but not nearly enough of anything 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dezzy84
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this installment of nintendogs mainly because of the videos I had seen on the game and 
 word of mouth. I enjoyed the game at first... and then I got really bored. I kept doing the same 
 things over again. Wow, it's so much fun to feed, walk, and pick up a your little puppies poop. 
 The challenges were fun, especially the disc throwing competitions. But after awhile, it just loses 
 steam. Also, I was a bit frustrated teaching my dog tricks. Most of the tricks I'd teach my dogs 
 they would understand, but a few they would not understand or mix up other tricks. Mind you, I 
 spoke clearly into the microphone in my room and still had this happen. The game does look good 
 and the sound is great, plus the dogs are adorable. But the value of the game is hindered by how 
 monotonous the game gets. Nothing of great value here, and all I can say is I blew $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vyse86
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the latest game from the legendary Shigeru Miyamoto. The game centers around the 
 joys of owning a dog and manages to bring some of the aspects of owning a dog into the game. Unfortunately, 
 you can see pretty much everything the game has to offer in a few days and there is no compelling 
 reason to keep playing. 
  
  The game allows you to own up to three dogs at one time. Each version of the game (Labrador, Dachshund 
 or Chihuahua and Friends) has a limited number of breeds available. That said, it doesnt take 
 long to unlock all the breeds of dogs so there is really no difference between the three versions 
 of Nintendogs. Basically all you can do in the game is enter them in contests, care for them (feeding, 
 washing etc.) and take them for walks.
  
  There are three different types of contests in the game. There is an obedience contest, a Frisbee 
 catching contest and a timed obstacle course. You can enter up to three contests each day with 
 each dog and this is how money is obtained in the game. Money is spent on items at stores or on 
 new rooms. The obedience contest is probably the deepest part of the game but its really quite 
 tedious. You can teach your puppies tricks, which you do by stroking the dog on the touch screen. 
 This aspect of the game is actually quite interesting at first as it allows you to use the DS microphone 
 and record various commands that your dog will understand. By talking into the DS your dog will 
 do various tricks. This is a great concept but it often takes quite a while to successfully teach 
 your dog a trick and even that doesnt necessarily mean that your dog will be able to pull it off 
 in a contest. You must repeat tricks many, many times before your dog will understand it and that 
 really takes some of the fun out of the game. Not only that, but there are limits to how much your 
 dog can learn in one day so its impossible to get a lot done in one sitting.
  
  The other contests in the game are more straightforward but they also become somewhat tedious. 
 In the Frisbee contest you just throw the Frisbee with the stylus and hope the dog catches it. 
 It becomes easier and easier as your dog gets better at it and this allows you to get quite a bit 
 of money every single day. The obstacle course also isnt that challenging. You simply tap on a 
 variety of different obstacles in a specific order and hope for the best. As with the other contests, 
 your dog gets better over time so eventually its a total cakewalk to get first place and a bunch 
 of cash as well. The easiness of these two contests allows you to unlock nearly everything in the 
 game in a week or two. Finally, the worst aspect of all the contests is the fact that you cant 
 skip the announcers commentary, which becomes EXTREMELY repetitive and just plain annoying over 
 time.
  
  Aside from the contests there is really little to do in Nintendogs. The game tries to convince 
 you to care for your pets in a responsible manner but there are no consequences if you fail to 
 do so. You can go without feeding your dogs for days, weeks or even months and there is no consequence 
 whatsoever. Ive heard your dogs can run away if you dont care for them but I went over a month 
 without playing the game and all three of them were still there when I returned. Not only that 
 but your puppies will remain puppies forever. They dont grow in any way. Their fur doesnt grow, 
 their claws dont grow and they dont gain or lose weight. Its really unfortunate that the game 
 doesnt include any of that as it would make the game more satisfying long-term. 
  
  The last thing you can do in Nintendogs is take your dogs for walks. This is a very boring part 
 of the game as you basically just sit there as your dog walks for whatever distance you decide 
 upon. Your dogs stamina increases the more you walk him/her so you can go further and further 
 away from your home as the game goes on. All you can really do on walks is visit other stores other 
 then the one available from a menu at your home, and practice for contests. You do this by visiting 
 the local gyms obstacle course or playing Frisbee at the park. There are also presents that litter 
 the sidewalks. Your dog will walk right past these unless you tug on the leash but thats essentially 
 all you do on walks. There is no option to walk all three of your dogs at once so you must endure 
 the boredom three times more then youd likely prefer.
  
  Graphically speaking, Nintendogs is a pretty impressive game. The dogs in the game look and act 
 very lifelike and the games environments look pretty decent. There is a noticeable lack of detail 
 in the environments you encounter on walks, however. The game basically whites out some parts of 
 the environments for some reason and this definitely doesnt add anything to the game.
  
  The sound in Nintendogs is probably its greatest virtue. The music is pleasant and there are ways 
 to obtain records to play at your home. The puppies all sound very lifelike and the various crowd 
 noises at the contests are all well done. 
  
  The joy that can be obtained from playing this game is extremely short-lived due to the limited 
 number of activities available. The developers really missed some of the aspects of owning a dog 
 that could be put in a game. Watching them grow and looking after them so they wont get sick or 
 pass away are entirely absent in Nintendogs. On that note, there is no veterinarian or annual check-ups 
 in the game either and that has always been a serious event in terms of owning pets, at least in 
 my mind. The game just becomes repetitive really quickly and offers little for long-term play. 
 Considering the growing number of great DS games that are out there, there is no reason for you 
 to waste money on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evlextintion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  this is such a fun game, it relies a lot on the stylus but the people who made this game sure pulled 
 it off... the graphics are awesome, the sound is good, and real time effects are really cool. Heres 
 some of what u can do:
  
  Walks: just like in real life u gotta walk ur dog or he/she will escape
  Contests: enter ur dog 
 in one and win and get money
  Play: u throw balls, fly a helicopter, race with a mario kart and see if ur dog can catch it, and 
 play frisbee.
  
  This game is really realistic, its really fun and if u dont own it, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Nintendogs for the first week I had it. I just got tired of taking my dog for 
 a walk every day. It's a great game and a totally rad concept, but definitely not something I have 
 time to invest in every single day for little to no reward.
  
  The gameplay is fun and simple and addictive, but just not for a terribly long time. It's really 
 fun to have a digital pet that's so advanced to actually learn voice commands, and it is technologically 
 pretty rad, but beyond teaching your dog a few tricks and entering some competitions... and taking 
 them for walks... Yeah, you aren't left with much else.
  
  Controls are cool, you basically act that the stylus is your hand to rub your dog, throw a frisbee, 
 walk them, etc. If Nintendo is trying to make non-gamers into game players, this game is accessible 
 to everyone, regardless of age or experience. If nothing else, that has to count for something 
 these days.
  
  Sound is what you'd expect. Elavatory music throughout mostly, with the occasional barks and such. 
 Nothing terribly exceptional, but it suits the game quite well, regardless.
  
  Gameplay is overall quite solid. The game SEEMS like it is very deep at first, then you start to 
 realize how much there is... and how much you can do in a day's time... And you start to get bored. 
 When you're expected to play with your dog on a daily basis, it's a good idea, but how many people 
 actually do that? I have 2 real dogs to worry about, amongst other things. Like most other things, 
 it's fun for a while...
  
  Overall the game is highly recommended for anyone that wants something different, doesn't own a 
 pet, or has a young one around that they need a game for. It's a brilliant concept that is executed 
 well, it just isn't totally my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  [This is a lost cause. There's no way I can salvage this. So I'll just label it a failed comedic 
 satire and be done with it.]
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  dear santa
  
  i want a puppy can i pls have a puppy for 
 xmas? thanks!
  
  -BY
  
  To: bornyesterday@lol. com
  From: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  
  Ho ho ho, B. Y.!
  
  Merry Christmas. I've given you the means to raise your own puppy, in 
 this little card no larger than a postage stamp. You'll notice that you can choose to raise one 
 of many different types of puppies. Pick out which one you like. Pet him - he won't ever bite you 
 - and coddle him.
  
  Soon you'll be able to name him - make sure you speak to him clearly so that he can hear you. You'll 
 have to repeat his name so that he can understand you're calling out to him. Once you've done all 
 that, he's yours to train and play with!
  
  Enjoy, my child!
  
  - K. Santa Claus
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  dear santa
  
  thx sooo much 
 for teh dogs! i Went to the kennal and play with the dogs there. they let me pet them it was so 
 cool. Each puppy came to me and wanted my attention. this one chiwawa he kept sniffing me south 
 of the border a lot so I named him Comander Taco.
  
  playing with taco is so easy. i just pet him and rub his stomach. and then pick a ball and i can 
 throw it against the walls of the house and he goes crazy!
  
  i want to say tho that i was able to teach him to sit. i just pointed down. and then after doing 
 it three times he sat. I thought it be prety funny to tell him something else than "sit" so i told 
 him to "w00t" and now every time i say "w00t" he sits. i think i can make him do tricks and then 
 call the trick anything!
  
  he keeps chaseing his tale around. i think i will call that trick "buttcrack". lolz!
  
  also 
 where can he poop. i've had him for three days in the house and he didn't poop. so now he's starting 
 to sulk and look sick.
  
  -BY
  
  To: bornyesterday@lol. com
  From: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  
  My dear child,
  
  Um. I'm overjoyed that you're having 
 fun with your chihuahua! I would advise you, though, to not tell your dog "buttcrack" whenever 
 you want him to chase his tail. Commander Taco should be treated with respect like any other member 
 of the family.
  
  Did you buy him food and water from the store? I understand that you might be short on money, so 
 ask your parents for some, or buy him dry food and water. Just remember that once in awhile, if 
 you pamper him with wet food and milk, Commander Taco will love you all the more.
  
  Don't forget to walk him, either - he can't go potty in the house. Make sure you plan out a safe 
 walking route for him on your map! It's very important that he goes to the bathroom outside, and 
 also make sure to keep the route short in case your dog gets tired. Commander Taco will get stronger 
 as he walks more and as you train him to catch a frisbee. That's his exercise. Don't forget that!
 
  
  When you've grown comfortable with him, do enter him into some tournaments. It will win you some 
 money which you can put towards buying nicer things for the little fella. Get enough money and 
 you might even be able to go back to the kennel and get a second dog!
  
  Enjoy,
  
  - K. Santa Claus
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  santa
 
  
  soooo i enter my dog into a doggie show. they told me I had to chose obedience, obstacle course 
 or frisbee throw. I chose the obedience becos I tought him lots of tricks like "w00t" which meant 
 sit, buttcrack and shake my hand. But when the anouncer told me to make him do something i coulnt 
 do it at all. its like the dog was hard of hearig. I had to shout the comand over and over. Comander 
 taco is sick maybe?
  
  then so i put him in the frisbee thing. i threw it real far and he took so long to bring me back 
 the frisbe, and he didn't even cach it! so i got no points. what to do
  
  -BY
  
  To: bornyesterday@lol. com
  From: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  
  My dear B. Y.,
  
  Perhaps 
 "w00t" is too hard for the dog to understand, especially under the pressure of competition. You 
 should really re-train him to sit and use a more clear, distinctive word or words, like, "Please 
 sit down!" The dogs may have trouble discerning words, you know. You must speak loud and clear 
 at it. Also, to ensure your dog's health, you need to bathe it. You have been cleaning it, yes? 
 If not, you'd better high-tail it to the store and get some shampoo. Wash those fleas out by putting 
 lathering Taco up with the shampoo and then spraying him down with water. His coat will literally 
 sparkle when you're done. You'll see!
  
  As far as the frisbee goes, are you sure you spent enough time training Taco? You know, you can 
 take him out to the park and get a feel for how far he can run to jump and catch a frisbee in his 
 mouth. As you keep testing him, he absolutely will get stronger and more energetic. Just keep at 
 it, and be patient! Everything takes practice. Also, make sure Taco has the opportunity to play 
 with other dogs at that park.
  
  Have you met any other friends with my special brand of puppies yet? If you're feeling nice, you 
 can try exchanging gifts with them so their puppies can use them too. If you have nothing, don't 
 fret. Taco will often seek out gifts and bring them back to you, which you can then re-gift to 
 other dog owners later. Make sure it's not an Osterizer though. I've gotten plenty of returned 
 Osterizers because they're always being re-gifted. My North Pole warehouse is full of them.
  
  My dogs are special, so I have to ask. Have you gotten Taco to break-dance yet? It's an amazing 
 trick that not just any dog can do.
  
  Yours,
  
  - K. Santa Claus
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  Hi santa so i went on vacation 
 for the past two weks and i left my dog at home. when I came back, he had fleas everywhere and 
 didn't come to me at all. like he was mad at me. What to do!
  
  -BY
  
  To: bornyesterday@lol. com
  From: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  
  B. Y.,
  
  I see you didn't 
 think to leave Taco in a doggie hotel! Oh, my. The staff at the doggie hotel will treat him right 
 whenever you have to leave him alone for awhile. For goodness sake, I can't believe I didn't mention 
 this to you. I truly apologize!
  
  Give him a good bath, feed him some wet food and milk, and then toss the tennis ball around a bit.
 
  
  - K. Santa Claus
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  hi santa
  
  just update nmews
  
  I left Taco alone for a while. he was in the house but 
 i dnt feed him. also i dnt bath him or play with him either. i started playing videogames and kind 
 of forgot about him. i had much fun with him for the last two months but then when i started playing 
 the games i forgot to pay him atention.
  
  last time i saw him was three weks ago. its like when i forogt to put him in the hotel he was mad 
 at me and just sat on the ground.
  
  now he's gone the cat ate him.
  
  -BY
  
  To: bornyesterday@lol. com
  From: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  
  B. Y.,
  
  That is impossible! 
 How can your cat eat your puppy? You need to be careful when telling stories. I certainly hope 
 you don't lie about more important matters! You might end up on my naughty list for next year.
 
  
  - K. Santa Claus
  
  To: jingle. kringle@north. pol
  From: bornyesterday@lol. com
  
  wtf
  
  i'm not lying. see the pic.
  
  http://trigames. net/pics/eat_nintendog. jpg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great game for all ages. You pretty much have a virtual pet that you have to take 
 care of. The only hard part is to remember to care for them every day. You won't have to take care 
 of them every day. Altough they will get mad at you if you don't. You can take the dogs on walks, 
 put in contests, see your friends dogs through bark mode, feed them, give them drinks, bathe them, 
 brush them, put them in the dog hotel, change your room around, buy them toys and other things, 
 pet them and teach them tricks. When you start out, you get to buy one dog and teach them. After 
 that you can buy more as time goes on. It is a very good game but the dogs will sometimes not respond 
 to there tricks. Besides that Nintendogs is a perfect game for animal lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is so repetitive it is dumb. First it takes forever to teach it to sit then if you want 
 to teach it a trick without tutorial mode it takes out large chunks of your life. This game is 
 just so plain bad. Except for the graphics. Those are pimpin'. I must say Miyamoto out did himself. 
 Also the sound is pretty good if it, as well as the game was not so repetitive I mean the music 
 never changes for goodness sake. so a 3.3 is being nice in my opinion. The game is supposed to 
 be amazing but it truly is all flash, no substance AT ALL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickythenewt21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Last December, I kept asking my mom if she'd get me Nintendogs: Chihuahua and Friends as an early 
 birthday present. She always kept saying maybe until she gave me my early birthday present: a lamp. 
 Ya, I was kinda sad, but then came my birthday. I opened up my present from my brother, and there 
 it was: Nintendogs: Chihuahua and Friends. I started playing, and I played for at least 9 hours 
 straight. If you plan to buy it, here's a tip: read the manual BEFORE YOU PLAY!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10. I gave the gameplay a 9/10 because there are some limitations to your dog: You 
 can only enter 3 contests a day, it can only learn 3 to 4 tricks a day, and you need to wait 30 
 minutes before going on another walk. Other than that, it has good gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 10/10. The dogs actually LOOK LIKE DOGS!
  
  Sound: 10/10. The dog barks sound like 
 dog barks. Sometimes, police sirens will go off, cows will moo, and a bunch of other stuff. The 
 best part: it sounds real.
  
  Value: 10/10. Yeah, as if dogs aren't valuable. You can have up to 8 dogs: 3 at home, 5 in the 
 hotel (the Doggy Hotel, that is) . You also get money, and if you don't think money's valuable, 
 in the game, it is. You use money to buy food, water, toys, collars, and more. You can also sell 
 your crap that you don't want to get even MORE MONEY! Yay, money!
  
  Nintendogs is a great series, and if you buy one, buy Chihuahua and Friends, because it's the best 
 (in my opinion) . Once you get it, you hope that they make more versions, so then we can get MORE 
 DOGGY WOGGYS! Seriously, Nintendogs is a must for any DS owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xretrofairyx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I luv this game. I love dressing up my dogs and unlocking new ones. The dogs are so cute. My favorites 
 are the pug, the **** tzu, and the chihuahua. i don't know a better game. I'm trying to unlock 
 the pug now since it is my favorite dog. Now im trying to write all the 100 words. I hope there 
 is a hundred now. Not yet but maybe this will help now. What other games are there that are good. 
 but i dont want some like oldie warrior game like [sorry people] age of empires. is tamagotchi 
 good? oh my gosh its still not 100 words. maybe if i do this it will count. i h o p e t h i s w 
 o r k s c o s i w i l l b e s o m a d i f i t d o e s n t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  i wasnt exactly dissapointed but its to geeky and its a bit soppy looking after dogs its like a 
 tamagitchi i mean im 13 and i live in the hardest country in the world (scotland) and where i come 
 from if you played this you would be one of those geeks who stays in but other than that it was 
 ok unlocking things but it got boring washing dogs all day but the competitions were good and competitive 
 and it was fun wining loads of competitions but once youve done it all there nothing left apart 
 from a stinking dog i traded mine in and you wont want to buy a preowned copy unless you sell all 
 the dogs its more bad than good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang610
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is so life like. How they crammed distinct attitude, anger, forgiveness, happiness, 
 memory, territory marking, other dog characteristics, breath-taking environment, and other amazing 
 features into such a tiny DS cartridge is beyond me. You would like this if you like to start out 
 with practically nothing, and using what you already have to get other cool things. Such as funky 
 accessories for your pups, gnarly toys, sweet sports supplies, soothing music, and up to 8 dogs! 
 You need to take the responsibility of taking care of your dog a few times a week, because even 
 if you turn the DS off, your dogs will get hungry and thirsty while awaiting your return. If you 
 have a dog already, don't think you wouldn't like this, because it's a whooooole different experience... 
 Trust me. Then again, I must agree with the others who say that this game eventually get boring. 
 Not completely although. This game will only get boring if you are not a true dog lover. I come 
 from a family with a gigantic history of pets, especially dogs. Therefore, this game is still very 
 enjoyable for me. I just never get tired of spending time with my virtual puppies! I don't think 
 that it's possible to accomplish everything. Every item, every room, every breed, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE!
 
  
  All in all, you like dogs? You'll love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a very good game, I didn't know it was that good until I played it. It's fun and 
 it really makes the environment that you have to really take care of the puppies. You can have 
 up to 3 at the same time, play with them, bathe them, feed them etc. The bubble blow it's the best 
 one, you blow an bubbles goes to the puppies to play with. Also the whistleing and they hear, it's 
 awesome those are the most things I like about the game very cool. It makes you really aware on 
 how to take care of a real puppie I think is great, the whole concept is just brilliant I wish 
 they could have this game for PSP : ) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is ok but not rite for me, a 12 yr old. and one bad thing i got carried away with petting 
 the dogs and i scratched the screen.
  i would rather play a different game like mario (all the way!!!!!!) .
  i would rather spend my 
 money on animal croosing witch sounds like a good game.
  
  this game is ok but not rite for me, a 12 yr old. and one bad thing i got carried away with petting 
 the dogs and i scratched the screen.
  i would rather play a different game like mario (all the way!!!!!!) .
  i would rather spend my 
 money on animal croosing witch sounds like a good game.
  
  this game is ok but not rite for me, a 12 yr old. and one bad thing i got carried away with petting 
 the dogs and i scratched the screen.
  i would rather play a different game like mario (all the way!!!!!!) .
  i would rather spend my 
 money on animal croosing witch sounds like a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolhagoo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  i never liked dogs i was more of a cat person now i love dogs after playing nitendogs its my favorite 
 game i highly recomend it to all ages. its the best game ever in my opinion. and its a good game 
 for young kids becuse it will teach them responsibility. its so fun i woldnt be surprised if they 
 made a second or nitencats or somthignto loop joe hoot yoou goo gooog ooo gooo i i a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a aaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  You don't have to be a woman or a sissy to love this game. In fact, it's hard not to. I have spent 
 hours training my dogs, and believe me, it's very rewarding.
  
  Accually, rewarding is a great word to describe this game, as you really feel that you have accomplished 
 something. The dogs are all very cute, and filled with personality. It's hard to not believe that 
 you are training a real dog. There is a lot of things to do with your puppy/ies. You can wash them, 
 pat them, play with them, train them, buy accesories for them and feed them. You can also meet 
 other dogs through the bark mode, and they can play together. I nice touch, but I have only been 
 able to do this once, as it is hard to find other dogs.
  
  You can spend a lot of time on this game, and as I said earlier, it is very rewarding. It takes 
 a real man to buy this game and not just say its too sissy. Swallow your pride and buy Nintendogs, 
 which is more like buying real puppies, than buying a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is the one of the greatest DS games ever. It has a very good gameplay. This game is really 
 really addictive. So read my rating of Nintendogs. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: The gameplay was obvisoly a 10 on here. You can choose between a bunch of breeds 
 of dogs. You can train your puppy to do tricks, find hidden items on walks, go in dog shows and 
 do much more when you play this game. What's not to like about this game?
  
  Graphics 9/10: These graphics were really great. Sometimes your dog would actully look like a real 
 dog they did these graphics so well. These graphics are not perfect but there all most there.
 
  
  Sound 10/10: The sounds and sound effects were really good on here. I loved the music for this 
 game it just was so great. I love the sound effects in this game they are just so cool!
  
  Value 10/10: 30 bucks for this!? That's a pretty good deal they gave me on this game. It is just 
 priced so well.
  
  See you all next reveiw.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _moon_goddess_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  The nintendogs chihuahua & friends is great! As soon as I got the game and started playing, i was 
 hooked! The adorable puppoes you can start off with ( and the even cuter ones you unlock) are cool! 
 I started off with the chihuahua, then go a yorkie, boxer (these 3 came with the game) , a husky 
 and just recently, a poodle ( which I unlocked) . The game is easy to understand... as the game 
 helps you get started, telling you when and how to name your dog. At first, I didnt get the opportunity 
 to name my chihuahua , Soks, straight away... I thought something was wrong with the game!!! In 
 the user's manual, all i could see was the screen with the supplies already there... i thought 
 my game had a defect in it! After a while of constantly patting my new pal, the supply list came... 
 and from there it was uphill... it did get annoying... my dog kept forgetting it's name! But i 
 think it's only the first that does it, coz my other 3 dogs learnt it pretty much straight away... 
 and remembered it!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  I love the fact of being able to talk to your pups and teach it tricks by talking... but i must 
 warn you... You need to repet the tricks every so often so they dont forget... or not pay attention 
 to you! I once entered the obediance trials and i was like, "Down!... Down!!!" but all it was doing 
 was spinning!!! At that point, i close the console... took deep breaths and picked it up agian (lol) ... 
 It's not that bad as it sounds! This proves how realistic it is... so realistic it *sometimes* 
 makes you mad! (or maybe that's me... I do that when i'm playing harry potter and stuff on PS2...) 
 Well... yes... I love the fact you can blow bubbles!!! No mess, no hassle Just select the bubble 
 blower from the toy menu and blow into the microphone and viola! Millions of bubbles at your disposal!!! 
 And u can tell it'strigered by your breatig, coz as soons you stops it does!
  
  Graphics: 
  These graphics are incredible! They are so lifelike! OK... so there are some glitches, 
 like when my dogs are eating and their foot goes in the bowl without them lifting it but that' 
 nothing!!! It's nice when you walk them coz of the background and it's so amazing how many positions 
 the can be in... like, they don't repeat the same moves over and over... it's really lifelike!!!
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great!!! if you listen closely when your home, you can hear things like car horns 
 and other dogs barking.. it's cool!
  
  Value:
  This is a great game! Most peple who have a nintendo DS have this game anyway, and if you don't... 
 GET IT!!! It's an enjoyable game and I totally see myself playing it when 99!!! : )
  
  This game is great!!! I would give it 10/10... but I'm a tough judge... anything i rate this high 
 is practically perfect anyway!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clank_master9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  awsome thats what this game is pure fun and really good the dogs are really realistic and it's 
 fun to take them fora walkand thow frisbe and play catch and fatch and teach your dog tricks and 
 win competiotions and really you can do tons of stuuf its really fun great ds game the dogs act 
 so reall wtch is just amazing. any one who iis a dog lover or just wants to have fun should get 
 this game. its a fun game theirs no deynying that this is a fun fun fun fun game full of dog goodness. 
 it's pretty easy thought somtimes your dogs can be real idiots really dumb. and they can get in 
 fights with other dogs, but this is a great game so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBPwNaGe
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Let me make this snappy. The game is great, but I didnt like it so much. The reason is that you barley 
 do anything except take care of your dogs. I mean the dogs look cute but there is barley anything 
 to do. When I got this game, I quit playing after several months and gave it to my little sister. I 
 hate to be mean but I think this game is just out of the line. It's got good stats but the gameplay 
 is horrible. How can I say this, HORRIBLE. If your a little girl who likes dogs, get this game. Im not 
 stopping you. I mean I cant blame you. The dogs are just too cute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prosno
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun. The puppies are adorable and are fun to watch. The gameplay is pretty 
 good even though the restrictions are a pain in the neck as they limit the game. The puppy rubbing 
 gets really boring after a little while. The contests are the best part , even though "commentators" 
 are atrocious . It is extremely fun to see your puppy win a championship 10 times in a row. The 
 grasphic are the best on the system, despite the textures are a bit grainy and ugly. the audio 
 is alright the puppies sound awesome but the music is lacking. The game's limits are the main problem 
 in the game. For it gets really boring when you can't go to any contests or walks. Also the eight 
 dog limit is horrible as you can never really get any new dogs without getting rid of the old ones. 
 The game starts out easy but gets hard fast. The game is almost fully stylus based. The idea is 
 original and may set off a new wave of games (akin to Rollercoaster Tycoon.) This game is for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larvaelord26
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  if you did not like the big eyes of these adorable little puppies then you must be a little messed 
 up, okay really messed up. You get convinced that their real after about two hours then you become 
 too addicted to stop, until they cant do contests, tricks, walks, and have no money. Then wait 
 about 30 minutes and you will be having more fun, it does get more fun as you go as well as more 
 cute. So if you are alone i would highly consider buying this just for the company so if you dont 
 want to have the fear of stepping on your puppy get him on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmm_chocolate
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is seriously great!
  Nintendo has put lots and lots of work into it, and it definitely shows. 
  These dogs are almost 
 exactly like real puppies, and it's extremely easy to fall in love with them, even if they aren't 
 real.
  Even the sounds are great, as (almost) all dogs have their own distinct bark.
  
  After a while, if you play the game too much, It could get very repetitive, but this is one of 
 those games that you can play for as long or short sittings as you like.
  
  All in all, a great game, certainly worth its Australian $49.95 price tag.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vakama116
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games on the DS! This game is not just game, but an experience. This game is superb 
 in every aspect it has great gameplay, the graphics are so good! The game has a great sound, very 
 clear, the value on this game is huge. I would recommend this game to any DS collection, dog lover 
 or a person who wants but is not ready they have enough responsibility. For an overall score i 
 give it a 9.8/10, even though after time you may lose interest, the urge will come back soon just 
 like happened to me once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youstupidideot
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aaa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa av 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt11989
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game that some people will love and some will hate. you start off at a kennel and 
 you have to pick a dog. You get to pick from a, Chihuahua, German Shepherd Dog, Boxer, Cavalier 
 King Charles Spaniel, Yorkshire Terrier and Shetland Sheepdog. After you choose one you have to 
 bathe, brush, walk, feed, play and teach him tricks. You also have to enter him in a competition 
 to earn money and owner points. After you get so many owner points you unlock new dog breeds at 
 the kennel. Altogether the game is alright and seems to lack things to do. I will give it a 7.2/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockChina99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  A revolution in gaming experience
  
  Break out the leash and doggy treats because, Nintendo Dogs is a revolution in how we should play 
 games today. Being able to interact with your pet either by sound or touch was a great idea and 
 Nintendo deserves a lot of credit for this one. It just shows that Sony and their PSP are going 
 to need more innovative games and not just games if they want to beat Nintendo in the hand held 
 division. This is why Nintendo is king of hand held and will always be until the other companies 
 finally start thinking out of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool to start and there are many things that you can do while playing. You 
 get to take care of and walk your dogs, put them in contest and buy lots of thiings. The graphics 
 are great and the game play is good for a while. The only down side about this game is after a 
 while you get a little tired of doing the same things over and over again. I also wish that you 
 could own more then 3 dogs at a time but other then that It really is a great game for people of 
 any age group. Worth the money and a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jak_two_ratchet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Yeah great game but boring after awhile. I got it and I loved it great game but it was a little 
 boring after the third month i mean what is the point of the game once my dog wins every difficulty 
 in every contest and i buy everything. Its a great game when you play it once in a while but every 
 day.... NO. But its a good game and worth buying and playing so its not a bad game its actually 
 the best ds game ive ever played. Yeah if your looking for a good game for your ds you should get 
 this or the other nintendogs games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StikFiguresRawk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is GREAT! I love it. It's a great game for kids. For some kids it's a dream 
 to own their own puppy, now it can come true. Better yet, they can own three! 
  In this game you can walk your dog, groom it, feed it, give it baths and even enter it in dog competitions, 
 such as agility, obedience, and disc!
  The sounds are so realistic. It is truly unbelievable. Even my cat thought there was a real dog 
 in my house barking and running around playing. Also, the concept is great. Owning all of your 
 own puppies and taking after them, and best of all, the only thing you have to do to clean up their 
 poop is touch it with the stylus! The graphics are truly amazing and so are the different dog breeds, 
 although I AM upset that they didn't include an Akita.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilguccigirlxxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the perfect gift for yourself or a friend, with they be Male or Female, 6, 16, or 
 60 (although i doubt granny owns a DS) . Have fun for hours with the game you just cannot put down! 
 Packed with secrets, surprises, and fun, this game is a Must-Have for all you dog lovers!
  
  I applaud Nintendo for creating such a fasinating life-like game that apeals to both the sexes 
 of all ages, just as Maxis did with The Sims 2. But this time the game takes place in your time! 
 No cheat-codes, just pure love! (And no, you cannot kill or breed your adorable little pups) 
 
  
  The gameplay deserves a 9. The game is very fun, but im sad to say it gets boring and a little 
 fusturating sometimes. After teaching 3 tricks to your dog and entering your dog in three competions, 
 there is not much else to do with your dog. Or, a sudden need to screem at your pup for not being 
 able to learn its name... hours after trying! Just dont *bite* your DS... it really ruins the screen. 
 It really does. (been read cather in the rye... if you dont know what that is i sugest you go read 
 it =) 
  
  With the ocasional space between the head and the body, or the fact that the bones magacly 'slide' 
 into your dog's mouth, the graphics deserve a 10. Is it just me or am i still living in the super 
 nintendo days when Donkey Kong was a major breakthrough =D
  
  I wasnt too crazy about the sound... eh... cute puppy noises... satasphactory music... but oh, that 
 annoying buzzing noise in the 'surprise' record... and Jeex its the only one my dog ever pics up 
 so im stuck with the same old music... But watching my Dog's reaction never gets old. Trust me you'll 
 love it =D
  
  Its worth it. Although i am quite disapointed that all items are not avaible for one game... there 
 has never been a game i have 'beaten' really. I was kinda hoping for that to happen just once.
 
  
  I hope you have fun with your dogs! Im always here to help! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caily
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:   
 LLLLLLL LLLLLL LLLLLL L LL L L L L L L LL LLL LLLL L LLL LLLL LL LLL LLLL LLLLL LLLLLL LLLLLL LLLLLL 
 LLLLL LLLLLLYo this game is so awesome ,i disagree with who thinks it stinks 'cause it does'nt 
  
 JJJJJ JJJJJJJ JJJJJ JJJJJJ J J JJJJJ JJJJJ JJJJJJJJJ JJJJJJ JJJ JJ JJJJ J J JJJJ JJJJJJ JJJJJJ 
 JJJJ JJJJJJ JJJ JJJ JJJJ JJJ JJJJ JJJ JJJ JJ JJ J J J JJ J JJJ J JJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJ JJJJJ JJ JJJJJJ 
 JJJJJJJJJJJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJJJJJJ JJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJJ JJJJJ JJJJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJ JJJJ 
 JJJJ JJJJ JJJ JJJ JJJJ JJJJ J JJJJ J J J JJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningrod767
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  You must think that this game may be girlish and babyish. It's not. It is super cool to have a 
 virtual pal! This is also one of the first DS games that allow you to talk into the microphone. 
 You first knock on the kennel door to start the game. Then, you get to choose one out of 6 puppies. 
 They are all different in each of the three games. So choose wisely. You get to take your puppy 
 home to teach him his name and get him to know you better. Soon, you get to teach him tricks, take 
 him on walks, meet other dogs, bark mode, and a lot more! Even competitions! Oh, and they never 
 die! They stay puppies forever. You get to keep up to eight dogs. So doggy fans and animal fans 
 of the world, get your virtual puppy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiChiChick
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Yes, virtual pets have been around for ages but nothing like this. For one the graphics are really 
 exelent and i was really suprised when i figured out how to work the bubble maker. In this you 
 can go for walks, meet random dogs, discover different tricks, enter your dog in compertions and 
 other random stuff. Its a must have game for DS. The battery can get annoying sometimes but you 
 can play (atleast i do) while its charging. What my favourite part is that the dogs develop their 
 own personality that depends on how you treat them in the first hour and how you train them. Example, 
 my Chihuahua is very upmarket because i let it do whatever and am really patient and always bath 
 it but on the other hand my friends chihuahua is really more obediant cause of all the training 
 and not stopping it from eating rubbish :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lautaro_aust
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  First off lets start with the gameplay, when this game starts it seem to be very fun. soon after 
 saying to your puppy sit for the twentieth time the appeal really seems to wear off in my opinion. 
 There are a lot of options for your puppy but its quite disappointing that the game has only three 
 competitions. you can take your puppy for walks which will also get tiresome after you do it for 
 the tenth time. You have to feed the animal like you would a real dog and all the other things 
 like wash it.
  
  Graphically the game is quite good and shows the graphical capabilities of the Nintendo DS handheld. 
 other than te puppies animations the backgrounds can be quite dull.
  
  Audiowise the game does nothing out of the ordinary but the sound of the puppies yelping and barking 
 is quite good, the music does little but loop in the background when you take your dog for a walk 
 or when you are in a competition.
  
  Value wise the game has one thing going for it that you can unlock all 18 puppies in each and every 
 version but after a while this game wears thin and has no appeal.
  
  What can i say in summarising, the only people i can recommend this game to is people that cant 
 have dogs for one reason or another other than that get yourself a real dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHconsumed
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  this game is sooooo cool if you have got a ds and you havent got it (or even played it) shame on 
 you!!!!! i repeat SHAME ON YOU!!!! ok... now i will explain why this game is soo good. first of 
 all (as i said previously in my canvas curse review) THIS GAME IS NOT GIMMICKY!!! contrary to popular 
 belief this game does not use the double screens, touch screen, and microphone as a gimmick to 
 get people to buy the game and find out there actually isnt any substance in it.... THERE IS!!! 
 first of all this game manipulates the stylus and mic in ways never before imagined and it does 
 it WELL the mic and stylus actually work... this game is never ending.. not neverending like the 
 redundantly mundane star ocean... never ending like animal crossing.. but like animal crossing.. 
 this game does not get boring or repetitive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiraboshi2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, but it has many down sides.
  First off- all the people who are saying ' just get a real dog ', there are many people out there 
 who have allergies, and there by can not have a dog. Nintendogs can be a fun alternative.
  
  Game play: The game play, is overall very good, the graphics are fairly good, compared to some 
 of the garbage out their today, and the pups are very realistic. Negative things, are the game 
 repeats itself very much- turn on ds, feed pup, bathe pup, walk, brush pup, contest, train, pet, 
 toys, feed, etc. Maybe, occasionally, you will go out on bark mode, or buy another puppy, remodel 
 your house, buy toys, etc. But that is pretty much it. I will admit, I still play this game, because 
 I can not have a real dog, but not like I'm on it all day. Play it, set it down for a few hours 
 and get back to my life. Maybe for even a few days. And it would be a little cooler, if there where 
 multiple rooms to your house, instead of that one room, and the bathroom and such. Another thing 
 that would have been cool, is if your dog would actually grow up instead of staying a puppy forever.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, the pups look very realistic, even though they arn't too 
 furry, compared to some games I've seen. The only thing that is bothersome, is when you go out, 
 for example, on a walk to the park. The pup never turns or anything, it is always walking to the 
 right, and the backgrounds/scenery could use a bit more detail. When you get to the park, green 
 grass surrounded by white.
  
  Sound: The overall sound is pretty good. The background noises and stuff. The only thing is- the 
 music is very repetitive. Whenever you go for a walk, its the same annoying music, and when you 
 take a bath, train it for agility trials, enter contests, look at dogs in the kennel, etc. Another 
 thing that bothers me, is the noises the dogs make, barking, whining, growling etc, are very good, 
 except some of the dogs (for example, miniature pincher, dachshund) have an odd computer ish sound 
 when they bark, and as far a reality goes, not very convincing.
  
  Overall, a very good game, that can be addictive. It has it's ups and downs, but is a very good 
 alternative if you can not have a real dog, but people can have it even if they do own a dog. They 
 could have expanded a bit on options and such, but re playability, like when you first start off 
 (reset your game) can be very fun to build up to getting more items or unlocking dog breeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetthing_2420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  ok i dunno what to write and pretty much i'm new at this so basically i have no ideal what im doing 
 ACCCK!!! la la la la alalalalalalalalalalalallaalla so maybe ill just repeat my question : I forgot 
 how to restart my game, could iny one tell me how to delet in order to start over? this better 
 be good enough or ill scream.! OMFG just send it geez teh game was ok but i have a new puppy now 
 and so i wanna restart my game and this thing won't post cuz its dum and i wanna hit it really 
 hard but im not going to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I had heard of Nintendogs, I wanted one. i had a DS that I had gotten for Christmas 
 of 2004, and I needed a good game for it. i went on the Internet reading previews of Nintendogs. 
 my opportunity finally came on September 7th. I went to Best Buy and picked it up. Now it's my 
 favourite game for any hand-held system. Nintendogs is perfect for any animal lover. it has amazing 
 graphics and extremely realistic sounds. The gameplay is superb. There are a few limitations such 
 as:
  
  1} You don't have a backyard.
  2} You can't pet your dogs during walks.
  3} it requires a bit too much work to take care of them.
  
  Otherwise, the game is the masterpiece 
 of all Sim-games out there. I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goblin_king0072
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a very good series for non-gamers but normal gamers shouldn't get to much play time 
 out of it. While it is a very realistic simulation (the dogs actually lick themselves like they 
 do in real life) , displays the top of the DSs graphics, and works hard to keep you interested, 
 they just don't do a good enough job at it. But for non gamers it is probably the best game on 
 any system, the dogs are awesome, to say the least. It perfectly renders a dogs display of utter 
 joy at seemingly normal everyday activities like getting a treat, going for a walk, getting a treat, 
 meeting someone new, getting a treat, or a nice petting by their masters. Having two dogs of my 
 own I can say that many of their species like getting a treat a little too much, and that wasn't 
 there; but then again, its annoying.... and they dont grow any; but that may be good for all the 
 puppy lovers out there. Over all I have to say that I as a pretty hardcore gamer can't say I like 
 it that much but my mom is amazed by it, so non-gamers should really give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  ive been waiting for this game for a while, i just havent goten around to review this game, i got 
 it on launch. the core gameplay of this game is very meaty. theres something missing. im not sure 
 what, but its missing and it needs to be in the formula. enough of the bad stuff, this game is 
 great. first off, i chose a cavalier king charles (because my dog is that and a bischon) . i named 
 him peanut. he was great, then i got a sheltie named katie, then i put them both in tournoments, 
 and they kiked ass. so i got rich. so i bought all the dogs i could. so then i had to rutinely 
 feed them walk them give them water. on the walkes, the dogs find occasional presents. like stuff 
 u can dress them up in like hats and shirts. u also get toys like pull ropes where u can literally 
 fling them across the room with. LOL. and balls which u use the touch screen to throw. occasionaly 
 u can come across remote cars and even helicopters. there fun and its interesting to see the dogs 
 react to them. you can meet other people on the ds through wi-fi (not online) and then after that, 
 u get there dog. but u only get there dog once. which sux because where else are u gonna find people 
 with a ds charged and with nintendogs at the same time trying to connect with someone?????? someone 
 tell me please. well its a good game and u should definently buy it when u have a chance. PLAU 
 ITS ONLY 30 BUX!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wuggle878
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I didnt know what to expect. I found out as soon as I started that 
 it was a great game. The graphics were some of the best Ive ever seen on the DS. There are lots 
 of different breeds of dog to choose from. You can take your own virtual puppy on a walk, enter 
 it in a contest to win money, go to the store to buy supplies, or even connect wirelessly with 
 other people to play with their dogs. You can take presents to your friends, and they can take 
 them to you. This game isnt much of a challenge, but very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormPixie
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  Do you have a need for the cute things in life?
  Do you want a game for your DS that has a good use of the stylus?
  Do you have plenty of spare 
 time on your hands?
  Do you have the patience to feed, train an take care of a virtual pet?
  Do you want to own a dog, but have a bad allergy to them?
  Maybe you just don't want to get up 
 at 3 in the morning to walk a dog
  in 30 degree weather freezing while u wait for it to do it business.
  
  Then Nintendogs is 
 the game for you.
  
  You get to pick a cute puppy to take back to your virtual house.
  You then get to train it, Play with it, Feed it, Walk it and Bath it.
  All from the comfort of 
 your own warm home.
  You can play it in bed, in your favorite chair, outside, in the car
  (please use common sense and don't play the game while you are driving)
  
  Its a pet on the 
 go. Can't ask for anything better then that.
  
  Good thing with the game is the use of the stylus, the never ending game play
  and not having 
 to freeze just to walk the puppy. And unlike a real puppy this one comes
  with its very own off switch an volume control button.
  
  Bad thing with the game is, u can 
 only walk your puppy every half an hour
  and if you are like me waiting a half an hour can be very boring, unless u use
  the avaiable 
 cheats out there to keep walking your puppy over and over just 
  to get more and more gifts. (but doesn't this defeat the meaning of virtual pet?)
  
  You have 
 the competition's to test your pups ability to run thru a set up track,
  catch a frisbee or its ability to listen to your commands. These can be fun 
  to see how well 
 u have done each thing with your pup. 
  Thou you can only do 3 contests in one day. (which is good considering I would think sending
  
 a real pup thru 3 contests a day could be a little much for them)
  
  All in all its a cute game. With endless play. But it can become boring really fast.
  
  ~} | {~Storm 
 Pixie~} | {~
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Great gameplay, there is alot to keep you occupied and the dog's behavior is very complex as well 
 as fun. It is very fun to teach your dog tricks and enter them into contests. However, it is annoying 
 that you can only enter into 3 contests a day and only teach your dog a certain number of tricks 
 a day. Also there is not much to save up for than a bigger house, unlocking more species, and owning 
 more dogs. You unlock items in the game that will allow you to play with your dogs or even dress 
 them up.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are pretty good for a DS game. The dog graphics look really life-like. Not much else to 
 say here other than environments look decent as well.
  
  Sound:
  The dog sounds are pretty good and really life-like too. The music when walking your dog or in 
 competitions is merely ok.
  
  Value:
  It is addicting for at least 3 days and after that you'll probably end up putting it down for awhile 
 only to pick it up again in a little while and play it for another three days straight.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  This is the most life-like sim I have ever played and it is pretty fun. It 
 lasts for only a short while. It is the most innovative game I've played thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo DS was originally created, its purpose was to bring casual and hardcore gamers 
 together in an immersive and creative venue that couldnt be replicated anywhere else. The DSs 
 touch screen, combined with its solid sound system and microphone give gamers a portable gaming 
 experience that make the titles on the system feel unlike any other.
  
  Nintendogs, without a doubt, is a must-own game for the DS and despite the cutesy aura surrounding 
 the game, its presentation and gameplay mechanics make Nintendogs a game that children and adults 
 alike will enjoy. Also, consider that there are over 20 breeds to choose from, including favorites 
 like the German Shepard, Pug, Boxer and Chihuahua; its easy to see that this game has a dog for 
 everyone.
  
  Simply put, Nintendogs is a virtual pet. Players must feed and take care of their dog while simultaneously 
 getting their pets in prime shape for obedience, agility and Frisbee championships that earn 
 you and your dog the money needed to survive and the prestige that comes with being a championship 
 trainer. 
  
  This is achieved by talking to your dog and teaching it basic commands, like sit, lay down, beg, 
 etc. Yes, you heard it right, your dog will understand your every command, but not without the 
 proper training and practice. Just the same way you would train a dog in real life; praising it 
 for every job well done and curtailing its bad habits through positive reinforcement, Nintendogs 
 too requires players to spend massive amounts of time getting to know their dog and with enough 
 hard work and practice, becoming one with it.
  
  Spending this much time with your dog really cements how great the gameplay in Nintendogs actually 
 is. Add in great animation and graphics that really bring your dog to life and its easy to see 
 why there are just as many 30 year-old-men out there that cant put this game down as there are 
 10-year-olds.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs is a guilty pleasure that makes the Nintendo DS a system worth owning, regardless 
 of your age or type of games you prefer to play. Anyone who gives this game a chance will be drawn 
 into its charming world and fall victim to losing a few hours each day to their furry, yet electronic 
 friend.
  
  Overall Rating- 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  When i got this game i didn't think much of it, but when you start playing its very likely you 
 won't be able to put it down. It would take a looooooong time before you don't like it. Graphics 
 are good aswell its not exactly OMG this is amazing! But i would recommend you buy it if your bored 
 and not got many games for the DS. take my advice and you definatly won't regret it! 
  
  (By the way, if you leave the brush in the center of your dog while brushing it, it takes abut 
 an hour but after that, every minute you will will get a trainer point. And imagine how many you 
 would get if you were to leave it on over night.... LOADS!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Chihuahua and friends is a great game with minor cons, as well as two major cons. One, 
 taking care of your dog can get repetitive and two, you don't have enough time to constantly take 
 care of them! When you have things to do like homework, chores, etc., you realize you have one 
 more (or should I say ten more) thing (s) to do: feed your dogs, walk your dogs wash your dogs, 
 enter your dogs in contests, it's non-stop!
  
  Aside from that, what about the positive things? You can do many things in this game (although 
 they get rather annoying and repetitive) . You can remodel your house, find cool accessories and 
 knick knacks (or buy them) , you can do the wireless Bark Mode, teach your dogs tricks, enter them 
 in contests and a whole lot more!
  
  This game is a must buy for any dog lover and a reason for a dog lover to get a DS, or any non-picky 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halloweenhighsc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  it is the best game in the world !really it is!!!!!!! i cant wait to get it 4 xmas the waiting 
 is killin me i just really cant wait!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! IT IS THE BEST GAME IN THE  
 cant wait and im trying to learn off mi friend how to play cos she got hers a few days ago and 
 i think i av learnt quite al lot about nintendogs it is the best and i cant stop saying that cos 
 its so true!!!!!!!!!!! [soz if this is very annoying but it is true u must a dimit it ] the best 
 game in the world is gonna be mine mine to play on to work with THE BEST EVER cant i just have 
 it now plz i need it or my brainwill explode all toghetther 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geeksandy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game that i could not put down 4 weeks even though i dnt see how it is so fun. 
 strange hey?. But anyway it is a very good game and i wud reccomend it 2 loadsa people i dunno 
 wot else 2 say bout it cept the graohics cud b better but they r very good. It is addictive but 
 after that it is boring and then u dnt wnna touch it. ( not the screen haha) rubbish joke soz. 
 
  i would buy this if ure into reality games and if u r thinking of getting a dog which ure not. 
 lol L8z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraPalmer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a huge asset to the Nintendo family. I absolutely love it and hope there are more 
 games to come. Nintendogs is a game for players of all ages and is super easy to learn. Taking 
 my dogs on walks and finding presents is always a surprise and delight. I feel like i could play 
 this game forever! The graphics are great - the designers did an excellent job of getting that 
 puppy look just right. I love the competitions also. I'm not a huge fan of the obiedience trials 
 though. It is fun at first to teach your dog tricks using the microphone, but after a while it 
 becomes a bit annoying having to talk out loud. Other than that - the game is great!! I hope that 
 future games will take advantage of the wi-fi capapbilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastkilrx
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has always painted a pretty picture of bold innocence and trying something new. Fans have 
 always defended tubby plumbers, and Michael-Jackson play toys dressed in green by saying they are 
 more mature than the people who mess hookers up in the back of their GTA-cars. Well, now all Yoshis 
 Story fan boys can join hands in a circle and be ashamed of themselves. Theres a happy medium 
 called paradise in between the crucially mature Manhunts and the childish Rugrats of the world. 
 However, that perfection is not Nintendogs. Nintendogs is not any kind of step towards maturity, 
 but its not like it lacks quality in any one area either.
  
  Touching the hearts and pockets of diehard game-collectors, Nintendogs was released in three versions 
 each only slightly different from the last. Thats Labrador, Chihuahua, and Dachshund versions 
 each respectively ending with the words and Friends. This end-title indicates that the only difference 
 between the three versions is which dog youll begin the game with. And so Nintendogs has taken 
 your heart by the leash, and devoured it like a chew toy.
  
  Whats so special about this Tamagotchi look-alike? Firstly, it had a good marketing scheme here 
 in North America from the get go. Walking into my local EB Games I was alerted by yelping dogs 
 from somewhere within the store. I stepped away, then back onto the floor-piece that seemingly 
 initiated the sound. Believe it or not, thats what lead me to purchase Nintendogs. Japan it sold 
 like hotcakes. If we happen upon that knowledge, we may come to find that its held in popular 
 opinion that Nintendogs is a good game. Being the endearing fan boy I am, I picked up the Chihuahua 
 and Friends version in fear that Nintendo might be making some fatal mistake with their image. 
 However, I now feel sympathetic for anyone whos been picked on for playing Pokemon or raising 
 their virtual pets out of their own homes.
  
  No one game can survive alone on cuteness and the vulnerability of weak-minded owners whose puppy 
 love infatuation with their DS results in the purchase of all three Nintendogs games. For me, Chihuahua 
 and Friends quickly became weary and tiresome in that theres not a whole lot to do. Sure, you 
 can teach your dog tricks, you can enter it into competitions, and you can take it on walksbut 
 what after that? Theres always a dog or two youre itching to get, but if you havent caught the 
 flea already, only perfectionists will strive to obtain every dog. Gameplay goes something like 
 this: Take your dog for a leaded-walk, bring it home, wash its coat, practice catch with a disc, 
 enter the dog into a disc-catching competition, and finally realize that theres nothing left to 
 do. You can always mess around with friends in Bark Mode but how much fun is it really to pet other 
 dogs that you could just as easily obtain on your own version? Its not of much use either, unless 
 you wish to collect every dog available. At its core, Nintendogs is built off of repetition.
  
  Strangely enough, the redeeming qualities of Nintendogs almost make it worth a purchase. Theres 
 certain pleasure to be found in caring for your dogs. Scolding them as you would with those age-old 
 Tamagotchis is no longer necessary. These dogs are smart, and become obedient faster than imaginable. 
 Its near impossible to label these dogs as anything but loyal. And thats where Nintendogs succeeds 
 over the new-found Paris Hilton dream of being popular, and owning a small dog. Why carry around 
 a dog like Pariss that could be so easily lost, killed, or deprived of real care when you could 
 instead sport your DS in the park, subway, homeless shelter, dogless-hotels, allergic homes, and 
 any other impractical places that may not always allow pets of any kind.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs is an enchanting simulation experience that truly is something for the whole 
 family to enjoy. Whether its agility or obedience, Nintendogs is generally a walk in the park, 
 and should take the average gamer no time to master. Not the ugliest mutt of recent releases. Dont 
 expect anything except short stints of affection, because long play-throughs of Nintendogs will 
 result in little to no productivity. Fun game, but not enough to keep me fixated for more.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunourbeezwax
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:14 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs starts out as a fun and addictive game but lack of innovation, too much repetition and 
 no variety causes it to become very boring too quickly. The game is played only on the touchscreen. At 
 the beginning, you are given the choice between buying 1 out of 6 dogs. You will then take it home 
 and name it, using the DS microphone. When the dog gets hungry or thirsty, you will have to provide 
 it with food. When it gets dirty, you have to bathe it. To get money for food, shampoo and the few 
 items they have, you need to enter contests. These are the best part of the game, but there are 
 only three different types so it gets very boring. you will get varying amounts of money depending 
 on your rank. Along with money, you also get trainer points which enable you to unlock different 
 dogs and houses. If you fail to care for it, the dog will not die but it will run away and then 
 come back later. Its not very realistic in that fashion. The bad gameplay is supported by very 
 real-looking dogs but there are a lot of graphical errors. In conclusion, If you have already made 
 the mistake of buying a DS and you absolutely are not allowed a dog then i guess this is what you 
 are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupid_06
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  My little brother bought this game and played it for a few days until I erased his data and started 
 my own game on it. The game was fun for a few days but It got pretty boring... and I don't like 
 these games very much to begin with.
  
  Graphics were very good for the DS. The dogs look very well made... and it's hard to think that 
 the graphics were done on a DS.
  
  Sound was good also. Need I say more?
  
  Gameplay was pretty repetitive.... only 3 different contests for the dogs to enter... and training 
 my dogs was always a pain. 
  
  This game could last you a long time if you really get into it.... it lasted me 3 days... but my 
 little brother plays it.
  
  Do not buy this game unless you are 100% sure you will like it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon_Light102
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Introduction - The Nintendo DS has had the features, but not the games that take advantage of them. 
 Nintendogs is the first game that has fully taken advantage of the DS' features. But, even so, 
 the game is nowhere near perfect and has many flaws that need fixing if they make another edition 
 of this game.
  
  Gameplay - Let me start with the controls. There is not really much to say about them except that 
 they use the DS' features all the time. You use the stylus to do almost everything in the game. 
 You pat your dog with the stylus, you wash your dog with the stylus, you walk your dog with the 
 stylus, and you basically use the stylus for nearly everything. You use the microphone to teach 
 your dog commands and to call it over to you. These are neat little features, but they become annoying 
 after a while because you have to say the commands every time in the same voice.
  
  The game is pretty fun, but your sessions playing the game will usually be very short, due to the 
 fact that you can only walk your dog (s) every half an hour or so and you can only enter your dog (s) 
 in 3 contests a day. Washing your dog can be pretty fun, and they are cute, but that's about all 
 I can say that's positive about how fun this game is.
  
  There really is no difficulty to the game if you make sure you feed it every day and take it for 
 walks often. I like games with a challenge and this doesn't provide me with one.
  
  
  Story - There is not really a story to this game. It would be a nice addition to the game if there 
 were a story, but it's not really needed.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics on the game are some of the best I've seen on the DS. The shadow effects 
 make it look a little 3D and all the dogs look cuter than they do in real life. There are a few 
 flaws in this area, but they are so tiny that I'm not even going to bother mentioning them.
  
  
  Sound: Oh dear! This is a REALLY bad area of the game. When the dogs bark, it sounds way 
 too high pitched and the footsteps are too loud. It sounds like they put speakers on the dog's 
 feet. There is only one music track and it is awful, although it suits the game.
  
  Play Time - Since the game never really ends, you can play for as you want to, but I doubt you 
 will as it gets boring very quickly.
  
  Replay Value: it gets boring really quickly so you probably wont want to replay it. For more info, 
 see the "Play Time" section above.
  
  Final Recommendation - In my opinion, you should rent this game. Even if you like it after renting 
 it, don't buy it because soon you'll be wishing you hadn't bought it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidspor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs chihuaha and friends is a must get. this game is highly addictive you have got to play 
 it. i gave it a great rating! this is much more fun than having a real dog even though i do own a 
 real dog. i currrently have 12000 trainer points but i am trying to make 100000 points that will 
 be a hard challenge!! the diffifculty is just right. i spend about 100 hours every 2 weeks, so i play 
 it alot. so if you donot have you MUST get it!! i also think that the ds was a good invetion i thank 
 nintendo for making the ds and nitendogs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Over the years, Nintendo have proved that they can produce some truly unique stuff. At this years 
 e3 they said, they have changed the game. As they said, the Nintendo DS changed the game . Well 
 with a new unique system, come new unique and innovative games such as Yoshi Touch 'N' Go, Wario 
 Ware: Touched!, Kirby Canvas Curse, Metroid Prime: Pinball, Meteos and Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 just to name a few, and there are tones more to come as well. But arguably Nintendo's most unique 
 creation yet, Nintendogs is easily one of the best Nintendo DS games. In Nintendogs, you'll be 
 taking care of up to 8 puppies (although you can only have 3 in your house at one time) by feeding 
 them, taking them on walks, cleaning and brushing them and by just being generally good owners. 
 Though it may sound like a task to some people, Nintendogs is actually a very fun game, though 
 there are a few things that may frustrate you, for the most part, Nintendogs is very enjoyable.
 
  
  When you first fire up the game, you'll be at the kennel choosing your first puppy. There are about 
 6 breeds when you start off, and there each different in the 3 versions, although all of the breeds 
 are unlockable in each game. I chose a Shiba Inu and named him Ace (don't ask) . I have the Labrador 
 &amp; Friends version, and the Shiba Inu just happened to be one of the starting breeds, as well 
 as a Toy Poodle, Miniature Pinscher, Miniature Schnauzer, Pembroke Welsh Corgi and of coarse the 
 Labrador Retriever.
  
  When you get home, you'll have around $400 left. You use that to buy stuff like water, food, shampoo, 
 a brush and maybe a toy or two you'll probably have around $360. After that, to get more money 
 you'll have to enter your dog in competitions. Although unless you want another dog immediately 
 you won't really need to enter you dog in a competition for a while, as $360 will last about a 
 week and a half if you have only one puppy, but hey, more money is always good.
  
  There are three different types of competitions, Disc Throwing, Agility and Obedience. Each competition 
 has 4 different difficulty levels, beginner, Open, Expert and Master. As well as the difficulty 
 going up, so does the pay (to actually get paid you have to come in 1st, 2nd or 3rd) . To train 
 your dog for a Disc Throwing competition, you'll have to take him or her to the park while your 
 on a walk and throw around a Frisbee. Your dog will automatically know how to catch the Frisbee, 
 but youre basically teaching him/her to bring it back after you throw it. It might also take some 
 time for you to throw your Frisbee properly as well. The Disc Throwing contests are probably the 
 easiest of the three, which sort of makes sense, because they don't pay as much as the other two, 
 although there is only a small difference in pay. You'll have to take your puppy to the gym while 
 on a walk to train him for an agility contest. You'll be guiding him through various obstacles, 
 by touching the objects on the bottom screen in the proper manner. And as you progress through 
 the Agility Contests you'll have to teach your puppy to overcome even more obstacles. Perhaps the 
 simplest contest would have to be the Obedience, which just happens to be the toughest. You'll 
 be training your mutt right at home for these contests, because really, you'll just be teaching 
 them tricks. You'll need to teach your puppies tricks like sit, lie down, shake hands, roll over, 
 spin (which is essentially your dog chasing it's tail) and ect. I know this sounds really simple, 
 but in practice it can be tough. Also if your dogs keep on performing the wrong tricks, it can 
 be very frustrating. As previously mentioned, the Disc Throwing competitions pay the least. The 
 Obedience competitions pay the most, which means the Agility, are in the middle. But the difference 
 in pay in really minor, and there only for if you come in 2nd or 3rd. In other words, if you come 
 1st in the Obedience Trial, you'll get the same amount of money if you come in 1st at a Disc Throwing 
 competition, but if you come in 3rd at an Obedience trial, you'll get even less at a Disc Throwing 
 competition. But as I said, it's only I minor difference.
  
  Another big aspect of the game is going on walks. While taking your dog on a walk, you can (as 
 previously mentioned) go to the park, the gym and also the discount shop. Your dog will also find 
 some gifts that just happen to be lying at the side of the street, wrapped up in white with a red 
 ribbon. You'll find some pretty cool stuff, or rather your pooch will. Such as accessories like 
 various different hats, glasses ect. And toys. Not only will you find some interesting items on 
 your walks but you'll also be rewarded trainer points. You'll need trainer points to unlock some 
 more items at the shop; some new designs for your house, and most importantly, new breeds of dogs. 
 There are various things that you can do to earn trainer points. Winning contests, teaching your 
 dog new tricks, walking your dog and a few more things will give you trainer points. You'll need 
 50 000 trainer points to unlock the very last breed of dog in the game, and there is about 12 dogs 
 in-between that. And as you might expect, it will take a very, very long time to get 50 000 trainer 
 points (and i guess you could say you finished the game when you acquire that amount) . So if your 
 interested in finished the game, it'll take over a month to do so, and that's if your dedicated.
 
  
  Unfortunately there are a few restrictions in the game, that can be disappointing at times. Things 
 like only being able to take your dog on a walk every 25 minutes, only being able to teach your 
 dog 3-4 tricks a day (and you can only teach him/her 15 tricks total) , and also only being able 
 to enter your mutt into three contests a day. These things aren't as bad once you have more than 
 one dog, but at the start of the game it'll prevent you from playing the game, as much as you'd 
 like to.
  
  The puppy models are real, real smooth. There probably some of the best 3D models on the DS. They 
 will also act life like. Everything your puppy does, is similar to the way your real dog/puppies 
 (if you have one) would react, it's in a word, adorable. But unfortunately, the environments don't 
 look nearly as good, especially, the environments you see while youre on a walk. It goes for a 
 certain 3d style, but doesn't succeed, and the result is some pretty ugly looking environments.
 
  
  Again, it's the actual sounds that the puppies make that are the most impressive part in the audio 
 side of the presentation. The dogs barks and whimpers sound so much like real puppies, it's just 
 really impressive. But the soundtrack (if you want to call it that) matches the tempo of the game 
 very well. The music is very upbeat and calm. Overall the presentation is impressive; the ugly 
 environments are my only beef with the presentation.
  
  Nintendos is arguably Nintendo's most unique creation yet, its in a genre of its own. Nintendogs 
 is also one of the best Nintendo DS games yet. If you do play Nintendogs, it's an experience you 
 won't soon forget, every aspect in the game is solid, and I would recommend any DS owner give Nintendogs 
 a try, because chances are, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:34 am PT
Review:  With all due respect to all the other good Nintendo DS games available right now, Nintendogs is 
 the killer-app that made me purchase a DS of my own.
  
  The game comes in four different versions; Dachshund, Chihuahua, Labrador, and Best Friends (available 
 with the limited edition teal/pink Nintendo DS bundle) . The only differences in each version are 
 the box art, title screen, a few exclusive to each version items, and starting dog breeds. So those 
 thinking about purchasing all the versions for all the dogs, don't, all 18 breeds are unlockable 
 from playing the game and earning 'Trainer Points'.
  
  Trainer points are awarded by simply spending time with your dog. Be it walking, cleaning, petting, 
 playing, teaching tricks, etc. So TP are not hard to come by but acumulated rather slowly so those 
 of you wanting a breed that's not one of the starting dogs of your version may have a lengthy play 
 session untill you finally unlock your breed of choice.
  
  Gameplay is really simple, it doesn't take little if any skill to play this game and enjoy it. 
 It consists of the basics of taking care of a real puppy like walking, cleaning, petting, playing, 
 teaching tricks, etc. Without all the hassles of taking care of a real puppy.... like walking, cleaning, 
 feeding, etc. Not to say you don't have to do these, but these are easily achieved with a few simple 
 touches of the stylus.
  
  You can also take your dog to competitions. There are three different types wich are disc catching, 
 agility, and obidience challenges. In order to actually place in any of these (getting in 3rd place 
 or above) it's pretty much mandatory to train your dog wich is accomplished by taking them to various 
 places and practicing. The first few difficulty classes are very easy to win and it shouldn't take 
 you to long to reach the higher classes of events. These become a little tricky so you will want 
 to train your dog in each respective event to be assured of a victory.
  
  Other than these basics there are a few extra things that don't really add to the game much, but 
 provide enough distraction to keep you busy for a good amount of time.
  
  The game is a good one, but with it being a first gen DS release, it does little to really push 
 the handhelds potential. While it does utilize all the unique fetures of the DS (touch screen, 
 microphone) . After extended time with the game you'll notice that the AI of the puppies is not 
 as good as it looked at the begining of your expirience.
  
  Even with the little quarks in the AI and graphics, the game is still a very entertaining game 
 that any DS owner should deffinately pick up sometime. I would have to say it's even worth picking 
 up a new DS if you don't have one. This game alone sold me on the handheld and i'm very happy it 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  
  I thought Nintendogs was a pretty cool game at first.
  But there is so much you can do before it gets repetitive. I stop playing the game after the first 
 week. It was a fun experience while it lasted. But the graphics does look really good. I couldn't 
 believe how realistic the dogs were too. The game even uses the touch screen and Mic really well.
 
  Your dog can even play with your friends on multiplayer. I just wish there
  was some more stuff you can do with your dog. If you already own a dog
  you should probably ignore 
 this game. But this game is different and
  thats one of the reasons it makes it worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shleco
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  Meet Honey. Shes a German Shepherd who can shake her paw, jump and sneeze on command. She wears 
 a pirate hat, likes to take long walks in the street and gets a bit scared if she sees an empty 
 juice bottle. Shes pretty good at catching a disc and jumping over a hurdle but shes finding 
 it a bit tricky to master that begging gesture. Sure, it can get a bit frustrating at times but 
 then you just look into her puppy-dog eyes and your heart melts.
  
  Nintendogs definitely goes for the jugular but in the sweetest, most sugar-coated way possible. 
 Its irresistibly cute. When you first pick up your pup from the Kennel youll spend a long time 
 caressing their chin and roughing up their fur, watching them react to the way you stroke them 
 by stretching their legs and wagging their tail. The way your dog will react to everything is so 
 realistic and charming that youll just keep on playing with them. It might sound odd that you 
 could get attached to a virtual pet but a bond definitely develops here. When you accidentally 
 get a bit rough and they whine in response you really feel bad for hurting them; Nintendogs ends 
 up plucking at your heart-strings with the tenderness of the softest ballad.
  
  Getting your dog to recognise your voice can be a little tricky and your enunciation has to be 
 crystal clear for them to recognise what you want them to do. At first you may attribute the problems 
 to the DS microphone but its actually down to the disobedience of a young pup thats only just 
 getting to learn their owner. Even the most awkward little hound will eventually warm to you if 
 you treat them well and the most basic tricks like sitting and lying down come easily. However, 
 its not a good idea to overload your pet with commands, as theyll only be able to remember up 
 to four tricks a day. Then again, Nintendogs is not the type of game youll be playing for hours 
 on end and is more appropriate for thirty to sixty minutes a day bursts.
  
  Now itd be a good idea to get your dog out of the house. You should aim to at least take them 
 for a walk once a day. At first theyll struggle to get round the block but their stamina soon 
 builds and youll be able to take them to the park to socialise with other canine chums, mark your 
 territory and find abandoned gifts or get down to the discount shop to get cheap food, water, shampoo 
 and various accessories to smarten up your dogs appearance. However, youre also going to need 
 to fund your purchases, either by selling what you dont need or entering one of the various competitions.
 
  
  Ted Rumsworth and Archie Hubbs are the hosts of the three dog competitions, where your pet will 
 compete to impress the judges, come in first place and get a good treat when they get home! The 
 disc competition involves throwing a Frisbee and getting your pup to chase and catch it; as with 
 all the competitions, their ability to compete will depend on how much training theyve had and 
 what breed they are  can a little Chihuahua really run all that way to catch that disc? Youll 
 need to practice at the gym before taking part in the agility trials, where you need to coax your 
 dog into leaping over hurdles, scuttle through tunnels, negotiate a slalom of poles and navigate 
 a tricky seesaw without leaping off. Finally there are obedience trials, where your pet must hold 
 a command for a certain length of time or do a number of tricks in quick succession. Itll take 
 quite some time to rise to the masterclass in all these events and underperforming means youll 
 get relegated back to the previous rank but its still worth taking part in as youll earn trainer 
 points that will unlock more breeds of puppies to buy!
  
  While the appeal manages to hold strong for quite a while, after a few weeks it begins to wane. 
 Sometimes tending to your pet can feel more like a chore than a pleasure, as you feel obliged to 
 care for your dog every day or face risking them run away from you! Interesting items on your walks 
 are hard to come by and youre far more likely to end up with another stick than one of the cooler 
 items available, so it can become quite disheartening, especially as the shops tend to stock a 
 very limited range of products. Similarly youll always happen across the same dogs in your neighbourhood 
 and it could really have done with some livening up. Competing in the trials can also get quite 
 dull after a while. In the end, Nintendogs can be quite repetitive and it seems to lack any real 
 meat to tuck into, besides the odd hard to pull off trick (did she just backflip? Now shes spinning 
 on her back! Can you please beg?) . A few more modes and things to do and a bit more variety in 
 your company would have greatly added to the games appeal, though given the sales of this game, 
 surely the inevitable sequel will deal with these problems.
  
  So for the first few weeks Nintendogs is a real charmer and youll be glued to it to see the way 
 the dogs behave and interact with you. It seems like one of the greatest things ever and itll 
 arouse interest in those around you, even if they dont tend to play games. However, the appeal 
 soon fades, even if treating your pup is still an irresistible experience. Were just left pawing 
 at Nintendos window and whining out for more love. Its a hard game to rate  its unconventional 
 and theres no real end goal to speak off, its more a delightful diversion and at that it excels 
 brilliantly. Besides that, its a lot cheaper than buying a real puppy for the kids, a lot easier 
 to handle and a lot less problematic to discard when they get bored of them! Hmm, perhaps well 
 stop here before the RSPCA gets word of this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSpy_05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for someone who wants a pet and can't have one, because of its amaizing gameplay 
 and well good graphics the game lets you live this game a little and make you think you have a 
 real pet. (Except for the fact that you can't feel when you touch the dog.) What supports the game 
 is that you can do what ever you want with the dog ex. take him/she out in a walk, make him/she 
 eat garbage, play with he/she, etc.
  What I conclude of this game in this review is that it is an awesome game and anybody would like 
 it and at the same time impressed with all the things you can do in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  You would truelly have to have pea sized heart to not adore these virtual puppies. The graphics 
 are great, but the sound effects are the greatest sounds on any video game in history. I mean, they 
 bark, you can hear them eating and drinking, you can hear cars outside, other dogs, anything that you 
 can really here indoors and out. The gameplay is truelly awesome. You name it, you can do it on this 
 game. Feed them, walk them, bathe them, enter them in contests, groom them, you can do anything and everything 
 you can do with a real dog. Moving on to value. The greatest value of a nintendo DS game ever. You 
 can have dogs for $30 dollars and in real life, a good dog would cost $600! The most realistic game 
 there will ever be on a DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is an addictive and enjoyable virtual pet sim for Nintendo's latest handheld system, 
 the Nintendo DS, but unfortunately, suffers from almost unbearable reptetition and it's frustratingly 
 gimmicky voice recognition system. (They just don't friggin listen!!!)
  
  Nintendogs is very nicely presented, and from the moment you start the game, you'll know what you've 
 bought or rented yourself quite a quality game. Menus are very easy to navigate through, (although 
 finding Trainer info was very frustrating at first) and you should be able to find any object that 
 you may be searching for with ease. 
  
  The graphics are really great on the DS as the dogs look very realistic, and same goes to the houses 
 in which your Nintendogs live in. Unfortunately some of the environments and objects (such as the 
 dog photo) look horribly pixelated.
  
  However repetitive, the sound and music of the game does it's job, although it's nothing special, 
 really. The voice recognition really sucks, and it's VERY difficult to teach your dogs tricks in 
 this fashion as your dogs will NEVER hear you the first nor second time. It takes several attempts 
 to call your dog, and often it only comes to me when somebody in the background says something 
 totally irrelevant, so yes, the voice recognition aspect of the game is no fun at all. 
  
  It's fun taking your dogs to contests and training it at parks with other dogs, although it gets 
 very repetitive quite quickly, and there's really not much more that your dog can do. 
  
  Although everybody would want to see what all the fuss is about, your Nintendogs will lose their 
 adorable appeal very quickly, and you may wish you could never play it again but unfortunately 
 you don't want your little puppies getting hungry. :-p
  
  And Nintendogs gets a "9" for value, as it's currently the cheapest available Nintendo DS game 
 in Australia, (I got mine for AUD$42) and all other games have a recommended retail price of at 
 AUD$69. Gosh, the standard American RRP of new release Nintendo DS games are an equivalent of AUD$40, 
 gosh, what a rip-off. :- (
  
  Nintendogs is a cute game you can play for around 10-20 minutes at a time, and nothing more. Play 
 any longer and you may go insane. Don't get me wrong, i'm still enjoying the game as i'm playing 
 it in small doses, but I feel that Nintendo should have added more content into what has become 
 a phenomenon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koukoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a fantastic product during the first sessions of game, but that exhausts really too 
 much soon the actual contents. Simply considering the target of casual gamers and of girls to that 
 is directed mainly, and also accepting an approach col I play done of complex and short sessions 
 during the day, the activity moved available from the production Nintendo I am putroppo really 
 a handful, becoming so quite soon repetitious and little stimulants a time reached the main objectives. 
 Nintendogs deserves surely a positive evaluation thanks to the splendid reproduction of the young 
 animals and to the realism with that were recreated on the DS, but the meat to the fire is unlucky 
 too little to give back it a purchase advised without reserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Hi DS owners look no further because you have found the jewel in nintendo's handheld arsenal. Nintendogs 
 puts on a show you won't soon forget.
  
  Lets start off with the looks- for a DS game this is as good as it might get which is not that 
 bad at all. You get a large veriaty of dogs to choose from and in many colors. They animate and 
 act with life like mannerism. They are so cute you'll get a sugar rush. The pixels are clear. The 
 colors are vibrant, and framerate is top notch. Bottom line here its beautiful. 
  
  The sound is a little on the light side but it gets the job done with yelps, barks, and panting 
 is here. You'll talk to your dog but I dont know how that quite figures into the game's sound but 
 its cool.
  
  Game play so simple and yet so deep a four year old can pick it up and play. I know because mine 
 does it all the time. Take youre dog for a walk but him things enter contest. Give it a bath you 
 can even purchase a bubble blower and blow bubble by using the DS mic. You also use the stlyus 
 to pet rub and take care of your dog. Its great. 
  
  The innovation in this game is top notch. Nintendo has done something I havent seen in a while 
 make me want to keep playing one of their systems. It has wireless gameplay so if you happen upon 
 someone with another DS dog you two can froleck and play. As funny as that sounds. 
  
  The bottom line on this one is once again Nintendo even though kiddie in nature puts out a well 
 thought out and original game. That all can play. At least those that want to play them. Peace 
 for reading and try it youll like it at least for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueEyesZombie2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You would have to be very very much of a dummy not to have a look at this game if you want a puppy, 
 but you can't afford it. You can give your puppy more than you can imagine, and you could also 
 walk him, and the twenty different breeds was a surprise for me too. I love this game as much as 
 I love my two dogs. This is one of the greatest Nintendo DS games this year. One of my personal 
 top 5. Those are:
  
  -1: Super Mario DS
  -2: Nntendogs
  -3: Metroid Prime Hunters
  -4: Star Wars Episode III
  -5: Pokemon Emerald (It's compatible with the DS, come on!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, Shigeru Miyamoto took up gardening as a hobby. One thing led to another and, 
 as the story goes, Nintendo fans were blessed with Pikmin. As we all know, history never takes 
 long to repeat itself. The Miyamoto family recently came into the possession of some wonderfully 
 cute puppies and, as luck would have it, the gaming community was blessed once again with the wonder 
 that is Nintendogs. Quite the clever play on words, Nintendogs is the current generations reinvention 
 of the Tamogatchi. If youre unfamiliar with the brand, a Tamogatchi key chain landed somewhere 
 beyond the pet rock yet not quite as high as your baby brother on the evolutionary ladder. With 
 indicators to tell you when your digital pet was hungry, thirsty, tired, or bored, your task was 
 simply to keep the Tamogatchi alive. Innovative? Not entirely. Addicting? Like a drug. Kids everywhere 
 had to have one. It was one of the hottest toys of the 1990s. Like all fads, however, the Tamogatchi 
 eventually faded into pop culture history. Or so we thought.
  
  Enter Nintendogs. In this beyond cute, highly addictive, innovative pet simulator for the Nintendo 
 DS, there is on ultimate goal. There is no way to beat the game, and there are no high scores to 
 rack up. So whats the point? That depends on who you ask. With plenty of fun tidbits to unlock, 
 18 dog breeds to love, and a wireless multiplayer playground, Nintendogs offers quite a bit of 
 content on that tiny DS cartridge.
  
  When you first power up the DS, youll be taken to the Nintendog Kennel. There, youre given the 
 choice of six different puppy breeds to take home. Which breeds are available at the start of the 
 game depends on which version you own (Dachshund, Chihuahua, or Lab) , although its possible to 
 unlock all 18 breeds in each version through continued play. Each time you enter the Kennel, the 
 available colors and sexes are randomly mixed. If you dont like your first set of options, simply 
 exit the menu and return. Once you pay the adoption fee, you can take your new pup home. Hell 
 need a name, which you can give him using the systems voice recognition software. Train him for 
 a few moments so that he recognizes the name, and then begin your quality time together. After 
 you play for a few minutes, youll be able to teach your dog tricks using the stylus for control 
 and the voice recognition to give your tricks any name youd like.
  
  Once youve gotten to know your new pet, a number of options are open to you. You can go shopping 
 for supplies, take your puppy on a walk around the neighborhood, or enter him in one of three competitions. 
 To shop for supplies, simply go to the general store and pick out the food, toys, and other miscellaneous 
 items youd like for your dog. You begin the game with a budget of $1000, which quickly drops to 
 around $500 after you adopt your new friend. Youll find, however, that this is amounts to more 
 than enough money to spend on supplies.
  
  To exercise with your pup, take him out for a walk. After selecting this option, youre shown a 
 map of the neighborhood with which to plan your route using the DS stylus. Once youve entered 
 your course, you can use the stylus to keep hold of your puppys leash. Walks are typically the 
 most entertaining aspect of this simulator, as youll encounter other puppies from around the neighborhood 
 on similar outings, find presents along the road, and visit discount stores. You can also take 
 your Nintendog to the park for some fun, social interaction, and training exercises.
  
  The only way to earn money in Nintendogs is by participating in one of three competitions. Your 
 first choice is a simple game of catch, in which your dog has to catch and return as many throws 
 of the Frisbee as he can in 60 seconds. The farther the throw, the more points youre awarded. 
 Your next option is an agility trial in which you guide your puppy over hurdles and through obstacles. 
 Finally, the most financially rewarding and correspondingly difficult task is an obedience trial, 
 where you can show off your training prowess in terms of how many tricks your dog can correctly 
 perform and how long the tricks can be maintained.
  
  Nintendogs could only have been achieved on the Nintendo DS. The touch screen and microphone provide 
 a level of interaction that is unsurpassed. Youll find yourself quickly growing attached to your 
 puppies, making sure they are well fed, rested, and exercised. Part of this attachment stems from 
 the beautiful visual presentation Nintendo managed to squeeze into the title, making your puppies 
 seem incredibly life-like and endearing. The visual quality is matched by the magnificent audio 
 that so clearly describes each puppys unique personality. When your dog is hungry, tired, or mad, 
 youll hear it. You can even use the DSs wireless technology to take your puppy over to a friends 
 house. Your pets will happily play together on both systems, and you can share all of your toys 
 and supplies (if you so choose) with your new friend.
  
  The games only drawback is that it is best enjoyed in shorter, action-filled spurts. Youll find 
 that you can only play the game for 20-30 minutes at a time before your puppy gets too tired to 
 learn new tricks or go for a walk. Overall, however, Nintendogs is one of the first must-have titles 
 for the Nintendo DS. It appeals to dog-lovers of all ages, and both men and women will find the 
 game equally endearing. This isnt your big sisters Tamogatchi. Its a whole new generation of 
 virtual pet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebweiser
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  
  After picking this game up, i had this feeling that this is a kid's game. But after 1 day , i felt 
 drawn to my virtual pup. This game is not complicated like some games. it's simple, addicting fun. 
 Teaching your dogs some tricks ( from "sit" to "dance") could be so rewarding. But you gotta have 
 some patience. It's worth it, believe me. It could be frustrating at times , but hey, (most games 
 are) . Don't get me wrong, i like violent games. From Halo to GTA, but once in a while, i just wanna 
 relax. I'd pick this "puppy" up . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rodg7790
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game unexpectidly. My mom wnet to teh store under her own will and got it for me, even 
 tho she made me pay for it. The game has a good immersion. I liek how you can call teh dogs name 
 and tell it to do tricks. Alsonaimg it.
  
  It's almost like a real dog, you bu t things you take it on walks, everying, play with it feed 
 it. Makes me feel liek ts really in my house. but the one thingi can already tell about it that 
 oits gameplay is really bad. Im shure in a few eeks the game will actually stink and i wont want 
 it anymore because things will get very boring in it, but until then i will just stick to playing 
 this fun little game nintendo pooped out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z_GamerX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing the game Excited I got my dog and named it King, the german shepard I fed 
 it and gave it water then bathed it and took it for a walk finding new playtoys every time, when 
 I got back I Bought a wire brush, food, water, shampoo etc etc then decided to train my dog to do 
 some tricks. he new sit so far from the begining tutorial, so I got him to lay and he lay so I taught 
 him trick till he couldn't learn anymore ... I was Impressed at the voice recognition It was much 
 better then in warioware: Touched! the game was fun but the limits weren't and It was Hard to take 
 care of more than 3 dogs.
  Another Thing Wrong with The game Is nothing really changes but your Trainer Points and The Items 
 you get .. but some of them are really cool like a remote controlled Helicopter, Bowser Kart, Peach 
 Kart and Mario Kart but they take for Forever to Get.
  Another thing you can do is Change your House to many differant unlockables places from a European 
 Abode to Outer Space. As I end my Review I say to you the games pace starts out with a running 
 start and quickly turns into a pacing trot till you get so bored the game goes from a shining 9.1 
 to a Okay 7.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danger2bme
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I would be lying to you if I told you I wasn't at first skeptical about Nintendogs. Without a storyline 
 or any given overall purpose to the game aside from taking care of your puppy, I was worried that 
 Nintendogs would be nothing more than a gimmicky game. Instead what we have is a highly addictive 
 puppy simulator that has a moderate amount of depth and a charm unlike any other that every gamer 
 should appreciate. 
  
  The purpose of the game is simple: take care of a puppy. You might at first scoff at this idea 
 considering that most gamers need more to do than to play a $30 virtual pet simulator all day. 
 It's what you can do with your puppy that will have you at least spending 1/2 hour each day on 
 your Nintendo DS. Aside from petting and playing with your puppy in your home, there are a variety 
 of things to do with your dog including taking it out for walks, training it for obedience, agility 
 or disk competitions, and general care and maintenance. Though it may sound mundane at first, you 
 find as you play the game that you become somewhat attached to your charming wet-nosed friend and 
 may even feel a sense of guilt if you don't visit at least once a day.
  
  One of the most impressive qualities this game has is the realistic behavior of the dogs. You will 
 not believe how accurate this game duplicates the mannerisms of real dogs. The way you pet them 
 or call to them all simulate realistic responses. For example, when you start to pet your dog, 
 where you pet your dog has an influence on how your dog will react. It's hard not to become attached 
 as your digital best friend leans into a scratch behind the year with it's eyes closed.
  
  Another impressive aspect of the game is the user interface. I have to admit, it's a bit embarassing 
 at times to talk to your Nintendo DS, but just like undressing in front of your peers in a High 
 School gym class, you get used to it. The voice controls are pretty accurate and your dog (depending 
 on how well you have it trained) almost always responds appropriately. The other important part 
 of the UI is the stylus. I have to say that this is the first Nintendo DS game in which the stylus 
 has been more of a necessity and less of a gimmick. The touch screen capabilities of the DS bring 
 the experience to life by allowing you to feel like you're actually touching the game, not controlling 
 it. 
  
  As creative as Nintendogs is, it does borrow on some successful concepts made in past games. One 
 of the biggest things that will keep you addicted is the items you find in the game. Much like 
 Animal Crossing, all items you find as you romp around town are added to your inventory. Most of 
 the items are odd random things that range from wigs to put on your dog to music players that play 
 the famous mario theme. It's highly addictive though as it makes you more inclined to go out with 
 your dog for a walk. The "gotta collect em all" approach also finds itself in the game as all 18 
 breeds are unlockable in any version of Nintendogs. The game also relies on an in-game clock similiar 
 to animal crossing that affects the gameplay. Your dog can only go on walks for 30 minutes at a 
 time and depending on when you play determines the behavior of your puppy and the environments 
 you will be in. 
  
  There are a few wet spots in the carpet that will have you punishing your experience with the Nintendogs 
 game. My biggest complaint lies with the need for more depth. Don't get me wrong, there's quite 
 a bit to do and it's awesome that you can even customize your house, but with only 3 competitions 
 to train for, you will find yourself only playing 30-45 minutes at a time and slowly losing interest. 
 I would have liked to have seen more done with the walk the dog feature aside from running into 
 an occasional present or dog. Another problem I have with the game is the bark mode where two + 
 people can play. I found it neat that even when I called the other dogs name it responded, however 
 the DSes don't synchronize with each other on what is going on. The bark mode ends up being no 
 more than a special 'kennel' where you can play with the dogs but not take them home with you. 
 
  
  Aside from some of my issues with the game, Nintendogs is an amazing experience that any gamer 
 should appreciate. Whether you are old or young, you will find it hard not to become attached to 
 your digital best friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodlay
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 3, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is basically just taking care of a dog or dogs but for some reason, its a whole lot 
 of fun. You start off by going to the kennel and you pick from the breeds that you start out with, 
 depending on which version you get. You then take it home and then you teach it his or her name 
 and teach it tricks and take it for walks and feed it and give it water and bathe it and pretty 
 much everything that you do with a regular dog. They do have 3 competitions too, but those do get 
 old after a little bit and it is a bummer that you have restrictions on what you can do in a single 
 day. The graphics and sound are both great, the puppies look very realistic. 
  
  Overall this is really the reason i bought a DS, to see revolutionary and innovative games that 
 can`t be done on any other platform, and even though Nintendogs does get boring at times, it is 
 still at least worth a rental but i really think you should go ahead and buy it, because its a 
 great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhfial1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Nintendogs can be very fun to play. Though after a while the gameplay can get a little 
 repetitive, the game still features lots of pros and not nearly as many cons. Graphics: They look 
 absolutely astonishing if take the time to compare them to other portable games. Sound: They perfectly 
 mix in with your environment and are pretty catchy at times as well if you like bright and cheerful 
 music. Value: The value of the game isn't as good as anything else if you're a cat person. The 
 puppies' cuteness might make you stop wondering why Nintendo preferred dogs over cats, but still, 
 the fun over having a cute, lovable, virtual pet saves the effectiveness of the value just barely. 
 Tilt: Simply perfect. Nintendo's latest and greatest work of art is perfect when it comes to the 
 game's tilt
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjycord99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs... We have all seen videos of it. And most people out there try to hide it and say, 
 "this game looks stupid. your stupid for getting it." Dont listen to these people!!! A must buy 
 for ds owners who like dogs in the slighest bit!
  
  Where to begin on this game, i dont know. There is so much stuff you can do, from going on walks 
 to the park, going to the agilty center to practive with your favorite little pup, go to the discount 
 store, or even just sit around throwing a ball with you pup. there are so many great things to 
 do in this game!
  
  A big part of the game is compitions. This is your main source of money. There are three different 
 contests to enter in. The agility, obideance, and disc throwing. All of them which take practice. 
 You start out in the Begginer class then make your way up the ranks (begginer, open, expert, master, 
 and championship) until you get to the championship class. If you ever place 3rd or better you 
 get to move on to the next class. if you get lower than the third persons score you go down a class 
 which can be a big bummer. There is a limit to only 3 compitions per day so that will get frustrating 
 but go along with it. I hated it when i started playing it. But then i realized that if they didnt 
 put that limit in i would beat the game easily in one day.
  
  Walks are another pretty big part of the game. At the start of the game your stamina bar is really 
 low so you cant go on that long of a walk. "Whats the problem with that?" your probably wondering. 
 well when your planning out your walk you can go through little ?'s and in those are either other 
 peoples dogs or presents which and a random item. that is a big part.
  
  No Your dog can not die or get old. Thats just the way the game works. But if you dont take good 
 care of your dog it will get mad and run away for a few days! yes days. the game is based on real 
 time so you dont want your dog running away from you.
  
  So is nintendogs worth the money? Yes deiffently. There is no reason you should not buy this game 
 even if you have a real dog. You will be missing out on a real great game for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical - but this is definitely the best pet type game out there yet. A must for dog lovers 
 too!
  
  I am not the type of guy who really enjoyed the Tomagotchi-type games at all. I had a few growing 
 up and for the most part they didn't come close to delivering the kind of game experience that 
 I would - overall - make me want to pick up something over and over and take care of it. I mean, 
 honestly..... when you have real life responsibilities and jobs, who wants to be taking care of 
 an inanimate object?
  
  Well, no one until Nintendogs - at least i think. Even from the very first time you boot up the 
 game and see the puppies running around you have this overall sensation that you are in for a treat! 
 (No pun intended) . The way the dogs are animated and interact with you and your other puppies is 
 simply amazing. The dogs themselves are just so darn cute that it's hard to choose which type of 
 dog to even start with!
  
  At first - the game feels very gimmicky. You and pet your pet and give it a few commands and after 
 the initial few things you do you wonder "What can I do now?" It takes a bit getting used to because 
 this is a pet simulator. It's not meant to be "beaten" overnight. You have to train your pet to 
 learn a whole multitude of different commands and get it to grow stronger while keeping it happy. 
 It takes a lot of work and depending on how you raise your pet - you will find it gains a certain 
 kind of personality - which you will either love or grow irritated by. This alone gives a sense 
 of depth to the game, however, as you delve into the game and realize there is a lot to unlock! 
 You can unlock other animals, accessories, items for your apartment - you think of something "dog" 
 related and Nintendogs probably has it.
  
  Yet even as a start this is just the first layer to everything. There are competitions that you 
 have to train your dog to get good at to earn money to help purchase items to raise your dog.
 
  
  One of the cutest moments I experienced was with my first puppy - as I over-zealously tried to 
 enter it into a Frisbee competition when it was only 10 minutes old. I would throw the Frisbee 
 and the dog would go run and get it. Only to just sit there and lick the thing while a timer counts 
 down - and you start to realize that the dog doesn't know anything. So I of course panicked and 
 called it's name over and over until it realized I was beckoning him and of course the silly thing 
 leaves the frisbie behind not knowing I wanted him to bring it back to me. Needless to say I scored 
 very bad and my poor puppy placed last in it's first competition. It was ok though because I made 
 sure to tell her it was ok (I named my first puppy Mandy) and gave her some dog food and pet her 
 over and over till she fell over.
  
  It is at moments like this that you begin to realize you really have a pet you have to invest in 
 and the game becomes very involving and adorable in small spurts.
  
  Then there is connectivity - as dogs love to play with one another - which adds a whole new layer 
 to the onion. I personally hope this game does really well and sets a standard to gaming because 
 there is a mode where you leave your DS slightly on so it can recieve signals from other DS's who 
 have Nintendogs. I almost wish this could be installed IN the DS so I don't have to have the cartridge 
 actually in the system to play - and could play with my dog inbetween Meteos and Advance Wars. 
 Oh well, maybe next time nintendo!
  
  
  My only major minor gripe with this game - is that from what I read - the dogs do not actually 
 grow up. The fact that they stay puppies is sort of a downer for me, because I am not sure if I 
 will stick with my older puppies if I can never actually witness them grow. Then again - with all 
 the competions to unlock and Trainer points to master.... I am sure I'll have a hell of a time 
 with my current puppies!
  
  *********************** Special Note to the Guys 
  
  Oh yeah 
 - for you guys out there - this is definitly a game that will get a girl's attention. I work at 
 a video game store and you would not believe the amount of females that stop and laugh and point 
 at this game!
  
  ~ Wakasm ~
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  For all my other reviews - Check my Profile
  or mirrored to gamespot at http://www. wakasm. com/videogamereviews. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games1216
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  its hard to even start to tell how good this game is there is so much things you can do with your 
 pup. 
  
  gameplay
  you can do almost anything you can do with a dog in real life. its really fun just to sit around 
 playing with your pup but you can also enter dog competitions and just go for a walk. it seems that 
 as you play your pup gets more attached to you and he gets smarter and more obediant as time goes 
 by.
  
  graphics
  who would ever think this was possible on a handheld. the frame rate is so smooth and the animations 
 are perfect and they follow through perfectly also. the way their beady eyes get and there facial 
 expressions change depending on their mood is also quite nice. although it is funny that their fecal 
 matter looks like milkduds.
  
  sound
  the sound is okay but might need work because the dogs barks should be different despite them being 
 puppies. the music i really couldnt review because of the fact i have been too busy with my puppy 
 to actually listen to it.
  
  value
  you will spend alot of time playing this at first but after you get settled you will probabley 
 start wanting to play it in shorter sessions because of the fact that you can only walk them once 
 every thirty minutes and enter 3 competitions a day, but that hasnt stopped me from just playing 
 with my puppy.
  
  overall
  i think this game is a must have for all ds owners because it uses all the ds features incredibley 
 well. there is also an incentive if you want to unlock more breeds there is something called owner 
 points which unlocks new dogs as you get more and more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhomerun
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is different than most games you've ever played, and this game certainly isn't for everyone. 
 It's not for the gamer who only cares about hardcore characters ripping out other people's limbs 
 and yelling loud obscenities. However Nintendogs has a knack for appealing to everyone, and that's 
 what makes it so great.
  
  I'm not gong to go through the whole game and tell you everything that you have to do, really you 
 can get that out of Gamespot's review.
  
  Pros:
  - The graphics are the best I've seen on the DS. Although the backgrounds and levels aren't that 
 great, the dogs are so lifelike you'll swear you're playing a current gen console, and the animations 
 are even more lifelike you'll believe you're playing with a real dog.
  - Raising virtual dogs is just so irresistable. While I play this game I keep thinking "wow this 
 is such a kiddy game" yet it's just impossible to put down. The game is incredibly addicting.
 
  - While there is a limit to the things you can do, each of the three versions contains all the 
 puppies of the other versions, along with having a good variety of things to do in the first place.
 
  
  Cons:
  - There are some time limits to the things you can do. The game is best played in short bursts
 
  - It probably won't take you too long to do all of the different contests, but that is by no means 
 the end of the game
  - Your friends will probably laugh at you, but hopefully they'll figure out that this is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankstacity
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2005 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. If u have a dog and a DS then stop waiting. Great for passing time 
 by when u aint got much of it. Also great for playing with yur nephews if yur older. All ages can 
 enjoy this game but older people will have 2 have a warm heart. All dog lovers should own this 
 game. All the dogs r different in the way they act. Its random each time u open the select screen 
 so u can get 1 just the way u want, or 2 just match yur real life pets personality. This is the best 
 game 4 DS besides Advanced wars 2, Although i bought this 1 first cause it truly is original and 
 interacts on a large scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakingBackRufio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When Maxis announced it's incredibly popular title, The Sims, it got alot of negative feedback. 
 Critics said "How much fun can it be to make a character and live thier life?" When the game was 
 released, most of those critics ate thier words, at least the ones who weren't too busy playing 
 the game. 
  
  Nintendogs is much like The Sims. It's a simulation game. Simulation titles are games that let 
 you, for lack of a better word, simulation something with a very realistic amount of detail. Simulation 
 games aren't for everyone, but this title tends to tweak the rules a bit. If you don't like the 
 fact that the game is a simulation, you'll just have fun playing around with the puppies and watching 
 thier reactions.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  This game has quite a few ways to play. You can play fetch, take your dog for walks, feed and groom 
 your dog, teach your dog tricks and even enter in some competitions. This may not seem like alot, 
 but the amount of detail in each of those categories. First of all, each dog has it's own personality. 
 This plays a great part in how your dog responds to certain commands you give it, or other options 
 like how it responds to other dogs. A playful puppy, for example, will be happy to play ball with 
 you more so than a shy puppy. Obedience is also another important factor. Each dog can be trained, 
 but a free-spirited puppy would be harder to train than an easy-going puppy. 
  
  This game has tons of collectables too. You can take your dog on walks and find all sorts of goodies, 
 like jumbo sunglasses, monocles and other strange little accessories. There are also different 
 variations of items. The Bark Ball is a good example of this. It functions as a tennis ball, so 
 you can play fetch with it. But it's a different color and makes a weird noise when you throw it. 
 My dog, Sadie, loves to play fetch with a tennis ball, but she's terrified of the bark ball.
  
  The game does a good job of keeping everything even. You can only enter a certain amount of 
 competition each day, and you can only walk your dog every half an hour or so. This is a welcome 
 feature, because without it, I'm sure people would go crazy trying to get everything and the game 
 would get boring easy.
  
  I had a great time playing this game, but the one thing that did frustrate me was the voice recognition. 
 You dog responds to your voice. It will soon respond to the name you give it. You can also teach 
 it tricks by tapping an icon that appears on the top right of the bottom screen followed by a command 
 you assign it. The voice recognition isn't perfect, but it is a very cool feature.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Amazing graphics. The animations are splendid! Each dog moves like a real dog 
 would. They captured each of the individual breeds perfectly. You'd never thing that anything on 
 the DS could look this good in real time. When you go for walks, each building you pass looks signifigantly 
 different. Almost everywhere, there is a nice fade-to-white barrier. This adds a nice feel to the 
 game. 
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound is great! One thing I noticed, when I was looking for my first dog, was that each of 
 the barks sounded different. There is a nice variance of barks and other noises dogs make so that 
 it doesn't become a bother to hear the same thing over again. There is also a nice bit of ambience 
 around, from very soft music, to the sounds of the wind outside. I didn't pay much mind to the 
 sound. I was mostly talking to Sadie.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Great value! This is one of those games you can play over and over again. If you get bored of it 
 in the time that you do have it, I'm certain anyone can pick it up in another month to play it 
 again.
  
  Overall: 9.6
  
  Final Word:
  
  This game is great! It mixes the fun of having a dog without all the heartache of responsibility. 
 If you own a DS, go out and get this game right now! It'll help you if you're having a bad day. 
 If you don't own a DS. Go buy one now! This game isn't one you want to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kbs64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  Yes, youve heard the ruckus. Dogs are taking over your portable space. No Im not talking about 
 Virtual Dogs. No my friends! Im talking about Nintendo very own, amazing, Nintendogs.
  
  You get to play with your dog and teach it tricks. Put it though enough training and youll be 
 able to put it though dog shows and earn cash. Youll also be able to buy new stuff for you canine 
 friend as well. If youre allergic to real dogs or just had your best friend (dog) die, like me 
 ~ yes Im very sad :- ( Then Nintendogs is your chance to experience love a puppy, DS style. 
  
  Nintendogs is a graphically marvel. It really shows what the DS is capable of. The dogs move 
 so realistically that youll fall in love with them as soon as you turn it on. They sound so real. 
 Touching can be as awarding for you as it is for the dog. 
  
  Nintendogs is an amazing, unique, experience and shouldnt be missed. Just like the review says. 
 If you dont own DS. This would be a perfect time to do so.
  
  Kb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  Wow. Who actually would've thought that the cutest and cuddliest bunch of the Nintendo DS would 
 recieve one of the highest ratings and applauds for any handheld system? When I first put my hands 
 on a demo at EBgames, I was sure to get myself a copy. Nintendogs looks cutesy and absolutely adorable, 
 but inside, lies the heart of a true tomagotchi-esque videogame that surprises and appeals to many 
 people worldwide.
  
  Gameplay:
  While you might not call it "gameplay" because all you do is play with the puppy and click on things, 
 it's quite more in-depth than what many expect. The game lasts for a very long time. And for that 
 time you spend playing, activities to do with the puppy does not stop and your conscienceness that 
 concerns the puppy's health and well-being really make the game much more enjoyable than what it 
 looks like.
  
  Graphics:
  While there isn't a lot of 3-d graphics, what ever is 3-d looks absolutely amazing and what isn't 
 2-d is very nicely illustrated. The graphics flow at a fluid 60 frames per second and is visually 
 pleasing to see the life-like animations of a dog.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is VERY good. It has a very childish tone to it, which cheerful trances and merry MIDI 
 music are overflowing in abundance. It's very clear in surround sound and the loudness of it is 
 pleasing. The barks, the sound FX, the music, all become a cohesive part of the game and plays 
 an important role in making this game into what it really is.
  
  Value:
  You'll spend HOURS on this game. Trust me. The minute you play, you will get hooked on it and will 
 never stop. It's truly an eye-grabber and kind of pulls you away from the real world. It's worth 
 the 30 smackers you're willing to spend. It's not an adventure game, but the longevity of your 
 playtime will be countless.
  
  Overall:
  Simply one of the best games that ever released on the Nintendo DS. It's highly addictive, surprisingly 
 good, and very very fun. What I don't recommend you do it play it in a public area. I don't think 
 you would want to be seen with a videogame about "puppies and nurturing." But all in all, it's 
 a game where it deserves every bit of applaud that is directed to it. It's absolutely amazing. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
