-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nintendogs: Dachshund and Friends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/nintendogsdachshundandfriends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lifelike, endearing puppies.
 Easy-to-use training interface.
 Lots of unlockable accessories, dog breeds, and other items.
 Great in short- and medium-length bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few restrictions feel unnecessarily limiting at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,437 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Aug 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. 

  You'd have to have a cold heart indeed to not be charmed by the bright eyes and madly wagging tails 
 of the wonderfully lifelike Nintendogs. The game's boisterous and affectionate young canines are 
 impossibly endearing, making the tasks of caring for them, training them, and simply interacting 
 with them a joy. That Nintendogs occasionally limits some of your activities in what is already 
 a streamlined set of options is pretty much the only bad thing you can say about the virtual puppy 
 game. However, the game is at its best in short, satisfying bursts, and is suited to dog lovers 
 of all ages.  

          Behold the awesome power of your adorable new puppy overlords.     

  When you start 
 the game, you'll immediately be whisked to the Nintendog Kennel to choose a companion from among 
 six different breeds of scampering cuteness. The breeds you have available to you at the beginning 
 of the game depend on the version you're playing, though all versions can eventually unlock all 
 18 types. Each individual dog has its own personality, from shy to daring, from willing student 
 to determined truant. Every time you bring up a particular breed listing, the puppies you can choose 
 from will shuffle to a random selection of colors and personalities, so you can hand-pick the type 
 of pooch you want. Pay the adoption fee, and then head home to bond with your new cold-nosed friend. 

  The bonding comes easily with Nintendogs, due in large part to the high levels of care and detail 
 that went into creating these digital canines. It's not just that the puppies have been given the 
 accurate appearance of their given breeds -- though the representation is quite authentic, down to 
 the different coat and color patterns. It's that a great host of doggy mannerisms have all been 
 captured just about perfectly. Every enthusiastic gallop after a tennis ball is just right, the 
 way their eyes close in satisfaction and their tail blurs into motion when they're patted, the 
 way they sometimes flop over each other for a sudden nap, and each tongue-lolling, panting stare 
 filled with happy adulation is pure puppy. So it's easy for you to become rapidly attached to your 
 new virtual pals, and it's hard for you to resist the occasional sad-eyed face and plaintive whine 
 of a Nintendog begging for attention.  

  Once you get your dog home, you'll be able to name it using the game's voice-recognition software, 
 repeating it a few times until your pooch "learns" his or her name. After an initial adjustment 
 period in which you'll shower your new puppy with attention, you can begin training it. As a puppy 
 performs an action it can learn as a trick, a lightbulb icon appears in the corner of the screen. 
 Quickly tapping this icon lets you record a command to associate with that action -- for example, 
 linking the word "sit" to when the dog sits down. Then it's a matter of associating that same word 
 with the same action multiple times, until your puppy learns the trick. A successful training session 
 results in another lightbulb above Rover's head and a happy yip; if your dog is confused, red question 
 marks appear over his head to let you know you need to speak a bit more clearly next time. Blue 
 question marks appear if you're trying to teach a command that sounds like something the puppy 
 already knows, so you don't risk overlapping your tricks.  

          Some dogs learn faster than others, but they can all be coaxed into obedience.     

 
  Once you've taught your puppy a number of commands (the amount of time this takes depends on whether 
 or not you picked one of those daring, headstrong dogs, which seemed like a good idea when you 
 bought it) and raised your trainer level a bit, you can begin preparing your dog for the various 
 contests you can compete in. There are three different types: obedience, which rates your dog on 
 how well it follows verbal commands; disc, which lets you show off your dog's Frisbee-catching 
 prowess; and agility, which is a hectic romp through an obstacle course. How well your puppy does 
 depends on how much you've been practicing a given activity and how strong your bond is. Placing 
 in the top three earns you a sparkling trophy, prize money, and a boost to the next level of competition. 
 If you lose, you're knocked down a level, so you'll have to move your way back to the top.     
 

  It's not all about trophies, though -- a lot of the most rewarding interaction between you and your 
 puppy happens in the course of your many more-mundane activities. You'll interact with your puppy 
 a lot with your stylus, using it to pat the dog and position it for tricks, as well as to throw 
 toys for pooch to play with. Your puppy will alert you any time you tap the stylus on the touch 
 screen and come to you if you continue to tap, though you can also call your puppy's name and get 
 it to trot right over. The dogs are eager to interact with you and will either follow the stylus 
 with their eyes, jump to maneuver their heads underneath it, or lick your presented hand happily. 
 If you toss them toys, they'll also routinely bring them back to you, sitting their front paws 
 on the touch screen and waiting patiently for you to play.  

          Winning competitions earns you money for food, accessories, and most importantly, new puppies! 
     

  Taking your dog on walks around town is a good way to stretch their legs and work those paws, and 
 your puppy will also discover various accessories lying around (from collars, to toys, to Mario 
 hats, to strange items for your house) , play with other neighborhood dogs, and try its darndest 
 to get that burrito out of the trash. As you continue to go on walks, your dog's stamina will improve 
 to the point where you can roam all over town, visiting parks and gymnasiums that let you practice 
 disc-tossing and the agility course, as well as discount shops that sell all-new items for you 
 and your pampered pooch. Besides walks, necessary maintenance includes feeding and watering your 
 dog when it's hungry or thirsty and bathing your dog when it gets dirty. An interface you can access 
 from the menu lets you see your dog's vital information at a glance, in case your prized pooch 
 is in need of a flea-ridding scrub. Pups can go for some time without a certain level of care, 
 but if you completely neglect them, they'll eventually run away -- as well they should, from such 
 a heartless master!  

  The more you play the game, the more items become available for you to purchase, like different 
 foods and toys. Passing certain levels of achievement will, as mentioned previously, unlock even 
 more dog breeds for you to choose from. You can have up to three puppies in your house at any given 
 time that will romp around with each other, and a nearby "dog hotel" can help house anyone you 
 might not be able to care for.  

  The game does have a few limiting factors, however, as the puppies can't run all day indefinitely. 
 You're restricted to entering three contests a day; you can only take your dog out for a walk every 
 30 minutes or so; and your dog can only learn so many tricks in one day before its canine brain 
 calls it quits. This isn't something you'll run into unless you try to engage in a marathon of 
 activities, and when you encounter it, it can be a bit off-putting, especially if you've only got 
 one Nintendog to lavish all your considerable affections on. For that reason, this is a game that's 
 really at its best when played in multiple bursts throughout the day or one action-packed extended 
 session a day, as opposed to repeated long sessions. There's still plenty of content to unlock 
 and lots of puppy playing to do, so the restrictions aren't all that onerous, but there will be 
 occasional times when Fido just can't keep up, and you'll need to put the system down and do something 
 else for a while. At least your puppy is always happy to see you.  

  You can also interact with other Nintendog owners wirelessly, through something called bark mode. 
 Setting bark mode puts your Nintendo DS on the alert for other Nintendog games with the mode activated. 
 When in range, bark mode signals you to the presence of another puppy, and then both puppies can 
 play together on the same screen. You can choose to bring one of your items as a present for your 
 new friends, and you'll automatically exchange trainer information and add the other user to an 
 in-game friends list. It's a nice way to hook up with your friends' puppies, or perhaps even see 
 what dogs might be lurking in a crowded store or street. The one curious thing about the mode is 
 that the two DS systems don't sync -- your playing puppies' activities are local to your own handheld. 
 However, considering the presence of two human masters able to call and command both puppies with 
 impunity, it's easy to see why it was designed that way -- to prevent unintentional games of pup 
 ping-pong.  

          Won't you take me home?     

  The game's visual strength is mainly in the dogs themselves, with their lifelike expressions, mannerisms, 
 and motion. The rest of the game consists of a variety of simple backdrops -- your sparsely furnished 
 home, the streets of town, the venues for the different contests -- that serve to quietly be a place 
 where the puppies can romp without distracting from the game. The game's gentle, upbeat tunes are 
 a nice complement to the assortment of yips, barks, fearful whines, plaintive begging, playful 
 huffing, squeaking yawns, and other such doggy noises that round out the great sound.  

  Just about anyone who enjoys the adorable antics, manic activity, and the tender nurturing that 
 is central to raising a happy, healthy puppy should certainly give Nintendogs a look. Its simple 
 interface, appealing subject matter, and its friendliness to multiple short sessions, with plenty 
 of items and animals to unlock, makes it easy to recommend to a wide variety of gamers and nongamers 
 alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (204 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game that lets you look after your own puppy. It was one of the first DS games 
 and it seemed everyone was buying it. I played this game on my cousin's DS and I liked it a very 
 small amount, but the small amount of gameplay just dosen't measure up to other games like the 
 Sims. 
  
  The Good:
  -Graphics and sound are decent
  -May appeal to teenage girls
  
  The Bad:
  -Gameplay is very boring and is no fun at all
  -If you are a boy, you will hate 
 it, seriously
  
  Overall, Nintendogs just dosen't have enough gameplay to be any fun for anyone other than girls 
 obsessed with dogs. If you are like me and a lot of other people and you love action games, then 
 seriously, you should stick to them and not look at this. It is, however, good for dog-lovers. 
 It is not recommendable from me, though. 
  
  
  Overall, 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  
  This game is rockin' I tell you. I will tell you some of the really fun things of this game. -You 
 can take them on walks, and they can give you presents! Or you can meet a new dog and meet with 
 them! -You can feed them and give everything they need for nutrition. On walks there are bargain 
 shops and you can get foods and water for your dog a little cheaper than theregular shops. -They 
 allow you take their showers. Your dog will look sleek and glossy. You soap 'em, you water 'em. 
 -On your walks, you can go to the parks to train your dog to a competition! There is a disc competition, 
 where you throw your disc and your dog catches it and you get points depending on how far it caught 
 it. There is an agility competition, where your dog has to go over hurdles and go through tunnels. 
 There is an obediance comeptition, where you have to teach it tricks and you get points for how 
 well your dogs obey. You can get money from the competition, where you can spend it on a lot of 
 stuff. -You can acsserorize it. They have bows and hats, tiaras and collars. Your dog will look 
 cute! -You can connect with other friends who have Nintendogs. You can meet each other with your 
 dogs. -Lastly, you will learn the responsibility of taking care of your dog. This game is so realistic, 
 you feel you want to really have them. So go out there and buy one and try how amazing this game 
 is! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capital_rpg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Release Date: September 2005
  My Overall Score: 9.0 out of 10
  Created by Nintendo
  
  The Good: 
  Rated E so that everyone can enjoy it; many things to achieve and the ability to 
 trade items and interact with other players; fairly realistic; good graphics and interaction with 
 dogs; console's built in microphone put to good use; multiple editions to chose from such as Daschund 
 and friends, Chihuahua and friends and Labrador and friends, realistic sounds 
  
  
  The Bad: 
  No real plot in game making it boring and repetitive after a certain period of time; 
 limited freedom with dogs [but not too limited!] ; certain points of game could be more realistic, 
 such as the dog walking or tricks; could be more dog breeds; only for Nintendo DS console
  
  Nintendogs has multiple editions with different dogs so that you can choose the one that is 
 best for you. It also has a few different competitions for you to choose from, such as the agility 
 contest and the disc throwing contest. Nintendogs also takes full advantage of the Nintendo's built 
 in microphone, the built-in clock and the touch-screen making it a bit more fun and realistic. 
 The multi-player stuff in this game is pretty lame due to the fact that all you do is trade dog 
 breeds with other editions that other people have. There is one catch to this though, if you want 
 a dog breed that you can't get in your edition you can just trade breeds if someone else has the 
 edition with that dog breed.
  
  
  Because the game has no serious plot except for keeping your dog healthy so it won't run away, 
 the game may seem a bit pointless. But if you are a serious dog person like me it may seem a bit 
 more fun. To get the full potential of this game you will have to play it for a long time because 
 the amount of stuff you can do is limited because the Nintendo DS's clock makes it so you an only 
 do 3 competitions a day. If you are looking for a fast paced action game this game is not for you, 
 but if you just want a laid back fun lighthearted game, this is for you.
  
  
  
  Review by: capital_rpg 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenswan32
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is just plain fun, and for those that don't have the privilege to have a "real" dog, 
 it becomes an unforgettable experience. 
  After you choose your ideal, first puppy, its time to explore the small, but cute world of Nintendogs. 
 Its basically a "you" experience. The game revolves around you, and you, and your dog. It's a very 
 egocentric game, and for those who love their bellybuttons, it's the best game a DS owner could 
 have. 
  Don't expect a very produced game, with a lot of detail, because this isn't what you're looking 
 for. Actually, Nintendogs' simplicity is its biggest catch. 
  Feeding and cleaning your dog is your main preocupation. Your puppy will survive without playing 
 with you or going out in a walk, actually, it will survive no matter what. 
  A good factor in the game is the large amount of items you can find in your ocasional walks, or 
 changing them with your friends, via wireless. The competitions are good, almost hard at certain 
 levels, specially the obedience competition, that doesn't work for most players because of the 
 lack of sensibility in the console's mic.
  Although its a egocentric game, you'll never forget your pets, who are, indeed, well trained, faithful 
 and cute, being puppys that never grow up. 
  Anyone, even the stone-hearted will feel specially attached to this game that melts everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kansasdude2009
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs starts a new chapter in Nintendo history in appealing to completely new audiences. As 
 always, Nintendo gives its audience a beautifully crafted game, but not as familiar, a very limited 
 game. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Excellent Graphical Design
    Superb Controls, some of the best on DS
    Accurate Sound Design
    The Best Dog Simulator On The Market (at time of writing)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Bad:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    Limited Game Design 
    Short Entertainment Value
    Not Actually A Game, Feels Like A Chore After A While
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Introduction:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Nintendogs starts out easy for its new audience as it guides you through picking out your very 
 own dog, giving it a voice-recognized name, and sending it home with you to love and care for. 
 You quickly get to know your dog and its personality. The game throws new items, toys, and accessories 
 your way inciting you to play.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Controls: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Nintendogs is all about control, and its true innovation is in the multitude of ways that you 
 play this game. You quickly learn that the DS was designed for this idea, as Nintendo always does 
 with its products. Voice command works eighty percent of the time and clearly enunciating words 
 can become a bother. Touch control is masterfully handled as the dog reacts to every touch made 
 on your screen. If you tap the screen, your dog will recognize it as a hand reaching out to play. 
 A rub on the nose will correlate to sneezing while a rub on the head will correlate to your dog's 
 sitting, waiting for more love. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay: 7.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The problem with Nintendogs is that the gameplay is so wrapped in its control systems that it 
 fails to go beyond them and actually create a game for you to play. The gameplay in Nintendogs 
 seems superb all the way up until the point when you run out of things to do. Most of your time 
 in Nintendogs will be spent petting your dog, playing with toys, and going on walks, but that is 
 not all it offers. Nintendogs gives you competitions to compete in. These are the meat of the game, 
 but they lose their appeal like everything else. Having fun with this game for months at a time 
 requires that you play for short periods every day for you to not run out of things to do. Soon, 
 you will not want to take the effort to turn on your DS just to see your dog want even more food 
 and water. There just is not enough of a game for this to truly be a breakthrough title in casual 
 gaming; a game that casuals will play for years.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Difficulty: Non-existent
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There is no difficulty in this game because there is no punishment for not keeping your dog in 
 the best of shape. Your dog never dies, it never forgets, and it's always hungry. The challenges 
 are as hard as you want to make them. Either take the time and create a super hound, or don't and 
 only enjoy the easy challenges. The inevitability is that you will run out of things to do fast.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics in Nintendogs are fantastic. Simplicity rules supreme here and there is nothing wrong 
 with it in this game. The backgrounds are a misty white leaving plenty of power for the dogs and 
 toys. This creates a simple, stylized look, while making some impressive dog animations on the 
 DS. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 7.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The music is less than stellar, but the sound effects are quite nice. Dogs bark with resonance 
 and toys accurately portray their true identity. Not all together impressive, but present and correct. 
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall: 7.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Nintendogs had an opportunity to be a standout title, but when all is said and done, the game 
 evaporates. There are endearing moments, but most of the fun can be visited in a few short hours. 
 The rest of your time will be spent wanting more from your purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawl_fighter
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  And so Nintendo arrives to hand out better technology, now especially for non-dog owners!
  This game is a great experience for players who don't have a dog.
  Now you can play fetch, enter 
 your dog in tournaments, teach it tricks/commands, and even go out for a walk without getting of 
 the couch!
  
  Anyway, this game has VOICE SENSOR so that the dog does what you tell him/her what to do. Also, 
 this game is a TOUCH GENERATION game, which means that you mostly use the touch screen in this 
 kinds of games. And one more thing, this game is on the VIRTUAL LIFE category, which means, this 
 is a more addictive game that may make you want to play a lot more with this game. In fact, this 
 game has made me spent more than a 100 hours playing it.
  
  This game is worth buying, you won't regret.
  As a gamer myself, I highly recomend this game 
 for players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The whole nintendogs franchise is extremely innovative and very addicting. Nintendo did a really 
 good job with making it feel like you are raising puppies.
  You enter an animal shelter and are given some breeds of dogs to look at. Here you pick out your 
 first dog, name it, teach it a trick, and BAM! You're in the game!
  This game is extremely addiciting in many ways. The first way is the sheer amount of items that 
 can be obtained. You can get these items while on a walk, going to stores, or trading them with 
 friends via wireless connection. It's always fun to see how your puppies will react to these items, 
 as it's almost never the same with each dog. For example, I had a Yorkie and a Dalmation and a 
 bubble blower. I used the bubble blower (by blowing into the mic) and my dalmation started playing 
 with the bubbles. My Yorkie, however, started barking at them in fear. These reactions are never 
 the same! There are also various nintendo cameos within these items.
  The second way is the dog contests. There are 3 contests, Agility, Frisbee, and Obedience/Presentation. 
 All three require you to train your pups in different places. By winning these contests you earn 
 money to use to buy more pups or items. You also earn Trainer Points.
  Trainer Points are used to unlock different breeds of puppies and other things like different styles 
 for the room your puppies are in. They also rank you with trainer points.
  You can do many other things with your pups as well, wash them, dress them, have them SING, it's 
 almost endless what you can do with these dogs! 
  The dogs are so realistic, they need attention. If you don't play the game for a few months, when 
 you do play it again your puppy might have run away! They need to eat and sleep regularly. If you 
 play with them during the night, they will sleep during the day. It's all so real!
  Nintendogs is a great game with a lasting value. Don't listen to people who say it's stupid, I 
 guarntee you they will be playing it again in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forumdog123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  its awesome, great, owns, pwns, and is great if you don't have a dog. ( its still great if you do 
 have a dog) My mom said they looked like real dogs, and they do kind of. so get this game plz for 
 all of god get this virtual awesome great owning pwning great if you don't have a dog (still great 
 if you have a dog) looking like real dogs kind of game for all of god plz i give it a perfect ten 
 go get it its perfect and get any version they are Dachshund and friends, Chiuwauwa ( did i spell 
 it wrong? i thought so.) and friends, Labrador and friends, Dalmation and friends and Best Friends (which 
 comes with some pink or teal ds') so go out there and get nintendogs dog lovers! go go go go go 
 go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go get it go 
 go go go go go go go go go get it go go go gooooooooooooooooooooooo Nintendogs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Every dog-lover should have this game. Why? Because you choose a dog, care for it, play with it, 
 and have fun with it! First, you choose a dog. Then, you play/care with it until you have the chance 
 to name it. Be aware that you CAN'T change its name later. After that you just hang around and 
 teach it tricks. You can also enter it in contests. You should enter your dog in contests often 
 so you can earn trainer points and money. You need money for houses and caring for your dog. What 
 else? Its not like you pay taxes! Anyway, if you earn enough trainer points you can unlock new 
 dogs and houses. Some dogs you have to unlock a different way though, like picking up hats on walks. 
 The graphics are amazing! You almost feel like you own a real dog! Well, good luck, and don't forget, 
 if you need help with anything, just send me a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game loved by many casual gamers. I personally find the game to be good, but it 
 gets boring after about a week or so of playing it. The concept of raising a dog is cool, and teaching 
 a dog commands can be pretty fun. The contests are easily the best part of the game. You can do 
 disk competitions which are pretty cool, show off your dog's tricks, or do obstacle courses. Going 
 on walks is also pretty fun and is something you wish the game would let you do more often. Then 
 you get bored. That's all there is to it. Any gamers who would go beyond calling themselves 'casual' 
 gamers would get bored with this game pretty quick, two weeks tops before you're bored of the game. 
 It almost becomes a chore, and you feel so obligated to feed your dog every day that you just wish 
 you had never started. Nintendogs is asily a game any casual gamer would love, but it's definitely 
 not for the 'hardcore' crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_West
Rating: 3
Date: May 15, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Some people won't like this review.
  Ah Well.
  The truth is, this is just my opinion, and I wound up being severly dissapointed by this "game".
 
  You probrobly know what the game is about. You raise virtual puppies!
  
  Yay!
  
  That's it.
  
  No princess to save, no plot, just you and your little puppy who will respond 
 to your commands 35% of the time! Maybe I have a wierd voice and my dog hated me, but it would 
 not listen to me!
  After 2 days and 3 hours of virtual feeding, virtual washing, virtual walking, and virtually throwing 
 virtual frisbees to my virtual dog, I had enough. I traded this game into gamespot for a game a 
 hard-er-core gamer like myself could enjoy.
  Don't get me wrong, this game will be perfect for some people, but it really sounds more fun than 
 it actually is. This "game was more like a chore to me, and I only reccomend it to people who really 
 love puppies. On second thought, I reccomend them to het a REAL dog, which is much better than 
 a virtual one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Eight breeds to start, each with different traits, personalities, and appearances, and of course, 
 big hearts begging for love.
  
  Only someone with a cold heart wouldn't like these cute little puppies. They're lifelike and they 
 make real barking and howling noises. They even walk, wag, and scratch like real dogs do. It's 
 as though you're playing with a real dog through a screen. 
  
  First when you get the dog, you must give it a name and teach it to sit. You do this through touch 
 commands and voice commands through the microphone. Once that is done you may keep calling your 
 pup's name and they will respond. From there on you may take it for a walk or play with it.
  
  As you walk with your dog its stamina builds up gradually, letting you explore new areas such 
 as the open park or the gym. This leads you to competition entries, which in turn leads tom ore 
 money to buy pet supplies like food and water, other dogs to keep your current one company, more 
 chew toys, or new houses for your pup to play in.
  
  Sometimes your dog will come across a present while you're walking. If it is rare, you may get 
 more trainer points, or you may unlock a specific breed. However, if you collect enough trainer 
 points, that will also allow you to unlock more breeds. Other times your dog will pick up a present 
 that you might want to sell for a hefty profit, or you may want to keep to play with your pup.
 
  
  Other ways to increase your trainer points are to befriend other dogs while on a walk, enter and 
 win contests, going on a walk, brushing your dog, washing your dog, petting your dog, etc. There 
 are lots of different ways to earn those points, so it isn't that hard to unlock those other dog 
 breeds. 
  
  With trainer points you can also unlock new toys at the discount store, and new abodes for your 
 pup (s) . You can buy these at the remodeling store.
  
  The music you can find while on a walk is also quite deep. For example, if you play the Nintendogs 
 theme your dogs will bark to it, while if you play the Toreadors, your dogs will begin to fight 
 with each other. If you let your pup listen to certain music for a while, their personality may 
 change according to the music. For example, if you were to play the Toreadors long enough, your 
 dogs would grow more aggressive, while if you played the Smiling Dog record, your dog would grow 
 more friendly. The music is also arranged well, and is quite enjoyable.
  
  The graphics in turn are also quite amazing. With detail and smooth, realistic movements, it really 
 makes you feel like it's a real dog you're petting. Even the toys are done well, the background 
 buildings, lakes, and grasslands while on a walk are all beautiful in depth. While of course people 
 may debate that the graphics looked a little sharp, this is a small hand held device, that cannot 
 possibly have the same quality of graphics that the Wii does. For the DS, this is top notch.
  
  The contests keep you on your toes, and they keep you actively in the competition. Whether 
 you're tapping a hurdle for your dog to jump over, or just saying commands to make them perform 
 tricks, the contests are immersing and are relatively challenging to do well in, especially in 
 the higher levels of competition.
  
  Overall, this game definitely deserves the editor's choice award. With great graphics, outstanding 
 game play, realistic design, deep music, and adorable little puppies, I doubt anyone could resist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janlukky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  gameplay: this is one of those sim. games in which playing for long hours will get you bord but 
 look on the bright side if you want a dog and you don't want to pick up after him in real life 
 this should be a good game to have the only way you can make money is by entering contests and 
 winning or selling things you find while walking, sadly you can walk your dog too ofter and can 
 only enter contests 3 times a day. it uses the touch screen and your voice to train the dogs.
 
  
  story: there is no story is a pet simulator
  
  sound: i rather keep it off since its only the sound effects of the dog's barking and can get real 
 annoying there is lite background music when doing things though
  
  graphics: very real looking... what more can you ask for
  
  overall: the game is very short, 
 due to the fact that you cant do much but the game isn't bad. i just don't know why people are 
 under rateing simulation games, when i find them a break to playing fast paced ones like most other 
 games we find in the market.
  4/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Good: Great graphics.
  Good Sound.
  
  Bad:
  It could have more breeds of dogs.
  There shoud have been only been one version, with all the dogs, 4 different versions is a little 
 confusing.
  
  This game actually is pretty fun. You get to raise up to 3 virtual dogs in your house, and have 
 up to 5 more in the kennel. Having a dog in Nintendogs is also like having a real dog- You have 
 to feed it, teach it, clean it and walk it. But after a while, once you have beaten all the competitions 
 and taught your dog all the tricks, there isn't much more to do in this game, and it just gets 
 boring.
  
  The graphics are great for a Ds game. the dogs look great and so do the objects like a soccer ball, 
 or a Mario hat.
  
  There is a lot of customization in this game. You can give your dogs accesories, like different 
 colored/patterned collars. You can also change the clock design, and also buy a new house. If you 
 want a house like a beach house, you'll be playing Nintendogs for a while- Houses cost a lot.
 
  
  The competitions can be very hard in Nintendogs, mostly when they are in Expert mode, where (in 
 the obediance competition) you have to get your dog to hold a trick for 20 seconds or more.
  
  The sound, sounds great. Though when your dog barks very loudly, it can sound staticy. But 
 most of the sounds the dogs make (like barking, growling) sound realistic.
  
  I think that when I played Nintendogs on my friends Ds lite, that using the D-Pad and A, B, X and 
 Y buttons, shoulder buttons and microphone was much easier to play then when I use my original 
 Ds to play, probably because the buttons stick up more, and the mic is higher on the Ds lite, so 
 you can see the top screen better.
  
  In conclusion, Nintendogs is a great fun game for the Ds, but it can be a little boring at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi34
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  I got this piece of junk for christmas 2005 along with my DS (Which I need to replace) and it sucked 
 by January 1, 2006, at 12:00 AM and 00 seconds. If you already have a dog you shouldn't need this 
 because it is considered torture and boring. When on walks, holy crap! You start to sweat very, 
 very, fast and sometimes you get items, but there's these idiots who don't know anything (I'd like 
 to call them Noobs ) who just randomly appear when I don't wanna see em'! In fact, I don't even 
 want them in the game! So what else is there to rant on? Oh yes, the contests! They only allow 
 you to go in 3 times a day?! What a waste! And then there's the tutorial before you began the torture 
 where you get a dog and then you're forced to give it a name, say like Andrew (More like Hurricane 
 ANDREW!!) and here it's hurricane katrina over again. You have to repeat it to him and oh! Sorry! 
 He lost his name! God, this would be easier in real life! So therefore... this game is more frustrating 
 than fun! Stay away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Ghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really impressive, but that's about all that's good about this game. There isn't 
 much to do at all. All you do is repeat the same boring things over and over. You take your dog 
 for a walk, enter him in some tournaments and do that every day. Quite boring. It's fun for the 
 first few weeks, but after that you will probably get bored. The items are almost all alike. There 
 are many Frisbees that do the same thing. They just look differently. Younger players may enjoy 
 this game because of the dogs, but older players probably won't like it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GUNNERF
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  If you buy this game you will probably end up selling it like I did. It is so boring especially 
 if you have a dog in real life you can play with. All you do is sit there and watch your dogs, 
 and its not a game to play in public either because you have to talk into the mic. The only time 
 you may like this game is if you don't have a dog.. And the only other positive things for this 
 game is the graphics aren't bad and its good for a little bit. Just don't bother with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game is basically another one of those virtual pet games... but with a difference: its actually 
 good!!! Forget all the Petz series, Nintendogs is all you need ^^ I origionally got this game because 
 I love dogs... and not being able to have one, I settled for the next best thing, which was this.
 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous throughout this game and the detail on all the different breeds of dog 
 are extreamly satisfactory, resulting in exceedingly lifelike replicas. My favourite dog is a siberian 
 husky, so naturally I picked one and named him Jak.
  
  This game is a real eye-opener to people who want but dont have a pet, as you have to spend time 
 with your dog, feed it, bath it, train it, take it for walks, pick up its poop etc. The contests 
 are really good too; the start of easy and get quite hard. The music throughout the game is not 
 to trashy either- its a nice, calm mix which ... well.... calms you hehe.
  
  The only few flaws which I found were sometimes with the voice recognition feature, it takes MANY 
 tries to get the dog to respond. Also I tihnk that Jak has forgottern his name, as he only ever 
 comes now wen I whistle... =S Nintendogs is best played in small sessions throughout the day, as 
 there is a limit to the number of tricks you can learn a day, and the number of competions you 
 can enter. You also have to leave about 1/2 hour gaps between walking you dog, howvever all these 
 are realistic as your dog is only a puppy and in real life, will need alot of rests.
  
  Overall... if you want a dog, or simply love canines, definantly get Nintendogs!!! They are irristable 
 and Jak is well on his way to becoming a great mans-best-friend !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Now let me tell you something, I am currently an ex-owner of this game. I'll tell you why in this 
 review. But before I get to the bad, I guess I'll give you future owners of this game what you 
 want to hear before you head out to the game stores and buy this game. When I first got Nintendogs, 
 I was just excited to actually have a game that you can virtually care for a puppy that looks so 
 real. Now keep this in mind, this was before I actually got a real dog (so I really really wanted 
 a dog, I would've done anything) . So when I got Nintendogs I dashed to my room and played it the 
 whole day. A wide variety of puppies to choose from, care for them, buy stuff, walk them, interact 
 with other people's pups. It was pretty fun. This lasted for about a week... And so, everyday I 
 would play the game and feed them then walk them, then go to competitions, then play with them. 
 And did the same thing the next day. And the next day, then the next day. Are you starting to get 
 my point? It is fun at first because everything is new to you, but you're really doing the same 
 things again and again, until all you really want to do is throw that game down the toilet. The 
 gameplay of the game is actually pretty nice. A huge variety of puppies to choose from in Dachshunds 
 and Friends. You got dachshunds, pugs, and others. And even though you only have a limited amount 
 for Dachshunds and Friends, you could always unlock more breeds from the other games by getting 
 Trainer Points. This game also incorporates the touch screen really well by using the stylus to 
 play with your dogs and also wash them. Also, using the microphone to tell your dogs to do different 
 tricks. I give gameplay a solid 9 because of the fact that the puppies will usually do the same 
 things over and over again. Now graphics, I can't really complain much about. I mean, such cute 
 puppies that always seem delighted to see you. Also, the way that they made the puppies dirty over 
 a period of time and how they react depends on what you do, like, if you don't wash them in a period 
 of time, you will start seeing fleas and dirt popping out of the puppies' furs. Genius! Though, 
 there is one thing that really disappointed me, the fact that the puppies just stayed... well, puppies! 
 I mean, it would be refreshing to see a little growth and change over time, to keep the game going. 
 It's NintenDOGS for crying out loud!!! So because of this, I give graphics a 7. The game's sound 
 is very crisp and clean, no doubt about it. The dogs' barks are pretty realistic though not quite. 
 I would have liked it that the German Shepherds' barks or the the big dog barks could've been a 
 bit lower and not so high pitched. It sounded like the Labrador was a chihuahua! This was a let 
 down. I give sounds an 8. Value... hmmm. The value of this game is pretty tricky. Most owners of 
 this game might say that it is very valuable to them because of the puppies' faces and the cuteness 
 of it. Others will say they're gonna sell it on ebay soon. I say this game is probably worth 20 
 bucks. I wouldn't pay more than 30 dollars on this game. Value, 8.
  
  In conclusion, Nintendogs is a clever game made perfectly for the Nintendo DS. The whimsical puppies 
 really capture your heart, but will soon be very tiring. i would say have fun with the game, but 
 you'll be better off with just a rental, and your money will thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is PERFECT!!! I LOVE IT!!! Why? Read on!
  
  Gameplay (10/10) -
  This game is about taking care of virtual puppies on your DS! It's so fun! You can train your dog 
 to do tricks, pet them with your stylus, and even practice for contests! You can take your dog 
 on a walk and find cool presents! Really fun!
  
  Graphics (10/10) -
  Dogs look so real! And all the colors are cool and bright! Graphics are great! They make me feel 
 better!
  
  Sound (10/10) -
  The dogs barking sounds so real! The music isn't annoying or anything, it's OK!
  
  Value (10/10) -
 
  Totally worth your money! It's great fun!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (10/10) -
  I'm glad this was my first game!!! Yay!!!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (10/10) -
  This game is so good! 
 Best I ever played! I got it as my first game and I don't regret it!!!! Buy it and you'll love 
 it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicky-dragon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Considering my parents won't let me get doberman puppy, I decided this was about as close as I 
 was gonna get to owning a dog.
  
  Even though they aren't real, the game sort of teaches you how raise a dog and sort of gives you 
 the responsibilty of raising a dog. The only think I want changed maybe is the amount of dogs you 
 can own cause you can only own three dogs at a time even if theres other dogs you would want.
 
  Overall, its a nice game but I heard that theres gonna be a Nintencats game so we'll see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Many years ago, back in the late 90s, a pop culture sensation swept the classrooms of America and 
 Japan. They were called Virtual Pets. It started in Japan with the Tamagotchi, little alien-like 
 creatures that you raised and cared for. In the US, we had the Giga Pets. These little keychain 
 animals became an addiction for a while. They constantly had to be fed, bathed and if you neglected 
 them, they died, but you could just hit the reset button. School eventually had to start banning 
 them and that is usually when the fads like that die.
  
  Fast forward, Nintendo revives the virtual pet with Nintendogs for the DS. There are 4 versions 
 of the game, the difference being you have different dogs to choose from at the beginning, though 
 all breeds can be unlocked as you play. I bought Dachsund and Friends because it had Pugs and Huskies 
 to choose from.
  
  When you start, you choose a puppy from the breeds available. There's some color variations, personalities 
 and of course, you can choose to have a male or female puppy. I chose a Pug.
  
  You come back to your virtual home and begin to train your puppy. This is one of the few DS games 
 that uses the mic sensitivity and stylus a lot. I suggest investing in a set of screen protectors. 
 You first learn to use the stylus to make the puppy calm down and sit then you practice saying 
 his name into the mic. I named my pug Archie. Thus begins the socially draining experience with 
 your Nintendog.
  
  Like the horribly addictive Animal Crossing, Nintendogs is not the kind of game you are going to 
 sit and play for hours straight. Instead you play it a couple hours each day. Your puppy is in 
 constant need of care. You check its stats and see if its hungry, thristy or needs a bath. You 
 also have to walk it, pet it and play with it. Ignore it too long and it may run away or start 
 eating trash.
  
  Eventually you can take your pup for a walk. You draw out a path with the stylus and walk through 
 your neighborhood that has 2 parks, 2 discount pet supply stores and an obstacle course. During 
 your walk your puppy will poop and pee and you will have to clean up after it and it will encounter 
 other dogs which it will interact with. Your puppy may also find a special treat along the path 
 which might be a special toy or music track. Sometimes they just sniff in the trash.
  
  The big draw of Nintendogs is the use of the mic to teach your dog tricks. There's a how to guide 
 in your supplies. Use the stylus to make your dog do a trick and then say it into the mic. This 
 can be hard if the mic setting is too sensitive, you have a cold or there's background noise. Then 
 again, sometime the dog is just dumb. This isn't always the game to play in public when people 
 are looking at you yelling Sit Archie! Save the voice commands for the privacy of your home.
  
  As your puppy learns to be obeident, you can enter it in contests to earn cash prizes to go 
 towards buying new supplies, redecorating your virtual home or buying another puppy. I eventually 
 bought a husky named Wolf and a beagle named Molly. It's also interesting to see how the puppies 
 interact with each other as well as new toys and items.
  
  The graphics in this are top notch. The screen shots don't do it justice. The puppies look and 
 act so realisitically that you almost want to reach into the DS and pull them out to cuddle them. 
 The environments aren't quite as detailed, but probably because the designers wanted more focus 
 on the puppies attributes.
  
  There is also a bark mode which you can play wirelessly with friends dogs and have them interact 
 as well as send gifts to them. This adds some lasting value to the game.
  
  This game isn't for everyone. If you didn't like The Sims or Animal Crossing, then you won't like 
 this either. It can get repetitive after a while and once you've won all the contests at all the 
 levels, there's little more to do. You can always give away one of your pups and train a new one 
 but this is one of those games you play until it becomes tedious, then you trade it in. It is a 
 very good puppy rearing simulator. If you're a parent and your child insists on getting a dog, 
 give them a copy of this and tell them that if they do a good job with this puppy, you'll consider 
 getting a real one. Who says games dont' teach kids anything? It teaches you that a lot goes into 
 caring for a dog. Now I'd like to see Nintendocats. 
  
  In memory of Molly (1991-2006) . She was a good dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a revolutionary milestone in gaming. While it may not be as important as Pong was, 
 it proves that you don't have to be a hardcore gamer to enjoy games. Thanks to the Touch-Screen 
 on the Nintendo DS, we have been opened up to the world of Nintendogs, a real-life pet simulator. 
 You first adopt a breed of dog in the kennel (depending on which version you are playing on, different 
 breeds will be available at the start, although all breeds can be unlocked in any one version of 
 the game) and take it home to your virtual home. You can feed it, play with it, and teach it tricks 
 in your home. You can eventually have three dogs in your home at once, but in not couraged at first. 
 Through menus, you can walk your dog where it may occasionally find gifts for your home or accesories. 
 It also goes to the bathroom outdoors, and will require you to pick up the waste or people will 
 get mad at you. While on a walk, you can visit shops to buy food and supplies, and train your dog 
 in catching frisbees and Agility training for competitons. More money is earned with the higher 
 level of compitition you win, so practice will help earn you money. All in all, this is a graet 
 game and a must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is just awesome!!! I play this game several times a day daily to help out my 
 older sister (she has work majority of the week) and its quite amazing. These dogs are incredibly 
 lifelike, and you can choose from a pretty good amount of breeds! Feeding the dogs.... Quenching 
 their thirst... playing with them.... taking care of them.... Whoever buys this game must take care 
 of them everyday! Because i certainly do!! If you do not like this game and you are not effected 
 by the lifelike personalities of the dogs, once again you indeed must have a very very cold heart!! 
 No, im not giving this review many compliments because the dogs are cute, it is because this game 
 kind of teaches you the life with a dog! You can feed the dog, train it, give it walks, play with 
 it, and plenty other things! Yes all these things can be very limiting at times like waiting 30 
 minutes to walk a dog again, and teaching them only a few tricks a day, and contests.... but its so 
 realistic! It makes itself not truly a game, and by that i mean like its so real!! You think you 
 can give a dog another walk after you just walked it? Of course not! You also have to clean up after 
 itself when you go on a walk with it! I have nothing to say about the trick part since in real 
 life you can do that... but in contests, you think you can enter a dog in a contest after you just 
 finished one? NO! Most limits in this game are very annoying, yes but this is a daily game i just 
 play then turn off and play something else!! i just feed them, spend as much time with the lifelike 
 but fake dogs as much as i can (because if you dont take care of them they will run away from you 
 and most certainly will not come back in a long while) and wash them too! Then when thats all done 
 il just go into something else!! Once again Even if this game has a lot of limits it really matters 
 not... There is also a small multiplayer component of this game where you can play with your friend's 
 dogs but its quite the same, just more dogs..
  
  Graphics: Yeah their ok.... Dog models are nice, and everything else seems to look pretty good, but 
 in a few places the graphics are either bland or just pixelized... Nonetheless these are pretty 
 good..
  
  Sound: Catchy music, and the silence of nature when you are in your house is relaxing.... for some 
 reason the barking makes me feel even better.... Sound effects from everything you do are good..
 
  
  Value: I value this game a whole lot, because its made from Nintendo, and it teaches a person a life 
 with a dog! (kind of)
  
  Tilt: I highly recommend this to people who play games, and own real life dogs.... I especially recommend 
 this game to females, most females have a soft spot for dogs like the Dachshund so if you like Dogs 
 go out and get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuggie74
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 29, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  If an avid cat lover, like I, can fall in love with this little K9 mischiefs; everybody will. Recommended 
 to any pet lover, Canine or Feline alike. I also recommend that you get an optionally necessary 
 accessories for this game, the DS' Headphone. It will help a lot when you trained your Nintendogs 
 and also during Obedience Contest. A word of warning for any cat lover who try to play this game 
 for the first time, do not play this game in front of your cat, she might be jealous and she try 
 to scratch your DS' Touch Screen. Just Kidding, Keep playing. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelrocks
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 27, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The good: Tons of breeds, puppies are cute and well animated, plenty of things to do, puppies can 
 interact with a huge array of objects, as well as other puppies, voice commands are a nice touch, 
 excellent use of the DS's 3-D, touch screen and double screen capability.
  The bad: Has its fare share of frustrating moments, a few concepts, such as only being able to 
 enter three contests a day per puppy, or only being able to walk each puppy again after an hour 
 make sense, but feel limited, a few graphical glitches, your puppies suffer if you don't use the 
 game for a day or two.
  
  You start off at a kennel, buying a new puppy, when all of a sudden, they mutate into lobsters. 
 Nah, just kidding. Anyway, you start of at a kennel, and you get to choose a puppy to take home 
 for free. After you take your puppy home, you have to make it learn its new name by repeating it 
 into the microphone. After that, you can start to live your normal life with the puppy. You have 
 to start feeding it whenever it gets hungry, give it water or other liquid when it gets thirsty, 
 and bathing it when it gets dirty. You have an inventory that starts with the basics, food, water, 
 etc. You can go shopping fore more puppies, for items, and for new looks for your home. You can 
 earn money by winning contests, or sell items you don't want or need at the secondhand shop. You 
 can go through walks by drawing a path on a map with the touch screen. In this map, you'll find 
 various things and places, such as a park, a discount shop and some interrogation marks. (The interrogation 
 mark is either another owner walking his or her puppy, or an object on the floor that your puppy'll 
 give to you as a present. [Gee, he's so kind, isn't he??] ) Additionally, each puppy has a meter 
 that indicates how far it can go. Your puppy may also find presents on the way that, depending 
 on whether or not you play with him and how much you do so, he might give to you. This meter increases 
 the more you walk your puppy. The discount shop is self explanatory, as for the park, it's a wide 
 open space where you can find other puppies. You can use items from your inventory, such as discs 
 or balls, to play with the puppies there. As for contests, first there are the disc competitions, 
 where you basically just throw a frisbee around and hope that it catches it. The farther it goes, 
 the more points you earn. (As long as your puppy catches it.) Agility trials are contests where 
 a puppy has to clear a stage of obstacles in a given time limit, and not making a certain number 
 of mistakes. In Obedience trials, you have to show just how obedient your dog is by giving it voice 
 commands and hoping he obeys and understands them. You can earn money by winning 1st, 2nd, or 3rd 
 place in competitions. You can get all types of items, such as supplies, accessories for your dog, 
 toys, etc. That's pretty much it.
  
  Looks like nintendo's released it's first puppy sim on the DS. I&acute; m not saying it&acute; s 
 a bad game, it&acute; s just that it's a little overrated.
  
  (Note: All versions are pretty much the same. You can discover all of the breeds in all 3 of them.)
 
  (Note2: If you don&acute; t know how to train your puppy, you can consult a training manual in 
 one of the games menus.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Dogs, a mans best friend (or a womans, I dont want to be sexist!) When I found out that they were 
 making a dogs game, kinda thing, my sister got excited. So for Christmas 2005, guess what she got 
 under the Christmas tree... yep Nintendogs (great name) ! Nintendogs isnt really a game or real 
 life. The dogs look real but they dont die (not that we WANT that to happen) . If you dont care 
 for them, they just run away and you might not see ever again! Nah, I just scaring you! They will 
 come back with a present, or WILL they? Nitendogs is fun for the dog fan and for the guys with 
 more DS buds than, well anyone! Because you can go wireless and meet your friends dog and play 
 with them! Isn't that fun and cute! Awwwwwww! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravemaster_866
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  If you were never able to get a dog at all then this is the game for you. The game play (I'm sorry 
 to say) is very lacking. You train your dogs, walk them, pet them, teach them tricks and enter 
 competitions. The competitions are only enter able three times a day and for walking you have to 
 wait about 25 minutes till you can do it again. The dogs though look very real during walks tho 
 the leash goes through the dogs and the accessories also go into the dog like they shouldn't but 
 what can you expect. Now for sound your dogs are with you wile some times it sounds like the dogs 
 sounds are computer made. Now while game play lacks the fun constantly go attitude thats nice, 
 If your a kind person and love animals this game is for you. There is no age thing to it my 42 
 year old mom has a dog on my Nintendogs. So over all there are some glitches that Nintendo should 
 fix but for how it plays it works well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one that finally convinced me to buy a DS, it is also the reason the system got 
 its first price drop in the U. S., because of the enourmous popularity of this game here and over 
 in Japan. At fist you would think this is a standard puppy sim, but it is much more than that. 
 Your puppies never age, there are litterally hundreds of items available to play with, and each 
 version has different breeds available. You earn money by competing in contents for ability, disc 
 throw, or obedience. and with the money you purchase food and water for your puppies, brushes, 
 and shampoo for baths. There is nothing more heartwarming after a long day at work, than coming 
 home to see your DS puppies very happy to see you.
  
  Gameplay 10- some of the best simulation style gameplay available. The sheer amount of content 
 in this game is amazing and very life like.
  Graphics 9- If you arent sure how good the DS can render 3D, this game will show you.
  Sound 
 10- Lots of happy barks and puppy sound effects. there isnt much music to the game besides while 
 on walks.
  Value 9- If you own a DS, and dont have one of the versions of this game, then you are missing 
 out on one of this system's signature titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning, realistic dog animations; great amount of control; excellent implementation 
 of DS features; great non-gamer game.
  
  The Bad: You'll see everything there is to see in about a week or two; talking to your DS looks 
 crazy; bland backgrounds; repetitive but catchy soundtrack; monotonous tasks.
  
  Nintendogs is one of those games that's PERFECT for the non-gaming crowd. It only requires a little 
 bit of devotion, and it's not hard to get into. It's plenty simple, and it's not as big a hassle 
 as a real dog (though real dogs are wonderful!) And the game is very appealing and intriguing. 
 The trouble is, within a week or two of play, you'll have seen everything there is to see here. 
 And no amount of personality or quality can make up for that.
  
  You start out by picking a dog from six available. Then, you take it home and give it a name. It's 
 up to you to feed, clean, train, and walk this dog! You can get more dogs after earning money in 
 competitions, and you can upgrade your house. It will only take about a week to win every competition, 
 though, and get the house you want. Then, there's just nothing else to do. Nothing. Why get another 
 dog? You have the one you want, and it knows every trick in the book. Walking, feeding, and cleaning 
 all get old quickly. Frankly, it would have been nice to see more variety and options in the game. 
 As it is, it's lacking in lasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is another innovative game from Nintendo and I think its primary purpose was to get 
 women to play games.
  
  Nintendogs doesnt really have a story, because its more of a virtual pet than it is a game. Game 
 begins when you buy yourself a puppy and then you play with it and train it to sit, roll over and 
 so on.
  
  Graphics are nice and the puppies especially are extremely well modeled. Unfortunately backgrounds 
 are not very detailed or interesting, but thats not the point: puppies are the center of attention. 
 Sound is great too and dogs sound just like you would expect them to sound. During contests there 
 are some talking, but in true Nintendo style no voice acting what so ever.
  
  Gameplay is done mostly with the stylus and DS microphone. Stylus is used to navigate the menus 
 and playing with your dog. As you might expect the microphone is used to call your puppy by its 
 name and to give different commands like sit and roll over. All of this works quite well. There 
 is plenty of things to do with your dog, but eventually it just gets very repetitive and boring. 
 This is not a game per se: its a virtual life simulator or something.
  
  I recommend Nintendogs to those animal lovers who dont have a real pet. But those who consider 
 themselves more as gamers should put their money on something else.
  
  Once again thumbs up for Nintendo: they had the courage to do something new and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestroyAllNoobs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  You can't say you never felt or wanted to feel a dog's friendship. You'd be a big fat liar. Nintendo 
 makes this feeling VIRTUAL! Now the hard labor of having a puppy is simulated for dog lovers.
 
  
  The concept pulled for some, for others just didn't. First thing you think is this is an enhanced 
 Tamagotchi game . But NO! It's much more than that. For us dog lovers the idea was cool, and the 
 presentation is nice. When you see a puppy Beagle with it's shiny big eyes asking you for some 
 seconds of petting its head, you'll see what I mean about presentation.
  
  Grades breakdown, please!!!
  
  Gameplay: Very nice and in some way cute. The only con is it 
 grows old after some time. BUT YOU CAN'T IGNORE THOSE DOGS FOR TOO LONG, NOW CAN YOU?
  
  Graphics: Bravo! A perfect 10! For DS, they are nice. The dogs details are nice and in some way 
 realistic.
  
  Sound: When you hear your doggie bark, you become a dog servant zombie. Barks, whinings and every 
 dog sound is very realistic, while music could have improved.
  
  Value: Again, the idea is good, but you will have the urge to give yourself a break after some 
 time playing.
  
  Tilt: Dog lovers WILL look for this game, if they don't have it still. It is an experience they 
 won't like to miss.
  
  Conclusion: Good idea, a bit repetitive, but still good. Dog fans are going to love this game. 
 For the DS, the game is excellent, a must have along with Phoenix Wright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: easy and responsive controls are a must here, since you only use the stylus in this game, 
 and the controls live up to expectations. as the GS review said, this game is meant to be played 
 in small spurts, since the game simply wont allow you to do too much when trying to play for long 
 periods. well, as far as training your dog, doing contests, etc. you can always just play with 
 your dog as long as you want.... This game is suprisingly satisfying just to play with your dog 
 since it's so life-like. One of my favorite things to do is blow bubbles and watch my dog try to 
 catch the bubbles. The DS shows a bubble wand on screen, and you literally have to blow into the 
 DS' microphone, and vualah, bubbles blow out of the wand on the screen. :-) This game was made 
 for the DS with all the stylus moves and microphone commands inserted here. You literally teach 
 your dog tricks with voice commands through the microphone too. Now, my first dog, a Pug, may be 
 kinda stubborn i guess, cuz its not easy to teach him tricks. the harder ones anyway. I can say 
 the command just right, but he still wont get it. maybe i just need to spend more time with him. 
 :-P Anyway, there are alot of great unlockables here, such as accessories and toys for your dog, 
 a new apartment for you dog to play in, and new breeds of dogs to play with. As the GS review said, 
 its almost therapuetic just taking your virtual dog for a walk. You can also enter it into contests, 
 such as a frisbee contest and trick/training contest. Graphics: about as good as they come on the 
 DS. almost got a 10 in my book, and would have if the backgrounds were a tad better. they are still 
 clean and look nice as is, but the dogs themselves obviously look alot better. Sound: there isnt 
 any background music to this game, which kinda fits its style and feel, but i wonder how the game 
 would have been with a soundtrack. it obviously has sound effects, such as your dog barking, eating, 
 birds chirping in the park, etc, which all sound very good. Value: one of those games without an 
 ending. :-) and lots to unlock. and since the game forces you not to play for too long, there's 
 always stuff to come back to and do. Tilt: I mostly got this cute game for my kids, but i was very 
 suprised and impressed by how good it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiman23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  4 all dog lovers this is the game 4 u!! very good gameplay and the best selection of dogs. dont 
 listen 2 any of the bad people that write bad reviews because they all need a life this game is 
 1 of the best games for the DS its right next to mario kart DS when it comes to the best DS games 
 so far. multiplayer is also good u and a friend can make your dogs meet at the park and trade gifts 
 and if its your first time with this friend u and your friend can unlock each others dogs. so when 
 u got the chance buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game would be one of the most fun and playful games I've played for the DS. It's made full 
 use of the touch screen and is quite addictive.
  
  It has a wide variety of dogs, but insted of having many different types of the game it would be 
 better if they had combined them all and had one big game. The toys, games and competitions aid 
 this game and helps it to approach its full potential.
  
  The wash and feed features would be a great way to show children the responsibility of owning a 
 dog whilst allowing them to have fun at the same time. The controls are set out in a way which 
 uses the touch screen to its full potential although it doesn't use the normal buttons. It focuses, 
 perhaps to much, on the stylus.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good for the DS standard and gameplay is amazing. The way you can 
 walk your dog, throw the toys and change the design of your dogs clothes and house is phenominal 
 and I think this game is worth the money
  
  Overall, a brilliant game for the DS and amazingly good fun. I thought it was going to be more 
 of a girls game type thing but it turned out extremely playful for lads to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamteam411
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I bought Nintendogs with high hopes. I bought it the day after Christmas with a GameStop gift card 
 and eagerly brought it home and shoved it into my Nintendo DS. After all, Nintendogs is all the 
 rage in Japan and has been well received in the States. I was completely absorbed into the game 
 for hours that day, until I realized that those few hours were about it. There were ridiculous 
 limits on how much you could do in any given day to make the game seem like the kind that takes 
 days and days to accomplish everything you want, but the actual substance isn't really there. Frustrating 
 microphone controls didn't really help the matter either.
  
  Apparently the premise of the game is to get a puppy and teach him to do tricks, catch frisbees, 
 and all-around be a good dog. That's all well and good in real life with a real dog, but Nintendogs 
 just becomes aggravating. To get my dog to sit, I had to repeat the command over and over into 
 my microphone and repeat it over and over with my stylus for almost an hour. Sure, teaching a real 
 dog a trick may be much more complicated than this, but I wouldn't get a real dog for the same 
 reasons I would get Nintendogs. I kept hoping it would get better, but the game is just the same 
 thing every day, until you die. You can teach your dog some tricks (which also has a daily limit) , 
 enter him in contests (daily limit) , take him for a walk (thirty minutes required in between walks) , 
 sit at home and do nothing with him, or have him visit with a friend's dog. Well, it's sad to say 
 that my 30 day return policy is expired since Christmas, and it's also sad to say I never remembered 
 that I could return it. RIP Nintendogs, you will collect dust for all eternity unless I decide 
 to sell you on eBay, because I sure as heck will never play you again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs pits you in the role of taking care of puppies that are nicknamed Nintendogs (Nintendo 
 version of virtual dogs) The game bares a similar sort of style with those virtual pet games &amp; 
 Tomagotchi. In Nintendogs, you get to pick your own dog, train them, play games with them, and 
 enter them in contests. When you start out, you get to choose a dog, the dog you choose depends 
 on the version of Nintendogs you have. There's Chihuahua and Friends, Dachshund and Friends, Shiba 
 and Friends as well as the limited edition Dalmation one and the Best Friends version. Depending 
 on the different version you pick you can pick a different variety of dogs from each version, sort 
 of like Pokemon. There are dogs only seen in one version, while another version has another complete 
 different variety of dogs not seen in the other. I'm not going to name all of the dogs since it's 
 a complicated list I'm too lazy to type up, but I got the Dachshund and Friends version, so there's
 
  
  Miniature Dachshund
  Golden Retriever
  Beagle
  Pug
  Siberian Husky
  Shih Tzu
  
  I haven't gotten far in it yet, but I've played enough to know pretty much the basics of the 
 game. Basically, you just pick one of the dogs, pet them, and just play around with them, and teach 
 them commands and tricks like, sitting, waggin their tales, play dead, etc. You can command them 
 with the mic provided through the DS and call them by their name through the mic as well. The mic 
 takes time to getting use to but you'll eventually get the hang of it. I have the DS Lite version, 
 so the mic isn't as responsive as the original DS mic. It takes a few tries before the game actually 
 recognizes my voice and my Nintendog actually does the command I'd expect it to do. Basically, 
 Nintendogs is a fun-filled game for all ages. It's also good for those of you who can't afford 
 the time or who's parents wouldn't let you get a dog. Regardless of who you are, dog lovers, video 
 game-lovers, you can't go wrong with Nintendogs. I give Nintendogs a 8.6 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris0025
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  i got this game in all the hype... and i was like... DUDE... I HAVE... A FREKIN DOG... ON MY... DS!!!... AND 
 IT BARKS...*a few minutes later*DUDE I CAN... LIKE... TALK TO MY DOG... DUUUDDEE!!!*few more minutes 
 later*DUDE ITS NAME IS FLUFFY AND HE FREKIN KNOWS IT DUDE... AWESOME!!!*time passes as fluffy learns 
 new tricks, catches frisbees, goes on long walks around the town, meets new friends, has new brothers 
 and sisters, gets new rooms to play in, and wins many a contests* dude i have a frekin dog on my 
 ds... that barks.*weeks maybe months pass* dude fluffy and 7 other dogs are starving, dehydrated, 
 and they hate me.
  ^this would describe a great percentage of nintendogs owners experiences with this game. i no thats 
 how i experienced it. if you did not get wat im tryin to say, its that this game is the greatest 
 thing since sliced ham till you get so bored that you want to... grr... these actions are so violent 
 that i can not express them in a gamespot review. just... well this game isn't completely disastrous, 
 you may want to rent it first. and no im not a dog hater... i love dogs... maybe if you really love 
 dogs a lot you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_seaxx
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Dachshund and Friends 1/13/07
  
  First, before I start this review -- I have to say I have no pets at my house, so getting this 
 game was already something different. The first time I play it, it's amazing. The puppies are ADORABLE, 
 the graphics are good, the animation is done well, and the game just opens up with a warm and fuzzy 
 feeling. Then I start to talk to the puppy, which gets annoying when the speaker microphone doesn't 
 accept your words.. but nonetheless, it works fine.
  
  The next day, I start walking the dog, training it for agility, obedience, etc. Finding presents 
 and walking is all fun, especially playing with the dogs. Throwing balls, bones, feeding them, 
 it's everything you want in a dog.. cept it's virtual. But there's also one huge difference between 
 a virtual dog and a real dog. A real dog will actually nudge your shoulder when it wants to play, 
 and will lay in your lap when you feel sad. A virtual dog just barks for food and when you pet 
 it with your stylus, it's good to go.
  
  A week later, I forget that I have Nintendogs. The game's replay value is ABSOLUTELY horrible. 
 You'll love it the first time, but after getting 2-3 puppies and winning most of the contests, 
 you'll think to yourself: What else is there to do? Of course, you could try to get every breed 
 and unlimitely trade with other DS's, but that takes forever.. Connections on the game do not work 
 very well at all. Now, I contradict myself. The toys are boring. The graphics aren't inviting. 
 The puppies are annoying. Walking the dogs to let them pee and grab them with the leash no longer 
 has any entertainment. This game is more of a rent-only game, you won't want it after a week or 
 two. The sound is good, but still, it's nothing special.
  
  Of course, if you're a little kid, this game may keep you playing it for a long time. I played 
 it about 2 hours for about 4-5 days when I was really into it, but the love for this game dies 
 off after you learn that what you can do in the game is a repeat over and over and over, which 
 is why someone else on Earth right now has my game (I sold it on eBay) . However, the unique idea 
 for this is good, but it wasn't taken far enough, which is why it doesn't get my high grade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanstapler
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game that seems fun, but only stays fun for the first few hours. It doesn't really 
 have any personality to it; it's a game with dogs that you have to take care of. You can do fun 
 things with them, but it all seems more like chores rather than playing with a puppy. You can buy 
 toys and accessories, which is just about the only thing that makes the game personable. It makes 
 use of the microphone and touch screen, but even that still can't make it a worth-while game.
 
  
  I suggest if you are looking for a game to keep you entertained for a long time, this is not the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydus121212
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  for 1 week. the puppies are really cute, the first day you play this game your higly into it. gamespot 
 says its 1 player but it can be played bark mode which is 2 players.
  
  Gamplay
  
  awesome but gets boring.
  The competetions are fun but you can only do 3 times a day per dog 
 which is bad for beginers. you can only gain money that way the other ways take time. overall ok 
 7/10
  
  Graphics
  
  PUPPIES ARE SOOO CUTE.
  really nice graphics 10/10
  
  Sound
  
  the sound is good but it lacks in some part like when your walking your dog it doesent 
 really have nice tone to it. 8/10
  
  Value
  
  not worth 49.99
  should be about 34.99 or under 6/10
  and people might say its only worth 19.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natyoshi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Good: interaction with the animal is fun and enjoyable. Learning curve is fast. Each dog has it's 
 own personality which could be challenging at some point. For example when you train them to obey.
 
  
  Bad: Some times when you have passed two days without playing, it's still showing you that your 
 dog does not need to walk or to be fed. The scenery, when walking, does not change much. Comes 
 a time when your dog can take long walks, so after you've gone almost everywhere, the same scenery 
 comes back over and over.
  
  All in all, it's a very relaxing game :O) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstrife
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game gets really really old after you get every dog... every trick learned... yea once you get 
 everything it sucks. And even before you get everything it still sucks. This game is only good 
 for its graphics. Playing with your friends may seem fun, its not. For this first few minutes it 
 is, but then they just lay on the ground and do nothing! If you want real fun with a dog. Go out 
 and buy one! You'll get much more pleasure from that than this repetitive game. Another thing, 
 is your room with your 3 dogs (lame dog limitation) is very very small! Competitions may seem fun 
 at first, but get very repititve and not fun at all. In all, DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauren201294
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I got this fantastic game and a DS for my birthday at the end of 05 and I am still playing it.
 
  You start off being taken straight to the kennel to pick your first puppy. You start off with 
 6 different breeds (depending on your version.) I chose a cute female beagle.
  After that you go home and find your dog walking around looking sort of nervous. You are told to 
 play with it so it can calm down.
  Then you name the dog using the microphone. I named my beagle Suzie. You are then taught how to 
 teach it tricks.
  There is a whole lot of other stuff you can do as well.
  You can take your dog for a walk and find lots of cool presents and other Non-Playable puppies 
 for your dog to play with.
  Then there are 3 different competitions your pup can enter: Obedience, Disk, and Agility.
  The 
 most interesting thing about Nintendogs is that the game uses the touch screen for almost all of 
 the game. I would recommend this game to people who cant have dogs. Especially kids aged 10-15. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Another game for Nintendo's little handheld. This game is a sim game that has you being the owner 
 of a dog. You would think that sounds stupid and it really isn't. Nintendo has something special 
 with this game. During gameplay you are the owner of a new puppy. Throughout the game you get to 
 actually get to do everything you could really do with a pet minus the burial when you don't feed 
 it for a couple of weeks. But anyway you get to feed, water, bathe, and play with the dog. The 
 best part though is getting to play with the dog. You can treat the dog tricks and enter in competitions. 
 This is one of the key ways to do anything in this game since you will need money on here to get 
 new dogs and things for the dogs. Also during gameplay you can look around for the game for easter 
 eggs for other games such as Mario Kart, Pikmin, and others. Some of the most fun thoughs comes 
 during the games multiplayer, called Bark mode. Through bark mode you get to play with other players 
 in different copies of the game and unlock new dogs and get gifts. Also a neat feature is that 
 the game keeps a list of visits from other dogs that you meet. Also something that was fun in the 
 game was walking your dog. You can find presents and meet other dogs through the walks. You can 
 go to the park and shop while out on these walks. Also the more walks you go on the longer your 
 dog can walk. But this game isn't all good. Sometimes the mic features don't work well and the 
 dogs don't always listen. Also after a couple of weeks this game will get alittle boring if you 
 don't have friends to play with. Graphics in this game were susprising to me. I thought that they 
 wouldn't be that great since it is a handheld game but they were actually decent. The areas in 
 the walk look decent also the houses you can get look good. The toys have been modeled well too. 
 The only real problems I had with the graphics in this one would be sometimes the graphics seem 
 a little bit dated and some things look blocky at times, like the dogs. The graphics aren't perfect 
 but they aren't the worse I have seen on any consle. Sound in this game is pretty good. This there 
 is music that plays through the game and you can find different music to play during the game if 
 you unlock it. The dogs sound like you would expect. Also most of the items make realistic sounds 
 if you play with them. But they aren't great because like in any game if you here them to many 
 times they will drive you crazy and it happens here because of the dogs contast barking which can 
 cause you to get mad that you got the game. Overall this is a decent game for the DS. If you can't 
 get a dog because you are responible this is a good way to teach people you are also if you are 
 just to cheap to buy a real dog this can be a good sub. But overall this game is great for the 
 first 20 or 30 hours (The hours rack up fast one this game, trust me) this will get bored and will 
 want to do something else. But because of the responsiblity you have to have to play this game 
 it isn't for everyone but most people will like it for there DS. Great but not for everyone, I 
 give this game a 8.4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Letamorph22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is so life like. If you can't get a dog in real life this is the perfect game for you. 
 The dogs are so real its amazing. All the unlockables in this game are really good. If you really 
 like the more action game that is not really time consuming then you may want to rent this game 
 before you buy it. You may never know you could love it or dislike it. In this game even though 
 you can only have up to 3 dogs in your house at one time but by the help of the pet hotel you can 
 have up to 11 I think. The stylus really helps because it is just like your hand if you had a real 
 dog. This game is awesome and in my opinion surpasses all the other Nintendogs games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavioviana
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  The 3d puppies are so lifelike that they&acute; re scarry. The way tey interact with the stilus 
 is so well made that you actually feel like you are playing with them, you will get surprised often 
 as their personality starts to show. Some will be highly energetic while others will like to spend 
 time playing alone with a toy. The pull rope is the most awesome toy since you can pull it up and 
 the puppies will hang while biting on it and you can spin it around until they let go. They absolutely 
 love it. My only complaint is that it takes forever to unlock the higher breeds, especially the 
 Jack Russel Terrier. I think i&acute; ve unlocked every breed but this one seems impossible! The 
 game is very addictive and has a 5 minute learning curve. I highly recommend it to people of all 
 ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusedbird
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a really good game. It teaches you responsibility to take care of a dog. Anyone can 
 play it, because it's rated E. It's a great game, and never gets old. Need 100 words so: Great 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat 
 gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat gameGreat game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs, is a game where you can raise up to three dogs at a time. its just like taking care 
 of a real puppy. you feed it all these different kinds of dog foods as your rank goes up. You can 
 give the puppies milk or water. and when they get gross or dirty you can bathe them. There is a wide 
 variety to choose from when your picking your dream pup out. You eventually become attached to the 
 puppy as will the dog. You can teach it different tricks from beg to howl. Which will be used in 
 Obedience trails where the judge grades how well trained/groomed your dog is. You can take your 
 dog for a walk to let it go be or sniff the neighbor's dog butt. as you walk your dog you can find 
 presents on the ground that contain many different valuables. Playing Frisbee is a big thing in 
 nintendogs. When you have trained your pup just right playing Frisbee, your can take it to the 
 competition where it competes against other puppies in frisbee. When you make money you can buy 
 upgrades to your house , so you have more room to play with your puppies. This game is a great game, 
 and everyone should get this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with trade-in credit, so I don't feel very regretful of the purchase. Had I 
 straight-up bought the game, I would have asked for my 35 bucks back. I picked up the game expecting 
 a deep, and immersive dog-raising sim. I had seen the review scores, (which were decent) , but I 
 hadn't read the entire review. This I regret. The game starts out fairly innocently. You pick out 
 your dopey, yet adorable puppy, and learn how to train it within a few minutes. You take it for 
 a walk and play with a few sparse items. All seems well. The second day that you play, you decide 
 to enter your puppy into a frisbee competition, because it's really easy. This is where the game 
 falls completely on it's cute face. Nintendogs throws arbitrary limitations at you; only three 
 competitions a day, and you have to wait 30 minutes between walks. Keep in mind that these two 
 activities are the only worthwhile ones in the ENTIRE game!! Sure, you can train your dog, but 
 even that is limited to three a day. Why, Nintendo, why? I would have loved this game, oh-so-more 
 had there been an actual GAME inside.
  What a pity...
  
  P. S. - I traded it in and got Metroid Prime 2- a game with A LOT of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChubbyPhil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs might seem like a very wussy -like type of game, but it truly is the next best thing 
 if you aren't allowed any pets. In Nintendogs, the player basically gets to do everything a pet 
 owner, or even a trainer, gets to do. The dog must be nurtured by getting fed, bathed, walked, 
 or played with whenever necessary. In this game, the player is allowed to purchase as many dogs 
 possible, but only three of them are allowed to be home with the player. If there are more, some 
 of them will have to stay at the Dog Hotel. This game is incredible because it almost feels like 
 the dogs actually have real feelings and knows whether the player care about him or her enough 
 by reacting toward the player accordingly. If the dog is happy with the way he or she is being 
 treated, the player's commands will actually be more effective. In this game, there are actually 
 competitions to compete in also. Of course, the player must prepare the dogs by training them first. 
 For example, if the player is planning on competing in the Disc Competition, the player has to 
 train with the dog at the dog by playing frisbee. Depending on how good the player is with his 
 or her dog, the dog might actually be a fast learner and master it quickly. As much fun as the 
 game might sound, it will become repetitive after a few days, or even weeks. Although this game 
 might have quite a few dogs to choose from and unlock to buy, there is still not enough for a true 
 dog lover to choose from. Where is my Rottweiller? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhedgehog148
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. I still play it to this day. How could you not, with it's excellent variety 
 of gameplay elements, such as dog breeds, toys, food, and acccesories? There's only a few downsides 
 to it, so let's press on.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10. Let's just say this: If you like puppies, you'll love the gameplay. Although at 
 first it seems you'll never get the hang of it, you will feel like a master within 30 minutes. 
 The two screens make everything better, because even if you're preparing your puppy's next delish 
 meal, you can still keep an eye on the little devil (or devils!) . And touch control feels great 
 and realistic, like you're really petting a dog, or holding his leash. The voice reconition system 
 works really well, and really brings the game in general.
  
  Graphics- 10/10 Incredibly realistic graphics that make the whole thing seem even more realistic- 
 from puppies, to toys, to the accessories, everything feels good about it!
  
  Sound- 7/10 The only downside to this game! But really, I'm talking about the music, because it 
 gets very repetitive after you play for a while. The sound effects, such as squeaks, barks, and 
 howls, are amazingly lifelike.
  
  Value- 10/10 It's one of those games you'll go back to again and again, whether it's to feed your 
 little charge or to enter a competition, you'll definatly come back
  
  Sound good? I hope so, because it was awesome to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 2.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is fun for a week.......... then that's it. Not fun anymore. All you do is go to a kennel, 
 buy a dog, feed it, clean it, walk it, train it, &amp; have competitions. That's about it. that's 
 your game summary right there. Once you've done all of those (which takes about a day btw) the 
 game is over. It gets really boring cus you do the same thing over &amp; over again.
  Gameplay: Pretty bad. Like i said, the game is over once it starts.
  Graphics: ok for a DS game
 
  Sound: really isn't much music besides the sound of your dog barking
  value: worth about 5 dollars (that's a $25 loss!)
  Overall the game sucks, &amp; I hated it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramseyT
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I felt a little weird buying this game, being the 14 year old teen who shouldnt show any sighns 
 of girlyness, and the cover of this game just screems sissy. I bought the game to see what all 
 the hype was about. Upon starting playing I soon became asorbed in all thats to do in the game. 
 You can teach your dog tricks, play fetch, do contests, and many other things with your dogs. Its 
 about the only game so far thats made a good use of the microphone besides elcectroplakten, I found 
 very cool to shout my dogs name and see it come running to me. I also thought the models of the 
 dogs and the envirerment looked crisp and sharp. Theres a lot of replay in the game and the game 
 doesnt require a lot of time to be put in it. You generally only need to play 10-15 minutes every 
 day or so to raise a good dog but youll probably find yourself playing more then that. Sure theres 
 not violance at all in the game, but the game has a real mellow tone to it thats quite appeling. 
 The game may come across a little girly at first but this game is truelly for everyone so dont 
 overlook it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Pros: Wonderful life-like puppies, Nice graphics, good use of the touch screen and mic, voice commands.
 
  
  Cons: Can be quite restrictive, so not good to play for a long time at once, (ex: Can only walk 
 the dog once every 30 minutes, Can only enter contests three times a day, and can only train pet 
 so much in a day) interest in the voice commands wears off.
  
  I heard alot of hype for this game, so I caved in and got it with my ds lite. That was a mistake.
 
  Fun use of the mic, as you can call your dog once he/she has learned her/his name. Also nice voice 
 commands, and training can be fun. You can use the stylus to pet your dog, such as when they are 
 obedient. The limitations of the game are annoying, and after a while the fascination with the 
 voice commands and stylus use wear off until there isn't much to do with the game..... and on top 
 of that, the voice commands are glitchy, sometimes the dog will even do something completely different 
 from what you commanded.
  
  The contests are fun to enter, but the fun of those wears off too. I adore dogs, and even I think 
 this game is boring. I would rather just play with my real dogs. o_O All in all, if you don't have 
 a real dog I guess this would be ok to get, but if you have a real dog or are looking for something 
 to play for longer than a few minutes a day, this game isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -____________-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  It was fun for a little while, I loved the cute little puppies! It was fun to make my dogs enter 
 agility because I love the time, messing up, and beating the other dogs challenge. The dogs are 
 so cute in Nintendogs! I L O V E D O G S! I am just writing this because it wont let me send if 
 I don't have at least 100 words but my reveiw is It was fun for a little while, I loved the cute 
 little puppies! It was fun to make my dog enter agility because I love the time challenge, messing 
 up challenge, and beating the other dogs. The dogs in Nintendogs are so cute! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel-Gamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Overall: 9.2/10
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Control: 9
  Sound: 9
  Length / Replay Value: 9
  Value: 10
  
  Hits:
  + Cool idea for the Nintendo DS
  + Nice 
 choice of dog breeds
  + Bark Mode is kinda cool
  
  Misses:
  - Voice recognition is alittle off
  - Gets repetitive
  - Bark Mode could be better
  
  So 
 in Nintendogs: Dachshund and Friends you get the chance to own your own virtual puppy on the Nintendo 
 DS. You start the game by appearing in the pound and choosing a breed and picking your puppy. Then 
 you will be at your home, which for about half - three quarters of the game you spend your time, 
 playing or training your dog.
  
  Basically this is just like having a dog except not. For all you kids that aren't aloud dogs cause 
 your parents think your irresponsible or your living with a cat lady, this is your calling. You 
 will be able to do a very wide variety of stuff to do with your dog such as wash him, play with 
 him you even have to go the extra length to pick up after him when on a walk. You will also even 
 be able to use Bark Mode and hook up with other dogs. Though each person with the DS cant really 
 communicate in the game since hooking up doesnt connect the DS's fully it only uploads their dog 
 for you to play with and vice versa. By doing this your friends list will expand and you will get 
 more trainer points which can be used to unlock stuff.
  
  The main point of the game is to train your dog to perform and learn tricks. To teach him/her a 
 trick you must perform diffrent stylus commands on the screen such as push the dogs head down for 
 it to sit or grab its tail for the dog to chase it. You get to learn up to 15 tricks but the training 
 book you get in the game only teaches you about 7, the rest you have to figure out which can be 
 very hard. You can also go to parks and The Agility Training place to train your dog in areas of 
 all the competitions which include Obidience - Performing tricks like sit and lie down, Agility 
 - You must walk the dog through tube and fences to jump over and Disc - you throw a frisby and 
 your dog must catch it. Winning these will get you money in which you can use to buy toys, treats, 
 more dogs or towards the fines you get for not picking up after your dog which it decides to answer 
 natures call.
  
  The graphics do look pretty good, especially the ares you go to. Your house is always clean and 
 shiny and you can even get 3 diffrent styles of houses in which they all look very nice. Every 
 now and then though you will see some pixelated stuff. Other than that this game look very well 
 done.
  
  With control it could use some work. everything in this game is used by the stylus and appearently 
 the mic. You make your dog perform its tricks by the stylus and speaking into the mic so it remembers 
 the comand. Though if you want him/her to do the trick just by saying it, nothing will happen. 
 That leads into the Obidience competition, in which you have to say the command, though most of 
 the time my dog just did shake, so the voice recognition isnt the best. Some times I even just 
 shouted a random word and my dog understood it as lie down. So basically all you use is the Stylus, 
 there is not one point in which you will use any of the DS's buttons.
  
  The sound is pretty good. Like you can hear your dog bark and growl but thats about it besides 
 the constant elevator music in the background that repeats. Which is what the game will start to 
 feel like after about 2-3 weeks of playing this game - repetitive. once you teach your dog all 
 the tricks and have done a couple of the copetitions, you probably wont be playing it as much as 
 you did when you first bought it. Though it is worth getting just to see how this game works and 
 is pretty fun, you probably wont ever really shelve it, since you will probably wanna throw a ball 
 or feed your dog every now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoned_out14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one of the greatest DS games ever. It has a very good gameplay. This game is really 
 really addictive. So read my rating of Nintendogs. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10: The gameplay was obvisoly a 10 on here. You can choose between a bunch of breeds 
 of dogs. You can train your puppy to do tricks, find hidden items on walks, go in dog shows and 
 do much more when you play this game. What's not to like about this game?
  
  Graphics 9/10: These graphics were really great. Sometimes your dog would actully look like a real 
 dog they did these graphics so well. These graphics are not perfect but there all most there.
 
  
  Sound 10/10: The sounds and sound effects were really good on here. I loved the music for this 
 game it just was so great. I love the sound effects in this game they are just so cool!
  
  Value 10/10: 30 bucks for this!? That's a pretty good deal they gave me on this game. It is just 
 priced so well.
  
  See you all next reveiw.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowXsora
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a good game, but it lacks in some major areas, so it gets boring very quickly.
  
  Gameplay:7/10
  The dogs will keep you saying oh they're so cute for about 3 days and then 
 you will get bored of this game because of it's lack of content. You can only enter each dog in 
 3 contests per day, you can only take it on a walk every half hour, and you can only go so far 
 when you walk the dog. These limitations are what will bore most people. But what it does have 
 is an innovative interface when you are "at home" that allows you to pet the dog, teach it tricks 
 and play with it.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  For a DS game, the graphics of Nintendogs are very good. They resemble late Playstation. Which 
 is what a DS game should look like.
  
  Sound:8/10
  There is not much audio in this game but what is there is pretty good. There is not very much music, 
 but the few tracks it does have are enjoyable to hear, the first couple of times. You will hear 
 the same music so much that it will drive you nuts. And the incessant barking of the damn dog is 
 enough to drive a sane person crazy. I mean the first couple of times the dog barks is okay, but 
 they wind up barking like 10 times and it is very annoying at times.
  
  Value:8/10
  The game is not worth its $35 price tag, so if you can find a copy used get it, but if you get 
 it new you will regret spending the money unless you don't get bored within the first week.
  
  Overall:8.2/10
  The game is good, but it has so many flaws that it is not really worth its 
 price. If you want it wait until it comes down in price first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PShack
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Do NOT buy this game if you have a real dog. If you do, you will be disappointed.
  
  Like anyone who owns this game, I was instantly hooked. Of course, it was also my first DS game. 
 After a few days, i found this game completely boring. The only really good thing about this game 
 is the graphics. They are great, but i don't buy games just because of good graphics. It is also 
 difficult to train your dogs. I didn't really care for the sound, and the value is next to nothing 
 to me. If this game had Wi-fi it would be a thousand times better. Also, it is a disapointment, 
 I think, that we have digital dogs, because we are to lazy to take care of real ones. This is not 
 a good game for kids, because they will want a real dog if they don't have one already, and when 
 they get a real dog, they will expect it to be perfect. It is also lazy, because you have to take 
 real dogs on walks, and outside to go potty. In the game, you just have to use your stylus. To 
 date, i haven't played this game for more than a couple of hours, and haven't played it at all 
 in the past six months.
  
  I have two dogs, and believe me, they are not perfect, but still, they are more warm and cuddly 
 than a game cartridge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game before my pre-order of DS Lite actually arrived. I had heard it's a good game, 
 but I had no idea it was this cute. I love dogs, but I don't own one because they're smelly.. And 
 I can tell you this, that this is the closest thing you can get to having a dog without actually 
 having a dog. The graphics are beautiful, the dogs are cute, the interface is straight forward, 
 the voice recognition is great, and there are a bunch of fun thing to do. You can comepete in obedience 
 contests, Frisbee test or agility test. You can change your room, you can buy food, or stuff to 
 decorate your dog with. You can feed him, pet him, teach him tricks, play with him, brush him, 
 and wash him. Anyways this game is one of the funnest, most addictive, and innovative games I have 
 seen to date.. If you are a DS owner, you need to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  if you MUST ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO BUY THIS GAME. Rent it first. I trust you. after about 4 days to 
 a week you will get very BORED. Rent it first. if you are satisfied, buy it. Graphics and sound 
 are decent but everything else is soooooo repetitive and crappy. RENT IT. have i mentioned that 
 you will love it for a day or two but then get very bored. I am a dog lover but this game does 
 not love me. Beleive me i was HOOKED to it the first couple of days. then everything was just getting 
 the same like feed, walk, competition, feed, walk, competition every single day. It is fun to play 
 with your puppies though.
  
  Well i guess the game isn't that bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazewind191
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs was one of the more highly anticipated games that were coming up for the Nintendo DS. 
 The game even has three versions of itself: Dachshund, Chihuahua, and Labrador. You can have quite 
 a number of these realitic dogs and they will never die or get older. They will always stay as 
 puppies!
  
  Like a real dog, these dogs are nervous on their first day with their new owner and new home. However 
 after a while, they start to get used to its new environment and are also well behaved. But being 
 a virtual version of a real dog, the dog has its flaws. It needs near constant attention. If left 
 unattended, the dog will starve and even catch fleas. They even have feelings such as being afraid 
 or being angry.
  
  The fun part of owning a dog is entering contests. Your dog can enter agility, disc catching, and 
 obedience contests. Depending on its rank, you get lots of money to buy either a new home or items 
 for your dog. The obedience contest is probably the most aggravating because it's hard for your 
 dog to respond to a recorded voice of your's. The dog can learn many tricks such as handstands, 
 chasing its tail, rolling over, or just plain sitting.
  
  Depending on your dog's breed varies t\your dog's abilities. Dachshunds have short legs and therefore 
 cannot jump very well.
  
  Another nice touch to the game is its Bark Mode. When your DS is put to sleep and comes near a 
 person who also has a Nintendogs, your DS will "bark" informing you that there is another person 
 with the game. The dogs can play around with eachother.
  
  Nintendogs is an excellent game. Many people may find this addicting and can have lots of fun with 
 their dog. The game doesn't only appeal to dog owners and dog lovers, but to even people who don't 
 own dogs. Nintendogs has such a solid presentation that it's like yo uactually own a pet in real 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludadav
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs was my first anticipation of the ds. Once I heard about it at E3 videos a while back 
 I counted down the days till this game came out. To me, it's probably the most creative concept 
 on the ds.
  
  ---Gameplay
  Most all of the gameplay is interacting with your puppy or puppies. At the beginning of the game 
 you arrive at the pet store with enough money to buy your first dog. Since I bought the dachshund 
 version I bought a male beagle. Then you go back to your house and name your pet using the microphone. 
 This is a cool concept because you can now call your dogs name and it will come to you.
  
  --Microphone uses
  The microphone is a main feature with nintendogs. Calling your dogs name is 
 one thing, but what about teaching it tricks? You can teach it tricks by using the stylus to "position" 
 your dog. What I mean is you can, for example, wipe the stylus down the dog and he/she will sit. 
 Now a little light bulb will flash above their head. Touch the bulb and a voice recorder will show 
 up. You can then record voice messages like "sit," "down," or "roll over." The dog will then do 
 the trick to your command which is just like a real dog.
  
  --Stylus uses
  The stylus is for: petting you dog, throwing objects, walking your dog, washing your dog, and competitions.
 
  
  Using the stylus to throw objects like frisbees or tennis balls is another way to interact with 
 you dog. You can throw a ball in your house and the puppy will retrieve it and bring it back to 
 you. You can also throw a frisbie in the park and your dog might catch it if its a good throw.
 
  
  Walking your dog is a way to keep it active. Yes, your dog will go to the bathroom and your will 
 have to pick it up by simply tapping it. But before the walk its self you have to plan it. You 
 can use the stylus to plan your path according to your dogs energy. The more walks you talk the 
 longer you can go. As you mark the path there will be question marks which if you walk by you could 
 either get a random present or meet another dog. You can also go to the park which is a place to 
 use your frisbie, the gym to train your dog for competitions, or the discount store. Walking your 
 dog is a cool concept that makes nintendogs a great interactive game.
  
  Walking your dog is dirty work, and to much dirt means bath time. First you cover your dog with 
 soap and bubbles using the stylus. Then you wash your dog using the rinsing tool. Once your dog 
 is squeaky clean you can brush it down. Washing and brushing your dog is different between long 
 and short hair dogs. Depending on what dog you bought you will have to buy short or long hair soap 
 and brush.
  
  Competitions are the main way to get money. There is a frisbie throwing contest where you throw 
 the frisbie and depending on how far you throw it and if your dog catches it you get more points. 
 There is an obstacle course where you jump over bars, cross teeter-totters, and run through tubes 
 all using the stylus. And there is a trick contest where judges ask you to preform tricks and depending 
 on how fast and accurate the tricks are you get more points.
  
  -Graphics
  The dogs look nicely done and the backrounds and rooms look great. Not anything to mind-blowing 
 about the graphics, just good overall.
  
  -Sound
  Hearing the dogs bark really brings the game to life, but not anything else special really.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  As a person who was looking forward to Nintendogs for a couple of months, I was disapointed in 
 the outcome. You may be saying "What's not to like?" But after a while, how fun can yelling at 
 sightly dim-witted animal that barely ever understands you, scrapping around for money to get a 
 FRIGGIN Better dog, and wondering why you didn't get a different version of the game..... I'm not 
 going to say "Dont buy it" because it IS a neat little time burner, but I think that nintendo could 
 have done better, oh well, there's Animal Crossing this Holiday.... Whoot
  
  The Presenation is sometimes confusing and a little annoying, but overall pretty good. This game 
 will shant become boring, you'll keep coming back to your furry friend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nytroxx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs was my first anticipation of the ds. Once I heard about it at E3 videos a while back 
 I counted down the days till this game came out. To me, it's probably the most creative concept 
 on the ds.
  
  ---Gameplay
  Most all of the gameplay is interacting with your puppy or puppies. At the beginning of the game 
 you arrive at the pet store with enough money to buy your first dog. Since I bought the dachshund 
 version I bought a male beagle. Then you go back to your house and name your pet using the microphone. 
 This is a cool concept because you can now call your dogs name and it will come to you.
  
  --Microphone uses
  The microphone is a main feature with nintendogs. Calling your dogs name is 
 one thing, but what about teaching it tricks? You can teach it tricks by using the stylus to "position" 
 your dog. What I mean is you can, for example, wipe the stylus down the dog and he/she will sit. 
 Now a little light bulb will flash above their head. Touch the bulb and a voice recorder will show 
 up. You can then record voice messages like "sit," "down," or "roll over." The dog will then do 
 the trick to your command which is just like a real dog.
  
  --Stylus uses
  The stylus is for: petting you dog, throwing objects, walking your dog, washing your dog, and competitions.
 
  
  Using the stylus to throw objects like frisbees or tennis balls is another way to interact with 
 you dog. You can throw a ball in your house and the puppy will retrieve it and bring it back to 
 you. You can also throw a frisbie in the park and your dog might catch it if its a good throw.
 
  
  Walking your dog is a way to keep it active. Yes, your dog will go to the bathroom and your will 
 have to pick it up by simply tapping it. But before the walk its self you have to plan it. You 
 can use the stylus to plan your path according to your dogs energy. The more walks you talk the 
 longer you can go. As you mark the path there will be question marks which if you walk by you could 
 either get a random present or meet another dog. You can also go to the park which is a place to 
 use your frisbie, the gym to train your dog for competitions, or the discount store. Walking your 
 dog is a cool concept that makes nintendogs a great interactive game.
  
  Walking your dog is dirty work, and to much dirt means bath time. First you cover your dog with 
 soap and bubbles using the stylus. Then you wash your dog using the rinsing tool. Once your dog 
 is squeaky clean you can brush it down. Washing and brushing your dog is different between long 
 and short hair dogs. Depending on what dog you bought you will have to buy short or long hair soap 
 and brush.
  
  Competitions are the main way to get money. There is a frisbie throwing contest where you throw 
 the frisbie and depending on how far you throw it and if your dog catches it you get more points. 
 There is an obstacle course where you jump over bars, cross teeter-totters, and run through tubes 
 all using the stylus. And there is a trick contest where judges ask you to preform tricks and depending 
 on how fast and accurate the tricks are you get more points.
  
  -Graphics
  The dogs look nicely done and the backrounds and rooms look great. Not anything to mind-blowing 
 about the graphics, just good overall.
  
  -Sound
  Hearing the dogs bark really brings the game to life, but not anything else special really.
  
 
  In conclusion, nintendogs is a highly interactive game you'll play for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game may look boring, dumb, only for girls, and much more but trust me it is exactly the opposite. 
 This game is a really good game about you buying a dog which you can do many things with like walk 
 it, dress it, feed it, and much more.
  
  Gameplay: The game uses absolutely no buttons so even if you have never played a video game before 
 this is a good place to start. The game is very addistive so beware!!! ( In the good way) .
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing. That's all I have to say on that.
  
  Sound: The dog 
 barking is sort of unrealistic but you can tell its a bark. The music is basically soooooo soft 
 that you can't hear it or I am deaf or I am to busy playing that I don't pay attention to it.
 
  
  Value: The game is going to stay in your DS for at least two weeks for someone who hates the game.
 
  
  Tilt: It is amazing 'cause there is so much to do like try to collect all the items, unlock every 
 dog and much more.
  
  Overall the game is great and you must buy it. The only flaw is that the only way to earn money 
 is to enter contests and winbut you can only enter three contests a day and the only one which 
 you could get first in is the disk catching contest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pizzamanopenup
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  So, nintendo decided to make a game about dogs. Why they chose to base owning, training, competing, 
 feeding dogs etc, around an entire game is beyond me. There are tons of different dogs to buy, 
 tons of accessories, tons of everything in the game... but after owning it for just a few days I 
 don't even want to pick it up anymore. It gets old SO fast. All you ever really want to do in it 
 as a game is compete in competitions and go on walks so you can find little nick nacks and trinkets 
 to use with your dogs, but you can only go on a walk every half hour, and you can only enter 3 
 competitions a day, which arent even fun if you're serious about them.... and there's no way to 
 go about a competition without being serious, because they are timed, and frustrating, and they 
 pay cash if you win.
  
  So, it takes a ton of money to buy pretty much anything besides food and toys, and you don't really 
 even want the food and toys that the games sells. You want the good stuff that you find on the 
 ground during walks, but again, you can only go for walks every half hour. Yes, the game features 
 a clock, with the REAL time. So when I say a half hour, I mean a half hour. But in a decent sense, 
 you can build your dog's stamina up to go on longer walks. Yet again, the more your stamina, the 
 further spaced out the trinkets/toys are, and you can still only get a few for every walk. This 
 game really contradicts itself in a lot of areas. And on top of even THAT, the voice commands are 
 absolutely horrid. My dogs easily confuse all of their commands. For instance, if you teach your 
 dog to sit, it will learn it fairly easy if it's the only trick your dog knows. However, if you 
 try to teach it to beg, it will most likely get the command mixed up and think you're telling it 
 to sit. So, in turn, you have to teach it something that doesn't sound like beg or sit. (Because 
 they already sound so alike) . Instead, say "Beg for me" and sound like an idiot. This aspect of 
 the game also makes it pretty hard to play it in public as well, because you're constantly repeating 
 yourself and trying to get your dogs to obey you, which can be a little embarassing if anyone else 
 is around. (Trust me, they'll stare)
  I feel nintendo could have made this a better game had they stripped it of it's difficulty, sold 
 it cheaper, refined voice mechanics, and took out daily restrictions (3 contests a day, Walks every 
 Half Hour) . Basically, they've got quite a lot to improove on, and I don't see how all this stuff 
 could have possibly slipped by gamespot, who, in retrospect gave it a 9. Not to be sexest, but 
 way to go boys, next time have an Un-biased guy review it, because I'm sure he'd think differently 
 then Bethany Massimilla about a game about puppies. With the small amount of boring crap you can 
 do in the game, it really just feels like an overblown tech demo, kind of like Eye Toy for PS2 
 if you've ever played it. So, if you absolutlely love dogs, and you have a staggaring 30 bucks 
 you eagerly want to waste, get Nintendogs. If not, by all means, avoid this game at all costs, 
 because it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrmgamer206
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great game! I mean, who doesn't love puppies that you can pet, train, take to competitions, 
 take on a walk, and love like the real thing. You heard me right, you can do all of those things, 
 along with much more.
  
  You pick a puppy from many different breeds (later on, you can unlock more to buy) . You give it 
 a name by saying it in the DS's Mic. and it will respond to it. You can teach it tricks by using 
 the mic. also. When you take the dog on walks, it will encounter other dogs, trash, and presents! 
 But, like all real puppies, you must feed them, and play with them.
  
  You earn money in the game by winning: Disc Competitions (which is where you throw the frisbee 
 to your dog) Obedience Trials (which is where they have to do tricks like lie down, roll over, 
 shake etc.) and Agility Contests (which is where your dog races over obsticles) .
  
  The graphics and interactivity in this game are great! It never gets old seeing your puppy bark, 
 then run away from the R/C Helicopter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is one of Miyamoto's biggest project yet. Nintendogs is some sort of a modern Tamagotchi 
 but with dogs. In each versions ( there are 3 of them ) you've got 6 different breed. In this one 
 you've got : a Miniature Dachshund, a Golden Retriever, a Beagle, a Pug, a Siberian Husky and a 
 Shih Tzu. This game is one heck of an innovative one.
  
  - Gameplay -
  
  Completely stunning ! This game uses only the touch screen to control. You can use the touch screen 
 to play catch with your dog ( with a ball, frisbee or any other object ) , you can even completely 
 tap your dog. You can also take your dog for a walk and even teach it tricks with your own voice 
 ( thanks to the microphone ) and it'll recognize only your voice and no other. The Gameplay is 
 simply perfect !
  
  - Graphics -
  
  Wow, now these are some pretty neat graphics. This game definitely doesn't fail in the graphics 
 department, I never thought my DS could render such beautiful graphics but I've got this feeling 
 like it could have been better. I didn't encounter any sort of glitch so I think it should be a 
 feast to your eyes.
  
  - Sound - 
  
  There is almost no music in that game. Well maybe I could say that there is absolutely no music 
 in the game ( except for the opening screen and all the other little sounds ) . Other then that, 
 sound in this game has a pretty much good quality.
  
  - Value -
  
  This game is definitely worth to play, that's a fact, but for some people ( including me ) the 
 game gets a bit boring after a month. But when you first get the game, it's absolutely amazing, 
 but after 2-3 weeks you won't be playing it anymore.
  
  This game has a stunning gameplay, impressive graphics, good quality sounds and a replay value 
 that is not so good. I would say that this game is worth a purchase but not to everybody, if you 
 want this game then you really have to love those simulators. I really enjoyed Nintendogs but, 
 like I said earlier, it got boring after 2-3 weeks. The game is simply genius but make sure you 
 love that kind of game before buying it !
  
  Thank You for reading my review !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnolio369
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When playing Nintendogs the first thing to come to mind was "Nintendo you've done it again"
  
  One of the reasons its SOOOOOO good is they get a very cool idea and make it so straight forward, 
 all you do is pick it up and touch and pet your dog.
  
  You can choose from a list of 8 dogs (each different depending on what version you get) but as 
 you progress more breeds become available until you can get any breed from all 3 versions!
  
  Once you choose a dog all you do is name it, call it by its name until he learns it, teach it 
 sit and your off to do what ever else you want to do. You can go and enter competitions too: Disc 
 competitions, Agility trials and Obedience trials.
  
  You use the touch screen to do the following things: pet your dog, scrub and clean your dog, through 
 balls and other items for you dog, take him on walks, and the list goes on, but you also use the 
 microphone to teach your dog tricks and call his name. Saying all that i can safely say its the 
 most interactive game to date on any console.
  
  As well the graphics, gameplay and sound on Nintendogs are amazing! i own a dog and i honestly 
 can't tell the difference between my real dog and my dog in Nintendogs, my dog in Nintendogs looks, acts, learns, 
 sounds and reacts just like a real dog, but thankfully he doesn't smell like a real dog!
  
  If you don't have or not allowed a dog, why not get the next best thing? Nintendogs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I mean, I played this game and some things were as good as I suspected, some things were worse, 
 and some things were better. Here are the things:
  
  Bad: You can only do a certain amount of stuff A DAY! Like you can only train him like 2 or 3 tricks 
 per day, and only 3 contests a day! I wouldn't mind an hour but a day is just crazy!
  
  Bad: It takes too long to train your dog tricks! Like teaching his name took me like 20 minutes 
 or so! 
  
  Great: They're aren't many games with the microphone, and this game really takes advantage of it!
 
  
  Great: There are alot of types of dogs you can buy in one game!
  
  Great: The whole point of teaching kids the responsibilties there are of having a dog! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_Slayer347
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs, a pet sim in which you take care of dogs, is a breath of fresh air. When you first 
 start up Ninendogs, you are prompted to look at, or buy a dog. Once you buy a dog, the real fun 
 begins. 
  
  You first have to teach the dog it's name by talking into the DS's microphone. This is either a 
 frustrating or any easy task, depending on the dog you have chosen. You will then have to teach 
 it how to sit. After this you are free to do whatever you feel like with your dogs. 
  
  There are plenty of things to do in the world of Nintendogs. Walking your dogs is an important 
 thing to do. On walks, you will meet other dogs as well as find objects on the floor wrapped like 
 a present. You can find so many random things it's not even funny. One problem though, you repediatly 
 get the same objects over and over again, which sucks because there are so many items available.
 
  
  In order to get money, which you need to buy supplies and get a new house, you must enter contests. 
 The contests are fun and require you to practice for you to even stand a chance as you climb into 
 the higher ranks. There are three types of contests, disc competitions, agility trials and obedience 
 trials. The disc competition is the easiest.
  
  There is a multi-player feature available called bark mode. When you enter bark mode, your DS will 
 search for other people using bark mode. This cant be done on a hand-held like the GBA, because 
 you use a wireless feature. Anyway, once you locate someone in bark mode, your dog and there dog 
 will play with each other. This is a very cool feature.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs is an excellent game. It uses the DS's capabilities to the fullest. You will 
 have to pet your dog with the stylus, talk into the microphone, throw stuff using the stylus and 
 much, much more. If you have a DS, pick this one up.
  
  Pros:
  
  Graphics 
  Replayibilty 
  Interactivity
  Cons:
  
  Gets repetitive
  Overall: 9.0
  
  ~Vincent~
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game really is new and original it just didn't last. For the first few weeks or so that i 
 played it I trained Taco to win every race, competition and got everything for him. But eventually 
 it gets old. After a while I just don't wanna feed it every day when there is no more money coming 
 in and i have better things to do then tend to a virtual dog. I need to tend more to my real dog. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: VERY cute little puppies (awwwww)
  
  SOUND: nothing really revolutionary here i didn't notice anything special
  
  VALUE: might as 
 well buy it unless you're really poor
  
  REPLAYABILITY: extremely low nothing to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If your parents wont get you a dog its probaly because they think your iresponsible or if your 
 allergic to dogs this game is all the fun of having a dog without all the mess. There should have 
 bin alot more things to do than just feedind and playing etc. I say when you go in bark mode you 
 should be able to talk to the other trainers. This DS game has the over -all best graphics ive 
 seen. The use of the stylus is phenomenal and the RC items you can get are great when you use the 
 buttons. The dogs dont age which is bad because if your gonna get a dog you wont be ready for its 
 death when it gets older. There are also more breeds to be on this game and when you want a breed 
 from your friend you can only have the first breed they bring. And they should Fancy up the compotitions 
 and add a dressy type look compotition. They should also include a Vet. And your Puppy should get 
 sick at least once in your game. And when it gets dirty it should show more darkness in its coat. 
 But over all itsa a good game but i got bored of it and started over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great video game, that basically no one can resist. It's very different than most 
 games I've seen out there, and definitely the best pet game. Even the title is creative: Nintendogs. 
 I enjoyed, since I am a dog lover myself. There are lots of breeds to choose from, and each dog 
 has it's own personality. Some are smart, and some are athletic. There is a lot to do once you've 
 bought your own dog. You can gives it baths, walk it, and when it's ready, enter it in competitions. 
 Walking was my favorite aspect of the game, you never know what present you are going to find outside. 
 The toys and accessories you find while walking your dog seem limitless! While walking you can 
 go to shops to buy food and water, you can go to the gym to practice agility, and you can talk 
 you dog to a park. The bad part is, when you first walk, your dog can't travel very far and you 
 need to build up his or her stamina. Teaching your dogs new tricks can tend to be tedious, however. 
 I spent a long time teaching my dogs the tricks, besides, you can only teach them three tricks 
 a day. Plus, once your dog learns it, it takes even longer to have it master the trick. There is 
 a lot to do with your canine, but as it turns out, you may get bored of it within a month or two. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Prince
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 28, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I love dogs, i own my own. Nintendogs is an excellent idea from Nintendo.
  
  Unfortunately, it fell short for me because of the following reasons.
  
  1) Though it's good 
 at start, your puppy will forget tricks and your voice commands within a day or two of inconsistency.
 
  
  2) There just isn't enough variety for me.
  
  3) although yes it makes sense, if you even turn off the game for a day, your dogs are dirty and 
 everything. I wish your dog wouldn't change in terms of behavior or memory when your system is 
 turned off. 
  
  Im not sure how to phrase it but i hope people understand.
  
  Anyway, The game itself doesn't have a lot of depth either...
  
  Nintendogs is a great experience 
 for about 3 days, and then the novelty for me was gone. 
  
  Walking your dog can be fun, but only for a few times. The contest's are great except for the fact 
 that if you lose one time, you get bumped back down to the first tournament.
  
  Conclusion: Nintendo, I am very pleased that you made lots of people happy and it's great to know 
 you are making lots of money from this game. Perhaps if you fix some of the major flaws in this 
 game, maybe i'll give it another chance. 
  
  Until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecream123
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I was really impressed with all the good and addiction this game had to offer, but after a while 
 of playing, I just got bored and stopped playing except for a few off and on times. Here's the 
 breakdown:
  Gameplay: very immersive at first, and very demanding for you to take care of your puppy, everything 
 is on a time basis, where if you take your dog out for a walk, you have to wait 30 minutes before 
 you can do it again.
  Graphics: very sharp and precise close up and medium, but when your puppy wanders off, it gets 
 sort of pixalated and square (but what do you expect? Xbox graphics?) , the puppy's animate nicely 
 and always look alive.
  Sound: every puppy sort of has a unique sound to it, but if you compare them side by side they 
 are just different pitches, the effects when you are at contests and walks is pretty lifelike though.
 
  Camera Angles: it is sort of weird because at random times the camera will switch around whenever 
 it wants.
  Value-it is worth it if you want a good quality game for a not to expensive budget (only 30$) , 
 and it will keep you addicted for some time.
  
  I recommend this game to almost anyone except for dog haters and cat lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silly_Monkee
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  I love Grand Theft Auto, First Person Shooters, Resident Evil. But I also love Nintendogs. Even 
 for a gamer like me I have to admit I am attached to Nintendogs. Having a dog myself (Cavalier 
 King Charles Spaniel) obviously helps, but its amazing how loveable the dogs are.
  
  The touch screen brings Nintendogs to life. You can pet your dogs feed them, throw them toys for 
 them to play with, take them for walks and more. You can make full use of the DS microphone by 
 calling your dog's name or whistling to get their attention. You can also use your voice to teach 
 your dog's tricks. Using the stylus to touch the dog's nose and dragging down will, for example, 
 instruct the dog to sit. In the top right hand corner a light bulb will appear, and pressing it 
 will give you a few seconds to speak into the microphone input a voice command. Later on you can 
 say "sit" into the microphone and the dog will sit! I found that cool lol.
  
  This is by no means a game you could play for hours on end, but to pick up for a while everyday 
 or so to take your dogs for a walk, bath them and feed them. Everyone will find something to love 
 about Nintendogs, you'd be lying if you said it was uncool, and if you haven't got a dog, or can't 
 get a dog this game is a MUST for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  A game where you own a dog and you need to take care of it, take it for a walk, feed it, bath it, 
 train it, etc.
  it is really nice because you can buy toys (or find it laying around) and other things that are 
 really interesting. You can also take your dog to trials: Obedience, Agility or Disc Competition.
 
  As you become a better trainee, you get points which unlocks other things, new scenarios or new 
 breeds.
  All Ndogs are almost the same, the main difference is with which breeds you start the game. There 
 are other little differences in some of the objects you get but they are rather irrelevant.
  This game can get highly addictive at some times as you wish to progress in the game, but it also 
 can get a little repetitive. All in all it is still worth playing because while you're addicted 
 to it, it is plain fun and you also get addicted to it from time to time. In addition the graphics 
 are good and it explores the properties of the DS very well, the touch screen and the mic.
  Congratulations to Nintendo for being able to make an interesting game out of a simple idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiora
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  No, Nintendogs isn't manly. No, it is not violent. But hey! It's fun, so who cares?
  
  So, the gameplay is pretty good. I only gave it an 8 since it feels a bit limited. It's not really 
 an actual world like I would have wished it to be. There's restrictions where you can walk, restrictions 
 where you go in the house. You only walk to the Bargain Shop, the Park, and the Gym. Everywhere 
 else is accessed via the Shopping tab. That's where my whole "it's not a world" grudge comes in. 
 It'd be nice if you could control WHERE your dog walks on the go instead of following the path 
 you drew. Why can't you WALK to the Pet Supply Store, the Kennel, etc.? Plus there's only a small 
 circle where you can be in the house. Despite this, it does everything else very well. Controls 
 are tight and easy to learn. Well, the game was probably meant not to be too complicated so younger 
 kids could play it, so I can't hold my complaints against it too much. The game is great altogether, 
 but is best played in short bursts so it doesn't get old. 
  
  You'll have an awesome time with this game, and I only mention shortcomings in my reviews, with 
 good stuff briefly. This is so you can pick out the bad points before you play and figure out the 
 good stuff when you play, so I don't ruin the expierience for you. So, just because I've mentioned 
 the bad points doens't mean its terrible.
  
  Graphics rock. The textures are great and the dogs really stand out. Not much to say here, but 
 I won't give it a 10 since they aren't completely real-looking. But graphics don't make a game. 
 Remember that. They help a lot, but they don't make the game. That's the gameplay that makes it, 
 mentioned above.
  
  Sound is good, but it gets annoying a little bit. The dogs barks are somewhat realistic, but it 
 gets a bit old hearing them bark over and over.
  
  All in all, solid. A great simulation of puppies. Nintendogs: all the fun of puppies without the 
 poo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsonguy101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game since September of 2005 and I am still playing it. If you have 40 dollars, 
 i sugest you use it to buy this game, if you have a ds. This game has a wonderful selection of 
 dog breeds, namely the husky, and the golde retrivr. you take them for walks, pet them, feed them 
 and so on. Some people think this game is repetative, and that is life with dogs, repetativeness 
 all the time. you also get to take them to 3 contests, agility, obedience, and disk throwing. i 
 personally loved this game a lot and you defenietly willto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiReflejo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  So addicting at first! Must have item for dog lovers... Sadly they can't grow up, and lately it 
 became constantly boring
  
  but, I really enjoyed the game for relieving my stress, feeding, walking, entering contests and 
 training it!!!
  
  So much fun!! I am having a great time with this game and collect rare items ...
  
  but be 
 careful guys, It's so addicted and you might forget your duty hehehehe...
  
  the contest is really challenging and you must train your dogs everytime...
  
  Doglovers
 
  Doglovers
  Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers 
 Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers Doglovers 
 Doglovers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Wow, Nintendogs is very different. Let me try to explain; think Tamagotchi with dogs. Done? Well 
 you got it then; Nintendogs is Tamagotchi with dogs. You get to pet your dogs, blean them, feed 
 them, take them out for walks, enter them in competitions, give them voice commands, and that's 
 pretty much it.
  You start with a dog, and eventually you can get up to three. Why are there three or four versions 
 of the game? Because they have different breeds to begin with, but eventually you can get all the 
 breeds in your version. There are three doggie competitions. Frisbee or Disk competition, which 
 is my personal favorite; you throw the disk or Frisbee or that flying saucer thingy and your dog 
 will try to catch it. There's also some sort of an obstacle race with hoops and tubes and whatnot. 
 And the third one is Command competition where you try to make sure your dog obeys your commands. 
 "Sit", "Roll Over", and the like. You get trhophies and cash on competitions. You can use the cash 
 to buy dog food, accesories like ribbons, caps, and toys.
  When you go out for a walk you can meet other dogs and trainers to chit-chat for a while, but nothing 
 too memorable. You can also find presents which your dog will grab; these include items like toys 
 and the like.
  Nintendogs is certainly different, but it really gets boring and repetitive after a few weeks of 
 play. If you like dogs or want something rare and new for your Nintendo DS go ahead and give it 
 a try, but don't expect a perfect, long lasthing game here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ze1daplayer
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I thought this game sucked. I kinda thought it was alright at the begining, but then it got really 
 boring. The graphcks were good but then nothing new happened. I got 1st in the disk compatition 
 and I was able to buy a new dog, and its a wast of money getting 2 dogs. Then you constantly need 
 to over feed them. After 20 minuts after feeding you need to do it again cause they get hungry. 
 I hated this stupid game and Im glad a friend gave it to me for free cause it would be a waste 
 of  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a fun dog game where you get to take care of dogs by brushing them, feeding them, 
 and washing them. You can also take your dog on a walk and collect items along the way like dog 
 toys and frisbees. There are also some rare items like mario karts you can get. To get money in 
 this game you have to win dog compotions. You can use this money into buying a better house. Over 
 all this game is pretty fun and one of my top picks for the ds. If you are going to buy the ds 
 I would take a look at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is definately one of the games that people have to either hate or love. Most of the 
 people I know love this game, I am one of them, but after a while, it soon becomes obvious that 
 you're running a regular routine, with no new challenges. 
  
  Overview
  Nintendogs is a Nintendo DS game, making use of the DS's innovative features, including mic and 
 touch-screen. Rather than relying on the D-Pad and letter buttons, Nintendogs was perhaps the first 
 game to actually use the DS's features to an extent. The game solely rely's on them, and making 
 this a perhaps must play game during the lifetime of any DS owner, especially being cheaper than 
 the DS's other games.
  
  Gameplay
  This is definately one of the most ambitious, innovative and newst ideas that has popped into Nintendo's 
 head. Whilst more realistic than games like Mario Kart or Animal Crossing, it doesn't subtract 
 from the games light-hearted, fun and overall bubbly experience. Teaching your pooch of choice 
 is amazingly easy, and with voice commands making your job as an owner so simple. Whether it be 
 throwing a flying-disk with the flick of the wrist down at the park, telling your pup to lay down 
 or leading him through a tunnel, they all use the new and innovative featurs of the DS. So, onto 
 your pup. Basically, you have to feed, water, groom, train, compete and spoil it with new collars, 
 shampoo and treats. You can take him for walks around the neighbourhood and meet fellow dog trainers, 
 you can make him compete in various competitions such as disc catching, obstacle courses and obidience 
 trials. However, outlined above, is pretty much all you can do in the game. After playing for a 
 while, unlocking new dogs, playing bark-mode and nurturing your dogs is all that seems worthwhile, 
 making after a few hours play (about 18) you seem to realise that you're going in circles. You 
 would only occasionally pick it up after that, and even stop playing altogether. Overall, it's 
 a fun game whilst it lasts.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Graphics
  Suprsingly, the graphics on Nintendogs are quite good. The dogs look marvellous whilst frollicking 
 around, adding to the laid-back fun to be had. The environments also look good, and the tricks 
 what you can make your dog do look hilarious, such as break-dancing, handstands and backflips. 
 Whilst comical, most of the other tricks are realistic, as does the game overall. The dog breeds 
 are recognizable, and look good in polygon form. All in all, the graphics in Nintendogs are superb, 
 and could be admired by anybody.
  Verdict - 9
  
  Sound
  Sound is one of the let-downs of Nintendogs. Although great, it does get a bit infuriating, making 
 you want to switch off the barking and turn on the iPod. The relaxing tunes are nice to hear, but 
 the constant barking for no apparent reasons does get a bit tedious. Sometimes the voice commands 
 doesn't seem to want to listen to your voice, and just basically refuses. Consistency is required 
 whilst doing voices, but sometimes, it's hard to find it. The sound effects are quite low in number, 
 but just add to the laid back feel to the game. At the end of the day, the sound is great, but 
 was let down in some areas.
  Verdict - 8
  
  Value
  Nintendogs is arguably the best value-for-money game on the DS yet. Being cheaper than it's cousins 
 such as Metroid Prime: Hunters or Mario Kart: DS, it makes it a worthwhile purchase if you are 
 in need of a new DS game but are a bit strapped for cash. 
  Verdict - 9
  
  So, overall, Nintendogs is a game with awesome gameplay, pretty graphics and great sound, and at 
 the cost of a low price-tag. The only let-down of Nintendogs is the repetitiveness, but is a great 
 gaming experience whilst it lasts.
  
  Overall - 9.2 - Superb
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyGoomba
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Difficuly - Difficulty? There is no difficulty so I put a "Very Easy"
  
  Time Spent Playing - Hardcores are going to kill me, but I put 10 to 20 hours because it's only 
 a good game to play not a god of the games!
  
  Learning Curve - 0 to 30 minutes... What? You're going to spend 4 hours learning how to wash a 
 dog???
  
  Classification - Innovative of course! Do you think that take carry of a dog is a old thing?? Yes? 
 Me to, but what do you think about take carry of a dog with the stylus and MIC??? Yeah, innovative!
 
  
  Gameplay - Fun fun fun fun fun! But only fun!
  
  Graphics - Okay dogs are cute, but nintendo's dogs are strange (we want game cube graphics!)
 
  
  Sound - What can I say about dog's bark? Dog's bark is dog's bark! Simple musics and sounds effects.
 
  
  Value - The reason for buying a DS!
  
  Tilt - 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi443312
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  i have to give it a ten wroking on emblem shut up about it ok well this game has good graphics 
 i mean really good graphics you can see the fleas jumping off your dog and it does get extremly 
 boring after a while though actualy after the first week i think why in godds namw did i buy this 
 because it really does suck dont get ti no matter how cute those stupid puypies are they are trying 
 tto hypnotise you dont look in their eyes oh no cant look ( looks in screen of ds ) hello cute 
 blillte puppy ( 5 days later ) ah whos my puppy whos my puppy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the one game that Nintendo put out there to hopefully get people to buy the Nintendo DS. 
 It takes full advantage of the stylus capabilities, you use the pen to feed you dog, water your 
 dog, take them out for walks, even petting your virtual pooch. I think the real draw to this game 
 is the fact the fact that there are so many different breeds of dogs. The selection of dogs ranges 
 from pugs and poodles to Dalmatians, and German shepherdes. I personally perfer the shiba-inu. 
 Anyway, one of the cool things about this game is the voice recognition system, which means that 
 you can teach your dogs to come when you call their names, you can teach them to do tricks like 
 roll over, play dead, and many, many more. The only negative thing about this game is that after 
 a short while the game gets boring, fast. So there you have it, if you have a DS then buy this 
 game or rent it if you are not a big dog fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazey4bacon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  The dogs are so cute. They look and act like real puppies. No matter what version you get, you 
 can always unlock every breed. The contests are really fun. You get to feed the dogs and play with 
 them. Every one should own this game. It's the game of the year. It's basically like a dog version 
 of the Sims. You can have up to 3 dogs at a time. You can teach them tricks and go for walks. On 
 the walks you can meet other dogs and get free presents. I love this Game and you should too. Get 
 Nintendogs if you don't already have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs:
  
  When you think of it, we live in an incredibly lazy world. Think of it, TV broadcast on your cell-phone, 
 diet pills, web browsers on DS/PSP, Even devices that you put in your pants so you don't have to 
 get up and walk all the way to the bathroom just to go do your business. Well now we have the latest 
 addition to our lazy generation-Nintendogs. If you ever thought raising a dog was too timetaking 
 and hard then you can now have Nintendogs, where it is impossible for your pixeled pal to die! 
 But even though Nintendogs can be categorized for the lazy, it can be helpful. For example, I have 
 a friend who is allergic to dogs so unfortunately he cannot have one so he resolved his problem 
 by getting Nintendogs.
  
  When you look at Nintendogs from a visual perspective you will be amazed of how much this looks 
 better than most games on Nintendo's newest handheld system. The backgrounds aren't incredibly 
 detailed and when you take your dog for a walk it just shows clips of random city backgrounds switch 
 around which isn't very impressive but the dog looks extremely realistic from its eyes to its tail. 
 The items that you will collect throughout the game have as much detail as they should. In some 
 games, a soccer ball would just look like a white pixeled ball but the soccer ball in Nintendogs 
 looks like a soccer ball would in real life and that goes for all the items. There are a lot of 
 items which is impressive and even though some items are blocky, we are playing a DS not an Xbox 
 360. Keep that in mind.
  
  The music is well, average. Nothing special. Nothing original. You'll really pay almost no attention 
 to the music, as it plays a little part in the game. The dog is the reasltic part. It makes all 
 of the realistic barks and cries. Items also make noise, but some items make ridiculous sounds 
 when thrown that sound nothing like what it would sound like if you threw that object in real life.
 
  
  When I first started to play Nintendogs, I looked around and skimmed through all of the opertunities 
 for gameplay. Unfortunately, of what I saw it did not look like the game had that much to offer. 
 But the strange thing is that even though Nintendogs is not jampacked with everything that you 
 would want, nor is it even close to being a large game, I have found it packed with plenty of replay 
 value. Every night I turn on my DS to play Nintendogs, occasionally on the bus but mostly for thirty 
 minutes each night. Also, after recieving more items and experiencing bark mode, walk mode, contests, 
 etc. I found much more gameplay opertunites and extended my play from thirty mminutes a night, 
 well up to nearly fourty-five minutes to an hour each night which is impressive when you multiply 
 it each night I've played it, and I do not only play it each night. The controls work very smoothly 
 and it is very fun to just mess around with your dog. Once you've actually run through everything 
 Nintendogs has to offer it will seem like a much bigger game than when you first started playing, 
 and that brings a conclusion to my Nintendogs review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning of the game you go to this pet store and buy a puppy. Although you have a cetin 
 amount of money so you have to buy a puppy that you could buy with the amount of money you have 
 in the beginning. So you buy your puppy and then you name it. You'll find out if it is a boy or 
 a girl. Later on in the game you can compete in dog shows and if you win you get money. Later on 
 in the game you can unlock other dogs to buy although they will be more expensive. Oh if you don't 
 feed your puppy don't worry it won't die and if you feed it too much don't worry it won't get fat 
 or anything like that. You can also buy toys for your puppy and it would make he or she happier. 
 When you feed your puppy it would make he or she happier. So if you always wanted a dog but your 
 parents won't let you have one you should totally check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leverish
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a dog simulation made by Nintendo (If you haven't noticed the company's name in the 
 title) , where you can love, teach tricks to, and just have fun with some virtual dogs. Does it 
 work? Well yes, it does. And it works well, with some innovative uses of the Nintendo DS' touch 
 screen and microphone. But what stops the game from meeting its full potential?
  
  Raising the virtual dogs is actually pretty fun. You can use the touch screen to pet your dog, 
 throw your frisbee, and unsurprisingly, use it to cycle through the menus. The game also uses the 
 microphone function. Unfortunately that function doesn't work as well. You use the microphone, 
 to call your dog, and tell it to do a specific trick. The only problem is the microphone's recognition 
 isn't very good at all. I noticed that sometimes my dog just quite plainly wouldn't come to my 
 command. What is strange, though, is that I had to say it in a higher pitched voice than I originally 
 said the first time I was naming dog. Another problem is the dog mistaking one word for another. 
 Its not a simple mistaking sit for shake thing. Sometimes it can be as horrible mistaking beg 
 for spin. So you have to teach the dog the trick, again, so it gets it correctly. If you get another 
 dog, it may also mistake its name for the other dogs name. If that happens there is nothing you 
 can do about it except for starting with a new dog. This can be very frustrating, and is by far 
 the games biggest fault, and overall just leaves much to be desired.
  
  The game seems to capture the realism of raising real dogs quite well, but it also adds in some 
 Nintendo charm, without taking the realism away all that much. Some dogs are nice and easy to train, 
 while others are more selfish and are very hard to teach. As you go for your walks youll meet 
 into other dogs, and their owners. More than half of the time the owner has nothing all that interesting 
 to say, with maybe a few changed comments when you take a different breed of dog out for a walk. 
 But the more interesting part is seeing how the dogs react to each other. Like in real life, some 
 dogs may hate each other and start tackling each other to death, while some dogs get along nicely, 
 and play with each other. When you interact with your dog with some toys or some other item, some 
 may want to play with that item, while others are scared and continuously bark at it. 
  
  During your walks you may run into some items. Some times it could be a lousy tissue box. Other 
 times it could be a Mario hat. There is a very large list of items in the game. Some are pretty 
 neat. Like the pull rope. Basically you hold one side of the rope with the touch screen and the 
 dog holds the other, and its basically a tug-o-war. But if you spin real fast you could be spinning 
 your dog up in the air. Theyre also accessories that your dog will be able to wear, such collars 
 and ribbons. And some even more ridiculous ones such as a pirate hat or a pair of glasses. With 
 these items there seems to be a lot of Nintendo references. Such as the Mario hat or the bark 
 ball which makes Pikmin noises when it bounces. This adds a lot of charm to the game that cant 
 really be seen anywhere else.
  
  Competitions are also very important to the game. There are three categories for a competition: 
 Disc, agility, and obedience. Your objective is to get in the Top Three in order to make it to 
 the next round. In the disc trial you have to throw the disc, and get your dog to catch it. The 
 farther you throw it the more points you get, and another point added if your dog catches it in 
 midair. The next one is the obedience trial. You have to perform certain tricks with your dog in 
 this competition. Sometimes it can be a little tricky, because instead of just begging, you may 
 have to keep your dog in that position for over 10 seconds. Your score will then be evaluated by 
 the three judges. Unfortunately, these two trials are a bit easy. The disc trial is easy, because 
 the frisbee mechanics are easy to master, and basically if throw hard, and throw straight youre 
 going to rack in some points. As for the obedience trial, thats another story. The judges are 
 a bit lenient. I think once I messed up on three tricks, and I got a 9.1! This makes it a little 
 too easy to score first place. The next trial and probably the hardest of the all is the agility 
 trial. You basically just have to guide your dog around a course, where he or she will have to 
 jump over poles or run through tubes. The competitions are really fun, and it adds a lot of incentive 
 to train your dog.
  
  This game is very addicting. This actually is rather a shame, since this is more of a game where 
 you play maybe 30 minutes to 1 hour a day rather than playing it all night long like most games. 
 This is, because of the fact that you can only enter your dog in three competitions a day and you 
 can only take it out for a walk every 30 minutes. After maybe a week or, so I have to admit, doing 
 the same thing over and over again started to get a little old. The faulty voice recognition is 
 definitely holding this game back from being the most repayable game it can be. Another problem 
 is that the game isnt very portable. You cant really say Roll Over! without the disturbing 
 the person next to you, and the game requires you to use the microphone a lot.
  
  This game just looks fantastic. The puppies themselves are the best part. Each one has their own 
 fur shading that looks beautiful. While the backgrounds dont seem to have received the same amount 
 of care they still look good, but nothing all that spectacular. I also noticed some frame rate 
 drops. This mainly happens when one dog was interacting with another one, but nothing, too serious. 
 Overall this is one of the best looking DS games, and it may keep that title for a long time.
 
  
  The games music could have been better. In your house there is no music. This may seem a little 
 strange, but its not a huge deal, since youre probably going to be too sunk into gameplay to 
 notice. When you go for a walk there is music. Just one song that is sort of catchy, but after 
 a while it just gets old. The sound effects are just wonderful! The dogs each have their own different 
 sounding bark. You may also hear a random fire truck or maybe even a bicycle, but they each sound 
 like that specific object, and overall this may be one the better DS games when it comes to sound 
 effects.
  
  Nintendogs is a fun game with the best graphics you will ever see on the DS. Unfortunately, the 
 game doesnt have enough things you can do to keep you playing it for anytime longer than 2 weeks, 
 and it clearly exposes the faulty DS microphone. Nintendogs wont keep its appeal for anytime too 
 long, but it would make an excellent rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Nintendogs for the first week I had it. I just got tired of taking my dog for 
 a walk every day. It's a great game and a totally rad concept, but definitely not something I have 
 time to invest in every single day for little to no reward.
  
  The gameplay is fun and simple and addictive, but just not for a terribly long time. It's really 
 fun to have a digital pet that's so advanced to actually learn voice commands, and it is technologically 
 pretty rad, but beyond teaching your dog a few tricks and entering some competitions... and taking 
 them for walks... Yeah, you aren't left with much else.
  
  Controls are cool, you basically act that the stylus is your hand to rub your dog, throw a frisbee, 
 walk them, etc. If Nintendo is trying to make non-gamers into game players, this game is accessible 
 to everyone, regardless of age or experience. If nothing else, that has to count for something 
 these days.
  
  Sound is what you'd expect. Elavatory music throughout mostly, with the occasional barks and such. 
 Nothing terribly exceptional, but it suits the game quite well, regardless.
  
  Gameplay is overall quite solid. The game SEEMS like it is very deep at first, then you start to 
 realize how much there is... and how much you can do in a day's time... And you start to get bored. 
 When you're expected to play with your dog on a daily basis, it's a good idea, but how many people 
 actually do that? I have 2 real dogs to worry about, amongst other things. Like most other things, 
 it's fun for a while...
  
  Overall the game is highly recommended for anyone that wants something different, doesn't own a 
 pet, or has a young one around that they need a game for. It's a brilliant concept that is executed 
 well, it just isn't totally my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billmask92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain perfect im just speechless there is just one thing that i dont dont like 
 its that the walks can get a bit boring. you have to take your dog fo ra wawlk just abought everyday 
 and it can get a bit boring. you can do many things with your dog walk it, feed it, give it a drink, 
 play with it, teach it tricks and enter it in contestes to earn money. this game is a perfect game 
 and i would really recemend getting this game for any person weather they are 5 or 55. this i a 
 child frendly game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I, as well as many other innocent DS owners, purchased this game a few weeks after it came out. 
 It was a blast -- for the first five minutes. Then it became a digital hell.
  
  This game has all the fancy bells and whistles of a DS game; microphone, touch-screen, complete 
 neglection of both screens. The top screeen is usually a clock. The cool thing about this game 
 is that it uses no buttons. It is all touch-screen and voice-activated. The voice-commands are 
 pretty cool, but they don't work well at all. You dogs and up confusing "sit" with "lay down" very 
 easily. 
  
  The game is also the single most repetitious thing ever created. Gameplay sessions range from 5-30 
 minutes, making this game very hard to take seriously. If you could actually do stuff with your 
 dog whenever, I might like this game a little more, but you can only walk every half-hour and can 
 only do three contests a day. 
  
  This game has a few cool "easter eggs," if you could call them that. They are basically just extremely 
 rare items you find sitting in the road. You can get Mario and Luigi hats, a Mario Kart (driveable 
 with the buttons) , and even a remote control helicopter. I would've liked if they had a Mario Kart 
 or helicopter minigame, but all you can do is zoom around your tiny living room (which can't get 
 bigger) and run into your dogs. This was the funnest part of the game but you have to take too 
 much s*** to get to it.
  
  You can customize your room for staggering prices, such as 200,000 (you can win 1000 in the most 
 diffcult contest) . That takes about a month to gather up, is not fun (and very repetitive) , and 
 is not worth it. 
  
  This game is TERRIBLE. I suppose if you are a girl you could find a little more enjoyment, but 
 anyone should be able to see right through this game. It sucks. Don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leitheking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  The Touch! Generation is a gaming revolution; in a bid to get people who would'nt necessarily play 
 to start playing games, Nintendo has released a series of games aimed at non-gamers. In this series 
 there are web browsers, cookbooks, virtual teachers, portables televisions and music makers. But most 
 famously, there is a dog rearing game, by the name of Nintendogs. The advanced "Tamigotchi" has sold 
 thousands of copies, possibly millions and has increased the sales of DS's worldwide. But, why has 
 it sold sooooooooooooooooooo many? Because, it is a REVALATION. A REVOLUTION! Taking of your dogs is 
 simple, as it is solely done with the stylus and microphone. Your dogs will remember and respond 
 to their name, as well as whistling. Your furry bundles of joy can be rewared with accessories and 
 toys, such as Mario and Luigi hats, Nintendo karts, frisbees and tennis balls. All in all, this is a 
 wonderful "real life" game that boasts realistic graphics and a simple play method. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toto123_1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  A realli KEWL game all around. Fun to play and full or replay value. assdaasd addsd dsdsdsddaddsdasasddasdasds 
 asd asdaad dasaaa adaadsas asd adasdasdsa as d ddasd sa s sad s sd s as d sa s s ss ds sad asd 
 sda sd sd sd s sda sad sad sda dsa ds ads a sa sda as das da sd asd a asd as das das das ds df 
 dfd d sd ds dfs fd fd fd dfs fd fds fd fd fd f f d fdf d fdf d fdf df df dfd f df dfd fd fd fd 
 fd fd fd df df dffd f ddf dfs d s fdsf f sd fd ffsdfj j f j jf jsfskdfh j jdfh j jd jd d lsdfhdskfjh 
 jkdfh jh dsfj djf jf hdsj hdfh jsdhf jf jdfhdjfh df dhfjh djkh jkdh kljhdlfjhd ljdhf jd jdhf ldjh 
 kjdfh jkdhf djh jkd das  
 dasd asda sdsadas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has been raved about and has sold a ludicrous amount of copies. However, I believe its 
 good points shamefully dont make up for its flaws. 
  
  Its a very stylish game and It has great 3D graphics worthy of the DS and it plays like nothing 
 you have ever played before, Besides playing with a real dog of course. 
  
  However, To begin with this will draw you in and you'll want to play it until your thumbs go sore. 
 Unfortuneatly then you realise how ridiculously small the game is. Besides playing with your dogs 
 there are a very limited amount of things to do and while the doggie events can make this much 
 more exiting, They can only be played a fixed amount of times per day. 
  
  This, along with the horribly tedious dog walking, Makes this game lose its charm within a few 
 days. 
  
  The multi player bark mode is a lot more simple than I thought, In fact, It borders on the side 
 of "pointless". 
  
  Okay, I may have gone too far as initially the game is a lot of fun and I suppose it lasting a 
 few days is much better than a few hours.
  
  In conclusion, If you think im exxagarating about the longivity of this game then feel free to 
 buy it for yourself and who knows, You may even enjoy it far longer than I did.
  
  
  + Fantastic 3D graphics
  + Dog shows can be a 
 lot of fun
  + Hundereds of items
  
  
  - Horribly tedious dog walking
  - Loses its "Pizazz" in a very short time
  - Annoying low responsive 
 voice commands
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimslayer999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  nintendogs is the best game for ds for first time players 
  
  NO DOUBT
  
  the instructions are easy to remember and the gameplay is brillant
  
  but every game has its 
 down side
  
  1. voice commands - when you finally give the dog a name the name has to be spoken by the same 
 person, like if you name it but your bro/sis tries calling it after it wont come. that needs to 
 be sorted.
  
  2. competitions - the competitions can be unfair one the player sometimes in the easier stages, 
 like i played a competition once on the begginer trophy and the score was to get 15 to get gold 
 normally its 7
  
  3. caring for your dog - when you take your dog for a walk it sometimes wees and poos on the ground 
 ok fine even dogs have gotta go when they need to go. but what bout if you need to feed your dog 
 and go to school. i feed my dog once and went to school when i got back it was famished
  
  so whats your views on nintendogs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this game has excellent graphics and is one of the most realistic games out their. this kind of 
 game will last forever. how ever if you do not like dogs you will not like this game. this game 
 is only $30 their for it is cheap for the time that it lasts you. the sound is so realistic that 
 when I was first playing it I thought that it was a dog out side. over all this game is worth playing. 
 with out the ds touch screen this game would not have been possible. in this game you will get 
 a dog to take home then you must give it a name and tech it its name. it will eventually learn 
 its name and come by your voice caman. the game is grated I just wish their was visionary care 
 and you had a bigger neighborhood. I have 3 words revolutionary, grows on you, and amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suzurin
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs (doesn't matter what version) is a pet simulation. You adopt a puppy and mold it into 
 your own image. You must train it, walk it, feed it, bathe it, groom it and play with it at LEAST 
 3 times a day. Yes, everything is in real-time like Animal Crossing: Wild World. You can also collect 
 items during your walks or enter it into contests to earn more money to upgrade your house, earn 
 trainer points to unlock more dogs, buy two more dogs and buy food and toys for them. This game 
 is oh so cute with enough content to keep you busy for a while. See, I don't know about the rest 
 of you, but this only kept me occupied for a short while.
  
  Yes, the game is cute, unique, and in most cases, addictive. The graphics are the smooth and fluid. 
 The music is cute and upbeat. However, after a while, I began to feel the awkward limitations. 
 Everything that I stated above is the bulk of the game. That is all you can do with your dog. I 
 know it sounds like a lot at first, but it isn't. If you're the type of person that wants to see 
 and do something new every now and then in their games, all of the daily tasks will begin to run 
 together and get boring. If you have other, more fun games to play, chances are you'll play those 
 instead. If you neglect to do your chores for your pup, it will suffer and eventually run away, 
 though. Poor thing... That being said, if you have an ounce of compassion in your heart, you will 
 feel bad about it.
  
  Another thing that bugged me was that your puppy will never grow up. When I first got this game, 
 one thing that made me excited was being able to actually raise a puppy and watch it grow. That 
 was really my main reason for buying it. So, basically, your puppy never changes. It's personality 
 may change, but I really couldn't see the difference and chances are, you'd have a hard time noticing 
 as well. It'll also learn and get better at certain things as you teach it and train it, but that's 
 it. Like I said, if you're the type of person that likes to see progress and something new after 
 a while in your games, you won't be very satisfied.
  
  Conclusion:
  This game tries to give it's players a lot of content and give you the entire puppy experience, 
 but personally, I think raising a real one is more fun than playing this. It IS a good game, but 
 is a bad example of what it's like to raise an actual puppy. I feel a little bad saying this, but 
 I just couldn't love this game. After a while, it felt stale and left me wanting to do much more 
 with my puppy than the game allowed leaving me feeling frustrated. Thats my personal opinion, however. 
 If like things like Tamagotchi or any type of virtual pet, you'll probably enjoy this. Nintendogs 
 is exactly like a Tamagotchi, except it will never change much at all... That's why I suggest renting 
 it BEFORE you buy. Just to make sure that this is the type of thing you want. Think of it as a 
 sample. Otherwise, you'll be left feeling as disappointed and guilty as I do.
  
  ....*sigh* I feel like such a Grinch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas 2005, and I was immeadiately amazed. The game is so awesome: From 
 the time you teach it it's name, to the time you get that agility trial championship gold trophy, 
 you won't have had enough fun.
  
  One thing about this game that is so great is: Did you ask for the Lab and Friends version of the 
 game, because you wanted a lab, but you ended up getting the Dachshund and Friends version instead? 
 Do not worry. In the game, you earn trainer points which allow you to unlock new breeds. So you 
 can get that lab you wanted in no time. A great game. Buy it!!! ^ _ ^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great game, despite that it is a kiddy game. I decided to try it out and thought 
 wow this game is kind of fun. The dogs act very real, its what you expect a dog would do. You can 
 feed them, train them, play sports with them, enter them in contests and more. The thing about 
 nintendogs is that it is good for kids that aren't allowed to have a dog, so they can just play 
 with a virtual dog. I know sounds kind of dumb but that's one reason that kids got nintendogs, 
 isn't it. If you have a dog though (which i do) then this game value can get short. I mean a real 
 dog is a lot better then a game. Its like playing with virtual girls but real girls are better 
 I mean not like i don't play with virtual girls.. errr yeah (cough) . Anyways this game is enjoyable, 
 very fun and easy to use. I never thought this game wouldn't really get my attention but it seem 
 to. This is a great DS title, i would recommend it, if you don't have a dog by all means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boony1098
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  This game has been one of the best nintendo DS games ever except for Resident Evil: Deadly Silence. 
 But it rocks, if you do not like dogs then this game will change your mind so think about those 
 poor puppies and give them a happy life. Please. The games are all similar except for the dogs 
 so it doesn't really matter what one you get (Unless you have a favourite dog) . My favourite is 
 Siberian Husky so I got Dachsund and Friends. The game has gone down in price so it is even cheaper 
 than before so buy it now, even if it is pre-owned. Buy it. You may think that I am quite sad going 
 on about a game which contains cute cuddly puppies but I LOVE IT!! Think about it would you rather 
 have a goldfish or your very own cute lttle puppy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bass7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok. I had it and it was fun for a week. Well after that it got so boring there is 
 nothing to unlock except new breeds but that's about it. You can't do anything special on special 
 dates or anything. There are like 6 things you can do. Contests, Play, Walk, Bark Mode, Buy Stuff, 
 and just watch your dog run around. Sounds fun???? yeah for about a week because that's all you 
 do and then after it's like "What now????" This game when it came out was hyped and everything 
 so everyone bought it. Now the only people that I know that play it are girls that I see on the 
 street or at resturants well just pretty much in the public. Plus Animal Crossing for Gamecube 
 was kind of like this except special things happened on special days and every day was different 
 than the last. Various animals would come and such.... well that's just a different review. Well 
 in the end Nintendogs isn't as good as it was hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang610
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is so life like. How they crammed distinct attitude, anger, forgiveness, happiness, 
 memory, territory marking, other dog characteristics, breath-taking environment, and other amazing 
 features into such a tiny DS cartridge is beyond me. You would like this if you like to start out 
 with practically nothing, and using what you already have to get other cool things. Such as funky 
 accessories for your pups, gnarly toys, sweet sports supplies, soothing music, and up to 8 dogs! 
 You need to take the responsibility of taking care of your dog a few times a week, because even 
 if you turn the DS off, your dogs will get hungry and thirsty while awaiting your return. If you 
 have a dog already, don't think you wouldn't like this, because it's a whooooole different experience... 
 Trust me. Then again, I must agree with the others who say that this game eventually get boring. 
 Not completely although. This game will only get boring if you are not a true dog lover. I come 
 from a family with a gigantic history of pets, especially dogs. Therefore, this game is still very 
 enjoyable for me. I just never get tired of spending time with my virtual puppies! I don't think 
 that it's possible to accomplish everything. Every item, every room, every breed, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE!
 
  
  All in all, you like dogs? You'll love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidstebbins
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First of all, before you PM me with flames, please read the last paragraph.
  
  This game is one of the most hyped up games for the DS to date. Alongside the also-overrated game 
 of Advance Wars: Dual Strike (see my review) , which came out the same day, it was the first DS 
 game to receive the Editor's Choice Award from Gamespot. How this game got a 9.1 when GS editors 
 claim they spend around 30 hours with each game before reviewing it is beyond me. For full details, 
 read further.
  
  This game is very unique. It definately has "JAPANESE" written all over it, because it's so quirky 
 and straight up weird that you'll probably fall in love with it at first sight. This game has the 
 most intuitive, natural-feeling touch screen control for any DS game to date you pet your dog and 
 throw frisbees with the stylus, which feels completely natural. In fact, I didn't even read the 
 intruction manual until I was bored one day and had to read something. Also, this is the first 
 game to feature true voice-recognition technology for the DS's built-in microphone. Some games 
 like Wario Ware: Touched! and Feel the Magic: XY/XX had you blowing into the mic, but it could 
 not tell what was your breath and what was your voice. This game actually can tell what you're 
 saying. It is a little frustrating to have to say the names of your tricks and your dog EXACTLY 
 the same way EVERY SINGLE DAMN TIME, but voice-recognition gameplay is still very young for anyone, 
 not just Nintendo, and since DS game cards can only hold 128MB of data, it's more like talking 
 to a toddler; he doesn't have much experience in manners, so you don't mind his blabbering.
  
  Yes you fall in love with the dogs quickly. That love quickly dies, however, once you get good 
 at frisby-throwing, obstacle course-running, and tricks. You've got to enter tournaments in order 
 to make money. The problem is that once you get really good at it and get a lot of money in your 
 pocket, it becomes more of a chore to fire up your DS every day just to feed and water your dog, 
 pet it, and keep it in shape. It's kind of like doing homework; you want to do it and get it over 
 with so you can move on to less choresome activities.
  
  This one flaw makes the game hardly any fun to play after you master it. Good sims like Sim City 
 and the upcoming Spore up the challenge as you get better. This game stays easy the whole way through, 
 and since you HAVE to go through the regular feed dog, water dog, pet dog, walk dog, play with 
 dog routine EVERY DAY, you eventually get really bored with it. Maybe Shigeru should leave the 
 sim genre to Will Wright.
  
  Now, I'm probably going to get a lot of PMs flaming me for bashing the game for one flaw, and that's 
 great. I love it! Because I know you're going to be eating crow when you're in the millions in 
 dollars and you grunt at having to turn on your DS just so your mut won't run away. Go ahead. Be 
 my guest. Spend thirty bucks and prove me right. So long for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel111116
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game But if u dont take good care of ur dog it'll run away and you lose trainer points 
 so it's pritty anoying if u don't play it alot (Evan Yoskovich)
  and u dont take care of ur dogs. it is cool how u can design ur house with decorations u can buy 
 at a store. I also like how u could put acceseries on ur dog. It seems that if u dont train ur 
 dogs for compitions you'll hav a hard time keeping ur dogs to stay home.
  
  cheat: to make ur dog walk as many times as u want. Walk ur and try to hit all the ? marks then 
 go to the park change ur dogs acceseries and after it saves turn it off. After that ur dog will 
 be able to walk again and u'll hav all the items u got during the walk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok i got thos game for free from nintendo before it came out which was probably one of the coolest 
 things ever. Now I played this game and it can be addicitive and fun and is a good game, espicially 
 for the ds, but its not a me game. I like RPGs and what not. It is a fun game and all but its not 
 for most. This game is meant to draw the 12 year old audience, but its a good game for all. My 
 main poit is taht there are probably some other games you would want to buy, but if you have the 
 money then go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  after a while (2 days) i got really bored and really annoyed of having to talk to your dog and 
 never does wut u say i just wanna beat it!!
  
  i also hate all the high scores?? i dont get it. thats why i sold this piece of junk . plus multiplayer 
 was a TOTAL LETDOWN its not even really connected on the DS's dogs are doing opposite things!!!
 
  the graphics are really good but who cares??
  only 3 contests a day a walk every 1/2 hour no way to TT if thats what your thinkin 2!
  u feel 
 like an IDIOT talking, screaming, and prasing a piece of metal. I couldent wait to sell this and 
 i got MARIO KART DS yeah get that way better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leafgreen551
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game! There is an Agility contest, Disc competition and an Obedience trial. You can 
 teach your dog or dogs tricks by using voice commands and you can make them wear accsesories such 
 as Sunglasses, Rainbow wig, Santas hat and more. You can take your dog on a walk. While you are on 
 a walk you can find Soccer balls, tennis balls and more toys. While you are on a walk you can go 
 to the park and play with the other dogs that are at the park, and when you get back home you can 
 feed them and give them a drink. There is also an Interior Decorator that lets you renovate your 
 home. If you are buying a DS game i recommend you get Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Squishie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  You don't have to be a woman or a sissy to love this game. In fact, it's hard not to. I have spent 
 hours training my dogs, and believe me, it's very rewarding.
  
  Accually, rewarding is a great word to describe this game, as you really feel that you have accomplished 
 something. The dogs are all very cute, and filled with personality. It's hard to not believe that 
 you are training a real dog. There is a lot of things to do with your puppy/ies. You can wash them, 
 pat them, play with them, train them, buy accesories for them and feed them. You can also meet 
 other dogs through the bark mode, and they can play together. I nice touch, but I have only been 
 able to do this once, as it is hard to find other dogs.
  
  You can spend a lot of time on this game, and as I said earlier, it is very rewarding. It takes 
 a real man to buy this game and not just say its too sissy. Swallow your pride and buy Nintendogs, 
 which is more like buying real puppies, than buying a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Alright, you probably would'nt expect a guy with the word "antichrist" in his name to play a puppy 
 simulator, but for what it's worth, I did find a strange sort of perverted glee in making the filthiest, 
 most mangy pups I could. Also, tripping them with the jump rope managed to get a diabolical cackle. 
 But as for the game, it's a true showpiece for the untapped potential of the DS. The controls rely 
 solely on the touch screen, and managing your supplies and animals is easy and intuitive. You can 
 buy and train up to five dogs, from the Beagle to the Husky to the hideous Pug (nature's sick practical 
 joke) . Teaching the dogs is a simple process of moving the stylus a certain way and saying the 
 command. No dog learns after just one try, though, so you'll have to repeat it a number of times 
 before the little guy gets it. Competitions are surprisingly tense, as you may find yourself holding 
 your breath as your dog makes a leap for the frisbee or curse angrily as he refuses to perform 
 a command in the Obedience contest. The Agility trials are simple, but again, practice makes perfect, 
 so you can visit gyms and parks to get your pride and joy up to snuff. I found the greatest fun, 
 however, in simply hanging around the house, throwing clever Nintendo-themed dog toys around, such 
 as the squeaky Super Mario Mushroom. The dogs all have unique personalities and interact with each 
 other and toys in different ways, which gives you a good idea of every dog's disposition. The dogs 
 themselves look great, but the backgrounds are usually simple and somewhat blurry. The graphics 
 are'nt the draw here, but rather the companionship of a digital canine and the satisfaction of 
 watching your puppy grow better and better every day. There really is just an easygoing fun to 
 Nintendogs, and sometimes that's all you need. As for my puppy? I'll take a line from Stewie; "That 
 mongrel is probably decomposing on the side of a dirt road as we speak." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game very much. I actually feel as if I have a real dog. To have that feeling means 
 this game has very good game play. I have three Pugs and a terrier on this game so far, and I really 
 enjoy playing with them. The contests are very cool, and the items are unique. I like this game 
 and I have a feeling this is not the end of the Nintendogs series. I really do hope more come out, 
 because they are very popular games and people actually enjoy them in a way you can't find in other 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clank_master9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  awsome thats what this game is pure fun and really good the dogs are really realistic and it's 
 fun to take them fora walkand thow frisbe and play catch and fatch and teach your dog tricks and 
 win competiotions and really you can do tons of stuuf its really fun great ds game the dogs act 
 so reall wtch is just amazing. any one who iis a dog lover or just wants to have fun should get 
 this game. its a fun game theirs no deynying that this is a fun fun fun fun game full of dog goodness. 
 it's pretty easy thought somtimes your dogs can be real idiots really dumb. and they can get in 
 fights with other dogs, but this is a great game so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookie930p
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  this is one great game because it like owning a real dog but you can take it any where. You cane 
 take your dog to competitions to earn lots of money, you can walk your dog and met other dogs while 
 finding cool items you can sell or keep. You can also go and meet you friends dog by using wi-fi 
 and give and receive presents. You can have 3 dogs at a time . They can be all the same of you 
 can get different dogs. You can also teach them tricks and advanced tricks like break dance. You 
 can change the look of your house and earn trainer points to unlock new stuff at the shop. Overall 
 this is a must have game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enygmagyrl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is very time consuming, but well worth it if you love having pets but don't have one. 
 I chose the Dachsund & Friends version so that I could purchase a pug. I used to have a pug named 
 Milo and loved him alot, so I got myself a virtual Milo as a close 2nd! It is very time consuming 
 because you really have to spend a lot of time with the pet if you want it to behave, but there 
 are rewards: you can win contests, your pet will find you presents, and you get to feel the satisfaction 
 of having a well trained dog to play with whenever you want! I have heard that if you neglect your 
 dog, it will run away for some time but will eventually return. So far, I haven't had that problem! 
 I've kept him on a pretty tight schedule that coincides with my work , so Milo gets lots of love 
 and attention! Just one more thing... make sure you're not out in public when you're training your 
 dog... people may think you're crazy! Other than that, I love the game soooo much and play it regularly! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevaeh_gamer13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Its very fun, its the best game for DS! I love it! I am addicted to this game! Its just like having 
 real dogs! The graphics are amazing, at first, I actually thought they were real dogs! Love it!! 
 Its the best game ever! I love it I love it I love it! I cant wait until they come out with nintencats 
 or nintenhorse, those would be fun too! I really cant wait to see who can top this game! Definetly 
 recomend it to anyone! Especially if you like good graphic games, and real life games, this is 
 the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_man_12
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a puppy sim. for the nintendo DS. This game tricks you into buying it cause it looks 
 so cute and cool. DONT be fooled. This game is like all other sims. it gets boring after 3 weeks 
 or so. The graphics and sound are pretty good. But the costant barking gets very annoying. The wi-fi 
 had the oppurtunity to be cool but failed. The teaching your dogs with the mic is very hard and 
 tedious. Overall the game is pretty boring. Some people like cute but broing games i apparently 
 am not one of them. If you do buy this game then i would buy it from a game store where you can 
 return it if and when you dont like it. Dont make my mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagemusha219
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice gmae. Definitely family oriented. in this game you raise one of eight unlockable 
 puppies that you raise endlessly. These puppies never die but will run away. This is a good and 
 a bad, cuz it would be a bit cooler and more realistic if they died. But that would ruin the game 
 for the younglings. This game is very addictive, youcan use microphone commands to tell your dog 
 to dobut the game gets old after a while. There is a lot of stuff to do but once there done there 
 is nothin else to do. This game is great though and reccomended to everybody, especially the young 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philafofalof
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  have you ever wanted a dog? well now you can get one!
  
  nintendogs has completely revolutionised the gaming history. with their cute charms and amazing 
 life like graphics, nintendogs manages to be the one game in every ones DS. sure having a real 
 dog is fun, but not when they start barking in the middle of the night, or leaving stinky little 
 treats for you to pick up on walks. with nintendogs, none of that is a problem! while taking it 
 for a walk you don't need to bring a bag and gloves incase the dog leaves a mess. just poke it 
 with the stylus and POOF! it in a bag. and it wont bark at night if the powers off now will it 
 or the volumes down now will it?
  
  i was so excited about it, that the day it came out, i walked to the shops and bought it there 
 at about 8:00 am.
  that was last year and im still playing with it now! my dog streak is a 27 times in a row champion 
 in disc catching.
  
  some people say that nintendcats would be a good idea. well if you think about it, you wont be 
 able to do as much as you could with a dog. you cant play frisbe with it, or teach it tricks. and 
 when your walking your dog it brings you little boxes, with a gift in like hats or glasses to put 
 on you dog. if a cat ever brought you something, its most likely to be a dead bird or some piece 
 of junk.
  
  and now back to the accessories. there a so many of them you cant count. a wide variety ranging 
 from simple collars all the way to santa hats or a clown wig!
  
  whats also an amazing feature is the voice recognition. your dogs can learn a ton of tricks like 
 begging or even backfips and breakdancing! lets see a cat try that!
  
  my final note is that this game isnt really a game, so it cant be completed, which means that it 
 will live forever. any one that really cares will play with their dog every day.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUSKULL
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Incredibly fun and refreshing! I started playing MK: DS and Nintendogs at about the same time. Both 
 offer completely different (and addictive) experiences, but I can't help but feel that I am actually 
 putting more into this game the more I play it. I mean, I actually want to give back to the machine!!! 
 Damn that simulated cuteness!! 
  
  What the success of this title proves is that the Video Game indusrty is no different than the 
 movie or music industry. It's not like the music industry's success is only comprised of hip-hop 
 and emo rock, there is much more variety out there that makes just as much, if not more money. 
 
  
  Kudos!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caily
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Totally an awesome game!!!!!!!!!!!! you've gotta get it if you do not have it your missing out on 
 so much the cute cut CUTE puppies, the awesome walks, feeding the cute cute CUTE puppies, playing 
 with the adorable puppies and going out for the contests where you win money and a prize and tons 
 of fun and 100 pionts if 3rd,2nd or  IF you think this game 
 sucks you are a very very poor sport and definatly not an animal lover (duhhhhhhhhhhhhh) This game 
 cost $29.99 and that is a very cheat price for a 9.1 rated  i 
 think that this game should be 9.3 rated because it's way better than MarioKart DS yes i know because 
 i have both  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonx500
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the best pet simulator i have ever played its so fun now on with the review:
  
  graphics: good, and its a great thing that they made the dogs 3d
  
  sound: the barking sounds 
 so realistic, youll agree!
  
  lifelikeness: the dogs are so lifelike they act just like real dogs! youll love it
  
  fun: 
 very fun. most people say it is only fun for a week or so, but ive had this game longer then that 
 and it hasnt gotten boring at all
  
  you wont go broke feeding your dog, as caring for it is very cheap.
  
  and theres nothing funner 
 then dangling them in midair with a rope and spinnin them around and around and flingin em across 
 the room, then they come back for more!
  
  when you first play, youll have access to theese 6 breeds, but all breeds from other versions can 
 be unlocked:
  
  Miniature Daschund
  Golden Retriever
  Beagle
  Pug
  Siberian Husky
  Shih Tzu
  
  Enjoy the greatest game ive played on the Nintendo DS handheld 
 system
  
  Happy pet abusing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunte86
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well Nintendogs is not a bad game but it just is not for everyone. It was my first game on the 
 ds and i liked it at first. Loved the voice commands and the use of the touch screen. After i got 
 used to the technology it got really boring. That was only after 3 days too. It feels like a tech 
 demo that does not end. That's my opinion though. I think i might have liked it more if I didn't 
 have 2 dogs in real life and i have the frustration of training a dog in real life. Now don't get 
 me wrong the game is really good....... just not for me so I say rent or borrow before you bye but 
 if you borrow you probably won't need to bye because the fun will end pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Ok I must admit that the main reason I bought a nintendo ds was just for the nintendogs games.. 
 Anyone whom like dogs/puppies needs to buy this game.. Each version has different breeds (although 
 all 18 breeds are unlockable) .. I got this one because I wanted a beagle seeing as how I have a 
 beagle in real life... and i've noticed something about this game, the puppies in this game are 
 almost like a real puppy in the way that you have to feed, water, walk, play and train them .... and 
 each one has a different personality.. You can have a total of 8 puppies on this game (3 in ur home 
 and 5 in the hotel) .... This game keeps me entertained for hours... it's a nice break from games 
 that really make you think in order to play em to the next level (ah you know what i mean) ..... And 
 if your still undecided about getting one of the nintendogs game, then read one of the many walkthrough/faqs 
 guides that people have written and you'll have a better understanding on what is expected in this 
 game... This game is great for all ages.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredinuyasha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  first off nintendogs is very realistic the dog (s) u own have diffrent additudes depending on how 
 u treat them and there starting personalitys u can talk them on walks wen u go on walks u can go 
 to the park gym and discount store also wen u walk through a ? box u will either find a item or 
 another dog also on a walk. u earn money by either selling items at the discount store or placing 
 in contests. the 3 contests are disc throwing agility trials and obidience trial in disk throwing 
 compitions u throw the disk and if ur dog catches it u will get points depending on how far u chucked 
 it and if he jumped. in agility trials u have to go through obsticals with ur dog without failing 
 them and finishing within the time limit ur final score will be determend by those 2 things. in 
 obidience trials u have to tell ur dogs to perform tricks or hold tricks for certian time periods 
 and u must first teach them the tricks at home ur final score will be determined by how well u 
 did the tricks and how fast and if ur dog is clean or not. shopping is also a part of the game 
 u can go to pet supplies store to buy well pet supplies lolz go to second hand store to sell useless 
 stuff kennle to buy or look at dogs interier decorator to change ur house or u can put ur dogs 
 into the dog hotel. and finally u can go on bark mode to interact with ur freinds dogs and trade 
 stuff so that sums it all up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  There are already hundreds of rave reviews of the various Nintendogs version - and for good reason 
 - this is one of the most innovative and immersive experiences that you could have on any gaming 
 system.
  
  Nintendogs is not so much a game as it is a virtual experience of owning a pet. I have yet to meet 
 anyone who doesn't absolutely melt when confronted with a puppy which wants to play with you and 
 interacts with your commands and the stylus. You "train" your dog to learn a few simple commands 
 and then you are off and on your way. Buy stuff for your pup, take it for walks, enter competitions 
 to earn money and unlock prizes and don't forget to feed, brush and wash your dog or your dog will 
 respond negatively to you.
  
  My wife likes this game, my kids like this game and I'm guessing that just about everyone else 
 will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SharonC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:42 am PT
Review:  Okay, if you are thinking of buying this one, you would have to use the microphone a lot. And if 
 you think Animal Crossing is boring, then dont get this, cause you'll probably get bored. So my 
 point is, if you're one of those people who ONLY enjoy blasting stuff, racing at high speeds and 
 shooting, then you better look away. 
  
  You start of with $5,000 ( you'll have to pay an adoption fee) , so when you start playing it you 
 are going to have to choose a puppy at the kennel. There are six choices, but if you get the enough 
 trainer points, you can unlock more. After you pick the dog you want you name him, not only by 
 writing down its name but by saying it. So everytime you want to call your dog you say its name, 
 whistle, or tap the call icon on the bottom screen.
  
  So after you get your pup, you can start teaching it tricks. Pet it if you want it to learn (example 
 tap the back and it will sit) . A light bulb will appear at the top right side of the screen. There 
 you can name the trick and say it on the mic. So if you want the dog to do the trick, you simply 
 say it. COOL HUH. You can also clean your dog. buy shampoo, place it on him/her. Use the stylus 
 to spread the shampoo around. Then use your stylus again to water it. Teaching it tricks and making 
 it clean can get you a win at the Obedience Competitions.
  
  You can also take your dog on a walk, everytime you take it out on a walk it goes further. So you 
 can go further. While making the route you may notice question boxes. These can be items, or other 
 dogs that are out on walks. On walk you can go to the park to practice playing the disc ( For Disc 
 Competitions) , go to the gym ( Agilty competition) , and go to the secondary shop.
  
  You can also, play with your friend's dog ( if they own a DS and a Nintendogs game)
  
  If you 
 love dogs, think using your DS mic is pretty cool, like to play with your friends (DS to DS) , and 
 would like to play something different for once. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningrod767
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You must think that this game may be girlish and babyish. It's not. It is super cool to have a 
 virtual pal! This is also one of the first DS games that allow you to talk into the microphone. 
 You first knock on the kennel door to start the game. Then, you get to choose one out of 6 puppies. 
 They are all different in each of the three games. So choose wisely. You get to take your puppy 
 home to teach him his name and get him to know you better. Soon, you get to teach him tricks, take 
 him on walks, meet other dogs, bark mode, and a lot more! Even competitions! Oh, and they never 
 die! They stay puppies forever. You get to keep up to eight dogs. So doggy fans and animal fans 
 of the world, get your virtual puppy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zekiu_1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  All three Nintendog games are just plain brilliant. When you first go to the kernell to get a dog, 
 there'll be six basic dogs in every game, for Dashund, there's Mini Dachshund (No wonder =P) , Golden 
 retriever, Beagle, Pug, Siberian Husky, and Shih Tzu.
  
  Anyway, as I was saying, you start out with $1,000 to buy your puppy and all the basic supplies. 
 When you return home with your puppy, you teach him your name, by saying the name into the microphone. 
 After your dog learns his name, make a note of it, and there you go, your adventure will begin! 
 ^^
  
  The game is very easy to learn about, and theres a "Guide book" for sale, its called Pups: The 
 Official Nintendogs Companion. I got mine for about $14. If yo ur a wanna-be dog owner, I suggest 
 you buy this game ^-^
  
  Oh, and just for people wondering, my first dog was a Siberian Husky, named Zeki ^^; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irishdancegirl7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the best game ever. there is a fun side and a borin side.
  
  FUN SIDE:
  
  Gameplay: It is the best ever. You pick ot a dog and train. just like real life. if you can't have 
 a dog it is the best game for you. you can train and do all the basics. you can enter contests 
 and do Bark Mode. Lauren (my sister) and I did Bark Mode and got new dogs in the kennel. you can 
 only do it once though. dogs cost from 500 to 570.
  
  Graphics: The graphics make the dogs look so real. its like you just want to pet it and hug it 
 and love it.
  
  Sound: the barking sounds so real it is like they recorded real dogs and the music that is just 
 so cool. it feels like the dog is right there with you.
  
  Value: it is fun when oyu try to unlock dogs but it gets kind of boring. when you have alot of 
 dogs. Lauren, Ali ( best friend in PA) , and I are sucessful with 6 dogs.
  
  BAD SIDE: you don't get all the dogs in one verison.
  
  Cost: 29.00
  
  Get at Gamestop, 
 Gamecrazy, EB games, Gameport, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSChik2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The good: Graphics are great, making the dogs very life-like. The puppies mannerisms are very similar 
 to a real dogs. It almost feels as if you're interacting with a real life puppy (which stays a 
 puppy it's whole life) . The sound's good. The game also makes great use of the touch screen and 
 microphone.
  
  The bad: The game does become repetitive and a bit of a bore. The long commentry at the beggining 
 of contests is very annoying and the lame jokes they crack aren't funny! I've had this game for 
 8 months. I feel like I'm over it but i just keep coming back for more. Every now and again i find 
 myslef playing for about 20 mins, feeding, washing and walking the dogs. There's never an ending 
 or a top level to reach, so it's not one of those games you compete and then forget about. Not 
 as enjoyabke as it used to be, but it still has that spark. There are many, many more unlockables 
 i have not yet unlocked. They include a lot of items, house designs and new breeds of dogs. You 
 can unlock these by gaining tranier points. Your dogs also keep learning new tricks, like the other 
 day when my Golden Retriever responded (howled) to another dogs bark, i was able to teach it "Bark". 
 Overall it's a fun, cute game. Some will enjoy and others will be over it in a flash.
  
  Me= 8.9 Great
  Gamespot= 9.1 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikmin_guy
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game was when my cousin came down and he had the game. we went up 
 to his bedroom and played each others ds games, the only one i liked was Nintendogs. As soon as 
 I got home i rused to my mum "Can you please buy me this game mum??!!?? its so good; you can raise 
 dogs!". i brang it home and played it, it was fun, played it the next day it was fun again. did 
 this for a week and havnt played it for about 3 months.
  
  gameplay: the most important part of a game. how wrong Nintendo got it. its fantastic untill you 
 start doing everything, after that you can only do the same things, nothing new. if they had a 
 few more things you could do on it, more then collect items or train you dog. walking was good 
 but after awhile walks can take a lot of time. it would be more fun to own a dog of your own.
 
  
  score: 3
  
  graphics: this is the best thing about ninetndogs, its got some of the best graphics i have seen 
 in a game, almost the same as mario kart ds. games with pets are best in 3d, not in 2d as some 
 games i have had.
  
  score: 10
  
  sound: very good, realistic barking noises and great background music. the one thing that puts 
 it off is the start up music on the title screen.
  
  score: 8
  
  value: horrible, for a game that was so hyped up it was a total let down, a few weeks after it 
 was released it got a price drop from $70 to $50 (australian) . you should hire this game before 
 you buy.
  
  score: 1
  
  even if you really love dogs, i wouldn't recomend this.
  
  ~ Ben
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a difficult game to review. It's an enchanting piece of software the likes of which 
 haven't been seen before that utilizes all of the DS's unique functions. If you ever want to show 
 a skeptic the possibilities of Nintendo's new handheld, let them play around with Nintendogs for 
 a while and they will no doubt leave thoroughly impressed. However it shares the quirk of quite 
 a few worthy DS games, that is to say it's not quite a game and not quite enough to keep your attention 
 for an extended period of time.
  
  The AI is just great - interacting with the dogs, observing their personalities and realistic interactions 
 towards you, each other, and the various toys is simply a joy to behold. The presentation is polished 
 and inviting, playing Nintendogs is a relaxing and enjoyable time. The touch screen is responsive 
 and the ideal interface, I can't imagine this game being nearly as much fun played with a joypad 
 and buttons. The voice recognition is not perfect but very impressive nonetheless, and the first 
 time you blow into the system to make bubbles or inflate a balloon is simply a joyous thing, it's 
 a totally new experience for gamers. The items you can find on walks are plenty and mostly all 
 entertaining to take home to your pups, and the three types of competitions are all fun to participate 
 in and provides concrete goals to work towards. Being able to link with other DS's is alot of fun 
 and showcases the wireless features of the system.
  
  Now for the negatives. The doggies don't grow old, the walks and baths become a chore more than 
 fun gameplay eventually (much like real dog care) , and after the initial excitement wears off, 
 it becomes clear there just isn't alot going on with Nintendogs. After you've made a boatload of 
 cash, built up a library of stuff to interact with and purchased all the breeds that interest you, 
 the game is over with very little reason to return. Once every few weeks you'll come back to wash 
 and brush them, put out food and water and enjoy the interactivity, but personally I have not touched 
 the game for months since more quality titles arrived.
  
  This is either a must own showcase for DSers or an empty experience with limited replayability, 
 depending on your personal impressions. There's just no way to know until you try it out, which 
 I can wholeheartedly recommend doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  You see a lot of virtual pets these days, Dogz, Catz, though the most successful virtual pet game 
 is a game where you look after humans, also known as The Sims. Though The Sims does get boring. 
 At least we have a game that could help us live through the long six months between expansion packs. This 
 game is called Nintendogs.
  
  You can't just start playing with the puppy straight away. You need to get him/her to start to 
 trust you. You do this by patting it several times. You then have to choose a name. You do this 
 by saying it's name over and over again, you can call him anything you want, just don't be surprised 
 if your on the bus and people look at you because you're saying "fatso, fatso, come here fatso"
 
  
  Once yopu've gotten the puppy's trust, you can teach it how to do things, like playing dead, rolling 
 over, and a bunch of other stuff. You can only teach it 4 things a day though. If you try to teach 
 it more, it's brain will overload (I'm not kidding) .
  
  You can also enter your dog into contests, such as agility contests, frisbee contests, and obedience 
 contests. It's a good idea to train your dog first, or you'l come last and look like an idiot. 
 Ifyou come in the top three places in contests, youl get a nice cash reward.
  
  There are also some annoying parts though. You can only enter up to three contests a day, they 
 crap and pee everywhere when you're walking. and you can't cheat time to enter more contests either.
 
  
  There are a lot of good bits, and some annoying bits, but in conclusion, Nintendogs is an alright 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafaille
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game but sadly you can do everything in the game in 1 day...
  It seems like a lot of things but really its not and you get tired of doing the same thing over 
 and over and over and over and over again...
  Its fun at first to get your dog.. name him... pet him.. clean him... feed him... take him on a 
 walk and get presents... take him to tournaments... it all gets old. fast. there is a pretty good 
 selection of unlockables but really this game is OVERRATED!
  When i say oevrrated i mean it
  These are the type of games im usually interested in but wow 
 its maybe worth a rent but thats about it...
  sorry to offend some.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  Let start by saying that this is a VERY good game you should at least try this game or you will 
 be sorry. This game is very fun at times it has a few good things to it also it has mutiplayer mode (aka 
 bark mode) where you can join other players around you and trade items and stuff. I dont know who 
 to write this well but i think i will make it pros and cons
  PROS
  -Good fun clean game play.
  -Nice usage of the DS featurs.
  -A lot of items to get and play 
 with.
  -Fun competitions with 3 modes of difficulty's.
  CONS
  -The game gets very old fast
  -Some times it hard for your dog to understande you when you talk 
 to them because of background noise
  -No Nintencats expainsion packs
  
  thats about all sorry for the short review but i did not have much time but if u read this and 
 like it give me a thums up!! plz!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGTHDEATH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a great game. You have your own puppy and you feed it and take care of it. In nintendog 
 you have different kinds of puppies nicest, sadlest pupys and all have different personality. You 
 can go out for a walk ; in the walk you meet anothers dog and you can find gifts.
  
  In nintendogs you can enter in differents trials; agiliti trial, obedience trial and disc competitions.
 
  
  Once you win a trial you get money. And with that money you can buy another puppy or remodelate 
 your house. Of couser with a price. 
  
  The gameplay is great you can play with your puppy with the stylus.
  
  Graphics are great for 
 DS.
  
  The bad of nintendog , is very repetitive when you have all kinds of puppies win all competitions 
 u only feed your pet andbuy more and more puppies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  NIntendogs grows on you. In fact it only takes about 20 minutes to be addicted. And it gets boring 
 twice as fast. I have played this game for a long time and I belive that it is not worth its 30 
 bucks. Although the sound and graphics are awesome. The gameplay is very repetitve, You end up 
 doing the same thing every day (cough, cough Harvest Moon) . If you are looking for a good virtual 
 living game get the Sims 2 or Animal Crossing Wild World. Nintendogs uses the mic. alot and it 
 gets really annoying you end up saying Rover about 80 times until he eventually sits. Then he gets 
 up and goes away. And taking walks is twice as boring as staying at home. All your dog does is 
 pee find a empty juice bottle and then pee again. Aside from all of that the competitions are very 
 fun. You can train your dogs to be Champions in 3 subjests. Disk being the easiest and most fun. 
 If you planning on buying i say that it could be good for certain people and it could be terrible 
 for others. It is really hard to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resimaster32
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  this is a god game, the graphics r amazing, gameplay is innovative, and theres almost always sumthing 
 2 do, and its just plain fun. now all u guys out there r probably saying "o no, that game is 4 
 queers and girls", and ur probably wrong. i was immediately turned-off by this game, till i tried 
 in at best buy.... it was amazing, u cant beileve how fun it is till u try it. the only problem 
 is that u will eventually get bored with it, and its so flippen hard to get sum cash. besides that, 
 i do beileve that this game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goyolap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs I expect that was a stupit game but it turn out to be an awesome game.
  
  Gameplay: is the best on the ds. Feeding, playing, walking with the dog some much fun. The good use 
 of the ds tounch screen make the gameplay very diferent and original.
  
  Graphics: are good. The dogs look sharp and detail. The things you buy for the dog look very detail.
 
  
  Sound: is solid. The pupies sound very real when they bark and other things. The dogs sound very different 
 of each other.
  
  Value: is very high
  
  Tilt: the game is ten real day that make too last a long time. The replay ability of this is very 
 high because the game is so addictive.
  
  I have no complains.
  
  Overall is great game that you may rember it as one the greatest game of all time for some people.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trnuf
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  August 24th.
  
  I finally open the game I was waiting for for a while. After playing about 15 minutes, I say myself 
 it just might be one of the greatest game of all time. Showering my dog, breeding him, petting 
 him, walk him, everything looked so fun.
  
  Today, I haven't put this game in my DS for a while. It sure gets quite boring, doing the same 
 things all over again.
  
  The game sure has a whole lot of potential. But for a hardcore gamer like me, it isn't very fun 
 to play a game 20 minutes and then have to close it because there's nothing left to do for at least 
 an hour... 
  
  The microphone works well, but in contests, ypur dog just doesn't listen...
  
  Great graphics, 
 gameplay, sound, but quite boring game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3v0luti0n
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  When i first got the Nintendo Ds i felt as if Nintendo was failing me with these games, dare i 
 say it. I wanted a PSP. But i decided to stick with the DS until i find that one game, and what 
 was that game? Nintedogs. When i first heard of it my first reaction taking care of a dog? Sounds 
 boring. But with only Kirby and Super Mario keeping my interest on my DS and the fact i was allergic 
 to dogs, I gave this game a chance. Within seconds of getting home and touching the touch screen 
 to hear the dogs bark in the background. I knew this would be one heck of a game.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay revolves entirely around the touch screen. Its fun innovative and cute. 
 You start off picking your dog at the kennel and the first few strokes of petting your dog with 
 the touch screen will give you a rush of joy. After the whole tutorial your free to go about doing 
 whatever you want with your dog. Training it for competitions (Disc, Obedience, Agility) , taking 
 it for a walk, teaching it new tricks by repeating a command, or just giving it a nice pat on the 
 head. There are some restrictions to all this.
  You can only go for a walk every thirty minutes (understandable since dogs DO need rest)
  3 competitions 
 per day (Smart choice as Nintendo doesnt want you making tons of money fast)
  
  Graphics- Ah yes the graphics, some say this is what makes a game. Others say they dont. But whatever 
 way you look at it the game will always look amazing (especially for a DS game) But the real amazement 
 comes from the incredibly life like movements of the dogs. From wagging tails to shaking heads 
 you wont be disappointed with the graphic presentation 
  
  Sound- From realistic barks to catchy upbeat music while on a walk. The sound is done perfectly. 
 You will reaching down just to turn the sound up on your DS
  
  Closing comments- This game is for everyone. Small kids to teens to adults. If you have been waiting 
 for a DS game that doesnt suck then go with Nintendogs though be warned Teaching new tricks on 
 a bus will result in strange faces looking at you. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twillingate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  This is the ideal game for any dog lover. if you love dogs, I highly recommend you purchase this 
 game!! The only reason I can't make it perfect is because it starts to get very boring after you 
 have trained your dog and stuff, but before that its great. i like the disc competitions and how 
 you can touch the screen and pet your dog with the stylus. Also, the good idea of calling out your 
 dog's name and it actually coming to you on your Nintendo DS is wicked... never thought that was 
 possible in a game! As you can probably guess this was my first DS game, and I was amazed at the 
 power of the game and the DS. 
  
  You can go on walks, go in contests like disc competitions and agility trails, and stuff. You can 
 shop for items like tennis balls.
  
  Teaching your dog to do things is also cool. You can teach it to sit, stand, jump, etc.
  
  
 Great for any dog lover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _OKO_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs simply looks ever so childish, another poor attempt by Nintendo, well. If you think 
 that, your wrong, very wrong. 
  
  Nintendogs is a virtual life game, like Dogz and Catz once offered for the PC, but Nintendogs has 
 stunning visuals, the Dog's seem so real, they will wimper, bark, wag their tail. It's incredible.
 
  You will be introduced to the game and a Kennel, you are made to choose a breed of Dog, depending 
 on which version you get, for example Daschund, Labrador, German Shepard, Pug, etc. 
  The only thing that can get quite tedious with the game, is talking into your DS to make your Dog 
 do commands, and obviously you need to teach it his/her name, I spent 30 minutes ridicously inside 
 a Cafe shouting 'Jack' in to the DS, I think some people thought I was insane. 
  Some of my friends got sick and tired of this game, but you have to be in a sense, willing to look 
 after a dog everyday, feed it, take it for a walk, bath it. It's exactly like real life- you can 
 also enter your Dog's in tournaments, Disc Throwing competitions, Agility Competitions and Obdedience 
 competitions, it's a game with so many fun things to do.
  While on a walk around the town, you may meet other Dog's, or even find presents and or even a 
 nice left over take away, clinging onto the sidewalk, for your young brand new puppy to have a 
 bite at. 
  But one of the greatest functions of the game is, Bark Mode. You can use the Nintendo DS to wirelessly 
 connect to your friends DS, swap presents, and meet eachothers Dog, and depending what version 
 they have and Breed of Dog, you might get that new Golden Labrador you've been wanting!
  
  This is a benchmark Game for the DS, it truly is fantastic, and it will keep you entertained for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiyoshi777
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs, a highly anticipated hit for the Nintendo DS, is ultimately a bit of a letdown, especially 
 after all of the hype from fans and the major game media. While the core gameplay essentially delivers 
 what one should expect from a pet simulator, Nintendogs fails to bring us the overall depth and 
 delightfully varied gameplay that is Nintendo's trademark. While Nintendogs is a joy for its first 
 few hours, ambitious gamers will undoubtedly wear out its charm soon after, and there simply isnt 
 enough to warrant keeping the game in your DS for any extended amount of time.
  Truth be told, Nintendogs was likely intended to draw casual and even non-gamers to the Nintendo 
 DS, a fact that is apparent in practically every facet of the overall package. Thankfully, this 
 is generally a far lead from a negative thing, and tends to make the entire experience graciously 
 streamlined and easy to navigate. The games interface is a far cry from intrusive, which has much 
 to do with basic though wise use of each of the systems two screens. 
  
  While in your home, the top screen displays all of the puppies currently residing with you (a maximum 
 of three simultaneously, though others can wait in a doggy hotel for you) , while all of the user-interactive 
 selections are relegated to the bottom screen. From the bottom screen, the player can interact 
 directly with any of the three dogs by pressing a very large central button to call them over, 
 which then transfers the doggy action to the touch screen so that you can pet them, encourage them 
 to do tricks, and use a variety of toys. Its all very easy to handle and allows for free, simple 
 gameplay, which is vital in a game like this.
  
  Other than that, one can view a supplies list from the bottom screen, which includes sports items, 
 toys, accessories, care products, clock options, and other miscellaneous items. This is where things 
 begin to get somewhat dicey. Washing your dogs and feeding them is at times excruciating (especially 
 when your dogs are particularly filthy) , and while it is clearly a challenge to make washing a 
 dirty puppy fun, the overall presentation is rather shoddy: puppies are always washed from the 
 same angle in the same way, and all of them approach the food bowl in the exact same fashion. 
 
  
  Furthermore, many of the items, whether they are of the sports or the etc. categories, function 
 in an extremely similar fashion. Most of these items are used by picking them up with the stylus 
 and hurling them anywhere in the room, whether they are tennis balls, Frisbees, spaceship models, 
 or even picture frames. The dogs then fetch them or run away from them in fear: repeat ad nauseam. 
 While the items in the toys category do function differently enough to add some spice (for instance, 
 theres a model Mario Kart that you can drive around) , there isnt such an improvement to completely 
 alleviate some of the tedium of interacting with your puppies using items.
  
  Besides merely limiting ones interactions to the various toys, however, there is the option to 
 take your puppies for walks and enter them in competitions. While it wouldnt be completely fair 
 to say that the core gameplay rests in these categories (after all, the game is a puppy simulator, 
 and playing with your puppy using a tennis ball is a large part of the expected experience) , they 
 do comprise the major game elements of Nintendogs. Walking the dogs is about as boring as it 
 sounds, especially since you can only walk one at a time, and when events do pop up along the walks, 
 they tend to be significantly annoying as opposed to entertaining (other dog owners stopping to 
 talk to you, for instance) . 
  
  Thats to be expected, however, and the competitions provide far more variety and fun than any 
 other segment of the game, with the exception of the obedience trial. The flaw with the obedience 
 trial is rather unfortunate, as it was perhaps the most anticipated feature of the entire game, 
 but alas, here it is: the voice-recognition from the Nintendo DS microphone is severely lacking. 
 The only way for your dog to understand you in any circumstance is to say the commands in an exact 
 tone every time, while annunciating loudly and clearly. Understandable, but I dont know any real 
 dog that has such listening issues, and the frustration of your puppies misunderstanding you is 
 oftentimes infuriating. Other than that, though, both the Frisbee and agility trials provide great 
 interactive opportunities and prove able to occupy large slots of time, though even these wear 
 thin after repeated playing. 
  
  Speaking of repetition, one of the more inexcusable flaws that haunt the entire game is repeated 
 animations from all breeds of puppy, which immediately sucks out any personality of your puppies. 
 Nintendogs seems to be full of furry Sony Aibos (those freakish robotic puppies from Japan) as 
 opposed to real puppy simulations, as the puppies all move in the same manner and repeat their 
 seemingly limited animation cycles numerous times. Its inexcusable that Nintendogs is flaunted 
 as some sort of realistic puppy simulation game, one in which the various puppies were to have 
 different personalities, yet every puppy basically moves in the same way.
  
  Despite the flaws of repetitive gameplay, somewhat broken voice-recognition, and robotic animation, 
 Nintendogs is not without its charm. Hardcore gamers might want to look elsewhere if theyre expecting 
 any sort of serious experience, but Nintendogs is great for short burst gaming. I exhausted all 
 gameplay possibilities within a rather short timeframe (I had a puppy that mastered the agility 
 competitions, so I could do those numerous times a day to acquire huge amounts of money which allowed 
 me to buy anything I needed in a very small amount of time) , but thats only because I chose to 
 play it so obsessively. If youre looking for something simple to play for no more than 20 minutes 
 everyday, Nintendogs is certainly for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 228
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is ok, great selection of dogs. I wish they could of incorporated a Wifi connection into 
 the games. I am hoping the next form of this game would have much more things to do (than pet and 
 feed) with your dog. At least there is one good thing, you can get every breed of dogs in one game. 
 I say to rent it first (e. g. gamefly, small buisiness rental companies etc.) because there is different 
 flaws for different people. the aspect on the contests, there ok. Agility challenge : very hard 
 [HARDNESS LEVEL: **********|] (See below for guide) , easy to go to other hurdles by accident ending 
 up in a miss because your dog was so close to something that is not your target. Obedience challenge 
 : i would say this one is very easy [HARDNESS LEVEL: *|*********] (for owners with one dog in house 
 at time (dogs interrupting other dogs) because all you do is train them, then make sure they can 
 hold a command for a few seconds. Disc challenge: this one is in between on the hardness level
 
  
  
  HARDNESS LEVEL GUIDE
  1 2 10 scale : **********
  (to)
  Level bar : | 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_urb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Just fun a game full of animated poopy and pee. So you first start off at the nintendogs pound were 
 you have to tap the screen twicethen chouse you're dog teach it it's name and make it sit then 
 you're free to go start buying things finding toys on you're walks redisiening you're place or 
 getting more pups. You may have at least 5 pups only but two dogs must stay at the kenal.
  You start off with a blank record two were you can record you're voice this recording will be played 
 when you link up with others also when you first link up with someone there breed will now be avalible 
 in the pound well i think you're ready to start cleaning up after you're own dog until next ti8me 
 
  
  
  Human_Urb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo-lover
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  i liked this game alot. I expected it to be a bit better but it still rocks. The fact that you 
 can only have one item on a dog at a time kinda put me off but winning the championship trophy 
 in agility was great. I like that you dont have to buy all three games to have the dogs you like 
 because of the trainer point thing. When you meet other trainers it was good at first but you get 
 bored of it after a while and end up skipping them. The mario kart and combat coper was brilliant. 
 This game is well worth the 30 and i would advise everyone who has a ds to buy it.
  
  LIAM, 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999eL
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is an innovation and stands out from the crowd, the graphics are by far the best yet 
 and it uses all the dss functions very well. But unfortunately the game lacks addictiveness, once 
 played for an hour or two the game becomes tedious and gaining trainer points of wining trials 
 becomes a chore. This game is a pet sim and works well as that but for me a game needs structure 
 and should pull the player in. After a week I found my self returning to my old games and havent 
 played nintendogs since. Maybe its dead. But I dont mind, I dont feel any attachment to the dog 
 as its always a puppy and stays the same. Nintendo could have improved here by adding a time feature 
 and maybe storyline. Unlike games such as the sims and animal crossing, nintendogs is just a bore 
 after time. I would recommend this to rent as the first 30 minuets of game play are bliss, and 
 the first time your dogs learns a trick is amazing. But sadly with only two objective in the game 
 (gain trainer points and complete trials) the game goes stale and looks and features wear off
 
  
  This game is perfect to rent but as a purchace it robs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  welll let me tell you about this game. this game is a fun, full of adorable dogs that are youre 
 slaves to do wat ever you want with them. the dogs ai (theyre inteligence) is fantastic. the graphics 
 are great. the sound is pretty cool. the game is fun wall it lasts. but went you have done all 
 the competitions youve found every thing. and you have taught youre dog all the tricks it can hold 
 in its little head. theyre isint much to say about this game but that it is a good fun game. if 
 you have any coments or just want to ask me a question then send me an e mail at dorf_8@hotmail. com
 
  
  see ya
  Cole
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Thats the flashing word rotating rapidly around my head. I bought this game for &pound;30 
 and was hoping for a generally cool game where the dogs are basically a clean and easy little critter 
 to care for. I got exactly that and more. Many breeds are available, there are evn three seperate 
 games for you to ponder over. I bought the Dachshund one and didn't regret. With bright backdrop 
 for your living area and an adjustable microphone this isn't a difficult game to master. The dogs 
 are suprisingly clever and respond and learna command after around 3 minutes of constantly saying 
 it into the microphone. The dogs are astonishingly adorable and the contests really are fun to 
 enter. Money is easy to collect meaning you can buy perdy little accessories and a oriental style 
 house. The only faults are the bark-mode thingy-ma-jig is a little on the boring side. Both Nintendogs 
 trainers have different screens and the dogs often don't play with eachother. Overall this is a 
 very good DS game and in my eyes on of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Basically, Nintendogs plays alot like a suped-up Tamagotchi. You start out with a dog 
 (but you can get many more later, I think up to a maximum of 8, as long as you use the dog hotel) . 
 The game runs in real time, meaning that your puppies's hunger and thirst increase even when the 
 game isn't turned on. One problem that I had with the game was that it seems to expect you to log 
 on at least 2 or 3 times a day. Miss a couple of days, and your dog might run away for a couple 
 of days! Although you can put your puppies in a building called the dog hotel where they'll take 
 care of it for a few days, sometimes I found that my puppy was hungry after taking him out of there 
 (I thought they were suppose to feed them!) . Still, the worst that can happen if you decide to 
 take a couple week break is that you're dog will run away for a few days, which isn't too bad.
 
  
  Another flaw is that this isn't the type of game that you can play for hours at a time, because 
 it's suprisingly limiting. Sure, you can take your dogs for walks (only once every 30 minutes for 
 each dog though) , and you can enter them in competitions (3 competitions per day for each dog) , 
 but after half an hour you'll feel like moving on to another game for a while. This isn't the type 
 of game that you're going to play all night. Instead, you'll only play it for half an hour to an 
 hour each day, over several months.
  
  Still, even with these minor setbacks, Nintendogs manages to deliver an enjoyable, lifelike experience. 
 You'll really think that there's a real puppy on the other side of the screen. There's also a suprisingly 
 large amount of items that you can find, and it's fun to try collecting them all. It's also pretty 
 fun to try teaching your dogs many different tricks (breakdancing!!!) , and although the voice recognition 
 is a bit shoddy, it still manages to get the job done most of the time. The three types of competitions 
 that you can enter are really fun as well, and you'll enjoy training your dog at the park and other 
 places. It would have been nice if they'd incorporated some RPG-like elements so you could physically 
 see your dog's abilities increase as you train, but even though they didn't, you'll still notice 
 your puppy getting better at doing things while your training him.
  
  Graphics: Nintendogs graphics are impressive, especially for a DS game. The dogs look very real, 
 and the environments that you visit also look really good. Even all of the items look nicely detailed. 
 There's just a few minor graphical mishaps in certain areas, such as the grass sometimes having 
 that "square" effect, but overall, Nintendogs is a pretty big graphical achievement on the DS.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in Nintendogs is pretty much what you'd expect from this type of game. The dogs 
 bark and make noises that a normal dog would make (which all sound very realistic) , and there's 
 some nice music playing in the background. There's nothing mindblowingly amazing with the audio, 
 but it's still pretty good and matches this type of game nicely.
  
  Value: This category is an iffy. There's pretty much 3 types of people who will play this game:
 
  
  1) Someone who plays the game for only a couple of hours, then decides that they really don't like 
 it and decide to trade it in.
  2) Someone who plays the game, enjoys it, and plays it every day for the first couple of weeks, 
 then slowly gets distracted by other games and slowly moves down to playing it every other day, 
 then twice a week, and then finally once every week or 2 for a little while.
  3) Someone who totally gets addicted, and plays it non-stop for the first couple of weeks, then 
 will continue playing it for a while every day for months.
  
  I personally am a type 2. I played it alot when I first got it, but now I kind of just go on it 
 once every couple of weeks just to check up on my dogs, feed them, and take them on a walk or enter 
 them in a few competitions, usually for about a half an hour or so. I might get addicted again 
 in the future, but for now it's just a casual play every week or two. If you happen to get totally 
 hooked on the game, then move this category up to a 10, but if you just don't like the game, then 
 move this category down to a 2 or a 3. Since this game never ends, the amount of time you will 
 spend on it is pretty much dependent on how much you enjoy the gameplay. I've personally put about 
 20 hours into the game, although that time is slowly increasing.
  
  Tilt: Nintendogs isn't the "amazingly awesome" game that I thought it would be, but it's still 
 an enjoyable game. It provides a new spin on the virtual pet genre, and I'd say it's definatly 
 worth checking it out. If you can get past the somewhat limiting amount of things to do, you'll 
 find an interest and fun game that will be enjoyed by many. Whether you're a child or an adult, 
 a male or a female, you should definatly check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etware
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  In the beginning of the game, you walk into a kennel and choose your first puppie. Youstart out 
 with about six different dogs. As you progress through the game, you earn a total of 18 dogs. Each 
 dog has a certain personality. You then buy the dog you want. You start out with 1000 dollars and 
 spend about 500 dollars on a dog. As you train your dog, you may enter them in competitions and 
 earn money. Once you take your dog home, you name him. This game takes good use of the Mic. , which 
 makes it much more realistic. You may also teach your dog commands like sit or laydown and more. 
 There are several things you may do in the game to keep your dog in good hands. You may take them 
 for walks. You first draw the route you want to take on a map. Your dog won't be able to go too 
 far inthe beginning but will gain experience as you play. There's also a pet store to buy toys 
 and food, brushes, and shampoo for your dog. Nintnedogs is a very realistic game where you may 
 take care of your own pet. Overall, it's a very well-done game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowsbomb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this game defines what video games are supposed to be. So quit reading this go out to the nearest 
 game store and buy this AWESOME game! NINTENDOGS ROCKS! Get this game i sewr it rocks i've played 
 it for a like a bi-jillion hours you can be several different dogs according to which game you 
 buy (personnaly i like Daschound and friends) but of course you can buy which ever you like. this 
 game NEVER ends! you can play until youre a 100 or something and the game will still never end. 
 So stop reading go out and buy this game. go now. go now. Go Now!. GO NOW!. GO AND BUY THIS AWESOME 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive, even if you don't think dogs are cute, fun to be around or interesting 
 in any way. You just want to get more trainer points and money than the next guy. The Bark Mode 
 is fun, and me and my freinds go whenever we can. The concept is very simple. Raise one to three 
 dogs, train, play with and have fun with the dogs. Earn money by wining contests or selling unneded 
 items. There are three contests. The obedience (the hardest) , the agility (for me, the middle one) , 
 and the disk compitition (in my view, the easiest) . You have to walk the dog so your dog gets stamina 
 which makes your dog faster in agility trials, and disk compititions. It grows on you, this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zegjita
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  I finally decided to pick up this game, since I heard it was so great and everything. And at first, 
 I believed it, when I was playing with my new puppy. Lets go into more detail.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are definatly great for the DS. The dogs look real, and the back grounds 
 are really good too. The dog animations are definatly some of the best I've seen. It actually looks 
 like a puppy!
  
  Sound: the sound is great too, though there wasn't really much music, unless you were walking the 
 dog or at an event. Otherwise, it was silent. You had to get a record to play anything.
  
  Game play: At first, the game play is great. Walking your dog, training it, ect. is all fun. The 
 events are also very fun, especially teh agility training. Though, you can't really feed your dog 
 or play with it without money. And after a while, your dog gets so good at the event (I. E. the 
 agility training) that he'll just go hay-wire and decide which places he wants to go during the 
 event or I should say it just gets really hard to control them with the stylus as they run full 
 tilt. The mic was a great idea, but you have to give commands, and name them things that arn't 
 similiar. My dogs name was May, so anytime I tried to say a command that sounded like May, she 
 would do something else. Then for some reason, it couldn't seem to tell the difference between 
 the words "Sit" and "Shake". 
  
  All and all this game is good at first, but quickly becomes annoying to the point where you want 
 to strangle your DS. They need to work a bit more on the voice recogniztion software before attempting 
 this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Prince
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  Released in August 2005, Nintendogs is a very unique game. Similar to the Tamogotchi concept, you 
 are required to raise a young puppy into an old friend. With detailed graphics, things to unlock, 
 and many different things you can do with your Nintendog, this game takes the Tamogotchi concept 
 and completely revolutionizes it, adding a level of realism to the way you raise your pet. The 
 only problem is: they're virtual pets. People say that you have to have a cold heart not to be 
 charmed by these "adorable" puppies, but if you think about it, they're not puppies at all! They're 
 simply a collection of pixels on an LCD screen. I don't have a cold heart, but how could somebody 
 be charmed by an electronic screen? I'm not denying that Nintendo did a good job making this as 
 realistic as possible, but that doesn't change the fact that it's still pixels on the LCD screens. 
 I have two dogs of my own. I can brush my hands through their fur whenever I want, and they love 
 me for it, and that's much better than any game.
  
  At A Glance: Nintendo did a good job trying to cover all aspects of raising a canine from a young 
 puppy to a smart old companion. It is a simulation game where the simulation is raising a dog. 
 I admit that just about every aspect has been done well. You can choose from 6 breeds of dog, ranging 
 from a small Chiwawa to a strong Golden Retriever. You must buy the canine as a young puppy, and 
 raise it to be a lofty life long friend. The dog never changes physically, though, so you'll be 
 playing with a puppy forever. You must put extra care into the dog to get it to turn out well. 
 Otherwise, it will ignore every command you give it, start biting people, and you'll have to put 
 it to sleep (just kidding) . But you seriously have to raise it well, including training the dog, 
 teaching it verbal commands with the microphone, feed and provide water to the dog, walk it, and 
 almost every other aspect to raising a real life dog. If you turn the game off and don't play it 
 for a while, the dog will continue to grow, even if the DS is turned off, so you must frequently 
 play Nintendogs to correctly raise your dog.
  
  Game Play: This is a great simulation game, but it is nothing more than a simulation. If you really 
 want to experience affection and cuteness of a canine but don't want the commitment, dedicate your 
 time to an animal shelter, at least those dogs will love the attention.
  
  There is a very large amount of things you can do with your dog. Weather it be simply spending 
 time with it, tossing a tennis ball at it, teaching it Frisbee, walking it around the neighborhood, 
 teaching it tricks, the possibilities are almost endless. Of course, you can't teach it "hide your 
 ugly face", which is a command I taught my REAL dogs to bury their faces under the couch, but all 
 of the popular commands can be taught, such as sit, roll over, lay down, speak, etc. Each dog has 
 a distinct personality. One Nintendog may learn a trick easily, but it could take longer for a 
 different Nintendog, it all depends on the breed and the personality.
  
  There are also contests that you may enter your Nintendog into. There are 3 different types of 
 contests: obedience, Frisbee, and an obstacle course. There is a shopping mode where you can spend 
 some money to buy new supplies, you can walk your dog in a virtual neighborhood, and there is also 
 a neat feature called Bark Mode. Bark Mode uses the Nintendo DS's wireless abilities to find other 
 Nintendogs to play with. There are new breeds of dog and lots of new toys and bonus accessories 
 that you can unlock, so there is a lot of things you can do before you can raise your dog into 
 "Championship" status.
  
  All in all there is a decent amount of things that can be accomplished before nothing else can 
 be accomplished, but this shouldn't take too long. After you finish, you can raise another dog, 
 but the lasting appeal isn't very high.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are well above average. I can't say their superb but they're definitely 
 worth noting. There are so many good animations that each dog makes to add to the realism. Even 
 when a dog is simply laying down, there are realistic breathing and tail wagging animations. So 
 for the dogs, the graphics have been done great. However good the dogs may be, the background graphics 
 are not very good. Some graphics seem to be flat pieces of paper as opposed to true 3D objects. 
 Also, the background graphics has a bland white overcoat which gives them a foggy look, and personally 
 I don't like it. Still, though, the graphics are good for a DS game.
  
  Audio: Each dog has its each unique yap to it, which is usually pretty close to the yap that that 
 breed of dog actually makes. There are not many different yaps for each different dog, though. 
 The background music is pretty simple. Simplicity isn't always a bad thing, but in this case there 
 is definitely room for improvement. One thing that bugged me is how you can hear cars from inside 
 your house, but you can't hear them when you're outside walking your dog.
  
  Concept: This is the biggest problem with this game. Personally I couldn't really care weather 
 or not what happens to my virtual dog. I would much rather play a traditional game such as Mega 
 Man or Final Fantasy. Traditional games keep me hooked. I am interested in the story, and I can't 
 wait to get to the next level. Nintendogs on the other hand, has not caught my interest whatsoever. 
 The only reason why I started playing it is because I see advertisements for it everywhere, and 
 I was curious. And for the record, I borrowed the game from a friend, I didn't buy it. If my Nintendog 
 got hit by a car and died, I would probably be like "oh, well", and then start a completely different 
 game, that's how little this game has caught my interest.
  
  Final Thought: For what it is, it's a good simulation game for puppy raising. Parents might want 
 to get it for their kids if they keep nagging to get a dog, or even a cat, to see if they can take 
 care of it correctly. People who abuse the word "cute" should definitely get this game, while death 
 metal loving trench coat wearing troggs should stay away from it. Rate yourself at where you stand 
 in between those two extremes, then make a judgement as to weather or not the game is for you. 
 Personally I'd rather spend time with a real dog, or play a more traditional game like Mario or 
 Zelda for my gaming fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TycoonTim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This has to be on the top ten DS games so far. Nintendogs submerges you into a whole new world. 
 It's like taking The Sims Unleashed and taking out the Sims part. This game entirely focouses on 
 the aspect of having a cute little puppy of your own. Open ended and fun this game is. Nintendo 
 has really shown of the Nintendo DS's skill with this game. You can actually you the microphone 
 to talk to your dog, to tell him to do tricks and what not. Using the touch screen, you can pet 
 and play with him/her. The only downfall to this is it's not a game to be played in public. Because 
 you dont want to be seen telling your DS to "sit down". Also you can only enter your dog into contests 
 (the only way to get my in the game) three times a day. And you can only take your dog for a walk 
 every thirty minutes. Other than that it gets old fast. But its still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Waiting for a simulation DS game with the most greatest, obedient companion you'd ever had? Well 
 Nintendogs Duashund and Friends is for you! This is the greatest simulation game on the Nintendo 
 DS. Dog lovers will enjoy the game. 
  Gameplay- This game has GREAT gameplay. The game only gets boring when your dog is fully trained, 
 beat the championship in every contest, and got everydog you need.
  
  Graphics- This game has good graphics. Maybe not as good as the consoles, but still good for a 
 handheld. This has the graphics of Jak and Daxter. 
  
  Sound- The sound isn't that great, when you speak into the microphone, it doesn't come out too 
 great. Dog barks doesn't sound great.
  
  Value-... you have your opinion
  
  Tilt-... you have your opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredrick703
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  Right from the beginning it turned out to be a great purchase. I only let her play about 30 minutes 
 each night, and already there has been a great improvement in her ability to retain what she reads. 
 When she first started playing she kept asking me what she was supposed to do, I told her that 
 she needs to do what it reads, at first I noticed that she was breezing over the text and not paying 
 attention to what it was telling her. Now after restarting a couple of times she has a really good 
 grasp of what is going on and is advancing steadily in the game. My wife didnt approve of my tactics 
 at first, but now she has seen that our daughter has benefited from playing this wonderful and 
 addictive little game. If this game was not as cute and innovative as it is she would not have 
 made the progress she has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takeo_miyazaki
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Although Nintendogs closest comparison can be drawn from the Tamgotchie craze of years ago it is 
 so much more than just a phenomenon. The game itself is so simple and addictive i take one of my 
 puppies out for walks every time i can find a spare 10 mins! its so much fun, competeing against 
 the neighbourhood dogs, collecting loads of toys on walks, unlocking breeds, teaching your puppy 
 new tricks, its all just so much fun!!!
  
  however this game lacks any focus except to envoke joy from the 'player' and in thats respect its 
 not a game as it is a virtual toy. i found myself after my first week neglecting my dog and returning 
 to Advance Wars and Meteos but then i realised that it should be played every day for only 5-20 
 mins max! now its getting more and more difficult to seperate me from my lil Kyoto! lol
  
  Nintendogs is a fantastic experience and one that shoulldnt be missed, it offers emotinal play 
 and a lot of joy and pride in the lil virtual cuties if your prepared to put a bit of effort and 
 thought into play!
  
  i'm off to meet a friend and while we drink coffe our Nintendogs will play with each other. how 
 very cosmopolitan! lol
  
  laters! (*bark bark* - Kyoto) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is just an amazing game well life like game. The graphics are great and the point of 
 it is awesome. A great way to show your kids what they have to do in order to have a dog... Walk 
 it everyday feed it water it play with it train it... this list goes on. Also really awesome if 
 someone loves dogs but has allergies to them. THe dog is really real so its like having a real 
 dog. A great teaching game for kids who think having a dog is so easy and its really a highly upraged 
 verion of the tamagatchi. So if your wondering what to get your kid for a present and he or she 
 really wants a pet.. pick up Nintendogs. I guarentee they will have fun with it and you probably 
 will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thejezzter
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the most easiest game you could play. It is calm and if u have a terrible head ache 
 i might even say that this is the perfect cure! If you can't get pets because you might be allergic 
 or you just not allowed. Well this is the perfect game for you. The only thing you have to do is 
 feed them, water them, wash them allsorts. There are also many tricks you can teach your dog heres 
 a few: Sit: just call your dog over and then say clearly: SIT if you have tought your pet this, 
 it should just sit straight down. There is Roll over: again just call your pet over and say clearly 
 ROLL OVER. it should roll over if u have tought it.
  
  It is easy to teach your dog a trick. Call you dog over and then make it sit down by stroking it's 
 head and then move your stylus straight down your dog should then sit. If you haven't tought it 
 to sit down there should be a light bulb in the top right corner. It should stay there for a few 
 seconds, click this light bulb and say the trick name clearly. Keep doing it until the dog barks 
 with a special tune behind it.
  
  All together i think this game is perfect for any age. Young kids Young Adults even the old people 
 can enjoy this. My rating it 10/10 ABSOLUTELY AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nighthawk89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately for me, I got on the hype bandwagon for this game, so it was dissappointing to me. 
 Not that it's a bad game, but there was just something missing, something more that could have 
 been added to the game.
  
  It starts off with you as a "dog trainer wannabe" as I'd call it. You first enter the kennel, and 
 find that you have a few options. You can look at the kennel's personal dogs, which are the three 
 types that the North American versions are named after (Chihuaha, Labrador, and Dashund which is 
 the one I have) . Once you've gotten to know how to interact with your dogs, how to pet them and 
 call them and such, you can enter the kennel and buy a new puppy. At the beginning of the game, 
 you can only afford one dog. Pick your favorite, I love beagles, and I'm sure the one laying right 
 next to me in his cute little sleep position does too (Note: Real Dog, not nintendog. Remember 
 this, for in the future you may forget which is which) .
  
  You take the dog home and must first have the dog warm up to you and get used to its surroundings. 
 You call it to yourself, pet it for a while, and eventually it becomes comfortable. This is one 
 of the things I don't get, when you pet your dog enough, sparkles appear around it. This happens 
 constantly throughout the game, especially when tossing frisbees in the park. What these sparkles 
 do is beyond me, maybe they increase your trainer points.
  
  As soon as your dog is comfortable enough, you can name it and teach it its first trick, Sit. This 
 first time you do a trick is automated by the game, but future dogs you buy do not have the option 
 of automatic learning how to sit. 
  
  The game progresses with you taking your pet on walks, feeding it, practicing frisbees or agility 
 trial courses, visitng the two shops, and playing with other dogs in the park. You can enter them 
 in contests, dress them up in the accessories you find, and basically interact with them as you 
 would a real dog.
  
  The flaws become apparent as you begin to play for a while. Playing for long spans of time is unreasonable, 
 since you are limited to entering each dog in 3 contests a day (they take maybe 5-10 minutes each) , 
 walking it every half hour, and having it grow tired of playing with you often. Also, the game 
 becomes repetitive at points. During the contests, you are forced to listen to the same boring 
 conversations over and over, and you can't skip over them. They should have put more than two people 
 as "commentators", since after the third time of the exact same conversation, you begin to feel 
 as if the opening scenes for contests go on forever.
  
  Also, since the dogs cannot age, reproduce, or die, the game will become pretty boring after your 
 dog has cleared the contests. You can re-do the contests as much as you want, but the only reward 
 is more money, which is helpful but not satisfying after beating the agility championship for the 
 100th time. It would have been more fun if we had been able to add a little more realism to the 
 game.
  
  My last big complaint is how the "Bark Mode" was executed. Now, I admit it was a pretty cool idea, 
 but with the lack of people to actually interact with, it seems mundane at best. I haven't encountered 
 a single other trainer in my area in my entire time playing. What would have been better would 
 be for this to have been a game with the new wireless internet abilities. There would have to be 
 limitations on how many people you could meet a day, but many activites could have been designed 
 around this system, you could compete against other trainers in contests, have multiple dog play 
 sessions, and maybe even have your dog "visit" their house as sort of a puppy playdate. But allas, 
 maybe in Nintendogs 2.
  
  Now let me highlight some good points of this game. The graphics are insanely good. Better than 
 the N64 by a longshot, you will have actual emotions connected to these dogs just from the graphics 
 alone, if not from how they act in their environments and to you. You can't resist three little 
 puppies (two beagles, Arwen and Casy, and a dashund, Lilah, on my team) sitting there and looking 
 at you, waiting to bark at your next stroke of the keyboard. I felt real guilt when I didn't play 
 for a while, because I was "neglecting" them and not feeding /walking/bathing them. It's all in 
 the eyes for me, they captured that look that Hershey (yes, the beagle) gives me when he wants 
 me to pet him.
  
  The music is also pretty good. It hasn't gotten too repetitive for me, and the option of collecting 
 albums is a nice idea, though it would be nice if you could set the albums so that they play as 
 a default instead of you having to activate them each time you turn the game on, or go for a walk 
 or etc. The white disk I don't know what to do with, so don't expect a great message if you ever 
 encounter me.
  
  All in all, while this game is by no means perfect or worth a 10/10, it is a good buy. It's worth 
 the money, most definitely. For kids who are allergic to dogs or whose parents won't allow them 
 one, it's probably the closest I've ever seen to getting a real experience. If you love animals, 
 and that apartment in the city is just a little too crowded for a real labrador, the labrador on 
 your DS will have no trouble fitting into your happy family. I give this game my approval, and 
 if you haven't bought into the hype surrounding it, you will not be let down by this buy. Don't 
 spend 1000+ dollars on a real dog that will ruin your carpet and wake up the neighbors. Get a Nintendog 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:44 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a strategy / virtual-life game only for the Nintendo DS, which is actually perfect 
 for this kind of game, due to the touch screen and microphone. You start out at the kennel, ready 
 to pick a dog. You can choose from 5 breeds of dogs, all depending on which version of the game 
 you bought. For the Dachshund & Friends edition, the available breeds are the Miniature Dachshund, 
 Golden Retriever, Beagle, Pug, Siberian Husky and Shih Tzu, but as in every Nintendogs version, 
 you can unlock other breeds using the wireless Bark Mode, in which you can send out your dog to 
 find someone else's Nintendog. Once you've taken home your first dog, you can begin playing with 
 it, buying supplies for it, training it, and gping out with it.
  
  From the Home menu, you can choose from the Supplies List, or Go Out menu. In the Supllies, there 
 are 7 categories: Sports, Toys, Accessories, Care, Music, Clock and Etc. Each time you buy (or 
 find) a Supply, the game puts it in the right category. When you want to use it, simply go to the 
 Supplies List and pick the category the supply is in.
  
  From the Go Out menu, you can go shopping (Pet Supply, Secondhand Shop, Kennel, Interior Decorator 
 and Dog Hotel) , Walking, Put your system in Bark Mode, or entering Contests (Disc Competition, 
 Agility Trials, or Obedience Trials) .
  
  When you and one of your dogs want to go walking, first you have to draw a route. The length of 
 the route depends on how many times you have walked before. The route must start and end at your 
 own house, and you can go past a few ?-marks and/or buildings in town. Every time your dog notices 
 a ?-mark, it will run to it. Sometimes it's another dog going out, or a present. Each time your 
 dog finds a present, it will bring it to you and the item that's in it will be placed in the right 
 category in the Supplies List. You can also enter buildings or other areas indicated with a small 
 arrow, e. g. the Gymnasium, the Park, the Discount Shop, and so on.
  
  When you want to go Shopping, you can choose form the Pet Supply (where you can buy supplies for 
 your dog) , Secondhand Shop (where you can sell supplies you don't need anymore) , Kennel (where 
 you can buy a new dog or just look at the kennel puppies) , Interior Decorator (where you can buy 
 a whole new look for your house) and Dog Hotel (where you can put your dogs if you want to buy 
 another one but there are already three in your house, swap a dog with one in your house, pick 
 up a dog, or donate one) .
  
  If you want to enter your dog in a contest, you'll have to train it first. And train it well. In 
 Disc Competions, you'll need a healthy and agile dog that isn't unfamiliar with the throwing disc. 
 For Agility trials, your dog must run through obstacles and stuff, so practice at the Gymnasium 
 first. For Obedience Trials you'll have to teach it tricks using voice commands, because you can't 
 use the stylus in the contest to make it e. g. Lie Down. For all of the tricks in every Class of 
 the contest, read the Obedience Trail Book in your Supplies, category Care. This is where all of 
 the books regarding the raising of dogs are, so if you have any questions, read one of the books.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Outstanding. This game is the most innovative one I ever saw on the DS.
  
  GRAPHICS: Also the best I've seen on the DS. It's absolutely clear that only Nintendo understands 
 the true graphical possibilities of their dual-screened handheld.
  
  SOUND: Great quality, but sometimes abit repetitive. Always the same barking, always the same childish 
 music. But if you find a musical instrument or a record, you can choose which music you hear. Nice.
 
  
  VALUE: If you can show me a game with more replay value than Nintendogs, I'll give you a cookie 
 with chocolate and sugar icing. You'll get so busy looking after your dogs you just don't want 
 to put this freakin' game down.
  
  CONCLUSION: Nintendogs is a great combination of gaming and rasing pets. This might be the best 
 subsitute for a real pet (better than Tamagotchi for example) form people who will never have the 
 chance to own a real puppy, like me :' ( ... Anyways, Nintendogs might look a bit childish, but 
 wait until you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanj23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  So cool I play it every day. One of the best DS games around!!! It is easy to learn, fun to play 
 and one of my favorite games! It is so real you can take your dog on a walk, feed it, wash it, 
 (and pick up its droppings) !! BUY THIS GAME IT IS SOOOOOOOOOOOO COOL. BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT 
 BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortichai
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  If your parents tell you that you're not responsible to own a dog of your own, fear no more. You 
 can now own a canine and love it forever. Nintendogs makes a great push for the Nintendo DS, with 
 sales of both the portable and the game. 
  
  The voice recognition doesn't give you any slack if you have a cold while calling your dog's name, 
 but that's the only fault that I see. You can train your dog, teach it tricks, enter it in contests, 
 feed it, brush it, bathe it, take it for a walk, even clean up after it! (Yeah, you have to do 
 the dirty work, too.) 
  
  You can own up to a total of eight dogs but with only three in your house. You can even upgrade 
 your house depending on the prize money you win in various competitions. Just having fun with the 
 dog and treating it is rewarding enough for players.
  
  It's great because you get a choice of so many dogs in each version. And if you meet someone in 
 bark mode who has a different version than you do, you can unlock dogs in the other version. 
 
  
  This game is as real as it gets. So even if you're allergic to a dog or any animal, you can still 
 own a Nintendog. It's a great game for all ages. It's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:03 am PT
Review:  Although Nintendogs has a slow boring start to it, because you only have one dog and you can only 
 take it on a walk once every 30 minutes and only 3 competitions a day, that problem will be solved 
 once u get a second third or tenth dog life will be so much harder and more fun, not forgetting 
 all the money you need to spend on food and a new house dcor if you prefer but your puppies will 
 have to starve for the while you get more money. 
  You get more money when you enter competitions such as disc competitions, where you have to train 
 your puppy to catch flying discs and bring them back. Agility trails, your dog must endure a run 
 through jumping poles and much more. Obedience trails were your puppy should be able to know tricks. 
 Bare in mind that as you progress through the game the competitions become much harder. This game 
 is excellent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Over the years, Nintendo have proved that they can produce some truly unique stuff. At this years 
 e3 they said, they have changed the game. As they said, the Nintendo DS changed the game . Well 
 with a new unique system, come new unique and innovative games such as Yoshi Touch 'N' Go, Wario 
 Ware: Touched!, Kirby Canvas Curse, Metroid Prime: Pinball, Meteos and Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 just to name a few, and there are tones more to come as well. But arguably Nintendo's most unique 
 creation yet, Nintendogs is easily one of the best Nintendo DS games. In Nintendogs, you'll be 
 taking care of up to 8 puppies (although you can only have 3 in your house at one time) by feeding 
 them, taking them on walks, cleaning and brushing them and by just being generally good owners. 
 Though it may sound like a task to some people, Nintendogs is actually a very fun game, though 
 there are a few things that may frustrate you, for the most part, Nintendogs is very enjoyable.
 
  
  When you first fire up the game, you'll be at the kennel choosing your first puppy. There are about 
 6 breeds when you start off, and there each different in the 3 versions, although all of the breeds 
 are unlockable in each game. I chose a Shiba Inu and named him Ace (don't ask) . I have the Labrador 
 &amp; Friends version, and the Shiba Inu just happened to be one of the starting breeds, as well 
 as a Toy Poodle, Miniature Pinscher, Miniature Schnauzer, Pembroke Welsh Corgi and of coarse the 
 Labrador Retriever.
  
  When you get home, you'll have around $400 left. You use that to buy stuff like water, food, shampoo, 
 a brush and maybe a toy or two you'll probably have around $360. After that, to get more money 
 you'll have to enter your dog in competitions. Although unless you want another dog immediately 
 you won't really need to enter you dog in a competition for a while, as $360 will last about a 
 week and a half if you have only one puppy, but hey, more money is always good.
  
  There are three different types of competitions, Disc Throwing, Agility and Obedience. Each competition 
 has 4 different difficulty levels, beginner, Open, Expert and Master. As well as the difficulty 
 going up, so does the pay (to actually get paid you have to come in 1st, 2nd or 3rd) . To train 
 your dog for a Disc Throwing competition, you'll have to take him or her to the park while your 
 on a walk and throw around a Frisbee. Your dog will automatically know how to catch the Frisbee, 
 but youre basically teaching him/her to bring it back after you throw it. It might also take some 
 time for you to throw your Frisbee properly as well. The Disc Throwing contests are probably the 
 easiest of the three, which sort of makes sense, because they don't pay as much as the other two, 
 although there is only a small difference in pay. You'll have to take your puppy to the gym while 
 on a walk to train him for an agility contest. You'll be guiding him through various obstacles, 
 by touching the objects on the bottom screen in the proper manner. And as you progress through 
 the Agility Contests you'll have to teach your puppy to overcome even more obstacles. Perhaps the 
 simplest contest would have to be the Obedience, which just happens to be the toughest. You'll 
 be training your mutt right at home for these contests, because really, you'll just be teaching 
 them tricks. You'll need to teach your puppies tricks like sit, lie down, shake hands, roll over, 
 spin (which is essentially your dog chasing it's tail) and ect. I know this sounds really simple, 
 but in practice it can be tough. Also if your dogs keep on performing the wrong tricks, it can 
 be very frustrating. As previously mentioned, the Disc Throwing competitions pay the least. The 
 Obedience competitions pay the most, which means the Agility, are in the middle. But the difference 
 in pay in really minor, and there only for if you come in 2nd or 3rd. In other words, if you come 
 1st in the Obedience Trial, you'll get the same amount of money if you come in 1st at a Disc Throwing 
 competition, but if you come in 3rd at an Obedience trial, you'll get even less at a Disc Throwing 
 competition. But as I said, it's only I minor difference.
  
  Another big aspect of the game is going on walks. While taking your dog on a walk, you can (as 
 previously mentioned) go to the park, the gym and also the discount shop. Your dog will also find 
 some gifts that just happen to be lying at the side of the street, wrapped up in white with a red 
 ribbon. You'll find some pretty cool stuff, or rather your pooch will. Such as accessories like 
 various different hats, glasses ect. And toys. Not only will you find some interesting items on 
 your walks but you'll also be rewarded trainer points. You'll need trainer points to unlock some 
 more items at the shop; some new designs for your house, and most importantly, new breeds of dogs. 
 There are various things that you can do to earn trainer points. Winning contests, teaching your 
 dog new tricks, walking your dog and a few more things will give you trainer points. You'll need 
 50 000 trainer points to unlock the very last breed of dog in the game, and there is about 12 dogs 
 in-between that. And as you might expect, it will take a very, very long time to get 50 000 trainer 
 points (and i guess you could say you finished the game when you acquire that amount) . So if your 
 interested in finished the game, it'll take over a month to do so, and that's if your dedicated.
 
  
  Unfortunately there are a few restrictions in the game, that can be disappointing at times. Things 
 like only being able to take your dog on a walk every 25 minutes, only being able to teach your 
 dog 3-4 tricks a day (and you can only teach him/her 15 tricks total) , and also only being able 
 to enter your mutt into three contests a day. These things aren't as bad once you have more than 
 one dog, but at the start of the game it'll prevent you from playing the game, as much as you'd 
 like to.
  
  The puppy models are real, real smooth. There probably some of the best 3D models on the DS. They 
 will also act life like. Everything your puppy does, is similar to the way your real dog/puppies 
 (if you have one) would react, it's in a word, adorable. But unfortunately, the environments don't 
 look nearly as good, especially, the environments you see while youre on a walk. It goes for a 
 certain 3d style, but doesn't succeed, and the result is some pretty ugly looking environments.
 
  
  Again, it's the actual sounds that the puppies make that are the most impressive part in the audio 
 side of the presentation. The dogs barks and whimpers sound so much like real puppies, it's just 
 really impressive. But the soundtrack (if you want to call it that) matches the tempo of the game 
 very well. The music is very upbeat and calm. Overall the presentation is impressive; the ugly 
 environments are my only beef with the presentation.
  
  Nintendos is arguably Nintendo's most unique creation yet, its in a genre of its own. Nintendogs 
 is also one of the best Nintendo DS games yet. If you do play Nintendogs, it's an experience you 
 won't soon forget, every aspect in the game is solid, and I would recommend any DS owner give Nintendogs 
 a try, because chances are, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:33 am PT
Review:  With all due respect to all the other good Nintendo DS games available right now, Nintendogs is 
 the killer-app that made me purchase a DS of my own.
  
  The game comes in four different versions; Dachshund, Chihuahua, Labrador, and Best Friends (available 
 with the limited edition teal/pink Nintendo DS bundle) . The only differences in each version are 
 the box art, title screen, a few exclusive to each version items, and starting dog breeds. So those 
 thinking about purchasing all the versions for all the dogs, don't, all 18 breeds are unlockable 
 from playing the game and earning 'Trainer Points'.
  
  Trainer points are awarded by simply spending time with your dog. Be it walking, cleaning, petting, 
 playing, teaching tricks, etc. So TP are not hard to come by but acumulated rather slowly so those 
 of you wanting a breed that's not one of the starting dogs of your version may have a lengthy play 
 session untill you finally unlock your breed of choice.
  
  Gameplay is really simple, it doesn't take little if any skill to play this game and enjoy it. 
 It consists of the basics of taking care of a real puppy like walking, cleaning, petting, playing, 
 teaching tricks, etc. Without all the hassles of taking care of a real puppy.... like walking, cleaning, 
 feeding, etc. Not to say you don't have to do these, but these are easily achieved with a few simple 
 touches of the stylus.
  
  You can also take your dog to competitions. There are three different types wich are disc catching, 
 agility, and obidience challenges. In order to actually place in any of these (getting in 3rd place 
 or above) it's pretty much mandatory to train your dog wich is accomplished by taking them to various 
 places and practicing. The first few difficulty classes are very easy to win and it shouldn't take 
 you to long to reach the higher classes of events. These become a little tricky so you will want 
 to train your dog in each respective event to be assured of a victory.
  
  Other than these basics there are a few extra things that don't really add to the game much, but 
 provide enough distraction to keep you busy for a good amount of time.
  
  The game is a good one, but with it being a first gen DS release, it does little to really push 
 the handhelds potential. While it does utilize all the unique fetures of the DS (touch screen, 
 microphone) . After extended time with the game you'll notice that the AI of the puppies is not 
 as good as it looked at the begining of your expirience.
  
  Even with the little quarks in the AI and graphics, the game is still a very entertaining game 
 that any DS owner should deffinately pick up sometime. I would have to say it's even worth picking 
 up a new DS if you don't have one. This game alone sold me on the handheld and i'm very happy it 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC__16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is by far one of the greatest games on the market for the Nintendo DS. For some people 
 it is a little kiddy game, but you will be surprised how well Nintendo has worked on it. It may 
 not be the best game in the world, but it is the best on my list. 
  While the fun may seem endless, it may only take about at least 4 weeks until you stop playing. 
 There begins to be less and less things to do. Some of the things you thought were neat are now 
 boring. Its like your life revolves around Nintendogs. When you spend about a week from not playing 
 it your, dog/dogs will neglect you and might run away for a short time.
  Even though the game only lasts for a couple weeks, it is the best game for the DS on my list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homegirl2180
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Back in the beginning of 2005, many handheld trackers were abuzz when they heard that Miyamoto 
 was making a puppy simulator. Many were shocked to find that it had garnered a perfect 10 from 
 Famitsu, Japan's most well known game reviewing magazine. To top it all off, the game managed to 
 almost sell 100,000 DS's on its launch week in Japan! Truly this is not just any ordinary game!
 
  
  Nintendogs puts you in the role of a person who is seeking a domestic pet, and thus goes off to 
 the kennel! Depending on which of the three versions the person owns, they'll be able to select 
 up to six different breeds of dogs initially. You'll feed your puppy, teach it tricks, enter it 
 in contests, take it for walks, as well as other things as well.
  
  Nintendogs relies entirely on the DS's touch screen and mic. With the touch screen, you'll be able 
 to pet your puppy, grab it's tail or it's ear, use it to wipe a sponge to clean it, use it to navigate 
 around the menus, and pretty much do everything else in the game. The DSs mic uses the things 
 you wont use the touchscreen for. The mic will be used primarily for calling your dog, and saying 
 the trick you wish it to learn. When your puppy does a trick, a small icon will appear on the top 
 right of the touch screen, which you must touch. Then a mic bubble/gauge combination shall appear 
 above your puppy's head, at which point you must say the name of what you would like to call the 
 trick. This will require to be done several times before the dog "gets it" and can do the trick 
 just by you saying the name of the trick. It can only hold a maximum of 14 tricks, so it'd be wise 
 to teach him the basics, and teach him the far-advanced tricks. The game uses both of these DS 
 features very well and intuitively.
  
  The puppy models for the game look wonderful and act and move very life-like. Even the way they 
 react with other puppies seems life-like. The puppies are the best looking things in the game. 
 The other areas lack quite a bit. The toy models and such look pretty decent, but the backgrounds 
 and insignificant parts of the scenery just look laughable. Since they are very minor, they do 
 not take away from the what is clearly the graphical focus of the game, the puppies themselves, 
 which look just look very well done.
  
  The puppies' barks and such are as well done as the looks of the dogs themselves! Every breed has 
 a different and unique vocal response to any event that happens. The sound of the different toys 
 hitting the floor, or making noise in whatever way they can, are quite well done too. Once again, 
 they're not as good as the puppies' sounds, but are still quite good. The music in the game is 
 nice and therapeutic, but nothing really too memorable. No "hum-worthy" tunes here.
  
  The replay value is where many complain the game lacks. I disagree, but I'll explain why later. 
 There are a good number of things to do. There are contests you can enter your dog in, which are 
 divided into three areas: frisbee, agility, and obedience. You can only do three contests a day, 
 however, which is a bit limiting. You can take your dog for a walk, but once you do, you'll need 
 to wait half an hour before venturing out again. You can take your dog to the park on walks, where 
 you can practice with frisbees, or you can go the local gym, where you can raise your puppy's agility. 
 To raise obedience, simply train him at home. It is during these walks where your puppy will run 
 into other puppies and play or harm them. You can also find a great number of items during walks, 
 some of which are very rare and comical.
  
  I enjoy playing this game. The main attraction for me is the great number of unlockable items. 
 It is mainly for this (and partially to get 1st place in the championship of each contest) that 
 I continue to play the game. I take joy when I find a Mario cap to put on my dog to wear, or any 
 other Nintendo-themed or non-Nintendo items. The game is also just relaxing at times, whether it 
 be rubbing your puppy for an order well followed, or to just have fun tossing that old frisbee 
 in the park. I don't imagine that there are too many people like this, hence the statement on the 
 review deck. I'd have to recommend most people to pass this game up, unless they like the sim-genre. 
 The Halo fans or Final Fantasy junkies might not be able to get too much into this. I can imagine 
 that those that enjoyed Animal Crossing for the GC, or the Harvest Moon series, will be more likely 
 to enjoy this game (though that's still going out on a limb) and continue playing it for a long 
 period of time. So if you like those games, you might want to check out Nintendogs. Nintendogs 
 is unique and innovative, and if you have the right taste, you'll find it to be an enjoyable experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jembinator
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game that needs a lot of commitment and time because it is a dog simulator. This 
 game simulates the basic criterias of taking care and training of a puppy. Taking care of your 
 puppy is basically just feeding it, giving it drinks, walking it, giving it baths and entertaining 
 it. Training the puppy may be hard at times in the beginning but in the end when your puppy is 
 well trained it gives you a satisfaction that you have trained it well. There are three types of 
 training needed for your puppy to go through in order to compete in competitions. The first ones 
 is disc training where you teach your puppy to fetch a disc, the second one is agility training 
 where you teach your puppy to run through a coarse as fast as it can and the last one in obedience 
 training which is probably the hardest out of the three. In obedience training you train your puppy 
 to do all sorts of tricks and try to keep positions as long as they can. Teaching your puppy tricks 
 can get really frustrating when your puppy doesnt listen or gets confused. The gameplay is fun 
 but it is limited due to the limit of things that can be done. The graphics in this game really 
 stands out and the backdrops are realistic and outstanding. Nintendogs can get repetitive at times 
 but its always exciting when you are getting a new puppy but having many puppies can be very difficult 
 and money consuming. Overall this game is fun at short sessions and commitment is a must for your 
 puppies to be healthy and happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samlacoup
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After an unprecedented success in Japan, Nintendogs finally reaches USA and Europe. Three versions 
 and 18 dogs are available. Your first dog will then depend on the version you chose. Each dog has 
 a different personality, ability to learn tricks, and ability to perform in contests. So do not 
 expect your dog to be a champion in each category. The contests include disc, agility, and obedience. 
 You start in the open class to move up to the championship class and as you move up you increase 
 your possible price money. With the money you earn, you can buy new dogs, items, and food for your 
 dogs.
  
  It is important to take care of your dog by feeding it, cleaning it, and walking it. It basically 
 the all point of Nintendogs and it is what you are to do for the next 10 hours you will be playing 
 Nintendogs. If your dog is unhappy, it will eventually walk away from home for a while (maybe go 
 eat garbage if it has not been fed etc) .
  
  The developers have managed to keep the game as close as possible to the reality. It is in this 
 aspect that the game gains in credibility. Thus, after you walked your dog, you see your dog tired 
 and would have to wait 30 minutes before you take it out again. If your dog has not been cleaned 
 for 3 days, fleas jump out of its fur. But the most significant is the dogs animation. They react 
 exactly as they would in reality, whether they running after a tennis ball, jumping to catch a 
 frees-bee, or playing with each other.
  
  A significant part of your time with your dog is teaching it tricks. Unfortunately, this may be 
 a hell of a job if your dog is as stubborn as my first dog is. To perform a trick you use the stylus 
 on your dog. Scratch its head and go downward to make it sit or shake its hand to make it shake 
 hand (obviously) . If your dog obeys, you just have to speak the command in the micro. This part 
 is easier than what it may seem, after 3 to 4 times your dog will have learned the trick. However, 
 as you move on in the game and as your tick list increases, it is significantly be more challenging 
 to teach your dog tricks. Multiply by 3 or 4 the time required to teach your dog a trick, especially 
 if it is not naturally gifted.
  
  Once all the contests have been completed and your trick list cannot grow higher, your last alternative 
 to keep on going with the game is to buy a new dog. But buying a new puppy means starting from 
 zero with this new fellow. At this stage most player (or non-player) may as well give up, furthermore 
 that you need twice as much time to take care of two puppies. For example, it is not possible to 
 walk both dogs at the same time!
  
  All in all, at first the game is very attaching but after a few days only  of the game can be 
 easily completed. You will find yourself with nothing much to do but the same daily tasks. This 
 game could have been much more if it was a little more rewarding, but in the end you will have 
 the annoying felling of something unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDABIEN
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  THE MOST ORIGINAL GAME EVER!!!!!
  
  ITS ROBUST AND PLAYABLE A LOT
  
  YOU CAN ORDER TO YOUR DOG SAYING WHAT YOU WANT TO DO
  
  ITS ORIGINAL, ISNT IT???
  
  I BOUGHT 
 ONE AND I LOVE IT
  
  YOU DONT LOSE YOUR MONEY IN IT!!!!
  
  TAKE MY ADVISE BUY IT NOW!!!
  
  CONGRATULATIONS NINTENDO YOU HAVE GONE IN THE RIGHT WAY
  
 
  
  I HAVE A PSP BUT THERE IS NO GAME LIKE THIS....
  
  I CAN BELIEVE THAT A SMALL CYBER DOG IS ON MY DS
  NINTENDO IS THE BEST!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Custom__hobo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  So after scraping up enough cash for this baby, it finally comes from Hong Kong (!) in the post. 
 I unpack it, shove it in and play. What greets me is a friendly attitude and soft music, just the 
 thing to set the mood for choosing my new puppy. 
  I'm taken directly to the kennel to be farmiliarised with the touch mechanics of the game, where 
 i'm greeted by the three promotional dogs, a Dashchund, Chihuaha and a Labrador. The seamless graphics, 
 fluid animation and friendly faces instantly suck me in to the game and I can't wait to get my 
 hands on a new puppy. 
  So by some easy navigation i'm on to the buy page where I choose from 6 breeds, and from there, 
 three different colous of the selected breed show up on screen playing with each other. This gives 
 an insight into the dogs personality. After a while I settle on a particularly awesome looking 
 female Beagle, and theres a sense of satisfaction when the message "Your new puppy has come home 
 with you!".
  Now the clever bit. The dog needs a name, right? I decided on Alyx, so to teach that name to my 
 dog, I call "Alyx" at the mic. and she gets it. It gets a bit odd after the 10th time of saying 
 her name but it's all so she can recognise it. A very well thought out mechanism.
  I'm not going to post everything I did on the game but lets just say it's more than just "a chore" 
 to look after your dog. It's a joy. Giving them walks, cleaning them and playing catch seem like 
 pretty average tasks for you to do but when you haven't got a dog, it's a great experience. Just 
 calling their name and watching them bound happily towards you is something in itself.
  One thing that really impressed everyone in my family was the "bubble blower", you select it, a 
 bubble blower pops up on screen, moved around with the stylus, and to make the bubbles, you BLOW 
 the DS! It's an incredible little thing that makes you wonder how you ever lived without the little 
 silver box. 
  I'd reccomednd this game to anyone who doesn't have a dog as it may just seem a bit pointless if 
 you've already got the real thing, but this is truly a joy for me to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Zat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs, if nothing else, could be used to show off the features of the DS hardware. While in 
 most games, the DS touch screen is either optional, or just used to move, it is absolutely required 
 in Nintendogs. There is only one item that can be operated without the touch screen. If you buy 
 this game the first item you should use is the Bubble Blower. It is amazing. You blow the screen, 
 bubbles come out. It blows my mind on a constant basis. This game makes you wonder where the industry 
 is going, and makes you see that Nintendo is going to lead the charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyGuy84
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Adorable isnt usually an adjective that comes to mind when playing a video game. In the case of 
 Nintendogs, a new game for Nintendos handheld DS system, no other word seems more appropriate. 
 Addictive, innovative, and just downright cute, Nintendogs is the first game that everyone with 
 a DS will want to own.
  
  Designer Shigeru Miyamoto (Donkey Kong, Super Mario Bros. series, Zelda series) has created a game 
 that is in some ways a Tamagotchi for the 21st century. In Nintendogs, players take dogs home from 
 the pound, and are then able to train, care for, and play with them. 18 different breeds of dog 
 are available in total (though only six are accessible from the start) , and the game boasts photorealistic 
 graphics that help immediately endear players to the puppies onscreen. These puppies never grow 
 old, but do require food, water, and bathing in order for them to form a close bond with their 
 owner.
  
  Nintendogs is the first game to truly take advantage of the Nintendo DS hardware. Most of the action 
 is controlled using the stylus, which allows players to do everything from accessing menus to petting 
 their puppies. Dogs in the game can also be trained to respond to voice commands, and will come 
 to their owner when called by name, as well as perform certain tricks when commanded by the player. 
 The use of both the touch screen and built-in microphone provides a unique experience that is extremely 
 intuitive and easy to pick up by gamers and non-gamers alike.
  
  This game is far more than a simple dog simulator, and players will have no problems finding a 
 wide variety of things to do while playing. Dogs can be entered in three different competitions 
  obedience trials, obstacle courses, and disk-catching competitions. Obedience trials test the 
 puppies ability to respond to voice commands, while the obstacle courses and disk-catching tournaments 
 challenges the dogs physical abilities. The dogs can also be taken on walks, where they can practice 
 catching disks in the park, meet and play with other dogs, find presents, and engage in other activities.
 
  
  One of the best parts of Nintendogs is the bark mode feature. Here, the game searches for other 
 Nintendogs games in bark mode, (wirelessly) and allows one dog from each game to play together 
 in the park. Friends can play with each others puppies and exchange presents, bringing a social 
 level to a game already rich in content.
  
  As stated before, the graphics in Nintendogs are phenomenal. The dogs in the game are lifelike 
 both in appearance and in their fluidity in motion. Playing the game, one finds it easy to suspend 
 disbelief and forget that he or she is actually looking at an animated puppy. The music in the 
 game is pleasant and upbeat (although rather repetitive) , but the sound effects of the puppies 
 are very lifelike, and serve to enhance the immersive quality of the game.
  
  Less a game in the traditional sense and more of a simulation, it is difficult to truly appreciate 
 the brilliance and sheer fun of Nintendogs without playing it. The most innovative game of the 
 year so far, Nintendogs is a joyful experience not to be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRrules
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  its a great game, if your mom wont let you have a real dog maby she'll let you have a nintendog. the 
 game can charm anyone even dog haters. this game makes you feel like you have your on puppy to love 
 and care for. i would recomend this game to all dog lovers.
  
  i cant understand why someone wouldnt be pleased with this game. the dogs look real, act like real 
 dogs, and have different persinalitys. you'l love this game i know it. it could have been better 
 though, but if they made the puppies grow up in the game you'l just want to throw that one away 
 and get a new one to see it as a baby again. so its good to see them baby all the time it makes 
 them much cuter.
  
  just like intendo says you haveto be cold hearted not to be charmed by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neon_tetra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:45 am PT
Review:  Now, as we know, the DS is easily capable of outdoing the graphics of the N64, we can see this 
 in Super Mario 64 DS, but why are plenty of games made for the DS have graphics looking just like 
 a GBA game or a pile of poop?! I know graphics don't make a game good, but it definately helps 
 sell. 
  Haleluja Nintendogs has arrived. 
  
  The look, the realism, I was happy to see this and have been tracking it for like, a year. And 
 now I finally have it! I own Dashund and friends, and I am very pleased. I can't put it down. It 
 makes very good use of the touch screen and mic, I can talk to my dog! wow! Rover, here boy! Luvin 
 it.
  
  I know this is very short, but I need to keep your attention!
  tHANK YOU FOR READING!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargazer9076
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is really a good game. It just doesn't have the replay and long time value that a good 
 game has. My favorite games, I can pull out over a long weekend (such as the one I'm on right now) 
 and play it, having fun, even though I've beaten it 10 times. Nintendogs doesn't seem to have that 
 appeal. It is quite fun at first, naming your dog and teaching it to sit, lie down, and roll over. 
 Then you take it for a walk, and find presents. Even the pee-spot thing was kind of funny at first. 
 But eventually, it just gets tiring. 
  
  This could be because I usually end up playing it in situations where you can't use the mic, but 
 I don't think that would have a large bearing on it. The only thing the mic must be used for is 
 the obedience competitions, which I gave up on once my dog refused to lie down. That's another 
 thing with this game. You have to have the same voice inflection every time you say a command, 
 or else the chances of it working are low. 
  
  One of the things that Nintendo should have added was an option to freeze your dog in time. This 
 would allow the player to go off for a while, such as on vacation, or even just taking a break 
 from the game, without having to worry about the dog running away. Your dog won't die, but it will 
 run away if you don't treat it. This could be a problem once you lose interest in the game. Honestly, 
 right now I only turn on Nintendogs to feed my dog, talk him for a walk, and give him a bath every 
 once in a while. 
  
  Another thing that I was missing in the gameplay was the connectivity option. Nintendo makes this 
 out to be something that you could stumble upon at any time. However, with the time I have spent 
 playing this, I haven't come across any other dogs. This would also seem to increase the playing 
 value, but only if you've got quite a few other trainers immediately around you.
  
  Nintendogs has a good idea and well built frame, but the longtime playability value just isn't 
 there. Be fully aware of this as you rush out to get your copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLS_SNAKE625
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs has been hyped as innovative, fun, and the best DS game to date. To be honest, the statements 
 aren't false- they just aren't entirely true.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Nintendogs showcases some really great graphics for a handheld. The dogs all look extremely authentic, 
 just like their real life counterparts. One of the things that really help immerse you is the amazing 
 animation of the dogs. It's all extremely well done and cute.
  
  SOUND:
  The dogs' barks are all great. Other than that, the music and sounds are fine. Nothing spectacular, 
 nothing that detracts from the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Here is where the game both shines and falters. 
  
  In the first few days, you will play this 
 game like crazy. The game is addicting and a lot of fun, and you'll never want to put it down. 
 The game forces you to, though, because there are limitations on how many times you can do certain 
 things in a certain amount of time. For instance, you can only go for a walk every 30 minutes, 
 and you can only enter 3 contests a day. It's annoying at first, but it's not too big of a deal 
 later on.
  
  The reason why it's not a big deal is because the game gets so boring you won't pick it up after 
 2 weeks. There's a good chance your going to wear it out very very quickly. You can only pet your 
 dog and throw a disc so many times. You may pick it up for 5 minutes a day, maybe, if you really 
 like it.
  
  You can do a number of things in the game:
  -Take your dog for a walk
  -Throw around toys and play
  -Do competitions
  -Teach your dog tricks
  
  Now, that's not 
 all, but the entire game really revolves around the 3 concepts of Obedience, Throwing, and Obstacle 
 courses.
  
  Teaching your dog tricks is obdience, and you do the same thing in competition- just get your dog 
 to perform what you tell it to.
  
  Playing with toys is the same with pretty much every toy. Throw it, fetch, repeat. The Disc Competition 
 follows that.
  
  Obstacle Courses are unique, but your dog isn't the brightest and often botches the runs. There 
 is virtually no challenge in the entire game, and then these obstacle courses come and they are 
 rather difficult. 
  
  Voice recognition is decent. Sometimes, you'll just get background noise and your dog will acknowledge, 
 and other times you'll speak perfectly and your dog is confused.
  
  So, for a time, you'll feel this is the best DS game, but then those feelings will go away after 
 a week or two.
  
  Good game? Yes, but not great. put your money into Meteos if you want something that will last. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  Nintendogs is an addictive and enjoyable virtual pet sim for Nintendo's latest handheld system, 
 the Nintendo DS, but unfortunately, suffers from almost unbearable reptetition and it's frustratingly 
 gimmicky voice recognition system. (They just don't friggin listen!!!)
  
  Nintendogs is very nicely presented, and from the moment you start the game, you'll know what you've 
 bought or rented yourself quite a quality game. Menus are very easy to navigate through, (although 
 finding Trainer info was very frustrating at first) and you should be able to find any object that 
 you may be searching for with ease. 
  
  The graphics are really great on the DS as the dogs look very realistic, and same goes to the houses 
 in which your Nintendogs live in. Unfortunately some of the environments and objects (such as the 
 dog photo) look horribly pixelated.
  
  However repetitive, the sound and music of the game does it's job, although it's nothing special, 
 really. The voice recognition really sucks, and it's VERY difficult to teach your dogs tricks in 
 this fashion as your dogs will NEVER hear you the first nor second time. It takes several attempts 
 to call your dog, and often it only comes to me when somebody in the background says something 
 totally irrelevant, so yes, the voice recognition aspect of the game is no fun at all. 
  
  It's fun taking your dogs to contests and training it at parks with other dogs, although it gets 
 very repetitive quite quickly, and there's really not much more that your dog can do. 
  
  Although everybody would want to see what all the fuss is about, your Nintendogs will lose their 
 adorable appeal very quickly, and you may wish you could never play it again but unfortunately 
 you don't want your little puppies getting hungry. :-p
  
  And Nintendogs gets a "9" for value, as it's currently the cheapest available Nintendo DS game 
 in Australia, (I got mine for AUD$42) and all other games have a recommended retail price of at 
 AUD$69. Gosh, the standard American RRP of new release Nintendo DS games are an equivalent of AUD$40, 
 gosh, what a rip-off. :- (
  
  Nintendogs is a cute game you can play for around 10-20 minutes at a time, and nothing more. Play 
 any longer and you may go insane. Don't get me wrong, i'm still enjoying the game as i'm playing 
 it in small doses, but I feel that Nintendo should have added more content into what has become 
 a phenomenon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irkensolider
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  With it's cute face and extremely hyped media reviews, it seems like most DS owners have contemplated 
 the purchase of or actually purchased Nintendogs. Nintendogs in itself is not a new concept, although 
 its platform allowed new ways to interact with your virtual friend.
  
  I played my brother's copy for about three days. Three solid days of Nintendogs. You start off 
 choosing a puppy-the types available will of course depend on your version. After I brought my 
 new beagle home and he became aclimated to his surroundings, I was prompted to name him. After 
 about ten minutes, he finally realized that when I said "Ted", I was addressing him.
  
  I immediatly began teaching him the basic tricks-sit, lie down, roll over. He learned fairly quickly. 
 I was overall pleased with the pace at which things were going so far. Ted was tired of learning 
 tricks, so we played, went for a walk, and called it a day.
  
  The first time I entered Ted in a competition with his arsenal of six tricks at his disposal (including 
 a wicked backflip) , I failed miserably. Apparently, I'd recorded various tricks at different lengths 
 from my mouth, so he didn't understand any of my commands. Wonderfull.
  
  So, now I've come to understand that the voice recognition leaves something to be desired. OK, 
 I can still enjoy the realistic expressions on my dog's face as I 'pet' him. I can enjoy walks. 
 At least, I could enjoy those things, until they became extremely boring and redundant.
  
  So, after three days, I disowned Ted, gave the game back to my brother, and called it quits.
 
  
  I do give the game points for its wonderful graphics, sound, and controlls, but overall, it leaves 
 something to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secksncigs
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  It's Tamogotchi with Dogs... only it's not.
  
  Remember the little key chains with the monsters you took care of, who grew from little piles of 
 slime to something mysterious depending on how well you took care of them? Those were the days 
 weren't they? If you enjoyed the Tamogotchi craze, you won't necessarily find the same enjoyment 
 from Nintendogs.
  
  I'm gonna be honest here, because apparhently so many are blinded by the cuteness of their newly 
 adopted digital pups. The hype surrounding this game is entirely that and nothing more. 
  
  By now you probably know all about this game and are sifting through many "This is the best game 
 ever" reviews. Allow me a moment to explain why everything you've read couldn't be further from 
 the truth.
  
  The game is very time demanding and provides very little content within it. Contrary to that statement 
 you won't find yourself locked in a dark closet playing this game for hours because you simply 
 can't. You can walk your dog once every 30 minutes and only enter into three competitions a day. 
 While walking your dog you'll run into other dog owners who will stop and either berate you for 
 not cleaning up after your dog (if you dont bag up its poo) or compliment you on your dog. All 
 the while your little pooch is either being chased around the bottom screen or laying in unholy 
 matrimony with the neighbors pooch.
  
  The other times, when you don't run into another dog, you get a present! These can be any of the 
 large assortment of practically useless dog toys/collors/hats. Their only true purpose to add some 
 kind of additional item seeking element to the game. Which admitedly can make a game addicting 
 but their only available through dog walking for the most part. The items are plentiful and some 
 rarer than others but as mentioned, pretty useless.
  
  The other aspect of the game is the competitions. These are I suppose the meat and potatoes of 
 the game. Obedience, Disc (frisbee) , and Endurance trials. A whole 3 competitions! Of which you 
 can only enter 3 times a day combined. The competitions last about an average of 5 minutes each 
 so that's a whooping 15 minutes of gameplay! So you spend the rest of your time, walking your dog 
 (only every 30 minutes) , or teaching it tricks.
  
  Speaking of which, your dog can only learn 3-4 new tricks a day. The problem is it can get kind 
 of difficult to even figure out what the heck the dog is doing at times. The voice command system 
 is dodgy at best and simple "Sit" commands must be made into more complex multi syllable commands 
 like "Take a seat". Sure you can use sit if ya like but don't expect your dog to understand.
  
  Once you get your dog all trained up you're off to the competitions to earn money for... more 
 food, water, and shampoo. You can also upgrade your abode but it can get costly and really only 
 offers you a sometimes larger indoor are that looks different than your previous home. 
  
  You will find yourself gainign trainer points throughout your adventure which basically just opens 
 up more dogs/houses to buy. There is no secret level to access through commitment, just the same 
 thing, everyday.
  
  After you've spent about a week with your digital dog you'll long for the lazy days when just sitting 
 on the couch with your dog at your feet was enough to keep your pet happy. The hype wears off rather 
 fast as you'll find you can do all there is to do in Nintendogs within the first day.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the DS. The dogs look almost like real dogs. Their barks and mannerisms 
 are identical to a real dog. The unfortunate part is they dont dont grow. Mistreating them won't 
 cause them to grow horns, giving them unrelenting attention won't make the sprout angel wings. 
 
  
  The sound is mediocre. Barks sound good, music is pretty sub par though. There are records you 
 can get to get your dogs into whatever mood but it isn't Mozart by any means. Just average sound 
 for this type of game.
  
  Value of this game really depends on the player. Someone who is into this sort of simulation will 
 find more value in Nintendogs than someone who is looking for an actual game. If your buying it 
 because of the hype there is a 90% chance you'll be disappointed. 
  
  In conclusion, those puppies at the pet store look awfully cute in the window, just like the puppies 
 in the DS display look awfully cute. Get them home however and they just don't live up to expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, Shigeru Miyamoto took up gardening as a hobby. One thing led to another and, 
 as the story goes, Nintendo fans were blessed with Pikmin. As we all know, history never takes 
 long to repeat itself. The Miyamoto family recently came into the possession of some wonderfully 
 cute puppies and, as luck would have it, the gaming community was blessed once again with the wonder 
 that is Nintendogs. Quite the clever play on words, Nintendogs is the current generations reinvention 
 of the Tamogatchi. If youre unfamiliar with the brand, a Tamogatchi key chain landed somewhere 
 beyond the pet rock yet not quite as high as your baby brother on the evolutionary ladder. With 
 indicators to tell you when your digital pet was hungry, thirsty, tired, or bored, your task was 
 simply to keep the Tamogatchi alive. Innovative? Not entirely. Addicting? Like a drug. Kids everywhere 
 had to have one. It was one of the hottest toys of the 1990s. Like all fads, however, the Tamogatchi 
 eventually faded into pop culture history. Or so we thought.
  
  Enter Nintendogs. In this beyond cute, highly addictive, innovative pet simulator for the Nintendo 
 DS, there is on ultimate goal. There is no way to beat the game, and there are no high scores to 
 rack up. So whats the point? That depends on who you ask. With plenty of fun tidbits to unlock, 
 18 dog breeds to love, and a wireless multiplayer playground, Nintendogs offers quite a bit of 
 content on that tiny DS cartridge.
  
  When you first power up the DS, youll be taken to the Nintendog Kennel. There, youre given the 
 choice of six different puppy breeds to take home. Which breeds are available at the start of the 
 game depends on which version you own (Dachshund, Chihuahua, or Lab) , although its possible to 
 unlock all 18 breeds in each version through continued play. Each time you enter the Kennel, the 
 available colors and sexes are randomly mixed. If you dont like your first set of options, simply 
 exit the menu and return. Once you pay the adoption fee, you can take your new pup home. Hell 
 need a name, which you can give him using the systems voice recognition software. Train him for 
 a few moments so that he recognizes the name, and then begin your quality time together. After 
 you play for a few minutes, youll be able to teach your dog tricks using the stylus for control 
 and the voice recognition to give your tricks any name youd like.
  
  Once youve gotten to know your new pet, a number of options are open to you. You can go shopping 
 for supplies, take your puppy on a walk around the neighborhood, or enter him in one of three competitions. 
 To shop for supplies, simply go to the general store and pick out the food, toys, and other miscellaneous 
 items youd like for your dog. You begin the game with a budget of $1000, which quickly drops to 
 around $500 after you adopt your new friend. Youll find, however, that this is amounts to more 
 than enough money to spend on supplies.
  
  To exercise with your pup, take him out for a walk. After selecting this option, youre shown a 
 map of the neighborhood with which to plan your route using the DS stylus. Once youve entered 
 your course, you can use the stylus to keep hold of your puppys leash. Walks are typically the 
 most entertaining aspect of this simulator, as youll encounter other puppies from around the neighborhood 
 on similar outings, find presents along the road, and visit discount stores. You can also take 
 your Nintendog to the park for some fun, social interaction, and training exercises.
  
  The only way to earn money in Nintendogs is by participating in one of three competitions. Your 
 first choice is a simple game of catch, in which your dog has to catch and return as many throws 
 of the Frisbee as he can in 60 seconds. The farther the throw, the more points youre awarded. 
 Your next option is an agility trial in which you guide your puppy over hurdles and through obstacles. 
 Finally, the most financially rewarding and correspondingly difficult task is an obedience trial, 
 where you can show off your training prowess in terms of how many tricks your dog can correctly 
 perform and how long the tricks can be maintained.
  
  Nintendogs could only have been achieved on the Nintendo DS. The touch screen and microphone provide 
 a level of interaction that is unsurpassed. Youll find yourself quickly growing attached to your 
 puppies, making sure they are well fed, rested, and exercised. Part of this attachment stems from 
 the beautiful visual presentation Nintendo managed to squeeze into the title, making your puppies 
 seem incredibly life-like and endearing. The visual quality is matched by the magnificent audio 
 that so clearly describes each puppys unique personality. When your dog is hungry, tired, or mad, 
 youll hear it. You can even use the DSs wireless technology to take your puppy over to a friends 
 house. Your pets will happily play together on both systems, and you can share all of your toys 
 and supplies (if you so choose) with your new friend.
  
  The games only drawback is that it is best enjoyed in shorter, action-filled spurts. Youll find 
 that you can only play the game for 20-30 minutes at a time before your puppy gets too tired to 
 learn new tricks or go for a walk. Overall, however, Nintendogs is one of the first must-have titles 
 for the Nintendo DS. It appeals to dog-lovers of all ages, and both men and women will find the 
 game equally endearing. This isnt your big sisters Tamogatchi. Its a whole new generation of 
 virtual pet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis-Kun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  If you are a mature person, you will know that a game is not good because it has blood, death, or 
 adult themes like drugs or sex, you know that a good game is good because it has an innovative gameplay, and 
 a lot of fun.
  
  This game is basiccaly about having a pet, but it is not like other boring pet games like Tamagotchi 
 or Pokemon Pikachu, that are basically the same.
  Nintendogs its do damn real, so real, that if you touch the nose of the puppy he will sneeze.
  
 The graphics are very nice, they look to much better than Nintendo 64.
  The only bad point is about the sound, it is not bad enough but more variety of sound or dog expressions 
 would be better.
  
  This game is for everyone, to kids, teenagers (like me) , adults or even old people, who thinks that 
 the games are just violence without heart, just look at Nintendogs, another pure jewel of the great 
 N. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  When this game was announced, I said, "that's the first DS game to break the 9.0 range," and here 
 we are now. Not only is this one of the best DS games out right now, but it is probably one of 
 the best life sims ever. This game offers the best DS graphics, the most original handheld gameplay 
 ever, a cute overall sound to it, and the most massive replay value I've seen on a handheld. To 
 sum up, this game is almost flat out perfect. And here we were hoping that it'll be just a decent 
 game, but it delivers on almost every level possible for its genre. Like I said, the graphics for 
 the game look absolutely flawless, and are by far the best DS graphics yet. There are very little 
 visible pixels, which is just awesome for a DS game. The animations are incredably fluid, and the 
 dog designs are very lifelike and realistic. I have played this game a lot, and I have not seen 
 one glitch thusfar, and the level of customization for your dogs (bows, collars, etc.) is really 
 good. In addition to stellar graphics, Nintendogs boasts the most realistic gameplay I've played 
 in my life. Everything in the game is in real time, so if you neglect your dog, you could be taking 
 some serious steps into losing your puppy. Which reminds me, in Nintendogs, your virtual dogs remain 
 puppies from the time you pop in the game card, to the time you stop playing it. This means no 
 death for your dogs, and no emotional breakdowns for you, the trainer. But you may say, "What if 
 I neglect my dog?" The answer is, he/she runs away, either for a short time, or forever judging 
 on the degree of neglect. Therefore, for you cruel people out there, you will have no luck trying 
 to kill your virtual canine. Back to the real time factor of the game. It is great and realistic, 
 but it limits what you can do in a certain time period, or if you're busy, you may forget to feed 
 your dog. This does get a bit tedious to remember to feed you dog/s every so often, but it does 
 feel very lifelike. Anyways, there is massive amounts of things to do with your dog (and I mean 
 massive) . You can brush your dog, bathe it, walk it, feed, dress up, teach it tricks, and enter 
 it in tournaments. This gives you a lot to do, but you don't want to do it in a short period of 
 time, or you'll be forced to wait a while before playing again. About interacting with your dogs: 
 there are really two core ways to interact with your dog, caring for it, and training it. Since 
 we've already talked about caring let's talk about training. The training factor in the game is 
 probably what makes it so real and lifelike. This is also a feature that makes this game one of 
 the only Nintendo DS games to use the built in microphone. All you have to do to teach a dog a 
 trick is to put it in the position of the trick. This usually means pointing or dragging the touch 
 stick in certain places and directions. Once he's completed the trick, you touch a little lightbulb 
 in the top corner to record the voice command for the trick. Once you do this a couple of times 
 (this can vary about how many different ways you say the trick, and your dog's rate of learning) , 
 you are told to write the trick down so you do not forget. This list is easy to access, and is 
 very helpful if you forget what commands a dog knows. Also, you can enter your dog in a couple 
 of trials and tournaments. Among these are: disc (frizbee) , agility, and obedience. All of these 
 start off easy, but get harder as you move up in the ranks. All of these of course require you 
 to train your dog in that specific area. All of these areas to train are easily accessable via 
 walking your dog. I forgot to talk about walking dogs too. Before you walk your dog, you draw your 
 route on a map placed on the touch screen. This route must both start and end at your house. What 
 makes it a little challenging is that your dog only has so much energy to walk, and he/she can 
 only walk a certain distance. But never fear, as you continually walk your dog, he gains more energy, 
 and therefore he can walk longer distances. During the walk, there are also a couple more ways 
 you can interact with your dog. The primary way of it is picking up waste. By this I mean putting 
 your dogs waste in the little poopie bags. You also can encounter certain events while on the walk. 
 Your dog can pick up gifts for you, which can come in handy while training your dog. You can also 
 interact with other dogs, and recieve useful information from them. After the events, you just 
 walk on back home and resume playing with your dogs. As you see, there are endless possiblities 
 in Nintendogs, however the real time makes it a game you can't afford to forget to play, and also 
 one that you can't play for long periods of time. The overall sound to the game is great. The music 
 is good, and the sound effects are pretty good. There's nothing really much more to say about it. 
 It's just great. Overall, this game rocks, and is definately a must have for DS owners. There is 
 so much to do in the game with your amazingly lifelike dogs, and since you can have up to three 
 of them, that means triple the dog fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger1535
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 10, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is a game where you can have a dog of your own. You have to take care of it, feed it, 
 take it for walks, bathe it, and of course play with it. You start off by knocking on the door 
 to the kennel and you are takin to a screen where you can either buy a dog, or look at the display 
 ones. The dog you choose depends on the version you get, each version has six different breeds.
 
  The gameplay in Nintendogs is great, you interact with your dog with the stylus, you can pet it 
 and throw toys with the stylus. It makes you feel like you are actually petting your dog with your 
 hand. When you take it for walks you have to plot out where you want to go, you can only go so 
 far since your dog doesn't have a lot of stamina but when you take it for more walks, your dog 
 can walk farther and farther every time. When you are walking your dog there is a leash that acts 
 like someone is walking it but no one is near the leash. You can move the leash so your dog doesn't 
 get into the garbage and you can also make it run by tugging on the leash with your stylus.
  The graphics are amazing, the best the DS have to offer. The dogs looks so life-like. The backrounds 
 look great too, your house looks good, you can see furniture in your house but it doesn't really 
 matter since the dogs look so good.
  The sound is good, the dogs also sound life-like and each dog have a different bark like real life. 
 It surprises me how much Nintendo put into making this game. The music in Nintendogs is also good, 
 sometimes I find myself humming the tunes from when i went to the discount shop or when I was walking 
 my Nintendog. 
  Nintendogs is a very clever and addicting game, you have to play it every day so you can feed your 
 dog, they dont die but they will run away if you dont take care of them. You can always put them 
 in the hotel if you dont think you are going to play for a while, but you need at least one dog 
 out. You will end up playing for a long time since there are so many things to collect when you 
 go for walks and its always nice to see your dogs play with eachother and you also. Nintendogs 
 is a game for dog lovers or animal lovers, If you love dogs and you cant own one, you should definitely 
 buy Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarklordpie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  
  Youve heard of this type of game before, Im sure. The basics are pretty simple: You get a pet, 
 you take care of it, you interact with it... you get the picture. In this case that pet is a pup. 
 This game is like the ultimate Tamagotchi or Neopets, and most likely you'll either hate it or 
 love it. It is enjoyable, though, and you can take real pride in winning competitions with your 
 doggie. 
  
  The graphics are just fine. They do look like real dogs and they do act like real dogs. The environments 
 could have been better, though, and it kind of bugs me how there's always a white ring around the 
 area you're in. 
  
  The sounds are ok, too. It's just a bunch of barking. There is some music that plays (like when 
 you're on a walk) . It's your average cutesy-wootsy type, it doesn't really get that annoying, it's 
 just not that great.
  
  The bottom line really is, if Nintendogs can hold your attention. It's not really been holding 
 mine. You need to play it everyday, so your dog doesn't starve. It doesn't really matter if you 
 don't play it for a couple days though, your pup will be fine. Besides, they can't die, they might 
 just run away.
  
  You also need to bathe your doggie regularly. It's nothing like washing a dog in real life, that's 
 for sure. Your pup will stand perfectly still as you soap it up and then rinse it.
  
  Another thing I don't really like is that your dog doesn't change. He'll always look just the way 
 he did when you bought him. I personally don't like that. I wish my dog could grow up and become 
 skinnier or fatter.
  
  The voice recognition works... decent. Sometimes your dog can really give you a headache when he 
 doesn't want to do what you tell him to, though.
  
  One thing (other than the competitions) that might keep you coming back for more are the items. 
 They're all pretty interesting too. From chew toys, to accessories, to Nintendo-related items, 
 there are a lot. You can also change the style of your house (which is good, because your house 
 is pretty boring in the beginning) . Besides all that, you can also play with a friend, which isn't 
 saying much. Your pups will meet and play around a bit and you can trade items with your buddy. 
 This is also how you can unlock different dogs, like if you have the dachshund version and the 
 friend you meet has the lab version then you'll unlock all the lab version dogs. You can also unlock 
 dogs by getting enough trainer points (which you achieve by being a good trainer) .
  
  One thing that I must tell you is: real dogs are better. You can't cudle a Nintendog, but
  overall, 
 this is a solid game, that's why I'm giving it an 8.5, it deserves it, it does what it's supposed 
 to do. It just could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixAscalon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 4, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the brainchild of gamemaking legend, Shigeru Miyamoto, father of Mario, Donkey Kong, 
 and the Legend of Zelda series. In the game, you adopt puppies and care for them as you would in 
 real life. Depending on which version you choose, you can pick one of six types of dogs, but you 
 can unlock them all eventually. You choose a dog from the local kennel according to its personality 
 and gender. Some dogs will instantly love you, as others may take a while to warm up to you; the 
 dog you choose can be part of the challenge of raising it.
  
  The microphone is an essential part of Nintendogs gameplay. Aside from the obvious use of the 
 touch screen, the microphone is used in the beginning of the game to give a name to your dog. It 
 is also used to issue commands to your dog. Upon giving your dog a name, you will want to feed 
 it, wash it, and teach it tricks. In order to teach your dog a trick, you must first make the dog 
 do the trick manually. For example, using the stylus, you can move your dogs paw upwards in the 
 shake position. A light bulb will then appear in the top right corner. Tap the bulb with the 
 stylus to begin audio input mode. Say shake into the microphone (or whatever key word you prefer) . 
 Repeat this process using the same intonation and volume, and depending on how clearly you say 
 the command, your dog will learn the command after anywhere from two to eight times. After this, 
 you can give the command a written name. If there was too much background noise during recording 
 and you find your dog not responding to your commands, you can do one of two things: 1) delete 
 the command from your dogs memory and try again, or 2) delete the command from your dogs memory 
 and try using a different word/phrase. Your dog can get confused between two commands that sound 
 the same.
  
  Nintendogs gameplay is divided into four aspects: 
   Walking
   Contests
   Bark Mode
   Shopping
  
  Walking your dog is very important. When you begin 
 with a new dog, it will not be able to walk very far. But by walking once or a few times a day 
 (you can walk your dog every half hour) , your dogs stamina increases, allowing it to walk further. 
 Using the stylus, you can draw a route for your dog that begins and ends at your house. There are 
 two main icons to watch out for, as well as three main venues. 
  
  Icons
  1. ? Icon - This will either be a present or another dog that is out for a walk. Presents can 
 be anything from worthless juice bottles to Mario and Luigi caps.
  2. Blue circles - Your dog will either do #1 or #2 here. If it makes a #2, make sure you clean 
 it up. If you dont, your neighbors might have a word with you...
  
  Venues
  1. Park - Here you can practice throwing frisbees for disc competitions. Practice makes perfect.
 
  2. Stadium - Here you can practice on an obstacle course for agility training. Practice, once 
 again, makes perfect.
  3. Discount Shop - Aside from the regular shop, which is available 24/7 from the menu, the discount 
 shop can only be accessed during a walk. Be careful when buying from there; sometimes the items 
 will be  price and others can cost full price or even more.
  
  Contests are your main source of income in the Nintendogs world. By participating in Disc Competitions, 
 Agility Trials, and Obedience Trials, you can climb up the ladder all the way to the Championship. 
 Be careful when competing, though; if you lose a competition, you will be moved back one class, 
 where the prize money is less but the competition is easier. 
  
  The obedience trial (OT) is the only one I have not covered so far, and it has everything to do 
 with commands. The judges will display on screen the names of tricks that you must call out to 
 your dog. Speed is everything in this competition, but trick mastery is also important. When you 
 are practicing for OTs at home, reward your dog with a pat on the head when he or she has done 
 a trick correctly. This will encourage your dog to do the trick for longer periods of time, which 
 is good for competitions, where your dog may be asked to lie down for more than five seconds.
 
  
  Bark Mode (BM) is used to play Nintendogs with friends. By activating BM, you can gather up to 
 three dogs together in a park to play. You can pet and feed your friends dogs, and can also bring 
 a present to give to your friend.
  
  Shopping allows you to buy new things for your dog. The supply store carries food and hygiene products. 
 The Secondhand Shop allows you to sell items for money, the only other source of income for you 
 in Nintendogs. The Kennel is the place to buy and look at new dogs. The Interior Decorator can 
 grant you a new room with new furniture if you can afford it. The Dog Hotel holds up to five dogs 
 at any given time, and allows you to switch between them. You can also Donate a Dog which is 
 the only way to rid yourself of your pet since it never dies.
  
  The more you play Nintendogs, the more goodies you can unlock. Rare items, new dogs, and new rooms 
 will appear over time. The way Nintendogs paces the unlocking of goodies is in such a way that 
 the moment you start longing for something new, you unlock it. Make sure that you take care of 
 your dogs and keep them happy. If you neglect them, you may one day turn on the game to find your 
 pups gone. Not to worry, though, they always come back, sometimes bearing gifts.
  
  Overall, Nintendogs is a wonderful gaming experience, especially for non-dog owners but it teaches 
 little of the actual responsibility when it comes to taking care of a real dog. Especially the 
 pooping part. -_-
  
  -PhoenixAscalon (Review #III) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  I picked up the Dachscund version of Nintendogs for my DS and quickly snatched a shih tzu named 
 Cookie. I automatically started teaching her new tricks, and put her in competitions. She is a 
 well active Nintendog, and is very well at performing. Nintendogs isn't a game in my opinion. It 
 is more of a PC game simulator like if you were looking as reference. In Nintendogs, you are a 
 owner trying to learn in sim life on how to control a pet you have just purchased for 500 dollars, 
 and actually make him/her obey you to make sure your dog does well. At first, your dog has no idea 
 where he/she is, so they would need a little comfort from you. After, you will use the microphone 
 instantly to name the pet, so whenever you call out the pet, you would have to say what you audio 
 inputted in the game for 5 times in order for the Nintendo DS to put the 5 imputs together to develop 
 a sound that the dog will recgonize.
  
  You really don't have to be a fanatic to play Nintendogs, even if you like cats more than dogs. 
 Every DS game isn't worth their scores (6.0-7.5) because they're just games. Nintendogs is also 
 a virtual sim to actually teach users on how to treat a pet when you get one in real life sometime 
 in your life.
  
  Nintendogs is a big hit, with my Cookie already being at top charts. If you really like puppies 
 and dogs that are loyal enough to know your every move, pick up Nintendogs now, and if you do not 
 have a DS, now is a good chance to buy one. The DS is now 20 bucks less, or you can get one used 
 and new for 100 bucks at your EB or GameStop. You can also play the store demo to see if you like 
 it.
  
  My opinion: "Cookie, fetch a copy of Nintendogs!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDSShugo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2005 5:21 am PT
Review:  During the Ds's Launch, I played it alot. Then as the weeks went by, I played it less and less. 
 I bought a PSP, played all the psp games, got bored of the PSP games, and got into PSP Hacking/Hombrewing 
 (I won't go into detail, though) . So where does all this PSP activity leave my poor DS? On my desk, 
 collecting dust. Kirby made me play it for a while, but it went right back on the shelf a few days 
 later. Well, since the release of Nintendogs, I have used my DS for more than 40 Hours, just to 
 play My copy of Nintendogs. I haven't touched my PSP since. Well, except for one time to move it 
 over to the shelf to collect dust. The game is highly addictive, with so many things to do, between 
 walking, feeding, playing (I love to use my Remote control Helicopter to play with my dogs) Contests 
 (My dogs are all champions =) ) and just plain shopping, the game never gets old. I Love this game, 
 and as it so happens, so do my friends. Bark mode is a great addition, between meeting/playing 
 with a friend's dog, to recieving/ giving/ trading items. 
  
  In conclusion, if you own a DS, Buy this game. Hell, mabye even buy two diffrent versions of it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  
  I was skeptical - but this is definitely the best pet type game out there yet. A must for dog lovers 
 too!
  
  I am not the type of guy who really enjoyed the Tomagotchi-type games at all. I had a few growing 
 up and for the most part they didn't come close to delivering the kind of game experience that 
 I would - overall - make me want to pick up something over and over and take care of it. I mean, 
 honestly..... when you have real life responsibilities and jobs, who wants to be taking care of 
 an inanimate object?
  
  Well, no one until Nintendogs - at least i think. Even from the very first time you boot up the 
 game and see the puppies running around you have this overall sensation that you are in for a treat! 
 (No pun intended) . The way the dogs are animated and interact with you and your other puppies is 
 simply amazing. The dogs themselves are just so darn cute that it's hard to choose which type of 
 dog to even start with!
  
  At first - the game feels very gimmicky. You and pet your pet and give it a few commands and after 
 the initial few things you do you wonder "What can I do now?" It takes a bit getting used to because 
 this is a pet simulator. It's not meant to be "beaten" overnight. You have to train your pet to 
 learn a whole multitude of different commands and get it to grow stronger while keeping it happy. 
 It takes a lot of work and depending on how you raise your pet - you will find it gains a certain 
 kind of personality - which you will either love or grow irritated by. This alone gives a sense 
 of depth to the game, however, as you delve into the game and realize there is a lot to unlock! 
 You can unlock other animals, accessories, items for your apartment - you think of something "dog" 
 related and Nintendogs probably has it. 
  
  Yet even as a start this is just the first layer to everything. There are competitions that you 
 have to train your dog to get good at to earn money to help purchase items to raise your dog. 
 
  
  One of the cutest moments I experienced was with my first puppy - as I over-zealously tried to 
 enter it into a Frisbee competition when it was only 10 minutes old. I would throw the Frisbee 
 and the dog would go run and get it. Only to just sit there and lick the thing while a timer counts 
 down - and you start to realize that the dog doesn't know anything. So I of course panicked and 
 called it's name over and over until it realized I was beckoning him and of course the silly thing 
 leaves the frisbie behind not knowing I wanted him to bring it back to me. Needless to say I scored 
 very bad and my poor puppy placed last in it's first competition. It was ok though because I made 
 sure to tell her it was ok (I named my first puppy Mandy) and gave her some dog food and pet her 
 over and over till she fell over. 
  
  It is at moments like this that you begin to realize you really have a pet you have to invest in 
 and the game becomes very involving and adorable in small spurts. 
  
  Then there is connectivity - as dogs love to play with one another - which adds a whole new layer 
 to the onion. I personally hope this game does really well and sets a standard to gaming because 
 there is a mode where you leave your DS slightly on so it can recieve signals from other DS's who 
 have Nintendogs. I almost wish this could be installed IN the DS so I don't have to have the cartridge 
 actually in the system to play - and could play with my dog inbetween Meteos and Advance Wars. 
 Oh well, maybe next time nintendo!
  
  
  My only major minor gripe with this game - is that from what I read - the dogs do not actually 
 grow up. The fact that they stay puppies is sort of a downer for me, because I am not sure if I 
 will stick with my older puppies if I can never actually witness them grow. Then again - with all 
 the competions to unlock and Trainer points to master.... I am sure I'll have a hell of a time 
 with my current puppies!
  
  *********************** Special Note to the Guys 
  
  Oh yeah 
 - for you guys out there - this is definitly a game that will get a girl's attention. I work at 
 a video game store and you would not believe the amount of females that stop and laugh and point 
 at this game!
  
  ~ Wakasm ~
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  For all my other reviews - Check my Profile
  or mirrored to gamespot at http://www. wakasm. com/videogamereviews. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylvrfonic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply Nintendo has done it again. Nintendogs is truly in a class by itself. The game 
 manages a near perfect implementation of all the things that make the DS such a great gaming system. 
 The touch pad interaction, the wireless implimentation everything that the DS has to offer is tied 
 into a nice package that winds up cute enough to induce tiny seizures of glee.
  
  Gameplay seems to be geared towards rewarding the casual player that would have multiple short 
 gaming sessions through the day rather than hours long gaming marathons. 
  
  Time spent with your puppy is very rewarding. The attention to detail that they gave to the dog 
 personalities is great. The way the puppies move, the way they occasionally ignore you shortly 
 before they bound towards you full of the kind of joy that only a simulated puppy could fake with 
 such conviction.
  
  That being said I still find myself embarrassed each time I get caught in public yelling at my 
 silver DS, "Sit down!..... sit Down..... sIT doWn.... good boy!" In the end, however, there is no 
 question that it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itachi-Uchi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs is the best NDS game I have ever played thus far, for many reasons. It has an addictive 
 game play experience, good graphics, awesome sound, great value, and an overall superb game!
  
  The game play starts off perticularly easy. When you start up the game all u have to do is 
 choose the breed you want and what sex it is. After that you can take your new puppy home, and 
 there is sort of an in-game tutorial, that explains how to take care of your puppy. From, feeding 
 to giving your puppy a refreshment from a tiring walk, to training him/her and winning the 1st 
 prize in the competitions, there's bound to be something for you to do!
  
  The graphics in Nintendogs is not the best you can hope for, but is good enough to make your experience 
 with your puppy very realistic. There are some glitches sometimes, like when you're on a walk the 
 leash may go through your puppy, or when you're taking a toy out of his/her mouth, you might see 
 right through your puppy's head! This are things that can be forgiven, and aren't a hastle to anyone 
 at all.
  
  The sound in this game is completely realistic! They've got tons upon tons of different sounds 
 to fit each breed, and fit their mood. Say if your puppy is sad, he/she will make a wimpering sound 
 or if he/she is happy to see you again, he/she will bark their head off! Not much else to say bout 
 sound though.
  
  The $30 I spent for this game is definately worth it, and just in time for the price drop of the 
 DS system from $149.99 to $129.99! Don't wait around for another price drop go out and buy it now!
 
  
  Overall I can say that this game has fufilled it's hype and is going to keep me busy for months 
 to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankstacity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  You have never played a game like Nintendogs. If you are looking for something different that is 
 truly fun and lets you interact with it on a large scale then look no farther than nintendogs. 
 You can be scared of dogs and love this game. So much cool fun stuff in this game you will not 
 want to stop. This game is a one of a kind on many levels. All dog lovers should have a copy of this. Plus 
 trade with other ds players and have their dog interact with yours ect. You can buy lots of stuff 
 for your dog and u can buy more dogs.18 dogs in total i belive and all are worth getting. Take 
 your dog to competitions, walks, training sessions, and playing ect. Then watch them light up the screen 
 with the tricks you taught them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs has been the Nintendo DS's Death, Jr: It's the one game that most of us have been waiting 
 for since we bought it. And unlike Death, Jr, Nintendogs delivers on its promises and is really 
 a fun game.
  
  You start off at the Nintendog Kennel where you will pick out your dog and then you wil go on to 
 give him (or her) a name. Before you can do anything, you must teach your dog to sit. After that, 
 you can take your dog out for a walk around your neighborhood where you can go to the park to practice 
 throwing discs, you can go to the gym to practice running, or you can go to the store to pick out 
 toys or food.
  
  You can also enter your dog in contests. The contests come in three flavors: Agility, Disc, and 
 Obedience. If you win then you will get a trophy and prize money that can be put towards shopping, 
 getting a bigger home, or buying another dog.
  
  In the game you use the Nintendo DS microphone to call the dog to you, name tricks and commands, 
 or call his name. Learning tricks is fairly simple, as a lightbulb icon appears whenever your dog 
 does a new trick. You then say what you want the trick to be called, and then repeat the process 
 twice more and he will remember it. Once he learns how to sit, get him in that position and mess 
 with his paws or his stomach or head to get him to perform other tricks, as each new trick learned 
 is the backbone for another one.
  
  As Bethany pointed out in her review, the only downside to this game is that you can only do a 
 certain number of things in one day. For example you can only learn three tricks every day, and 
 you can only go for a walk every thirty minutes. Also the game has a clock that corresponds with 
 the real-world clock so if it's too late, your dog will want to sleep. You'll either love it or 
 hate it, but that's how it works.
  
  This game is really just plain fun, it's just that you should try and space the game out through 
 your day so that you arent disappointed later on when you can't do anything. Puppy or dog lovers 
 should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kbs64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  Yes, youve heard the ruckus. Dogs are taking over your portable space. No Im not talking about 
 Virtual Dogs. No my friends! Im talking about Nintendo very own, amazing, Nintendogs.
  
  You get to play with your dog and teach it tricks. Put it though enough training and youll be 
 able to put it though dog shows and earn cash. Youll also be able to buy new stuff for you canine 
 friend as well. If youre allergic to real dogs or just had your best friend (dog) die, like me 
 ~ yes Im very sad :- ( Then Nintendogs is your chance to experience love a puppy, DS style. 
  
  Nintendogs is a graphically marvel. It really shows what the DS is capable of. The dogs move 
 so realistically that youll fall in love with them as soon as you turn it on. They sound so real. 
 Touching can be as awarding for you as it is for the dog. 
  
  Nintendogs is an amazing, unique, experience and shouldnt be missed. Just like the review says. 
 If you dont own DS. This would be a perfect time to do so.
  
  Kb
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcustomer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt the killer app for the ds!
  
  Gameplay: voice recognition is perfect! and when you throw something for your dog, it feels like 
 you're actually playing iwth a real dog! Plus, me like blowing bubbles with microphone :)
  
  Graphics: GREAT Animation! Dogs actually act like a real dog would act in every situation -- if 
 you grab his tail, he'll turn his head and look curiously at it, if you throw a ball and he doesn't 
 catch it, he'll either run over and pick it up or do several other things, like paw at it and try 
 to pull it closer! Great stuff! Only minor complain is that when something is attached to them, 
 like the frisbee in mouth or leash on neck, it sometimes seems to go through them when you move 
 it, but only slightly.
  
  Sound: Perfect assortment of yips and yaps, and nice ambient sounds.
  
  Value: Has months of 
 staying value
  
  Tilt: Unless, like gamespot says, you have a cold heart, there is now way you will not fall in 
 love with this game. Buy it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
