-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nintendogs: Dalmatian and Friends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/nintendogsdalmationandfriends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lifelike, endearing puppies.
 Easy-to-use training interface.
 Lots of unlockable accessories, dog breeds, and other items.
 Great in short and medium-length bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 This version has no significant new additions.
 A few restrictions at times feel unnecessarily limiting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 544 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Oct 16, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dalmatian and Friends is still a charming, endearing game, though it's also essentially the same 
 game that was released in previous versions. 

  Just when you thought the storm of unbearably cute puppies had fully passed, Nintendogs comes romping 
 back to the fore in Dalmatian and Friends. This is the same game that was released last year, only 
 this time around you'll have the option to start out with what was in previous versions an unlockable 
 breed only: the Dalmatian. If you haven't yet experienced Nintendo's portable puppy phenomenon, 
 this is as fine an introduction as any, and you'll still end up with a great virtual companion 
 at your beck and call.  

          Behold the awesome power of your adorable new puppy overlords.     

  When you start 
 the game, you'll immediately be whisked to the Nintendog Kennel to choose a companion from among 
 six different breeds of scampering cuteness. The available starter breeds in this particular version 
 are the Dalmatian, Yorkshire Terrier, Beagle, Golden Retriever, Boxer, and German Shepherd Dog, 
 and you're still able to eventually unlock all breeds on one game. Each individual dog has its 
 own personality, from shy to daring, from willing students to determined truants. Every time you 
 bring up a particular breed listing, the puppies you can choose from will shuffle to a random selection 
 of colors and personalities, so you can hand-pick the type of pooch you want. Pay the adoption 
 fee, and then it's home with you to bond with your new cold-nosed friend.  

  The bonding comes easily with Nintendogs, due in large part to the high levels of care and detail 
 that went into creating these digital canines. It's not just that the puppies have been given the 
 accurate appearance of their given breeds -- though the representation is quite authentic, down to 
 the different coat and color patterns. It's that a great host of doggy mannerisms have all been 
 captured just about perfectly. Every enthusiastic gallop after a tennis ball is just right, the 
 way their eyes close in satisfaction and their tail blurs into motion when they're patted, the 
 way they sometimes flop over each other for a sudden nap, and each tongue-lolling, panting stare 
 filled with happy adulation is pure puppy. So it's easy for you to become rapidly attached to your 
 new virtual pals, and it's hard for you to resist the occasional sad-eyed face and plaintive whine 
 of a Nintendog begging for attention.  

  Once you get your dog home, you'll be able to name it using the game's voice-recognition software, 
 repeating it a few times until your pooch "learns" his or her name. After an initial adjustment 
 period in which you'll shower your new puppy with attention, you can begin training it. As a puppy 
 performs an action it can learn as a trick, a lightbulb icon appears in the corner of the screen. 
 Quickly tapping this icon lets you record a command to associate with that action -- for example, 
 linking the word "sit" to when the dog sits down. Then it's a matter of associating that same word 
 with the same action multiple times, until your puppy learns the trick. A successful training session 
 results in another lightbulb above Rover's head and a happy yip; if your dog is confused, red question 
 marks appear over his head to let you know you need to speak a bit more clearly next time. Blue 
 question marks appear if you're trying to teach a command that sounds like something the puppy 
 already knows, so you don't risk overlapping your tricks.  

          Some dogs learn faster than others, but they can all be coaxed into obedience.     

 
  Once you've taught your puppy a number of commands (the amount of time this takes depends on whether 
 or not you picked one of those daring, headstrong dogs, which seemed like a good idea when you 
 bought it) and raised your trainer level a bit, you can begin preparing your dog for the various 
 contests you can compete in. There are three different types: obedience, which rates your dog on 
 how well it follows verbal commands; disc, which lets you show off your dog's Frisbee-catching 
 prowess; and agility, which is a hectic romp through an obstacle course. How well your puppy does 
 depends on how much you've been practicing a given activity and how strong your bond is. Placing 
 in the top three earns you a sparkling trophy, prize money, and a boost to the next level of competition. 
 If you lose, you're knocked down a level, so you'll have to move your way back to the top.  

  It's not all about trophies, though -- a lot of the most rewarding interaction between you and 
 your puppy happens in the course of your many more-mundane activities. You'll interact with your 
 puppy a lot with your stylus, using it to pat the dog and position it for tricks, as well as to 
 throw toys for pooch to play with. Your puppy will alert you any time you tap the stylus on the 
 touch screen and come to you if you continue to tap, though you can also call your puppy's name 
 and get it to trot right over. The dogs are eager to interact with you and will either follow the 
 stylus with their eyes, jump to maneuver their heads underneath it, or lick your presented hand 
 happily. If you toss them toys, they'll also routinely bring them back to you, sitting their front 
 paws on the touch screen and waiting patiently for you to play.  

      

  Taking your dog on walks around town is a good way to stretch their legs and work those paws, and 
 your puppy will also discover various accessories lying around (from collars, to toys, to Mario 
 hats, to strange items for your house) , play with other neighborhood dogs, and try its darndest 
 to get that burrito out of the trash. As you continue to go on walks, your dog's stamina will improve 
 to the point where you can roam all over town, visiting parks and gymnasiums that let you practice 
 disc-tossing and the agility course, as well as discount shops that sell all-new items for you 
 and your pampered pooch. Besides walks, necessary maintenance includes feeding and watering your 
 dog when it's hungry or thirsty and bathing your dog when it gets dirty. An interface you can access 
 from the menu lets you see your dog's vital information at a glance, in case your prized pooch 
 is in need of a flea-ridding scrub. Pups can go for some time without a certain level of care, 
 but if you completely neglect them, they'll eventually run away -- as well they should, from such 
 a heartless master!  

          Winning competitions earns you money for food, accessories, and most importantlynew puppies! 
     

  The more you play the game, the more items become available for you to purchase, like different 
 foods and toys. Passing certain levels of achievement will, as mentioned previously, unlock even 
 more dog breeds for you to choose from. You can have up to three puppies in your house at any given 
 time that will romp around with each other, and a nearby "dog hotel" can help house anyone you 
 might not be able to care for.  

  The game does have a few limiting factors, however, as the puppies can't run all day indefinitely. 
 You're restricted to entering three contests a day; you can only take your dog out for a walk every 
 30 minutes or so; and your dog can only learn so many tricks in one day before its canine brain 
 calls it quits. This isn't something you'll run into unless you try to engage in a marathon of 
 activities, and when you encounter it, it can be a bit off-putting, especially if you've only got 
 one Nintendog to lavish all your considerable affections on. For that reason, this is a game that's 
 really at its best when played in multiple bursts throughout the day or one action-packed extended 
 session a day, as opposed to repeated long sessions. There's still plenty of content to unlock 
 and lots of puppy playing to do, so the restrictions aren't all that onerous, but there will be 
 occasional times when Fido just can't keep up, and you'll need to put the system down and do something 
 else for a while. At least your puppy is always happy to see you.  

  You can also interact with other Nintendog owners wirelessly, through something called bark mode. 
 Setting bark mode puts your Nintendo DS on the alert for other Nintendog games with the mode activated. 
 When in range, bark mode signals you to the presence of another puppy, and then both puppies can 
 play together on the same screen. You can choose to bring one of your items as a present for your 
 new friends, and you'll automatically exchange trainer information and add the other user to an 
 in-game friends list. It's a nice way to hook up with your friends' puppies, or perhaps even see 
 what dogs might be lurking in a crowded store or street. The one curious thing about the mode is 
 that the two DS systems don't sync -- your playing puppies' activities are local to your own handheld. 
 However, considering the presence of two human masters able to call and command both puppies with 
 impunity, it's easy to see why it was designed that way -- to prevent unintentional games of pup 
 ping-pong.  

          Won't you take me home?     

  The game's visual strength is mainly in the dogs themselves, with their lifelike expressions, mannerisms, 
 and motion. The rest of the game consists of a variety of simple backdrops -- your sparsely furnished 
 home, the streets of town, the venues for the different contests -- that serve to quietly be a place 
 where the puppies can romp without distracting from the game. The game's gentle, upbeat tunes are 
 a nice complement to the assortment of yips, barks, fearful whines, plaintive begging, playful 
 huffing, squeaking yawns, and other such doggy noises that round out the great sound.  

  Nintendogs is still a great game more than a year after its initial release, though it's also precisely 
 the same game as before. There are no new dog breeds (the Dalmatian could be unlocked in the original 
 version if you found the fireman's hat item) , no new play modes, and much the same selection of 
 earned and purchased extra content. If you already own Nintendogs you can safely give this a pass, 
 but for new would-be puppy owners, Dalmatian and Friends can be an appealing, enjoyable experience. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supermanj9
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my opinion Is the best in the nintendogs series. with all the puppy's it is hard 
 to choose. The one think I would have added was wi-fi but they did not, I am mad about that but 
 it is still a good game, And all the people who says it is not a good game just be quite. The graphics 
 are good and so is the sound. It sound like a real dog barking. the controls are the same for this 
 game are the same as all the nintendogs game's and that's about all I wish that you all fell the 
 joy I felt when I played it two seconds ago. ok now I am just saying that this game is super fun. 
 don't allow people who say it is a bad game get to you it is a good game now go play it and if 
 you don't have it go get it at gamestop or bestbuy or just any game store near you. P. S Go now 
 you read me go now yes right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PebblesPuppy408
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good!
  You can play it anytime, which is absolutely lovable. Sick in bed, on the road, at school, at home... 
 ANYWHERE.
  Something even better, anyone can play. from pretty young to really old, anyone can do it. It's 
 that easy, I can play all day and I'm a teenager. My 8 year old little sister plays it, so does 
 her Autistic twin brother. Sometimes, my grandma might play it. She's like 60 years old! 
  The game isn't like a bad habit, not at all. Not like you're doing anything bad, you get to watch 
 all these different types of dogs and puppies. 
  Something better, EXCELLENT GRAPHICS. You feel like you're raising your own dogs, which are boys 
 or girls. You get to pick out the dogs by that, and personality. 
  The best part is, you get to feel like you're living a life with this dog. I had this game and 
 I LOVED my dogs. And now I have a real puppy, and she adores me! The game is completely sending 
 a message of how to take good care of these dogs. 
  
  I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blooddog28
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Well I have to say the graphics were pushed pretty hard on this game, because the dogs 
 look real and the environment is realistic. The sound is nice because they bark and wimper just 
 like reality... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE BAD: If you a dog, then DO NOT bother with this game. It will bore you out of your mind and 
 you'll think, "Playing with my own dog is funner than this, why did I waste $30 on this?" -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  IN CONCLUSION: If you don't own a dog in reality then you might want to give this game a shot, 
 but if you own a dog then stay away! ---End review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totallyawsome10
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Great game I love dogs soooooooooooooooooo much and it hade a lot of dogs I already like on there 
 and the other ones are exactly the same just different dogs to start out with and once you start 
 going once you get further you will find new and fun entertaining things new breeds new items and 
 much more! the only thing that stinks is you can only have 8 different dogs 5 at the hotel and 3 
 at home which stinks for people like me that have to many favorite dogs and can only get like have 
 of the ones they want. Now you get money to buy toys food games accesories and new homes etc... 
 but to get the mony you need to have a dog (duh that is the whole point of the game dogs!) and then 
 you do some kind of contest and if you get 1st 2nd or 3rd you will get a trophy and money and the 
 higher level you are the more money you will receive and only certain dogs are good for certain 
 contests TRUST ME! and also dogs are not free and if your on a stroll with your dog and you find 
 a piggy bank go home and through it you will get a little mony NOW FOR THIS CRAZY THING THAT HAS 
 NEVER HAPPEND TO ME AND I DIDN'T THINK WOULD EVER HAPPEN MY FRIEND TOLD ME SHE HAD THIS DOG THAT 
 WAS MEAN AND RUDE TO HER OTHER DOGS AND IT ACTUALLY PEED ON THE CARPET SO I GUESS IT WAS A REALLY 
 NOTTY PET oh and bark mode is where you can see other dogs and they are real owners from some where 
 and if they have a dog or you have a dog that each other dont even have where you can buy it and 
 you see it from another trainer it will show up and say somthing too oh and they say if you walk 
 on bark mode and you walk around your house you will eventually find someone! Oh and you can also 
 train your puppies and love on them and pet them it is in awsome game! Hope this hwelp your decision 
 on buying the game and if you do tell me on here and thanks for reading the whole reveiw by! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs: Dalmation and Friends is a cool game. Now, I'm not exactly the type to get all wrapped 
 up in cute things, but this game is fun. Even for hardcore gamers. You can collect items along walks 
 and play with them later. And a really cool glitch is, if you take your dog on a walk, then make sure 
 that your final stop (besides your house) is the park. After connecting the line to the park and getting 
 everything that you can get, then draw the line towards your house. Once you make it to the park, then 
 save by changing an accessory, then turn off the DS. Turn it back on, and you'll be at your home with 
 all the items you collected from the walk, then you can take a walk right away! Instead of waiting 
 for 30 minutes for your damn dog to hurry up and rest. You can do this over and over and you never 
 have to stop doing this. The only drawback is your dog doesn't get any stronger so, he can't walk 
 any farther on the next walk. Oh well, I still think it's a good glitch. And in walks, the farther 
 you walk your dog away from your house, the better the items are, and if you're lucky, you'll get 
 a Bowser Kart!!! This game is really great, I think that the competitions are awesome, too. The only 
 problem with contests are those dumb ass announcers, I mean, just tell me how good I have to do to 
 win, and let me do the damn contest already! Another glitch (I won't talk about it too long this time. Sorry.) is 
 when you lose in a contest, right when you know that you screwed up enough times to lose, then turn 
 off your DS so that you can do the contest again and not get knocked down a class. Plus! It also 
 keeps your win streak if you're in the Championship level. Although you can only enter your dogs 
 in three contests a day. A bitter-sweet feature is if you neglect one of your dogs, then he/she will 
 run away for about a day (I think it's a day) . When your dog comes back, then he/she will have an 
 item for you! This game is cool, realistic, takes a long time to beat (so you'll be satisfied for a 
 long time) . So, I think that you should definitely get this game! 
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendogsLuva9
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I absolutly adore this game! Although I have to admit I stopped playing it for a while, but just 
 this morning I started thinking about it, and decided to play it. Great game. 
  I would decribe this game as:
  Adorable, and funny. (I couldn't think of any more.)
  
  For 
 all you people who don't like this game, you're just dog haterz. Oh yeah, I went there!  =] 
  
  
  Adorable game. The puppies are really cute. They amaze me. They make me laugh. They teach 
 me how to disipline dogs, although I can't stand to be mean to their cute little puppy faces. Same 
 with real dogs, too. I could play this game for hours. That's how much I love it. I am a huge animal 
 lvoer, so once my friend introduced me to this game (she had it before me) I just had to get it! 
 In fact, she had slept over, and when she was leaving, I asked my Mom if I could get that, and 
 she said that I could if I payed for it with my own money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleGreenDog
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Dalmatian and Friends is basically the same as the previous Nintendogs game, except you start off 
 with different dogs, and you don't need to unlock the dalmatian. 
  
  As for the game, you pick from six adorable and surprisingly realistic puppies of all shapes, sizes 
 and colors. What's really weird is that every puppy has a different personality. When you bring 
 home your dog, it acts nervous and scared. You use the microphone to call your dog and teach it 
 its name.
  
  Throughout the game, you basically take care of your dog, like feeding it and walking it. Unfortunatley, 
 you are only able to enter three competitions an day and teach three or four tricks a day, depending 
 how smart and attentive your puppy is. Each competiton has a goal for you and your puppy to complete: 
 obedience, agility, and disc catching. The more you train with your dog, the better it will become 
 at these.
  
  "Trainer Points" allow you to unlock dogs throughout the game. You earn trainer points by spending 
 a lot of time with your dog. Each time you get first place in any contest, you will get 100 points. 
 
  
  Just like real dogs, Nintendogs require care and attention. If you neglect your dog for too long, 
 it might run away, but will always come back. You must feed, water, bathe, walk, and brush your 
 dog for it to be happy. And at the end of the real-life day, your dog will lie on the ground and 
 sleep.
  
  This game is a little boring after a while. You keep doing the same thing every day. But it will 
 probably be fun and entertaining for dog-lovers and little kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-batgirl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game that every girl under 13 seems to be crazy over. However if youre a hardcore gamer, interest 
 in FPS then this probably isnt your thing. If dogs are your thing and you enjoy dipping into games 
 every once in a while, then you should probably take a look at Nintendogs.
  
  If youve been caught up in the 'hype' of this game and were wondering if it really is 'that good', 
 in my opinion its not. If youre interested in dogs or under 13 you should at least rent this game 
 and give it a few days. And admit this game is fun... for a while. However the restrictions it has 
 are extremely annoying. For example you can only enter each dog you have into competitions 3 times 
 a day and only take them for walks around every twenty minutes. AND theres no way of getting round 
 this by changing the clock on your DS. ; )
  
  The graphics are nothing special, but the dogs do look very cute with their big eyes. The sound 
 as you would expect is just of the dogs barking and at times little upbeat songs that chime in 
 from time to time. It will take you about 10 minutes to learn the ins and outs of the games controls 
 and such. 
  
  As for longevity, its gonna be pretty much the same thing you do every day.... feed your pets, walk 
 them, take them to competitions, maybe teach them new tricks and every once in a while bath them. 
 No much variety. 
  
  However, when Im allowed to do competitions i do find the obedience and Agility trials great!!
 
  
  This game is not a game you are going to be spending the rest of your life one so... just think 
 wisely, if you were only going to buy 1 game this month, dont get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I liked this game for a very long time and I still play it sometimes! Now I don't play it as much 
 because it got kind of old. I mean, I will tell you now, It was really fun the first several hours, 
 but after a few months I got bored. I didn't like only being able to do walks so often, I didn't 
 like how they always got hungry or whatever, and training them was difficult. The competitions 
 are easy, except for the behaivior one, that one is really difficult and you have to have a very 
 good wel behaved dog. I have one and it does well, but only good enough to get just past open house 
 league or whatvever it is called. A challenge, but if you want a game that lasts, I suggest a different 
 game. These animals are supposed to be played with and fed and washed every day! I really don't 
 like to play with them EVERYDAY but every week maybe. They can be high maintenece and need loads 
 of training before competitons! See, the game lasts, but it is the same thing EVERYDAY ALL THE 
 TIME so if you want something more exciting I HIGHLY SUGGEST you get something else like The New 
 Super Mario Game. Much more fun. Except I own it too and I have beaten the game twice, and only 
 have very few levels that I don't have all the coins in, plus the minigames et boring too. So I 
 know this review is on Nintendogs so I will get back to it. Yes, I think it is fun to play SOMETIMES, 
 but I don't think it is wise to get as the first game you buy, unless you buy more than one the 
 day you get your ds. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deej34
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Now of course this is just my opinion but I think the game could have done a little bit better. 
 But I have to admit, it was fun! The other games were just a bit more interesting. This game also 
 had a little less features. When these games first came out, everyone wanted then, and I got the 
 Dalmation and friends since I had owned a Dalmation. I thought it was fun until I got the other 
 games, and they were a lot funner! This game isn't bad but it is probally in last place in the 
 Nintendogs series. Now this game is like the others, but not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspmax022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  this game dalmation and friends is almost like its brothers/sisters. although you start out with 
 different dogs and things like that. but you can start out with DALMATIONS (suprise suprise) . the 
 game is your everyday pet simulator with a twist. A BUNCH OF EM! you can take it for a walk, pet it, make 
 it do contests, play with it, bathe it, brush it, everything and more. the game also lets you talk to 
 them. literally. you can teach them there name and tricks. by using the mic (microphone) on the DS. its 
 pretty darn cool. also, the game has bark mode, witch lets 1 of your dogs go and play with one of 
 that other persons dog. witch make them really happy. and a happy puppy is a happy YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game might have come out later than the previous Nintendogs, but there is absolutely no clear-cut, 
 amazing additions. The game is good - but gamers no it through and through. By now the concept 
 is weary and old, and i was expecting something new. Like a Pokemon game, the concept and gameplay 
 is the same, but there are no major changes, which can be a good thing (not saying this game is 
 like Pokemon to clarify) . The gamplay is fun, but i've seen it all before, and was expecting more...
 
  Graphically, the game is cute and cuddly - perfect for people want more (couldn't it be more edgy 
 = doggy mohawks.... cool)
  Sound is sound in this game- the gameply and dogs is what this is all about; who cares (even if 
 it's a bit mediocre in my opinion) .
  Value wise- if you have the other games, who needs this one - unless your a hardcore dalmation 
 lover... otherwise, don't get it!
  THis game is a pass, i'll stick to the one i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiRocks66
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game! VERY realistic. I've spent way more than 100 hours playing this game, 
 I play it as often as I can. It; s defnitely one of my favorite DS games.
  
  Gameplay- There's a ton of stuff to do in this game. Play with your dogs, take them on walks, enter 
 contests, and many more. It's addicting.
  
  Graphics- I can describe them in one word: AMAZING!!!! Sound- Pretty good sound. The barks are 
 sort of realistic, but they are can be repititive, and there's good background noise and music.
 
  
  Overall- Great game. Addicting, fun, and it has amazing graphics. I HIGHLY recommend this game 
 to everyone, especially if you don't have a real dog. (This was my first review for a game. I know 
 that it isn't the best one, but I hope this review helped.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romperstomper74
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when I first had my DS and to be honest with you I thought it was great. The 
 graphics arnt that bad in the game neither it gives you a realistic view of the animal you are 
 looking after.
  
  I like the layout of this game where you can take your dog to contests to earn money so you can 
 buy all the essentials you need to look after a pet in your own home. I also like how you can save 
 up your pennies and change the home that you have in the game also.
  
  I think this game is great for teaching children how to look after a dog and all the work and responsibility 
 that comes with looking after animals, althought the contest part is not essential to a dogs care, 
 but if they wanted to venture into crufts then it will give them experience on what a dog needs 
 to know and trainer alike to complete each task.
  
  I found this game great for me as I dont want real pets so I will stick to virtual pets and enjoy 
 them in the graphic world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Nintendogs Dalmatians was given to me free when I bought my DS. I have heard so much about it and 
 was really excited to play it. But after trying it, I found it to be no more than a better graphics 
 and sound version of Tamagochi electronic pets.
  
  No doubt it makes good use of the DS features and teaches children to be responsible in the electronic 
 way of keeping a pet, but for adults like us, I guess I'd much rather whistle and play and train 
 my own real life dog. But still, good graphics and one of the best inventions for the DS. I quite 
 like the competitions part although my electronic dog never quite made it. ha ha.. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabemstr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, though it may be the same old same old, shouldn't this game be rated 9.1 like the other _____and 
 Friends? I mean, it's the exact same thing as the other 3, except that it has another breed of 
 dogs, which are dalmations. I don't see the difference in the game.
  
  I assume that people are saying it's the same old same old because the same type of game with 3 
 other version was released before. But that is true. This is the same game as before, but just 
 another breed. I guess Nintendo could've added Dalmation and Friends within a few months after 
 the 1st 3, so it wouldn't have been far off. It's like this:
  
  Poke'mon Red and Blue come out. Then when Poke'mon Gold and Silver come out, they release Poke'mon 
 Yellow. (This is just hypothetical) .
  
  That's the same situation as this. Nintendo released Dalmation and Friends a bit too late, but 
 it's still the same good old game. If this receives a 8.2 for releasing late... then the world must 
 be crazy. I don't understand... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubei_Hikari
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  That is to say that you have more than just this to play. Graphically speaking (or maybe because 
 i'm a graphics w****) , it looks great for a DS game. And once I had to blow into the mic for the 
 bubble blower, my mind was blown. The first few hours of this game was great. Nintendo used the 
 uniqueness of the DS so there's a lot of creative things you can do with the touch screen. I thought 
 I would never put this game down. Then I did... After that, I forgot all about it. This game is 
 definitely not for you if you was around for the giga-pet days and you looked at your gigapet and 
 saw poop signs all around. Good thing the pups don't die or I would have gotten reported by now. 
 I'm not going to win any PETA awards with this game and I highly recommend this to people who live 
 to take care of virtual pets. There could have been more things to do other than the disc toss, 
 agility and obedience events. And unlocking more pets feel like a strain more than a surprise. 
 Could've been better. But if you're into sim pet games are for you then you should definitely RENT 
 this game before buying. I know I should've. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MizzDiamondz
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas 2005. I really wanted nintendogs since it came out, and was thrilled 
 when I got a Nintendogs: Daschund and friends. I played with it every day and was addicted to it. 
 I loved my dogs and thought 'This is the best game ever created.' The thrill of this game to me 
 was unlocking all 20 dogs but I still cared for my darling babies. Then after a few weeks I unlocked 
 every breed except the Dalmation and Jack Russel Terrier. However in school, my friend had unlocked 
 both and I thought, if she gave them to me, I'd finally get them. So I asked her, and she said 
 yes. So one day in the school library my friend gave me the fireman's hat and Jack Russel Book. 
 The next morning, I woke up, turned on my DS and suddenly remembered, 'oh yeah, i've unlocked every 
 breed, now what?' So I fed them, watered them, played with them, trained them, took them for walks, 
 entered them in contests, fed them, watered them.... and it goes on, and on, and on. Then, I went 
 on holiday to Cornwall in England. Anyway, there, I bought the very good Animal Crossing: Wild 
 World and then I stopped playing Nintendogs. And started playing Animal Crossing instead. So what 
 is this game? A fun sim dog game? Or a game where you slave away at a pixel all day every day? 
 I'll leave that to you to decide, but I know which option i'm going with. Seriously, if you want 
 a fun simulation game, get Animal Crossing or the Sims, as they aren't a chore like Nintendogs. 
 Don't take advice from those hypocrites who say 'it's the best game ever created', it's probably 
 the only game they've got. Don't waste time (or money) on something with a pathetic, annoying graphic 
 barking and yapping at you all day long, as it's definitely NOT worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leu-kun
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you a have/had a real dog at home or you hated Tamagochi, dont buy this game.
 
  
  This is great game, but why do I hate it? Its because I have a real dog and this one doesnt act 
 like one too much, it doesnt feel to real, lots of times you see him/her do the same, there isnt 
 too much to do with the little one besides teaching him some tricks, and I dont know why I confuses 
 my command beg with shake, you can also take him/her to a walk, the tournaments are good, you 
 can enter your dog to three different, and each has five difficulties making a challenge, the interaction 
 with other owners of Nintendogs, well it make you more sociable in real life, but in the game there 
 isnt much to talk besides pairing dogs and let them play with each other, the annoying part is 
 feeding them, it must be three times a day and around the same time, thats really annoying, couldnt 
 they take the food from your inventory and thats it, at the end this is our generation Tamagochi 
 its good, but just for people that can afford it, cant have a dog, or want a friend to play all 
 the day (in the night it must sleep give him a brake) .
  
  My last word: this can get boring after a while if you dont find nothing to do, anyway if you 
 feel lonely, this game doesnt fill this space, better buy a Wi-fi game and interact with other 
 real people, like Animal Crossing, Metroid Prime Hunters, etc. Read their review and see what you 
 think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_gamer2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  i liked this game i played it and thought the graphics and the way they did it was brilliant with 
 compretitions to win a maximun of 4 dogs in your house u can take them on walks but aslo remember 
 to feed them wash them and so on, very good game worth buying a lot of fun things to do u can buy 
 thingsfor your dog and there's another way of getting things for your dog u can go for a walk and 
 find stuff! but the brilliant thing that comes with this game has to be a lot of fun and the graphics 
 are just amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkside-Carlos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I Love Nintendogs. With the cute little doggies ickle wickle (Ok enough with the baby talk now 
 LOL) Anyway i love this game. Buy dogs, feed 'em, pet 'em, bath 'em , walk 'em , DO WHATEVER YOU 
 WANT WITH 'EM!
  
  I have to admit it gets boring after about 30-40 minutes but then the next day you just want to 
 play it again. I havnt a clue why lots of people on these forums dont like it. Nothing to hate 
 about it (apart from the fact it gets a bit boring) But as i said the next day you want to play 
 it. Well, all i have to say is, SUCH A GOOD GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickygean
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I luv this game but I would like to know what ya need to unlock things and if there's anything 
 good to unlock. Its not that hard to play and its been out long enough that someone has to have 
 gotten far. And i know ppl have are playing it. U can start with the 2 cuties breeds alrdy so it 
 would be nice to find out what others there is. I havent found anything worth unlockin yet and 
 im only at 10k points. Msg me if u have more of a list or if u have a complete list. Any list over 
 10k points. And the Desktop inter des was so ugly so not worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaweetGio
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is really great but its the same as all the other nintendogs, accept getting the firemans 
 hat free and being in a different town its exactly the same, i hate that u can only do 3 tournaments 
 per day they need more of em, and that u can only like teach him 4 tricks per day to, i tought my 
 dalmation 4 tricks including beg (said the hardest trick) in 2 days. overall i love this game and 
 if ur new to it buy it. the games are the same so if u already have chihuahua, dashund, or lab version 
 dont waist your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkingkongx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because people were always saying that Nintendogs was so much fun. I bought 
 it, I don't really see it. It is a good game for someone that doesn't play video games. But for 
 the gamers, it is mainly boring. after you do everything once or twice it becomes kind of redundant 
 and boring. The graphics are good. I bought it and my 4 year old sister plays it more than I do. 
 For kids that are still before their gamer age/state, this is a good game other than that, unless 
 you like puppies that never grow up and never die, steer clear of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  this is the first time that i raise a dog virtually. this game is hlghly responsive and it is very 
 good for people who wish to rear a dog but undecided. the virtual game gives you a little favor. 
 of course, raising a real dog is much tougher yet with more satisfaction as compared to what the 
 game can offer in the real world.
  
  for the animal lovers, this game probably might bore you. however it definitely teach the potential 
 pet owners to learn what is the best for its pet. one can speak into the microphone to call to 
 your puppy, say commands and train the little love you brought home from the Nintendo Kennel. :) 
 if you aren' t too sure how to train your puppy, don't worry as there are guides within the game 
 to guide you to teach. the only thing that i found that is lacking probably is the discipline guide 
 that should be allow to be called' up on the fly should your puppy disobey you. so far, i have 
 yet to see one.
  
  one thing good about this game is that it doesn't require a long duration of time when playing. 
 it can be as short as 5 - 10 mins per session to teach your puppy a new trick, walk the dog, groom 
 your pet and then you can continue to play another ds game title! so it means this game is practically 
 bring you much relaxation before you enter to another tension building game. :P
  
  for parents, buy for your child. it is good way to teach him/her how to handle an animal, at the 
 same time you can reinforce why you teach your kid so he/she can relate the way you nuture your 
 kid, your child nurture the virtual puppy. great bonding, great learning pointers. :)
  
  as you play, you unlock more options that you can explore together with your puppy. have fun with 
 no mess to clean up! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3V0LUT10N
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Tired of gunning down alien hordes? Speeding around city streets in a tricked out ride? Commanding 
 your armies to destroy your foes? What ever happened to the simple things in life? Sitting back 
 and listening to the birds, or dozing in the sun, or even spending time with mans best friend?
 
  
  Certainly Nintendogs isnt the most action packed game youll ever play. When a game revolves around 
 keeping a dog, there is an obvious limit to what you can do. Never the less, Nintendogs really 
 is worth checking out. It has a good variety of somewhat experimental gameplay and some adorable 
 little dogs. Its just a shame that overall Nintendogs doesnt really have that much to keep you 
 occupied past the first 2 weeks
  
  The game certainly starts well. Youll head off to the kennel, knock on the door (with the touch 
 screen of course) and have the option of looking at 3 kennel puppies or buying your first dog. 
 Whatever you do, youll soon see that the majority of dogs in the game look amazingly life-like. 
 They move and animate in a realistic way, and look very much like their real life counter-parts. 
 While some dogs have been realised much better than others, youll really be spoilt for choice 
 when it comes to picking out a new friend from all the possibilities.
  
  When your new pup finally gets home, youll see him wandering around your amazingly empty house 
 with a somewhat confused expression. The game is kind enough to teach you the bare basics of the 
 game, such as how to call your dog over and give it a stroke. Certainly the first time you try 
 petting your dog its nearly impossible not to let out a childish squeal of delight. The way it 
 moves depending on where you are rubbing it is truly amazing to behold, and is surly a tribute 
 the quality of the overall package. Yet amazingly after a few play sessions stroking your dog if 
 anything feels more like a chore, something youll quickly run through to get to the meat of the 
 game.
  
  Eventually your new dog will settle down at which point youll be asked to name the little guy. 
 Sadly the DS microphone isnt of the highest of qualities, and often it wont record exactly what 
 you say, missing out certain letters or at times whole chunks of the word. While most of the time 
 this poses no problem, when youre teaching your pooch new tricks, the microphone sometimes confuses 
 the command with another command or simply doesnt register it. There is nothing more annoying 
 than calling for your dog to sit, and watching it look vacantly in the other direction, or worse 
 still, carry out a completely different command.
  
  However these incidents occur rarely, and for the majority of the time your puppy will obey you 
 first time without any fuss. Theres no doubt that watching your dog sit and then look up at you 
 with those adoring eyes would warm the heart of anyone. The dogs themselves have amazingly expressive 
 faces and also sound very much like the real breeds they represent, so much so that youll actually 
 find yourself becoming attached to them in a way that only a guy and a virtual pet can.
  
  So, anyway. After teaching your dog its name and how to sit, the game pretty much leaves you on 
 your own to look after your dog. The first thing youll want to do is feed your hairy friend (lets 
 face it, theyve had a hard day) with some dry food, and give it a drink of water. Later in the 
 game theyll get dirty then youll have to wash them by scrubbing them down with soap them showering 
 them. Thankfully your dog is remarkably co-operative during this sequence, very much unlike a real 
 dog during bath time.
  
  All the supplies you need can be bought from the supply store, or from the discount shop you can 
 visit during walks. There are 6 shops in the game in total, the Supply and Discount stores, the 
 Secondhand shop (where you can sell your junk) , the Kennel (where you buy more dogs) , the interior 
 decorator (where you can change the style of your home) and the Dog Hotel (for you cruel players 
 who want to get rid of a dog. You cold hearted person, you)
  
  The majority of Nintendogs involves using an item and seeing how your dog responds. These range 
 from balls to discs to bubble blowers and a whole other range of bizarre items your dog will either 
 run around with or eye with caution. Again, the way you use the unique features of the DS with 
 these items is clever and very funfor the first week or so. Much like the rest of the game
  
  Being the energetic virtual animals Nintendogs are, youll have to take them out on a walk 
 every now and then. After plotting your route on a map using the touch screen, youll enter a bizarre 
 2D walking level where for the most part youll just have to watch your dog walking past some rather 
 bland scenery, to the accompaniment of incredibly cheerful yet extremely irritating music. Occasionally 
 the walk will feature a welcome interruption when youll either find a present (ranging from crap 
 like a stick to an empty bottle to something worthwhile owning) or another dog (which will either 
 befriend or attack your dog) . Sometimes youll find garbage, which youll have to pull your stubborn 
 pooch away from by yanking its leash. Proper planning means you can pass by the park or the gym 
 to practice for contests, further improving an otherwise rather dull trek. 
  
  While Nintendogs doesnt exactly mirror real life (with its non-aging pups) it does follow the 
 ground rule that money doesnt grow on trees. Because of this, your puppies are going to have to 
 work for a living. Money can be made in two ways, by selling items you find at the Secondhand shop, 
 or the far more enjoyable and prosperous way of entering contests. There are 3 kinds of contest, 
 the Disc competition, where your dog has to catch your flying disc to earn points, the Agility 
 trial, kinda like an obstacle course for dogs, and the obedience trial, where your dog has to perform 
 ever increasing amounts of tricks on command, and where the microphone can be at its most annoying. 
 To be honest none of these competitions are that hard till you reach the highest levels, at which 
 point youll really have to have trained hard with your dogs.
  
  Sadly what Ive described is really most of Nintendogs. There is of course a simple multiplayer 
 component but really it isn't much fun. After a few days playing your dog will be going on excruciatingly 
 long walks and basically the only things to do is stroke your dog, feed him, walk him then turn 
 him off and go play a better game. Really, after a while youll only play to enter contests (which 
 youre limited to 3 a day) , and soon after purchase the idea of spending time with the dog will 
 begin to feel like a chore, no matter how appealing those little puppy dog eyes are
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  A game where you own a dog and you need to take care of it, take it for a walk, feed it, bath it, 
 train it, etc.
  it is really nice because you can buy toys (or find it laying around) and other things that are 
 really interesting. You can also take your dog to trials: Obedience, Agility or Disc Competition.
 
  As you become a better trainee, you get points which unlocks other things, new scenarios or new 
 breeds.
  All Ndogs are almost the same, the main difference is with which breeds you start the game. There 
 are other little differences in some of the objects you get but they are rather irrelevant.
  This game can get highly addictive at some times as you wish to progress in the game, but it also 
 can get a little repetitive. All in all it is still worth playing because while you're addicted 
 to it, it is plain fun and you also get addicted to it from time to time. In addition the graphics 
 are good and it explores the properties of the DS very well, the touch screen and the mic.
  Congratulations to Nintendo for being able to make an interesting game out of a simple idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uniquenewyork
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  It's generally the same Nintendogs, but also you can get a Dalmatian without needing to unlocking 
 it which is cool, and a few more items you can get without having to buy or unlock them. They have 
 great graphics but the same as the other games.
  If you haven't got any of the other versions then get this one. Although if you have any of the 
 other versions it is pretty much the same.
  
  Overall if you have no Nintendogs go for it, but if you do you might want to skip it out.
  
 
  Unless you have all three then go for it and hope for a German Shepherd Version!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  It's Nintendogs, however, you get a Dalmatian, and a few More accessories avaliable to you without 
 having to buy or unlock them.
  
  If you havent got nintendogs, get this as it has a more varied choice of dogs.
  Apart from that, 
 read other reviews on nintendogs' other versions and that is what you get, except with the obvious 
 Dalmatian character...
  
  I thought a Dalmatian was already in the other versions though... Well, i guess it was inevitable 
 to cash in on the black/white ds lites somehow... with a Dalmatian and it's most popular game series 
 in years!
  
  One thing which would of been nice is to download new content.. via wi-fi.
  Heres hoping nintendo release a memory pack device which can insert into the gba slot, that way 
 you would be able to have somewhere to store wi-fi content onto.
  Sounds good? I only hope Nintendo can take the advantage of having TWO slots avaliable.
  
  
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I bought the original Nintendogs Ages ago (in october 2006)
  & i must say this is no different from that.
  OK the only difference is 1 new dog (the dalmation) 
 other than that just the same dogs from the other Nintendogs.
  If youve never played a Nintendogs get this one but this has the same MAJOR flaw as the other Nintendogs. 
 It gets boring after a week.
  By all means get this if its cheap But other wise its not worth it.
  But on the bright sode the 
 Graphics are pretty :) But this gets repetititive & it becomes a chore. This game does make good 
 use of the DS's Touch screen & Microphone but its just a cheap ripoff the other Nntendogs at least 
 add a lot more new content 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
