-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ontamarama
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/ontamarama/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hyperactive and engaging mix of button pressing and stylus tapping.
 Soundtrack features a pleasant array of lighthearted tunes.
 Nicely challenging gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Button presses aren't synched properly with the music.
 Story mode is very short, and there is no multiplayer of any kind.
 The fast pace often results in a complete disconnect between the music and the gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 59 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Noise Factory
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ontamarama comes across as a throwaway piece of entertainment, but there's a surprising amount of 
 enjoyment to be had with it. 

  Ontamarama is, for lack of a better description, very Japanese. It features an odd mix of frantic 
 tapping and DDR-style button beating, rounded out by crazy-cute anime characters who spout crazy-cute 
 dialogue. It's weird, often fun, and a unique take on the rhythm genre that could work only on 
 the Nintendo DS. Yet the foibles that make it so amusing also make it occasionally frustrating. 
 Additionally, it's a limited package with a very short story mode and no multiplayer, which is 
 an option it absolutely begs for. Yet for all of its idiosyncrasies, Ontamarama is an entertaining 
 game that scratches an admittedly kooky itch.  

           Don't run to your Webster's dictionary for a definition of "sweetdiculous" because you 
 won't find one. And that's just fine.      

  To be successful at Ontamarama, it helps to have outstanding hand-eye coordination. There's just 
 a ton of stuff going on at any given moment. First, you have to handle the D-pad mashing that is 
 standard to most rhythm games. A series of arrows flows from right to left at the top of the touch 
 screen, and as each arrow passes through the circle in the top left corner, you hit the D pad in 
 the appropriate direction in time with the music. Sound easy? Think again.  

  You see, you've also got bouncy, bubbly creatures known as ontama that pounce onto the touch screen. 
 Before you can clear an arrow, you need to fill it with an ontama of the matching color by tapping 
 it. This doesn't sound particularly challenging in and of itself, but coordinating the two activities 
 gets to be quite a challenge as the screen fills with ontama and the arrows really start to fly. 
 It's the gaming equivalent of patting your head and rubbing your belly at the same time, and it 
 isn't always an easy task to separate the activities of your left hand from those of your right 
 hand.  

  However, Ontamarama doesn't stop there. Sometimes long arrows need to be filled in by a group of 
 ontama, which is best accomplished by drawing a circle around them. This isn't always a perfect 
 solution: Your circles need to be very precise, and in the game's most frantic moments, that precision 
 moves past the realm of challenging and into frustrating territory. Some ontama are fat and need 
 to be tapped twice. You can also blow into the microphone to fill your onscreen arrows, or hold 
 a trigger to draw multiple circles, which are necessary tools during the biggest flurries of arrows 
 and ontama.  

  But wait, there's more! As you clear arrows, you increase your performance gauge, and likewise 
 the gauge depletes if you aren't doing well. If the meter runs out, it's game over. To help things 
 along, white ontama will appear on the screen, and tapping them brings a nice performance bonus. 
 Unfortunately, there are black ontama too, and tapping  those  will deplete your meter. The black 
 ones are a huge pain because they will overlap other ontama and move around the screen, which makes 
 it essentially impossible to avoid tapping them.  

  You can do all of this in story mode or in free-play mode, though the story is total fluff that 
 you can get through in an hour or two. But make sure to pay attention to the dialogue; manga-inspired 
 character designs that use words like "awesomesauce" make Ontamarama almost worth the price of 
 admission alone. There's also a store to play around in, where you can spend the points you earn 
 on upgrades, automated ontama clearing, and more. And you'll need these upgrades, because without 
 them, the game's hardest mode will confuse and upset even the most coordinated players. Nevertheless, 
 without more ways to play, Ontamarama feels stripped, and its lack of any kind of multiplayer is 
 totally bewildering. This is a bare-bones package, and the ability to compete with others would 
 have greatly increased its replay value.  

           If you have carpal tunnel syndrome, Ontamarama is a game best avoided.      

  At its 
 best, Ontamarama is entertaining, as well as demanding -- in the good way. The frenetic mix of button 
 squashing and screen tapping complements the breezy mix of Japanese pop, jazz, and rock that makes 
 up the soundtrack. At its worst, the game is demanding -- in a bad way. The D pad is not synchronized 
 properly with the music, so to get a perfect score when clearing an arrow, you need to press the 
 button a hair  later  than the actual beat, which is infuriating because it creates a disconnect 
 between the music and the gameplay. It's an almost unforgivable drawback. In fact, when things 
 get really hot and heavy, you may not even notice the music, given that it's a chore just to keep 
 up with the stylus tapping (which is completely detached from the music) while darting your eyes 
 from the arrows to the ontama. The "rhythm" part is all too often unrelated to the "game" part, 
 and Ontamarama suffers as a result.  

  Ontamarama's visual presentation is clean, colorful, and unassuming. That's perfectly fine because 
 you'll be too busy watching arrows and blobs to notice the modest background drawings and animations. 
 The music isn't exactly groundbreaking -- you won't walk away humming the tunes -- but it fits the 
 bill surprisingly well. That's because the entire game is cheerfully shallow: When you play, you'll 
 probably have a good time, but when you stop, you won't feel all that pressed to return. Yet there's 
 something to be said for Ontamarama's simple but challenging gameplay, if only because there's 
 nothing else quite like it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If every there was a multi-tasking simulator, it would be Ontamarama. It's a rhythm game where 
 following the rhyth is near-impossible.
  
  In a world where humans live with little critters called Ontama, something horrible is happening. 
 Someone has been going around, capturing all the ontama. That's as thick as the plot gets, which 
 is all right because the game's main focus is its gameplay.
  
  Ontamarama is similar to Dance Dance Revolution in that you need to move a certain way (press part 
 of the arrow pad) to the rhythm of the music playing, however, to add some spice into the mix, 
 each arrow is color-coded, and you need to tap Ontama of the appropriate color for the note to 
 fill up so it can be pressed by the time it needs to be pressed. It's fun in the beginning, but 
 towards the later part of the game, it's just chaotic and annoying. You often find yourself focusing 
 hard on the notes that need to be pressed, completely ignoring where the Ontama are located so 
 they can be tapped to fill notes. To worsen the situation, the Ontama get tapped randomly, completely 
 disregarding the rhythm of the music, and therefore the player gets thrown off the beat.
  
  If you enjoy chaos and hectic games, and you have the reflexes of a house cat, you might find enjoyment 
 in Ontamarama. However, for most people, the fun disappears quickly as it becomes a headache to 
 try to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiygasFanima
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is about this game, but Ontamarama sucks you in and doesn't let go. 
  
  To start off with the basis of the game, it's very simple, blank notes come across the screen 
 and you have to press them at just the right time, like in the usual rhytm based game fashion, but 
 there's a twist. You can't just hit the same direction of the note, its not THAT simple. The notes 
 have to be filled in before you can do anything with them, and here's where the Ontama comes in, 
 you have to tap these little guys first to activate the note, which then in turn lets you press 
 the direction of the note, completeing the circle, so in other words...
  
  Tapping the Ontama fills in the blank note, then you wait for the note to position itself perfectly 
 inside the circle and press the direction it faces on the d-pad. Depending on how well you timed 
 it you get Master, Great, Good, Bad, Miss. It's DDR for your fingers.
  
  So to win, you have to reach the end of the song of course, by getting Masters, Greats and Goods, 
 and the game ends if your performance meter reaches 0%.
  
  Now here's where the advance techniques come in at. If you've got fast fingers then you'll probably 
 spend most of you're time just tapping rapidly on the many Ontamas that fill the screen, but for 
 those who want to jack their score and overall grade up, we have the a secondary option, drawing 
 a circle. If you have a group of Ontamas close together, you can draw a circle around them and 
 erase them all at once, this goes towards the next note you hit getting a multiplier, depending 
 on how many Ontamas were in the circle. For these notes though, you have to hold down on the d-pad 
 for a certain amount of time. Then we have the blow feature. When things get way to tough and you 
 can't even see your screen because it's overflowing, it's time to blow into the mic, this blows 
 away everything on the screen, and the only thing you have to worry about is hitting the notes. 
 Since this would be a easy way of winning, it's more of a desperation move and you're only allowed 
 so many times to use it.
  
  You have a total of three modes to play, Story, Freeplay and Challenge. Then you have Options, 
 Shop and Tutorial. That's it. No multiplayer, yes, I know, a scary thought that may have you thinking 
 twice before buying this. Trust me, it's still a great game.
  
  Story mode leaves a lot to be desired, no memorable dailouge, bland overused plot, not much to 
 see. It's more of a chore than enjoyable, but you will have to run through it more than 3 times 
 to unlock everything. 
  
  Freeplay is where you'll spend most of you're time, and you can guess by now, it's where you just 
 have fun, changing around the rules, difficulty and everything else, the only object here is to 
 beat your old score.
  
  Challenge is running through a series of songs, survival mode if you will, but it's better than 
 Story.
  
  After playing a song you get credits which you can use at the shop. Bonus songs, different objects 
 to replace your notes and Ontamas, etc. You'll be visiting this place many many times.
  
  Overall, the Music is varied and all of it is original, but guys, it's from Atlus, what's to worry 
 about? Some have lyrics others are instrumentals, but all of it is great. The real reason you'll 
 be sticking around on this one is for Freeplay mode, which is where the game shines at, the list 
 of songs isn't big, not even hitting the 20 gap, but none of the songs get repetitive, they all 
 stay fresh and new. my only complaint is the game is missing multiplayer, if it had this, I would 
 raise the score even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The Good : Bright animated 2D visuals, Makes full use of the DS's hardware accessories, Shop 
mode, only 20 bucks new. 
  
  The Bad : The soundtrack is not catchy nor fun, the beat is off sometimes. 
  
  The game : is 
 very Japanese and different !
  
  Ontamarama is ( thankfullly ) another rhythm/action game for the DS. You fill upOntamas ", which 
 are small circle like creatures by tapping them with your touch pen, which in turn fill upnotes 
 ". The notes are on a line, and you have to tap them with the D-pad as they make their way into 
 a circle. 
  
  This game has been deemed very difficult, which I don't necessarily agree with. The game is actually 
 really easy until you reach some later songs on hard mode, and you can also make use of your microphone 
 and shop to help you along the way. You use your microphone by blowing into it up to 5 times ( 
 after using the shop to buy upgrades ) , to clear allOntamason the screen. This allows you 
 to concentrate on the notes only. Also, you use shop mode to purchase upgrades that make the game 
 easier, ie : line lengthening, easy start, etc. Although I admit it would be nice if all those 
 worked on hard mode. 
  
  The game is definitely worth playing for the price tag, and it's something different. I'm getting 
 sick of only seeing DS players playing Mario Kart or the like when I'm in public. It has it's flaws, 
 like it's generic soundtrack. A little annoying J-Pop could of helped. Also, critics are right 
 when they say the timing of the notes are little bit off, as the notes do not correspond to the 
 music well. 
  
  Nontheless, if you've played alot of DS titles and are running low on high quality games, pick 
 up Ontamarama. Shop mode adds replay value and again, you can buy it new for 20 dollars ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaloch
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  After playing games like Dance Dance Revolution, Elite Beat Agents and Guitar Hero, I thought I 
 had played it all. All of the music/rhythm themed games that is. That is until I tried Ontamarama.
 
  
  Honestly, when I first saw the game, I didn't think too much of it. I thought it was probably going 
 to be another "Elite Beat Agents" game, something that was getting old in a whole market of music 
 themed games. After trying however, I changed my mind.
  
  Firstly, Ontamarama has a more complex system of gameplay. Instead of the usual "listen to the 
 music and smash some buttons", Ontamarama requires both hands to play. Simply put, one has to use 
 the stylus to prod little squishy things called Ontamas as well as the D-Pad or X, Y, A, B buttons. 
 You have to smash the little Ontamas to fill up notes that appear on the Ontamabaton at the top 
 of the screen. Only then can one execute the note when it reaches the end of the baton.
  
  Another feature boasts the usage of the mic (blowing into it) to clear all the Ontamas on the touch 
 screen which makes it a very nifty feature and useful when you're in trouble!
  
  Secondly, Ontamarama has the usual 3 difficulty settings, but the difficulty levels are so wide 
 apart that players ranging from young to old can play. Those seeking for a real challenge can even 
 try the Hard mode which, in my opinion, is almost impossible to complete.
  
  Thirdly, there are some extra goodies to unlock while playing, things like auto-notes or auto-Ontamas 
 and extra songs. One thing worth unlocking are the extra graphics that can be unlocked by getting 
 a S-Rank for a song.
  
  Lastly, the quality of the song during each stage will depend on the performance of the player. 
 In other words, if you are needlessly mashing buttons, you'll find the song very weird with many 
 extra sounds. Similarly, miss any notes and you'll find that the song seems to be missing its main 
 melody. I find this part pretty interesting as most games do not indicate your poor performance 
 directly in the song.
  
  While the game seems to be extremely fun and exciting (and often times it just sucks you in) , the 
 game is without its flaws. Some songs do not have the notes in sync with the song itself. The storymode 
 is fairly short and lacks depth.
  
  In summary, I feel that Ontamarama is a game that everyone should try! Most of the songs are well 
 composed and very pleasing on the ear. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
