-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Orcs & Elves
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/orcselves/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible, fast play mechanics well suited for portable play.
 Immersive sound effects.
 Drinking ale improves strength and decreases accuracy, just like in real life.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very short.
 Story is nearly nonexistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Fountainhead
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Orcs & Elves' simplicity doesn't do much to hide its roots as a mobile phone game, but it's also 
 what makes this dungeon crawler accessible, fast, and fun. 

  When you think of casual games, first-person dungeon crawls probably aren't what spring to mind. 
 They can be slow, difficult, and -- if the level designers don't play their cards right -- downright 
 boring. id Software showed that this didn't have to be the case by releasing Orcs &amp; Elves for 
 mobile phone platforms, and now the game has made its way to the Nintendo DS. It doesn't hide its 
 simplistic roots very well and the story is paper-thin, but it nevertheless provides quick, accessible 
 fun for those who would normally be intimidated by your garden-variety, rat-infested dungeon crawl. 

  Playing as the elf Elli, you're tasked with plumbing the bowels of Mount Zharrkarag, where orcs 
 have overrun a tribe of dwarves. Of course, as the fantasy template requires, there is greater 
 evil afoot. Accompanied by a talking wand named Ellon, you'll find yourself going back and forth 
 between delving deeper into the mountain to slay beasts and returning to the top to barter for 
 supplies with the resident dragon, Gaya. What little plot progression there is presents itself 
 through dialogue between Ellon and the ghosts of dwarves floating throughout the dungeons. You'll 
 also come across scattered notes to help fill out what happened before you arrived. Ultimately, 
 you're more likely to remember some choice interactions with an eternally drunken ghost as opposed 
 to the lackluster plot.  

           Apparently, this is what passed for a Boomstick in elven times.      

  It's slightly 
 disappointing that there wasn't a little more put into the story, but the star of the show is really 
 the streamlined first-person gameplay -- especially the combat. Orcs &amp; Elves is entirely turn-based -- each 
 time you take a step, chug a potion or some ale, or swing your weapon counts as one turn -- but everything 
 animates so quickly, with enemies acting immediately after you do, that it almost feels like a 
 first-person shooter. Combat is simply a matter of hitting the A button to attack with a melee 
 or ranged weapon. You can use the touch screen to access potions and other items with a few quick 
 taps, and you'll need it to cast spells with Ellon by tapping runes in certain combinations, but 
 it hardly feels like the menu-wading fare you might expect from other role-playing games.  

  Because of this, battles with even the most ferocious beasts don't last very long unless you 
 happen to be surrounded. Even in these cases, if you're well stocked with healing potions, the 
 battles aren't overly difficult. The game's challenge scales quite fairly, with the difference 
 between victory and defeat being a matter of moving around and healing at the most appropriate 
 moments as opposed to being at an insufficient experience level. Each area of the mountain has 
 a set amount of enemies anyway, which takes away any opportunity for hardcore level grinding. This 
 simply works in the game's favor by further emphasizing its quick pace.  

  Elli's quick movement speed and the compact level design make exploration pretty fast as well, 
 but you'll want to slow down to hunt for secret doors by pressing up against certain walls to reveal 
 goodies such as treasure chests and loose gold pieces. The game charts hidden rooms and tells you 
 immediately when you've found all of the secrets in an area. Sadly, this takes away much of the 
 challenge of hunting for secrets unless you consciously choose to avoid the map; the silver lining 
 here is that there's little time wasted wandering around and hunting aimlessly.  

  Much of the sense of accomplishment in Orcs &amp; Elves, then, comes from satisfying the compulsion 
 to fill out every inch of the map as you watch your stockpile of gold pieces and potions grow. 
 After all, having more cash and exploring every inch of the mountain nets you more vicious weaponry. 
 There isn't a huge variety of weaponry that you can use, but everything is useful in certain situations. 
 You can upgrade your sword and crossbow a handful of times; you learn up to four spells for Ellon 
 to cast; and there's a medusa scroll that turns your enemies into statues (though, amusingly, you 
 might point it in the wrong direction -- at yourself -- if you try using it while drunk) .  

  All of these weapons are rendered at a decent resolution, though sadly they only have one or two 
 frames of animation. Enemies are animated almost as sparsely, and because they are two-dimensional 
 sprites in a three-dimensional environment, what looks detailed and well-colored from afar becomes 
 pixelated up close. The same thing goes for walls, though you'll notice some creepy details that 
 add to the ambience, such as maggots crawling around certain areas, and random corpses that you 
 can slice to pieces. While the visuals are passable, the real treat with this game's presentation 
 is in the audio samples. The clinking of gold pieces, skittering of monsters, and deliciously gory 
 splattering of downed foes are all crisp and clear coming out of the DS speakers. Make Elli drink 
 a keg of dwarven ale, and you'll hear him groan nauseously until the effects wear off.  

           Enemies like this one sound a lot more impressive than they look.      

  While Orcs 
 &amp; Elves' overall presentation is upgraded from its humble mobile phone beginnings, the length 
 of the game quickly reminds you of its origins. Going through the game from beginning to end can 
 take you less than six hours, even if you spend a little time to hunt for secrets every now and 
 again. If you make it a point to defeat every monster, find every single secret, and explore the 
 levels a little more after you've completed the game, it's possible to extend this further, but 
 it's very likely that before the 10-hour mark you'll have seen all that there is to see. An extra 
 area or two, as well as a few more weapons and spells, would have rounded out the experience nicely. 

  As it is, Orcs &amp; Elves still supplies a quick burst of fun in a genre that normally would be 
 too dense for a casual audience. It makes no bones about what it is, and as such will satisfy anyone 
 who wants to slay ugly monsters and collect loot during their commute without getting lost, dying 
 countless times, or fumbling through menus.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Incredibly fun. Three varied difficulty levels. Good strategic gameplay that is challenging 
 enough for experienced players, but not so much that inexperienced players can't also enjoy it. 
 Produced by iD Software!
  
  The Bad : Way too short. No sign of Orc & Elves 2 coming to DS... *sniff* Monsters are depicted 
 as simplistic 2D sprites, and aren't as detailed as they should have been.
  
  --
  
  Orcs & Elves is a simplistic 3D turn-based RPG game from Fountainhead Games and the legendary iD 
 Software (the torches seem to have been lifted directly from the original DOOM games) . While the 
 experience is short lived, the additional difficulty levels, secret areas and the sheer accessibility 
 of the game makes it utterly replayable. You can also save at virtually any point in the game, 
 which makes it really easy to pick up and play.
  
  While Orcs & Elves isn't necessary an achievement for the RPG genre, it provides a fun and fast-paced 
 game which goes back to the more simplistic roots of the genre without feeling stripped or lazy. 
 While the graphics could have used a bit of fine tuning, and a few extra levels would have been 
 appreciated, these superficial flaws do little to detract from just how ridiculously fun and addictive 
 O&E can be.
  
  You move around in first-person perspective, and each action (these include weapon or item usage) 
 or movement constitutes a turn. So if you are faced (or surrounded) by monsters, you will be struck 
 once by every monster per turn (with the exception of the two-headed dog, which will bite you twice 
 per turn) . Additionally, the game is set out in a grid format so the game will move one point on 
 the grid whenever you make a movement (in a similar vein to dungeon crawlers from the 80s and early 
 90s) .
  
  Throughout the game, you will collect coins which can be exchanged for items from the dragon Gaya. 
 Fortunately, prices are negotiable, so if she's in a good mood, you can save a substantial amount 
 of coins by doing so. However, her mood basically acts as a generosity meter. Gaya is less likely 
 to accept a good deal if she's angry or in an unhappy mood for instance, however, if her mood is 
 maxed out, you can save a significant amount on the more expensive items in the game.
  
  While the game is quite linear, and does little to develop the RPG genre, Orcs & Elves is a great, 
 uncomplicated game for fans of dungeon crawlers, RPGs and the like; however, retro gamers are more 
 likely to appreciate the nostalgic value that oozes from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shypkus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 7.5/10
  The graphics have a mixture of n64 and the 1993 pixels. The walls have that 3D felling, but the 
 monsters have that 1993 pixels. This mixture makes this game feel like a real dungeon crawler.
 
  
  Music/Sound Effects: 8/10
  There is almost no music, that the little music is great. The sound effects are cool too. The sound 
 effects fit the monsters/any thing else.
  
  Game Play: 8.5/10 
  Its a basic dungeon crawler. Kill, level up, buy items, kill bosses to get to the next level of 
 the dungeon. Different monsters to different things and have different HP&Defence&Damage. There 
 are a lot of potions and meat (And thats good because that gives health back or gives some positive 
 thing for a sort amount of time) . It also goes turn based: when you do an action, every monster 
 does an action. 
  (I did that with my Lego games years before this game came out)
  Even though it is quick to beat, the price on this game (For a new one IN stores) is 8-13 dollars 
 (But 20 dollars at wall-mart) .
  
  Story line: 8/10
  This is an award winning story line. And this is the story line: The orcs and elves have teamed 
 up to kill every dwarf and you have to go through this dungeon in order to help your people, the 
 dwarfs (so that makes YOU a DWARF) . Simple, but could have done better.
  
  All in all, after finding the average of these four scores, it would be a 8/10 (8+8+7.5+8.5=32 
 32/4=8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rej72380
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  After all of the hoopla surrounding Doom RPG for mobile phones, Id Software created a brand new 
 and original RPG for the cell phone crowd -- A game called Orcs & Elves, in which there is an Nintendo 
 DS version of the game.
  
  
  
  Graphically, the game is very good. The sprites in this game only have two animations, which the 
 DS is alot more than capable of doing. However, the levels of the game are in full 3D, making use 
 of the system's graphics capabilities. There's even some added lighting effects for some areas.
 
  
  
  
  Soundwise, the game is okay. There is some music in the game, but it lasts for only 10 seconds 
 before fading into silence. The sound effects in this game are very good, with the sounds of orcs, 
 rats and other monsters screaming when you kill one of them. There is also some backgorund sound 
 effects as well, ranging from water gushing to chanting of sacred rituals.
  
  
  With the controls, it's all good, but simple. The game uses a FPS-style control scheme where you 
 rotate your character, move him forward, move himback attack with weapon in hand and strafe left 
 or right. The good news is that you can use either the DS controls or the touchscreen to do such 
 moves, making it accessable even if one of the shoulder buttons on ther DS Lite become worn out.
 
  
  
  Gameplaywise, it is a fun, yet short game. The main game will last you around 10 hours. Of course, 
 the game has it's share of secret rooms to be discovered, adding a little bit of gameplay time 
 to the clock. There are also stats that keep track of how many turns you've taken in the game and 
 how many experience points you've earned in a certain level.
  
  
  
  Overall, this is fun RPG that just about anyone and their grandmother can play, with it's short 
 quest and fast-paced gameplay. This is definately worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played DOOM RPG for cell phones, Orcs And Ogres will seem very familiar. In fact, 
 i would love to see a DS translation of DOOM RPG after seeing what an amazing job id Software can 
 do with such simple mechanics.
  You are an elf with a talking magic wand, who is compelled to visit a Dwarf king in a mountain. 
 Upon arriving, you find out that the Dwarven kingdom has been invaded by orcs, and you proceed 
 to fight your way down through the mountain's interior to find the king.
  Gameplay is turn-based, meaning for each grid you move or action you take, your enemies get a turn 
 to do so as well. There is no blocking, so combat is basically an exhange of blows until you or 
 your opponent dies. Being turn based though, you are free to access potions and items in the middle 
 of combat, without being attacked while doing so. 
  Throughout levels you'll collect various useful items, unlockable pictures (big deal) , letters 
 left behind journaling the events of the orc invasion, as well as gold. Between levels, you'll 
 be able to warp to the lair of a copper dragon who offers potions, weapons, armor and ammunition 
 for sale. Later on you also receive quests while talking to her, which can be surprising as they 
 take place in the lair (which seems like a safe-zone outside of regular gameplay) and lead out 
 to other previously-unknown places in the mountain. The game often throws things like that at you 
 to make it feel surprisingly real-time. 
  Orcs And Elves is hands-down the most elaborate and creative turn based first-person RPG I've ever 
 played, let alone for only $10 brand new. I highly suggest it to anyone- I bought it just because 
 I saw that id Software made it, and was more than pleasantly surprised to discover this top-notch 
 gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is the first turn-based game I've played and yes, it was fun to play. Indeed I constantly 
 played it until it was won - but let's be frank, it didn't take long (about 15 hours) and it wasn't 
 exactly challenging. There was very little plot to it and very little skill required. The so-called 
 puzzles to open rune doors were not even remotely challenging and just so long as you killed anything 
 that moved, whacked anything that didn't and spoke to every dwarven ghost, you're sure to win the 
 game. So why did I give it a 6? Because despite all of this, I did enjoy playing it. The fact that 
 it didn't take long probably helped as I didn't have the opportunity to get too bored with it and 
 for that reason I think it's a great game for the younger audiences and for newbies alike. For 
 me though, well it's set me on a quest to find another turn-based game but definitely one that 
 is a much, much more demanding.
  On the whole a nice, simple game with good graphics and easy to follow - but not a game for the 
 experienced gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Being realistic, old-school RPGs are now remembered as the wet dreams of the most cliche nerds... 
 I'm talking curly ginger hair, fat glasses, chubby body (complete with man boobs) , spots and of 
 course a T-shirt with "Dungeon Master" in bold capitals. Call that an unfair stereotype but you 
 hardly want to be affiliated with that crowd right? Well I don't know given the video game audience 
 is so broad and... whatever, my point is that they're not the focus, let alone the big money maker 
 that they used to be. Instead, the modern RPG is either the "massive free-roaming adventure" or 
 Final Fantasy... World of WarCraft does retain some of the old-school RPG aspects like Dungeons 
 and Dragons art style and of course the curly ginger hair, fat glasses, chubby etc hardcore fan 
 base. The traditional fantasy world of orcs and elves (ha ha see what I did there?! *COUGH*) is 
 a rehashed concept but a popular one and how you feel about it is a major if not the biggest factor 
 in buying this. However the title alone is enough for you to know when to keep reading, if you 
 don't like it then bye for now, the fantasy nerds, keep reading!
  
  Orcs and Elves was originally a game developed for the Mobile Phone, and to be honest you can tell 
 this immediately... but of course people do buy these sorts of games so I wouldn't shrug that off 
 as being a bad thing. To get it out of the way now, yes I have played both versions and yes the 
 DS version is better. This turn based action adventure comes from developers with previous experience 
 in the genre, with Doom RPG. Doom RPG took the concept and fantasy world of Doom and turned it 
 into an RPG/dungeon crawler by making everything into a "turns", be it movement, attacks, using 
 items and interacting with the environment, so while you had time to think about each move made, 
 the game can appear as a first person shooter. Orcs and Elves that's this same mechanic (being 
 built on the same engine of course) and paints it in a complete new coat of pure Lord of the Rings 
 rip-off fantasy, WarCraft fans rejoice! The story is also very much in the vein of old-school fantasy, 
 taking the role of Elf Prince to drive out invading Orcs from a Dwarf mountain city. Granted, you 
 already think its a rehashed concept but it does justice to the subject matter. Given the controlled 
 Elf in question seems to either have lost his tongue or a complete emo, all your exchanges of dialogue 
 with friend and foe are are done through your magic wand... no you don't talk through it, it talks 
 by itself, its just that magic! Despite the rather cheesy premise, the said wand is hardly a pretentious 
 character. He doesn't take kindly to being mocked as a piece of wood for example and has a serious 
 attitude so even though not talking can make you come off as a massive **** your wand will take 
 any character up in conversation... although that still makes you seem like a p**y. Most characters 
 encountered are the ghosts of fallen Dwarven inhabitants of the mountain city but don't worry, 
 while the fact those you came to save and protect are all dead, their ghosts are still charming 
 beardies complete with drunks, the war hungry and the more rational philosopher like characters. 
 Their job is to help you through your adventures with many acting as quest givers. Others you'll 
 have serious and comical exchanges with include rat men, leading orcs and dark elves. The cast 
 of characters saves the story from being an excuse for killing hordes of monsters (despite the 
 obvious excuse that they tried to kill you first) , lacking twists or in depth character backstories 
 although there are diaries that reveal more about life before and after the attacks and not spoiling 
 anything, it ends on a positive note, which is nice given the fact nearly everyone is dead from 
 the start.
  
  Being a turn-based game with views and movement in grids, much of the interactive soundings such 
 as signs, obstructions ad enemies are in 2D pixels. Being on the DS that's hardly a problem yet 
 there are times where this limitation can become noticeable. For example there are times where 
 the camera swings through halls showing/implying the task ahead, sort of like an in-game cinematic. 
 While this works well on the DS and looks great, the fact you're seeing multiple angles of the 
 environment but NOT you enemies who are still in 2D can make it seem you're about to go up against 
 a rampaging horde of cardboard cut outs. The plus side to this is at least the character designs 
 look great, even though they all attack in four or five frames each time. You'll come across orcs, 
 dark elves, giant rats, trolls, monster insects, specters and many more, with different versions 
 of each. Locations also vary but not to the same extent, being halls, forges and caves with their 
 own layout etc, you know the drill by now. Another stand out feature oddly enough is the sound. 
 While there are no voice actors and only text during the dialogue sequences, the soundtrack, effects 
 and ambiance are surprisingly good. Monsters growl and thrash in combat, sword on flesh sounds 
 visceral and the slight sounds of rats, water drops and insects really help set the dark mood. 
 The lead soundtrack is your usual affair when it comes to the fantasy setting yet for me it was 
 memorable, and thats saying something for a game that doesn't look as grand.
  
  So now we come to the gameplay department of this review, which after all is what you really need 
 to know about in a game. The target audience is not a broad one, mostly consisting of what I've 
 already said... but don't worry, it can appeal to the non-stereotypical. Its really a matter of 
 personality, this game can be both casual and hardcore depending on you. The lower difficulties 
 are cakewalks while on harder its a real challenge. Despite those aspects of difficulty, I would 
 mostly recommend this to those seeking nostalgia, not that's its old but it does give you that 
 feeling (in a good way) of the old-school. Each level is a laid out like a maze but given there's 
 a map available and the fact this place was supposed to be inhabited at one point, its not as hard 
 going as the hedge counter-part... yet the many monsters, secrets paths and minor puzzles keep 
 it from being a simple walk about. Although most of the action is in combat with the many ghoulies 
 throughout, the puzzles come in the form of flipping a switch here and there, remembering codes 
 to get past doors etc which doesn't sound like much but the combat itself can become as such also. 
 For example, you're up against more than five in an open hall the last thing you want i to get 
 surrounded so of course you have to plan you moves and which attacks or spells to utilize in order 
 not to waste your inventory, let alone your life. Things can get like this on the harder difficulties 
 and especially in the later levels, even on easy. Boss fights also pose a challenge due to their 
 multiple attacks with varying status effects, not to mention always being backed up with lesser 
 opponents. As you progress you'll slowly amass an arsenal via gold hoarding and spending it in 
 a cove of treasure guarded by a dragon (although I'm not sure why a dragon would need money... 
 especially in a cavern) who can be found in a hall accessed through portals found at the start 
 and end of levels so its good to know what you're buying. The options available in store are the 
 usual affair of different swords, crossbows, potions, magic items and armor with special items 
 becoming available later on. Its nothing special given you've already gone through this in other 
 games of its kind yet its not really a boring thing and it does put more emphasis on the RPG aspect 
 that to be honest isn't as prevalent as the developers want you to think. At its core its an action-adventure 
 in the style of old-school RPGs/dungeon crawlers (but without the grind thank God!) , where basic 
 and tricky walk hand in hand... sounds like a confusing premise yet its quick to get used to... 
 and to honest for some people it MAY get repetitive due to the reuse of enemies and puzzles at 
 times. Another thing I should mention is while you can revisit levels you have no real reason to 
 do so as you level up at consistently so I would say it is linear EXCEPT for the two DS exclusive 
 levels that can be visited at any time, although its best to wait on them as they are tricky. Other 
 DS features are the occasional touch screen sections yet they're clearly tacked on and barely come 
 up. Its not a long affair being roughly six hours gameplay time to complete and you won't go back 
 immediately but due to the labour of love element of old-school.
  
  Orcs and Elves is something different by modern standards but very retro in other departments. 
 Whether you like it or not depends on whether you enjoy the style, let alone the genre as its conventional 
 fantasy that's either a pro or con depending on you. I found it to be a fun ride while it lasted 
 and can recommend it to those who want a good enough blast from the past as its a charming little 
 adventure for those who might want to keep things simple yet still have a challenge when on the 
 go because anything else in that vein is Final Fantasy... of which I can't be arsed with...
  
  Pros:
  - Charming art style
  - Great soundtrack and effects
  - Interesting and fun characters
 
  - Decent challenge
  - ... without being Dungeons and Dragons complicated
  
  Cons:
  - Noticeable mobile phone roots
  - Short
  - Minor story
  - Possible repetition at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_fan_003
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this game is good for anyone who doesn't mind half of their graphics being blurred. 
 At the start of it all the game is pretty nasty . after five minutes of playing i yawned and stopped, 
 i didn't play again for months. then i decided to get the game over with and play it through. the 
 game grew on me and i turned out thinking hey it's an okay game. to this day i think and always 
 will think that the only even remotely difficult part of the game is the final boss. which in my 
 opinion, is more like a fifty V. S. one cage match than a boss fight.
  
  what i do like most about this game is that ( for the D. S. version only) is that the creators actually 
 made good use of the touch screen. the game wouldn't really be the same without it. let's hope 
 though that if anyone decides in the near future decides to make a sequel, that they get a few 
 things straight, longer story, better dialogue, more weapons, smarter A. I.' s , and lastly BETTER 
 GRAPHICS!!!!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  According to a friend of mine, the DS dungeon-crawler Orcs & Elves began life as a cell phone game. 
 And everyone knows that 99% of cell phone games out there suck, right? Well, embarrassingly enough, 
 a game that was originally a cell phone game is now a DS game. And yes, it's about as bad as it 
 sounds. In just about every way possible, Orcs & Elves really does feel like a cell phone game 
 that got a straight port to the DS. To begin with, it's a really simple, generally unimpressive 
 game. The plot is nearly nonexistent: you're some half-elf character with a magical talking staff 
 who explores a huge mountain in search of a missing Dwarf king. Dialogue is terribly clichd, unoriginal, 
 and uninteresting. 
  
  The gameplay mechanic, while it shows some potential, falls flat on its face. It's a dungeon crawler 
 and you'll control your character with a first-person perspective. One problem that becomes apparent 
 very early on is how incredibly awkward it is just to move around. You can only move forward and 
 backward, so you have to turn your character physically when you want to change direction. This 
 is fairly awkward, but other games have used it and had little trouble with the mechanic (Etrian 
 Odyssey, for example) . The big problem comes with moving forward: you can't just hold forward and 
 watch your character run along. Instead, there's an invisible grid system at work and you have 
 to press forward again each time you want to move that way. It's incredibly annoying and awkward, 
 and having to continually mash the forward button to proceed through a long hallway devoid of enemies 
 is really frustrating. 
  
  This problem of movement comes, as I see it, from two major sources. The first is the embarrassing 
 fact that we've already discussed: that the DS received a port of a freaking cell phone game The 
 buttons on a cell phone are harder to hold down and so tapping them over and over again doesn't 
 seem so stupid after all. And the second is the way in which Orcs & Elves is set up with a turn-based 
 combat system. I suppose the developers don't want players accidentally wasting a turn moving, 
 and as a result made it more difficult to move. Still, this is a really annoying problem and one 
 that I wish could have somehow been fixed. 
  
  Combat itself is fairly simple but also surprisingly ambitious: think along the lines of Oblivion 
 sans the real time element. You'll see enemies wandering around in the dungeon, and once they see 
 you coming they'll make an advance. You and the enemies on the field take turns (they'll all move 
 at once, however, so there are no long stretches of time spent waiting for a room full of enemies 
 to move toward you) moving, and then once you're close enough, attacking. It's really quite boring, 
 because 90% of the time you'll probably just be using the basic attack -- so if mashing the A button 
 over and over and over again to defeat hordes of enemies sounds fun to you, then maybe Orcs & Elves 
 is a good title for you. 
  
  Of course, in typical RPG fashion, there are a ton of items, weapons, and equipment to collect. 
 Scattered throughout the dungeon you'll find treasure chests which hold these items. The variety 
 of different weapons and magic is pretty impressive, and there are various different potions that 
 cover all sorts of status conditions. Additionally, there's a floor of the mountain containing 
 your stereotypical treasure-hoarding dragon who's willing to part with it only for a price. Buying 
 treasure, interestingly enough, is one of the more fun parts of this game. You'll engage in a haggling 
 minigame where you name a price for the item based off what she asks for. You might be able to 
 scrape a deal, but at the same time the dragon will be put in a bad mood if it thinks it's been 
 ripped off. As a result, getting a good deal could be harder. It's a neat set-up of trade-offs 
 and on the whole it's a mechanic that was handled well. 
  
  Beyond basic combat and item collection, however, there's really not much to this game. Sure, there 
 are some mediocre boss fights that will test your ability to tap the A button and use healing items 
 at the right time. There are also some really pathetic puzzles that involve unlocking doors; you're 
 given a door with a nearby device with colored symbols on it, and a correct input of said symbols 
 will open the door. Random guessing is discourage by the fact that you'll take damage when you 
 guess incorrectly. And there's always a dwarf hidden just around the corner waiting to hand you 
 the answer. Aside from little scenarios like this, puzzle solving is nonexistent. Exploration is 
 pretty fun and you've got a helpful map. Thankfully, you're able to enable the map screen for the 
 entire game (knowing where to go next is far preferable to the lame alternative -- essentially 
 touch-screen hotkeys for all the actions that are more easily performed with the DS' buttons) . 
 
  
  Matters get even worse, however: specifically, the game's graphics are absolutely horrendous. I'm 
 not usually one to complain about a title's visuals, but in this case I really can't help it. Orcs 
 & Elves looks downright horrendous, and this is one of the clearest suggestions that very little 
 work was done changing the cell phone version of this game into a DS title. Textures are incredibly 
 grainy and blocky, even from far away, and the numerous enemies that you'll encounter on your trek 
 through the mountain look even worse. Possibly the worst graphical item in the game is when you 
 encounter a friendly dwarf who, rather than standing firmly on the ground, randomly bobs up and 
 down like he's floating. He's nearly transparent, as well. This would be a great design for a ghost, 
 but not a living, breathinghumanoid. I can say confidently that Orcs & Elves is a serious contender 
 for title of "worst graphics on the DS". 
  
  The game is also really difficult, which is probably the game's only "love it or hate it" facet 
 (all the other aspects of the game are very hard to love) . Enemies are tough and numerous, and 
 after trading blows with a tough foe you could be fairly low on health. In some ways, however, 
 the game's difficult seems cheap; for example, two enemies will gang up on you, attacking simultaneously. 
 But because the battle indicators and music are so bad, you might not realize there's a foe hitting 
 you from behind until too late. Still, hard-core gamers who can put up with the many flaws of this 
 title are going to appreciate the challenge offered by Orcs & Elves. 
  
  Orcs & Elves is an unforgettable gaming experience, but it's unforgettable in the worse way possible. 
 In every face available, this first person dungeon crawler just absolutely fails to impress. The 
 gameplay is mindlessly simple and repetitive, the story is nearly nonexistent, dialogue is laughably 
 bad, and the graphics are among the worst on the system. If you're looking for a dungeon crawler, 
 I'd highly recommend Etrian Odyssey II, which takes the premise of Orcs & Elves and actually makes 
 a fun game out of it. This title is painfully short, so even if you do find something to enjoy 
 you're definitely not going to be getting your money's worth. If you feel that you just have to 
 play Orcs & Elves, save yourself some money and a huge disappointment and just find it on your 
 cell phone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  ~Intro~
  As I've stated in previous reviews I'm fairly bias to turn based RPGs, for some reason I love mindlessly 
 grinding characters until they reach their uber forms; I'm a nerd!! O&E is an old school dungeon 
 crawler; equip with early 90s quesdo style 3D graphics that ooze with style and flare. Thankfully 
 my bias ways wont in anyway shield my eyes from the lackluster areas within O&E.
  
  ~Graphics~
  Graphics are a constantly changing entity within the gaming industry. Most think 
 that more is better *cough* EPIC *cough* but that isn't the case with every game. Style and nostalgic 
 appeal can go a long way these days. O&E essentially lives or dies on this principle. Those that 
 loved the "3D" graphics of yester year will surely find O&E to be a small sigh of relief. The fact 
 that these graphics could exist in this day of dynamic light and shading, bump mapping is incredible; 
 I'm just glad ID has the man purse to rehash a 3D style that was once considered amazing!! I like 
 to pretend that Doom and oblivion met at a bar one night, did the nasty and O&Es was born. It isn't 
 going to blow away other 3D games on the DS but it does keep the feeling of old school ID games 
 alive. If you think about it the DS and PSP are the sole survivors of 2D greatness that once was. 
 
  
  ~Story~
  This is clearly the weakest aspect, for good reason, the story was written by a programmer!! Yes, 
 you read that right, John Carmack though a brilliant programmer isn't necessarily the greatest 
 storyteller of our time. Like most ID games though the story is set on the backburner to make room 
 for addicting gameplay. Since the story itself is basically a one line thesis I'll dish it out. 
 You play as an elf that is out to rescue a dwarven king. Now, guess who attacked the dwarves... 
 yup, orcs!! Oh yea, there is also a talking wand and stuff but no back story is given regarding 
 how the elf and wand met or why the wand can talk. I guess the designers assumed the general gaming 
 community would use their imagination to fill in the blanks.
  
  ~Gameplay~
  There are two main weapon types in O&Es are: melee and range weapons. Since this is a turned based 
 RPG ranged weapons are mostly used for attacking enemies as they march towards you. Melee weapons 
 consist of one sword type with different features. Yup, only one sword type, only two range types 
 (magic and bow) . The weapon selection is extremely lacking to say the least. The fun comes in the 
 old school dungeon crawling mentality of going around smashing enemies in the head with your sword, 
 looting and repeating. All the RPG elements are done automatically as well as inventory management. 
 The only aspect that really concerns the user is attacking and using different potions. The added 
 screen on the DS makes for the best version of O&Es since you don't have to constantly enter the 
 map menu to locate where the hell you are. 
  
  On the DS, a simple scroll of the eyes will display your inventory/map dynamically while playing. 
 Now, why am I mentioning this added screen in the gameplay department? I found O&Es to be extremely 
 boring on the cell phone since I was constantly getting lost and confused by all the similar looking 
 corridors. The pacing was actually affect by the lack of a quick ready to use map. This simply 
 doesn't happen on the DS as I'm constantly aware of my location. The added screen eliminated the 
 awkward transitioning between map and gameplay every ten seconds. There really isn't much else 
 in the gameplay department. As I stated before, many gamers don't like shallow gameplay but what's 
 present is definitely fun and addicting.
  
  ~Features~
  The single player experience will run a good 3-7 hours depending on how much looting and exploring 
 is done. Unfortunately, besides getting all the secret items there really isn't any incentive in 
 revisiting the single player experience. With no other features available beside a gallery the 
 longevity is pretty lacking. 
  
  ~Sound~
  The sound effects are a mixed bag; hearing your character walk around completely wasted for 16 
 turns is quite humorous; hearing the same whoosh sound every time you swing your sword, not so 
 much. The biggest disappointment is the lack of any background music. Navigating dungeons would 
 rock a little bit harder with some good tones in the background but none will be found in this 
 adventure.
  
  ~Conclusion~
  This game though extremely fun is pretty limited and short. It also doesn't provide enough replay 
 value to justify the cost of admission. I suggest waiting until the price drops down to purchase 
 this game. You could always try bartering with the GameStop clerk, though I'm not quite sure that'll 
 work!! I'd suggest this game to Diablo/Doom type fans, old school dungeon crawler type fans. The 
 ride is fun while it last but it's too short and doesn't provide enough incentive for multiple 
 trips!!
  
  
  Story - 6.0 ~ Pretty generic, lacks any real reason beside the fact that it justifys the killing 
 and environment
  Gameplay - 8.5 ~ It's an old school turn based dungeon crawler; what more can you ask for!!
  
 Sound - 9.0 ~ Sound effects consist of classic grunts and slashing sounds, perfect for this title. 
 Though they may get boring and repetitive after a while!
  Graphics - 9.2 ~ Old school doom meets oblivion fantasy.. AWESOME!!
  Features - 7.5 ~ Beside the 
 single player experience there really isn't any real incentive to replay the game
  Overall - 8.04 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyraxkilawatt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Though Orcs & Elves isn't a bad game, it's not a great game either. 
  
  The graphics look like it was taken from the cell phone, though the dungeon itself looks pretty 
 good the objects are 2d sprites instead of 3d, which can be a major put off for anyone who knows 
 what the DS can do.
  
  The game play is somewhat fluid with each action you do counting as a turn (The game is actually 
 turn based, so when you move enemies move, when you attack the enemies attack, etc.) . There is 
 no stat management, or skills and classes to work with. You wrap back to a dragons lair periodically 
 to buy stuff (That's right, you buy stuff from a dragon, which is pretty cool) . The battles are 
 a bit boring with I hit you, you hit me, no real tactics needed. 
  
  There is no true story except for you come to a dwarf's mound to visit with the king only to learn 
 it has been over run by monsters (LOTR anyone) . The biggest put off for me in the game is the talking 
 wand; it is annoying, always talking for your character, and making moral decisions for you. In 
 a era where we have games that allow you to be as bad as you want to be, a wand controlling what 
 I do morally is pretty annoying. 
  
  The music is alright; it made me feel like I was in a dungeon but for the most part is uninspiring. 
 
  
  When compared to other games on the market (Etrian Odyssey comes to mind) , Orcs and Elves falls 
 short of being a block buster and with games like Etrian (a master piece of dungeon crawling I 
 might add) on the market your money is best spent else where, but if you must have this game for 
 your collection (like me) it is cheap with a price tag of $9.99,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_wadsy
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  My main feeling when playing this through was 'it feels like I'm laying Etrian Odyssey, but with 
 all the depth taken out.
  
  The mapping is automatic, puzzles are simple, fights are generally easy (with the exception of 
 the final boss, who is just frustrating) . There's no class system, or real stat management. Spells 
 are few and boring (IIRC there are 4 spells) . 
  
  The story is flat and boring. Usually it's not an issue in a dungeon hack, but it would almost 
 have been better if they simply said "You're in a dungeon. Kill monsters and stuff and take their 
 treasure. The worst example of 'stupid fetch quest' occurs in several places where you must get 
 dwarven ale for the ghost of a dwarf who demands to avenge his people, but wont help him until 
 you drink with him. Annoying and pointless.
  
  The game will take less than 10 hours to complete, and there's no real reason to keep playing. 
 Graphics (not really important to me) are OK, but not particularly good even for the DS.
  
  Like I said, as a dungeon hack style game it's OK, but most fans of that genre will already have 
 Etrian Odyssey, which is better in every way (Once I finished this, I went back to EO after several 
 months of not playing it :) ) It's hard not to compare it to such a great example of the genre, 
 but it's just not interesting or different enough to avoid the comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solori
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Orcs&Elves is hack & slash fun at its best. In this game, you find yourself alone, inside a dwarven 
 mountain that has been attacked by a horde of orcs. To survive you must proceed through the mountain 
 killing all the enemies who cross your path. The majority of your time will be spent fighting. 
 The rest of your time will be spent exploring the levels: searching for hidden rooms, pushing boulders, 
 pushing walls, pulling levers, breaking boxes, and opening chests. 
  
  Orcs & Elves hook is its battle system. Technically, it is a turn-based game, but it plays like 
 a real time game. When you encounter an enemy you attack it with your equipped weapon by tapping 
 "use" on the touch screen (you can use the buttons if you prefer, but I found it easier and more 
 fun to use the stylus) . If you want to attack with a spell, you simply tap the spell icon. You 
 move by tapping the corresponding direction arrow on the touch screen. To use an item, you tap 
 the item icon. To change your equipped weapon, you tap on the weapon icon. 
  
  Attacking, moving, or using an item takes up one of your turns. However, the stylus controls are 
 so intuitive and easy to use that the battles are very fast-paced and seem like they are in real-time. 
 
  
  You will have access to a variety of weapons during the game: sword, magic wand, crossbow, a gun 
 that shoots fireballs, phoenix eggs (grenades) , a medusa scroll (turns enemies to stone) , and (very 
 late in the game) a magic axe. But you will spend the majority of your time using the sword and, 
 to a lesser extent, your magic wand (using the magic wand expends energy that needs to recharge 
 over time) . 
  
  The strategy in battles comes mostly from the creative use of potions. Potions can be used to regenerate 
 your health, drain life from enemies, or increase your various stats (attack, defense, agility, 
 etc) . However, potions are fairly plentiful in the game, which reduces the difficulty level a lot. 
 
  
  Orcs&Elves weakness is probably its simplicity. There is not much storyline or character development 
 in this game. IMO this is no big deal because the game is about the hacking & slashing. But if 
 you are looking for a deep, involving storyline, this is not the game for you. Additionally, there 
 are not a lot of stats to keep track of and there is not a lot of equipment to change out. To me 
 this keeps the game fast-paced and fun, but if you are looking for a complicated, super-deep battle 
 system, this is not the game for you. 
  
  Orcs&Elves greatest strength is its gameplay which is fun, addictive, and challenging, but not 
 too challenging. For the DS, I like games you can pick up and play, put away for awhile, and come 
 back to them and pick up where you left off without any trouble. Orcs & Elves delivers that. It 
 is fairly easy to get the hang of the controls, you can save anywhere, and its fun. That makes 
 this game a solid B in my book. So I'm giving it an 8.0. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was completely different than what I was expecting! I received the game as a gift, and 
 was pretty excited about getting it. However, when I started playing I was stunned at how the game 
 itself played. I did not realize that it was a 'real' turn based RPG, where every movement is considered 
 a turn. At first I was turned off quite a bit, but as I played through the first couple levels 
 I was beginning to feel a little better about this game. 
  
  The story itself really never game through for me. This may be possibly because I could never get 
 a feeling for any of the characters. I never saw the 'hero,' unless you consider one of the gallery 
 images you collect during your adventures. Nearly every NPC had the same model of a dwarf. Even 
 the king of the dwarves was the same. The only thing that differentiated himself was his different 
 colored hat. 
  
  Fighting in the game was pretty interesting. There was quite a few different weapons, that pretty 
 much did the same thing. Strategy did have to be employed in some instances however. Sadly, though, 
 the best strategy I found was to back myself into a corner so that I could not get double teamed. 
 This is really how the majority of the more challenging battles went. 
  
  The graphics were fun, sprite based, reminded me of the first Doom. There is an obvious comparison, 
 because Id developed this game as well as the Doom series. I also felt a little reminiscent with 
 the surroundings as well. Most of the game is played in corridor like settings, e. g. Doom, so it 
 got a little boring near the end. 
  
  Overall, this was a fun game. That I devoted time too. Since it was a gift I'm glad that I played 
 through it. However, if I did spend the $19.99 retail price for it, I would have felt cheated, 
 even at that price. If you are a fan of the retro-turn based games, then you might want to seek 
 this one out. However, if you a looking for a little more depth in a game then this probably wouldn't 
 be your best bet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is a throwback to the semi-real-time PC RPG's from the early 90's. Unfortunately the game 
 is incredibly brief and if you play at normal difficulty you'll breeze thru the 6 small levels 
 in a few hours. Heailing potions are too plentiful and there's little strategy involved. At the 
 higher difficulty things get a more strategic but it doesnt really matter because the levels are 
 quite tiny and, again, there are only a handful of levels. Its an RPG with only rudimentary strategy 
 (magic staff, crossbow, or sword) and weapons are few. Enemy types repeat often. One should not 
 expect amazing graphics on a portable and the graphics we get here are fine but you'll see the 
 same table and chair and floor lamp bitmaps over and over again. 
  
  So, is it worth 20bucks? If you must play all RPG's perhaps, but for me the brevity of the game 
 makes it worth no more than 10bucks.
  
  I think the gamespot review is being over-generous with a 7 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts and id Software team up in a retro-style RPG that revolves around, you guessed 
 it, Orcs and Elves. Be prepared for gameplay much like role-playing games encountered in the late 
 80s, early 90s. But you can plan on enjoying it, too.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  King Brahm and the Dwarves are in trouble, and it's up to a lowly half-breed elf named Elli to 
 save the day. That's you! Grab your sword, some potions, a magic ring or two... And don't forget 
 your talking wand! He wouldn't forgive you if he missed out on the action.
  
  As Elli, you will travel through various locales within the Dwarves' mountain, Zharrkarag. Hacking 
 and slashing your way through various, pixelated enemies in an effort to break a curse that has 
 taken hold on the spirits of all the Dwarves within. Who, unfortunately, all died in battle before 
 you even arrived.
  
  Eventually, Elli (that's you, remember...) will be led to the greatest conflict of all, against 
 an evil dark elf sorceress.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  "Orcs & Elves" is a turn-based RPG from id Software that's built on the DOOM RPG engine.
  
 
  Originally created for mobile phones, the game was ported over to the Nintendo DS with a few enhancements. 
 Mainly, the ability to access various items and menus using the touch screen; though many users 
 will likely find perusing their inventory much easier by use of the D-pad and A and B buttons.
 
  
  Being a turn-based game, each action you take (be it move, use and item, cast a spell, etc.) takes 
 one turn. When your turn is complete, all enemies around you will take their turn. This means some 
 careful strategy when you find yourself surrounded; but as the game progresses you have plenty 
 of weapons, potions and spells at your disposal.
  
  The talking wand, named Ellon, will guide you through offering advice and doling out his (or her?) 
 own magic and spells against the enemies that lie within the mountain. Ellon is weak to begin with, 
 but gains strength as you push onward, gaining stronger spells to deal with stronger enemies. He 
 (or she?) will also introduce you to the dragon Gaya, who happens to reside within the same mountain 
 and will barter with you for items that can aid you on your quest.
  
  Despite being turn-based, the game moves along quite swiftly. There is no waiting between turns, 
 as enemies react immediately as soon as your turn is over, and you will literally hack and slash 
 your way through several of them in no time.
  
  The storyline is relatively straight-forward. Nothing particularly deep, which is a bit disappointing, 
 because there is the sense that this world is fairly well-developed in the author's mind. They 
 just don't share much of that with the player, so a lot of the history behind the story is missing.
 
  
  But, the game doesn't require a deep story to be enjoyable. The RPG elements are simple, but well-implemented, 
 and anyone who remembers RPG video games from 15 to 20 years ago will feel nostalgic.
  
  It's unfortunate the game runs so short, at around 5 hours of play for the average gamer.
  
 
  -- Graphics & Sound --
  
  The graphics aren't fantastic, but in a way that's part of their charm. Things are pixelated, the 
 sprites are colourful but blocky close up. Enemies are not especially well-animated, with only 
 a few choice frames for their movements and attacks. Younger players will wonder why everything 
 looks so terrible, while older players will chuckle to themselves and remember when all 3D games 
 looked that way.
  
  The game falls down in the variety of enemy sprites, as well. For example, all of the various wererat 
 enemies have the same sprites, just different colours. Same goes for slimes, orcs, cerberus, wraiths... you 
 get the idea. It seems that when the game went from mobile to DS, there wasn't a lot of effort 
 put into to expanding on the variety of enemy graphics, which is really too bad.
  
  Even all the ghostly dwarves look exactly the same. Though the designers placed their tongue-in-cheek 
 at one point, as you discover a dwarf who is apparently a woman despite her outward appearances.
 
  
  The audio is adequate. The music is varied enough not to become boring, enemy sound effects match 
 their attacks and appearances, though the effects can become repetitive after a time. Again it 
 feels that being ported to DS meant not expanding on the library of sound effects and music, but 
 leaving things essentially the way they were originally.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  "Orcs & Elves" is an entertaining little romp through a spritely RPG world, despite some of its 
 setbacks in both storyline and being a port from mobile. Though simple in its scope it manages 
 to hold the player's attention through it's surprisingly energetic turn-based play, that always 
 leaves you wanting to take just one more turn before you set it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Orcs & Elves is a pretty sweet little dungeon crawler type action-rpg kind of thing. It's hard 
 to exactly say where this fits in genre wise. If any of you have played DOOM of any kind, you will 
 instantly see the influences. Overall I have enjoyed Orcs & Elves so far and recommend it for the 
 value.
  
  Orcs & Elves is really solid game when it comes to gameplay. The quick controls as well as the 
 handy item options makes things run smoothly. I thought the graphics could have been a hint better 
 but it is the DS so the limitations are still there. The music in the game is so-so and for the 
 most part I played the game with it down and had something else going. 
  
  The influence of DOOM in this game cannot be said enough. From the texture of the walls right down 
 to the potions you pick up on the ground. Secret doors in the wall are always around, the ability 
 to smack enemies after they are dead and swinging your sword to destroy the crate so you can see 
 if something is hidden inside or behind it are all things that add to the simple fact of crawling 
 through the dungeon. You pick up gold along the way as well as potions that can increase your stats 
 such as strength. Other potions make you kick tail that much faster if you drink a Haste potion 
 that will last for a short time.
  
  Overall I recommend this game to any fan of a good dungeon crawler as well as anyone who enjoyed 
 the DOOM series, which I think for the most part is everyone. Another high point for this game 
 is its value. I bought it brand new for $14.99 and it will only go down. I give Orcs & Elves a 
 7.5 for a fun game that surprised me how good it was.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  In theory, even though it comes from Doom creators id Software, there's little to recommend Orcs 
 & Elves.
  
  For starters, it's a DS reinvention of a game designed for a mobile phone, the stripped-down gameplay 
 at first feeling offensively simple when you consider Nintendo's handheld can handle the ambitious 
 action of a game like Legend Of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. The linear structure of this old-school 
 dungeon crawler also feels restrictive and antiquated when compared to similar games on both the 
 DS and PSP, and the game's substandard, Kwik Save-quality graphics will leave many players yearning 
 for the imaginative visuals of well, pretty much any other DS title on the shelves.
  
  But even with its sizable failings, there's still something strangely compelling about this brutal 
 fantasy romp. The grid-based, turn-based combat is gripping and pacy, allowing you to get down 
 to the nasty business of dismembering monsters without too much hanging around and offering a delirious 
 change of pace from other leaden fantasy quests. The ability to use potions to beef up your avatar's 
 attacks between turns also brings a layer of strategy to the simple proceedings, and even though 
 the game lacks the epic plot or variety of challenges seen in other subterranean monster-mashers, 
 Orcs & Elves is still a nostalgic thrill for anyone weaned on pre-Doom, first-person gore quests. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games I've ever played. Its got the old DOOM style graphics which is awsome 
 for old-school players like myself. The touch screen spell casting was a pretty awsome feature. 
 It has a very nice Heretic/Hexen feel to it. If you have a DS
  
  BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS & ELVES
  BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS 
 & ELVES
  BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS & ELVES BUY ORCS & ELVES
  and then email id telling them to make DOOM RPG for DS
  
  
  With how good this game was for 
 the DS, I beg of you id, make DOOM RPG for the DS, You know you want to, and you know we all want 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rinion_Astaldo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  You play a half-elven adventurer who wields a talking wand that acts as a weapon and a guide. Summoned 
 to a Dwarven mountain, you arrive to find it in ruin with monsters roaming about and the ghosts 
 of the mountain's unfortunate inhabitants pleading for your help. The plot quickly turns as you 
 discover there are more then orcs in the deep places of the mountain...
  
  Games like this are rarely seen on portable systems, but it's a welcome addition. While the monsters 
 are two-dimensional and the environmental graphics leave something to be desired, Orcs & Elves 
 has it's moments. I found the game play to be addictive, though it really isn't very difficult 
 at all. There is a little variety in the weapons, spells, potions, and armor you use, but I would 
 have enjoyed more. There were a few humorous references to Lord of the Rings hidden within the 
 game which I found amusing. Despite what others say, I really don' t find the game lacking in story 
 - just in the time that could have been spent developing a more defined plot. Still, if you have 
 twenty bucks and want a good, quick thrill to pass the hours away, this game is definitely worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pezmaniac23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Orcs and Elves is a very average RPG. The turn-based strategy of the game was interesting, but 
 it is not something we have not seen before. The story was virtually non-existent and everyone 
 you meet is either dead or an enemy. What I also found disappointing was the lack of use of the 
 DS features. You only need to use the Touch Screen to cast spells. You can use the other controls 
 with buttons. However, the game does have its pros. The gameplay was addicting. I found myself 
 trying forever just to get to the end of the level. Once the story is finished, there are hidden 
 extras to find, such as gallery images. Overall, if your a solid RPG fan and want one for your 
 Nintendo DS, this game is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _gorgon_
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Orcs and Elves is not the best rpg for the Nintendo DS but it sure has his charm. And is possible 
 the best it has is that it is not a great super production with hype everywhere which everyone 
 has heard about. No, Orcs and Elves is a good made game that for sure can surprise you if you are 
 the kind of guy who likes old school games and new challenges. Of course it is not a graphical 
 wonder, and of course it does not have a great soundtrack... but who cares? This game is amazing 
 and amusing and this is more than many games can say. So, open your mind and release it of all 
 this graphic prejudice and just play. I'm sure you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerry Blade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to like about Orcs & Elves. As RPGs go, it reminds me somewhat of Dungeon Master 
 on the Amiga. Both have elements of a frenetic action based combat system with some well designed 
 physical puzzles. I played it from start to finish in two sittings and about 6 hours total, and 
 my only complaint was that I wished it was longer. There are several weapons, some of which are 
 pretty cool like the Medusa Scroll. The potions definitely add a nice dimension, and what isnt 
 there to like about a wiseass talking wand? If you are looking for something to occupy your interest 
 on the DS, this game certainly fits the bill. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
