-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Over the Hedge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/overthehedge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive 3D graphics engine.
 Climbing on the furniture can be fun.
 Sneaking is reminiscent of Metal Gear Solid.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay elements aren't integrated very well.
 Presentation lacks personality and punch.
 Overly straightforward and too easy.
 Whole game feels like housecleaning or a real estate tour.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 7.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 80 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Vicarious Visions
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 5, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Go into your own bedroom and bring three objects, one at a time, into the living room. Over the 
 Hedge on the Nintendo DS is the video game equivalent of this precise action, repeated ad nauseam. 
 

  Games geared toward younger players are typically repetitive, but Over the Hedge for the Nintendo 
 DS sets a new standard for repetition. The 3D world is sufficiently interactive, the three playable 
 characters are cute and useful, and the stealth-oriented gameplay, which is clearly inspired by 
 Metal Gear Solid, is sometimes interesting. Unfortunately, all of those good aspects are totally 
 savaged by a lack of challenge and by mission goals that mainly involve picking up and carrying 
 generic items, one at a time, from point A to point B.  

          Verne can retreat into his shell in order to hide from humans.     

  The game takes 
 up right after the movie. This time, Gladys Sharp wants to bulldoze the forest to make room for 
 a giant swimming pool. RJ, Hammy, and Verne come up with a scheme to foil Gladys' plan that involves 
 luring endangered animals to the neighborhood, thus setting up the forest as a protected habitat. 
 Endangered animals are apparently very greedy, though, and won't set up their homes unless RJ, 
 Hammy, and Verne retrieve up a bunch of household items from the neighborhood. The majority of 
 the game's roughly 20 levels center around locating a requested item somewhere in the targeted 
 house and bringing it back to the backyard, successfully navigating whatever people, pets, and 
 traps happen to be in the house.  

  Much of what can be done in the environment is actually quite interesting. The critters can jump 
 and pull themselves up onto furniture, like dining tables and couches, and each has his own unique 
 abilities. Verne can retreat into his turtle shell, which allows him to avoid detection from any 
 nearby people or pets. RJ, the raccoon thief, can pick locks and hurl Verne's shell at distant 
 switches to deactivate them. Hammy, meanwhile, can use his speedy squirrel powers to run faster 
 and jump higher than Verne or RJ. Each house is stocked with people and pets that patrol the rooms 
 like trained security guards, in addition to traps, such as security cameras and electronic beams, 
 which can stun the heroic critters and alert the inhabitants to their presence. You have to alternate 
 control between the three characters -- juggling their abilities in order to sneak past the guards, 
 navigate the environment, and avoid or deactivate traps -- in an effort to retrieve the requested 
 item that's inside each house.  

  Unfortunately, the level layouts are bland and don't require much exploration. Also, the game as 
 a whole is ridiculously easy. While it may be possible to climb up almost anything, there's rarely 
 a reason to do so. Within each level, there are perhaps one or two instances where you'll need 
 to climb up furniture or sneak past an enemy. Often, it's perfectly acceptable to get noticed by 
 an enemy or to spring a trap, because the critters can easily outrun their pursuers and are usually 
 only temporarily stunned by traps. There are infrequent occasions when you have to stop and think 
 about how to get past the overlapping traps and multihit hazards that can outright bring up the 
 game-over screen, usually entailing the use of a specific animal's abilities to disable some portion 
 of the security system; but once you do that, it becomes a matter of simply picking up the required 
 item and walking it back to the drop-off point.  

  It's excruciatingly dull to watch as a character makes the slow trek out of a living room, down 
 the hall, into the kitchen, and out to the patio while carrying something as innocuous as a calculator. 
 The critters can only carry one item at a time, so in levels where you have to retrieve multiple 
 items, you'll need to make multiple trips. To get an idea of how tedious that is, go into your 
 own bedroom and bring three objects, one at a time, into the living room. Over the Hedge on the 
 Nintendo DS is the video game equivalent of that.  

  It's a shame that the game is such a chore to watch, because the graphics engine is easily one 
 of the better ones we've seen output on the Nintendo DS. Developer Vicarious Visions has put together 
 an impressive 3D engine that displays the environment from two different perspectives simultaneously. 
 On the upper screen, you see a familiar third-person viewpoint. On the lower screen, a bird's-eye 
 view shows the action from above and acts as a map of sorts. The vision cones that show the sight 
 range of humans and pets are also depicted in real-time on the bottom screen. The action on the 
 upper screen looks great. Loads of polygons went into the environments and characters, and all 
 of the various walking and climbing animations are silky smooth. Sadly, the technical elegance 
 of the graphics engine is all but wasted on environments and characters that are totally devoid 
 of style. Each house consists of a patio, a kitchen, a den, a family room, a few hallways, and 
 some furniture, which look the same in every house. Characters can leap off of tables and latch 
 onto countertops, but they do so in a very matter-of-fact way.  

          You see a third-person view on the upper screen and a top-down view on the lower screen, 
 all in 3D.     

  Most likely, the game's lack of panache is a result of the rigorous time constraints that typically 
 guide the making of a movie tie-in. That would certainly explain why the gameplay lacks focus, 
 why the environments and character animations are so cookie-cutter, and why the cinematic scenes 
 that appear after the first two missions are full-motion video, whereas all the rest are put together 
 using still images. The music and sound effects often come across as an afterthought, with some 
 poorly composed Looney Tunes knockoff music and a few digitally recorded speech snippets comprising 
 the brunt of the audio. Also an afterthought is the multiplayer mode, which lets two players compete 
 to see who can grab the most food from houses that have fewer traps and hazards than those found 
 in the single-player mode.  

  Over the Hedge for the Nintendo DS is one of those games that shows a great deal of promise when 
 you first load it up, but doesn't deliver on that potential. Although the individual aspects -- the 
 3D engine, the highly interactive environments, the stealth gameplay -- are well designed, they never 
 come together the way they should. The end result is a piece of software that feels less like a 
 video game and more like cleaning your room.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, if not for IGN's rather glowing review of the game, I probably would never have 
 considered getting Over The Hedge. But the DS doesn't have a huge selection of 3D platformers, 
 and so I was kind of eager to give it a try.
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  Published by Activision
 
  Developed by Vicarious Visions
  Released July 2006
  Platform: Nintendo DS
  Genre: Platformer
  Rated E (everyone)
  
  Plot: A human named Gladys is the main villain in 
 this light-hearted romp. She's determined to rid the neighborhood of all the little annoying critters, 
 so that she can build herself a new pool. R. J. (a raccoon and the lead character) , Verne (a turtle 
 and R. J.'s sidekick) and Hammy (their squirrelly 3rd wheel) set out to save the surrounding woods 
 and creatures who live in them. There are several short vignettes that break up the gameplay and 
 add to the story, and it's a basic premise that easily drives the game without fail.
  
  Gameplay: Over The Hedge's main game consists of a sort of hub in the form of a woodland area. 
 You begin here each time as R. J., and run along to one of the various side posts that contains 
 missions. Most missions take place within a house (which looks generic and pretty much the same 
 each time) , though some missions are at a construction site, and consist of finding and retrieving 
 various items. Sometimes you play as R. J., sometimes as Verne and sometimes Hammy. However, there 
 are certain missions that require you to use two of the characters to complete the mission objective (s) , 
 and even one or two that allow you to choose which character to use for a given mission. Though 
 the mission objectives are pretty much the same each time and the environments are pretty repetitive, 
 the puzzles and requirements to complete each mission vary a good deal and continue to be quite 
 fun pretty much throughout the entire duration of the game.
  
  You move each character with the control pad, and each can jump using the B-button. The Y-button 
 allows your character to pick up objects, and the A-button allows them to use gadgets (banana peels, 
 boat horns, soda and other various items are available in the game, and can each offer certain 
 advantages to your character throughout a given mission) . Also, each of the playable characters 
 has a special ability, which can be executed using the X-button. The shoulder buttons too are used 
 during the gameplay, with the L-button giving you a first-person perspective, allowing you to aim 
 at certain items; and the R-button toggles the gadgets for use on hand. Pretty much everything 
 on the DS gets used in some way at some point, including the microphone, which can be toggled on 
 &amp; off by tapping an icon on the touch screen. The mic is used to distract humans, or wake up 
 stunned allied characters. You also use the touch screen to switch between characters, select targets 
 and doing a bit of combination-lock cracking.
  
  Probably what garnered this game such high marks from IGN and what I too enjoyed the most was the 
 variation of puzzles and the creativity of them. When traveling through a house, you often come 
 upon lasers (yup, lasers -- don't ask me -- I don't know) , some kind of fumigation things that 
 spray toxic gas, electric mats, flamingos of death, and other traps set to ensnare your woodland 
 critters. Each of the three playable characters is designed to excel physically in certain areas, 
 so getting past these obstacles takes clever investigation. Hammy can jump the highest and run 
 the fastest, so getting over certain lasers or running past the slicing flamingos is no problem 
 for him. However, he's not nearly as strong as Verne or even R. J., so having one of them do the 
 grunt work while Hammy bypasses traps is essential to successful completion of some of the missions. 
 Verne can crawl up into his shell, and when neither R. J. or Verne can get over a certain laser 
 or other obstacle Verne can be thrown by R. J. to clear a path for them on the other side. There 
 are quite a few clever, little details like those to figure out, and they're pretty entertaining.
 
  
  Graphics: The game begins, if memory serves, with a short FMV clip, but that's about it on that 
 front. All the other story elements are done in CG stills. The in-game graphics, however, remain 
 3D, and they're not too shabby. They're not going to ooh you or ahh you, but they're quite pleasant. 
 There aren't really any boo-boos, except for the occasional falling through an item in one room 
 to end up in the hallway kind of thing. But truly the graphics work very well, and it's always 
 a treat to play a game entirely in a 3D environment. That's on both screens, by the way. The top 
 screen stays in a 3rd-person perspective, from the rear of the character; and the bottom screen 
 is an overhead view. Both are integral to successful navigation throughout the game.
  
  Sound: There are actually voice-overs here. Not much, but anytime there are voice-overs in a DS 
 game it's usually cause for excitement. Most of it exists in the hub area, where you can hear a 
 short blurb from the different NPCs. However, the humans also speak in some sort of Sims-type gibberish. 
 The sound effects are pretty nice -- dogs &amp; cats sound good -- and the music too is okay. But 
 there's not a lot of variety with the musical themes -- it's pretty much the same ones over &amp; 
 over -- and they're kind of odd-sounding. Also, the output quality is pretty grainy, and strangely 
 enough the sound is better through the DS speakers than earbuds.
  
  Presentation: Well, there really ain't much here. There's the single-player experience, which is 
 somewhat short; and there's a single-card fetch it type 2-player game, but that's about it. No 
 options menu, no unlockables, no goodies or other extras. There are four save slots, so it's easily 
 shared among friends or family. And even though the game isn't that long it's a platformer, and 
 they're generally fun to play more than once. This is a pretty good one too, so I think it earns 
 its keep.
  
  Okay, so you've heard from one of the brave who actually bought one of these movie-based-game deals, 
 and it's not bad. Should you buy it? Meh, I have no clue. But like I said, the DS isn't overflowing 
 with 3D platformers, and of the two I know of other than this one, one of them ain't that great 
 (Rayman DS) . So, if you're desperate for something of that nature (no pun intended) , this might 
 be a viable choice for you. I waited for the price to come down, and you can now get it at some 
 Wallyworlds for $20 (new) . That might be incentive enough, and for me I'm happy with my purchase.
 
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  GD
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation 
 / 6.5
  The story's typical but funny, and it keeps the game on track as you'd expect. The menus are easy 
 to navigate, and the instruction manual is pretty comprehensive. However, there's little else offered 
 other than the basic story mode gameplay.
  
  Graphics / 8
  Good, solid 3D graphics on both screens. Textures are pretty smooth, and the character models are 
 really nice. The environments, however, could have been a bit more varied.
  
  Sound / 6.5
  The actual sound &amp; music is nicely done, but the output quality is grainy sounding. 
 Also, there isn't a whole lot of variation in the muscial themes, and they get old quick.
  
  Gameplay / 8
  A fun 3D platformer. There's a good mix of creative puzzles and typical platforming, 
 and there's a good variety too. Some of the perspectives can get a bit tricky, but such is the 
 nature of 3D platformers. The controls, however, are utilized nicely, and there's a good mix of 
 use between the touch screen and face buttons (and even the microphone) .
  
  Replay / 6.5
  Again, not much else offered aside from the story mode, but a good platformer is always fun to 
 play again &amp; again. However, even though this is a quality game, the scant variation in environments 
 might make you tire of playing it quicker than normal.
  
  Overall / 7.5 (A nice addition to any collection, but only at a discounted price.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTNAPALM
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  one of the few decent games on the ds that dares to be 3D, taking you back to when you where a 
 young gamer, and the 3D platforming genre was great.
  
  a solid game play experience that reminds you of metal gear solid.
  kind off like a spy game 
 for an 8 year old.
  
  intended for kids, this is an experience that can not be missed, regardless of age.
  
  very 
 short, but gives you a fun, colorful environment. with PS1 quality graphics, its detail is enough 
 to rival that off Mario Kart DS.
  
  each character has his own special abilities, so you can replay old levels and rummage for food, 
 which can be challenging at times. some levels, you can play as two characters at once, which adds 
 a solid puzzle, which can make you think at times
  
  it has a multi-player, which is not that fun. it s a top down game where you use power ups to collect 
 food. not the best part off the game
  
  overall, it is a good DS game that has great potential that should not be missed, but should be 
 left as a rental. this game is a good weekend, but not much more
  
  this game deserves a 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Its just like Super Mario 64 but instead of King Koopa you have the Guard Dog &amp; 
 instead of Shrooms lying around everywhere you have Snacks. Come onwho doesnt love Snacks!? Over 
 the Hedge for the DS is a platformer through &amp; through with an impressive 3-D graphics engine. 
 It isnt just a run &amp; gun platformer either, you have to use the ancient art of sneaking, its 
 very reminiscent of Metal Gear Solid. The objectives do get slightly repetitive after awhile but 
 its excusable since you shouldve been prepared for that when you purchased the game. Graphics- 
 Like I said before it has a very impressive 3-D graphics engine its somewhere between Super Monkey 
 Ball: Touch &amp; Roll and Super Mario 64 DS.
  
  Sound- This is where I definitely disagree with Frank Provos review I think the sound was outstanding! 
 The voice-overs where smooth &amp; clear, the music was vibrant &amp; original, &amp; the sound 
 effects where perfect.
  
  Value- I think it has an okay price tag for what youre getting but Id say if you can handle the 
 wait pick it up when your local videogame store gets it used. Tilt- I think this game definitely 
 surpasses a lot of the more recognizable 3rd party DS games like Viewtiful Joe, Tak: Juju Challenge, 
 &amp; Pac-Pix so I think it deserves a little recognition. Overall Over the Hedge is like Super 
 Mario 64s teddy bear, its fuzzy, short, &amp; smells a little. Its a decent platformer with 
 solid graphics, nothing to special, but it can still hold its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KYLEtheGLACIER
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Don't Listen to the Gamespot rating this game is incredible. A game with great, smooth graphics, 
 amazing inviornments what more can you ask for? The only down falls to this game is that it is 
 a little short and the music isn't the best but other than that it is one of my favorite games. 
 It's one of those games that after you beat it, it is fun to go back and play it some more. I really 
 enjoyed this game and defenently recomend this to anyone who is thinking about buying it. Buy this 
 game! It rocks! 100 words is a lot of words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Movie-based games usually don't have outstanding results, so when a title is released that is faithful 
 to the movie but doesn't come across as atrocious, you know the developers are doing something 
 right. Such is the case of Over the Hedge for the Nintendo DS.
  
  The story takes place after the events in the movie. Several animals now inhabit what's left of 
 a forest after a new residential neighborhood came along. Among these animals are RJ the Raccoon, 
 Verne the Turtle, and Hammy the Squirrel. But now even this tiny piece of forest is in danger, 
 since there the animal-hater Gladys Sharp has plans to turn the area into a swimming pool.
  
  RJ, Hammy, and Verne come up with a simple plan: attract endagered species to the forest, so 
 it can be declared a protected area. But endangered animals seem to be a little picky, and they 
 won't come unless RJ, Hammy and Verne get them certain items from all over the neighborhood.
  
  Over the Hedge is a 3D platformer with a good stealth component. You spend most of the game 
 locating certain objects in peoples houses and taking them back to the exit. Since our little 
 creatures can only carry one thing at a time (and only Verne can lift heavy items) , you have to 
 do several trips in the same level. Sounds simple, but here is where the stealth action comes in: 
 you have to dodge people, animals and deactivate traps in order to proceed. You can throw items 
 to stun dogs, use certain objects to distract people (for example a phone card to place a prank 
 call) or cats (catnip) or blow on the microphone to distract your enemies.
  
  There are a total of 20 missions, and if you're the completist type, you will have to do it all 
 over again to collect all the food in each level. So if you're wondering, yes, it does become a 
 little repetitive.
  
  Each character has a particular style of gameplay. Verne is slow and doesn't jump much, but he 
 can hide in his shell to avoid being detected or to protect himself when he has been spotted. He 
 can also lift the heavier items. Hammy runs faster and jumps higher than the others, making it 
 easier to outrun people and animals. RJ is your "average" combination, but he can also pick up 
 Verne and throw him. All of them can pull themselves onto furniture, crates and so on.
  
  The game plays in a third-person perspective, offering two perspectives of the area at the same 
 time. On the top screen, you have the third-person view from behind the character, while on the 
 bottom screen you see a top-down view that shows the area you are in, your location and the sight 
 range of any enemies. Basically, the top screen is your primary view and you use the bottom screen 
 as a sort of map. They work really well together, and what's really impressive is that these two 
 simultaneous 3D representations play smoothly, with no slowdowns at all.
  
  That's not to say the game is without faults. The most annoying is probably the lack of camera 
 control. There are some weird angles, and the camera is stuck on this perspective that shows how 
 short your character is in relation to the world around it, so it basically aims up making it difficult 
 to look around when you need. I experienced a few graphical glitches as well, mostly characters 
 going through walls or objects, which usually ended up in a dog finding me and knocking me out.
 
  
  I also would have liked to see more cinematic scenes. Only the first two are fully 3D animated, 
 while the rest of the story is presented through still images (though the artwork is really good) .
 
  
  Soundwise, the voice acting is well done, the sound effects are spot-on for what they represent 
 and the music is well done and adjusts according to a danger situation.
  
  For a game aimed primarly at children, Over the Hedge is pretty challenging. The characters are 
 cute, the environments are crisp and fairly detailed, the colors are bright and the level layouts 
 arent too complicated. The challenge resides in the stealthy gameplay, which can easily become 
 frustrating for younger gamers.
  
  Although gameplay (pick this up, take it to the exit) may become repetitive, it's the presentation 
 and the stealth that make Over the Hedge a sure hit and a good addition to your DS games library.
 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=overthehedgeds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, every seasoned gamer has learned one thing, avoid movie-based games. Also, many 
 seasoned DS gamers have started to believe that all 3rd party titles should be avoided, because 
 some game producers really do the system a disservice. But for anyone that believes in either or 
 both of these ideas, you can throw that away for the game Over the Hedge for the NDS. Over the 
 Hedge takes place just after the movie's story line apparently, but you may still want to avoid 
 the rest of this paragraph to avoid some slight spoilerage. The game takes place in what is left 
 of a forest after a large amount of suburban sprawl as taken the area over. Various animals, including 
 the main characters RJ the Raccoon, Verne the Turtle, and Hammy the Squirrel, now inhabit this 
 small piece of their forest. Except now, even that little piece that makes up their home is in 
 danger, as the people responsible for ther home being nearly destroyed is about to be completely 
 destroyed... for a pool. So they hatch a plan to have endangered species move in, as a way to protect 
 their small natural island among man.
  
  Gameplay- 8- Vicarious Visions, who has already made Ultimate Spider-Man and Tony Hawk American 
 Sk8land for the DS, once again show that they truly put in maximum effort for the games they make 
 on the DS. Vicarious went a different route from how some may expect some movie-based game about 
 animals to go; the entire game is based around a sort if espionage/item finding game. What's even 
 more strange is how well it works with the story & just how much fun it is. Using a dual-view set 
 up, you play the game using the top screen as your primary view, with the bottom being a bird's 
 eye general view & a way to see where you are in conjunction to traps & enemies. This all works 
 together really well as a way to experience everything that is going on.
  
  Also, the variety of missions in the game is great, due to character variations & different missions. 
 You have 3 characters, the first of which is RJ the Raccoon. He is your idea man & your mid-range 
 character who is in most missions. He can jump mid-range, run mid-rage, etc. He also can climb 
 some cabinets & can pick locks (as many of us know, raccoons have a knack for getting into where 
 you don't want them to) . Then there is Verne the Turtle, who is slow, has a low jump, but is able 
 to lift larger items and can duck in his shell to avoid any danger (cardboard box from MGS, anyone?) . 
 Then there is Hammy the Squirrel, who is fast, jumps high, but cannot lift as much, ans can also 
 climb cabinets. The combinations of these characters used to make up missions allows for quite 
 a bit of variety in the game. Some missions will be pure speed (Hammy) , slow going (Verne) , or 
 use some combination of the three of them to use both their strengths to get the job done, whatever 
 that may be.
  
  Graphics- 9- The first time you see how everything is set up, with the colors being vibrant & crisp, 
 you know your in for a treat .Vicarious has decided to use a quasi-cell-shading technique to detail 
 the world. What I mean is, while most things seem to have a bit of a flatter coloring, there is 
 also the use of finer detail work (like the swirls & design on the back of Verne the Turtle's shell) . 
 This allows the game to look good from all different distances & avoid some of the graininess issues 
 that plaque some more detailed 3D games for the DS, such as Metroid Prime Hunters. It's amazing, 
 also, to see how the game moves so smoothly with their being a top-down view & a 3rd person behind 
 view being rendered on the two screens simultaneously. And only a few glitches in graphics here 
 & there. Just a great job done by Vicarious & its team.
  
  Sound- 7- The soundtrack doesn't seem to consist of much fordifferent tracks. You have a basic 
 level track or two, and them some different ones doe as danger approaches or enemies see you. There 
 are though, in the houses, different tracks from local stereos, which reall provide some different 
 sounds to keep it from getting boring on the bg music. But other than that, its all very repetative. 
 A redeeming quality though, is that the sound effects are varied enough that you really don't need 
 to run for headphones or anything, due to getting entirely sick of listening to the game.
  
  Value- 6- While the game is very well done, it is over within 6-8 hours at the max, with little 
 need to go back into it. So some people that game heavily will probably be able to move through 
 it in a rental period, but if you genuinely enjoy the game, you may go back into it just to explore 
 more & see if you can have fun with the levels.
  
  Overall- 8.5- Some people may think I'm going overboard on the tilt, but this game deserves all 
 the credit it can get. The game has MINIMAL graphics glitches or slowdown, and plays exactly how 
 it should. Also, the game artistically reflects the movie perfectly. So if your looking for a fun 
 stealth adventure with some cute fuzzy animals thrown in, pick this game up today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Since I was planning to see the movie, I went ahead and picked this one up. It's actually like 
 metal gear solid, with a good dose of platforming thrown in. The graphics are good, and they animate 
 well, but there are some visual glitches here and there. Actually, the game can be buggy at times 
 (sometimes it just crashes) . The sound consists of voice snippets and forgettable music. It's a 
 fairly short game, it shouldn't take you long at all to complete it, and theres a fairly boring 
 multiplayer aspect (download play) . Despite some flaws, it's a competent stealth platformer that's 
 a nice pick for the kids, but the older audience may want to avoid it. On the other hand, it's 
 a totally unique game for the DS, and if you like stealth games, it's a pretty safe bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantarget00
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  The opening videos are really impressive but even more impressive are the in-game graphics. It 
 looks like something you'd see on the PSP but with one big exception- It actually controls well!
 
  
  The save slot (of which there are a generous four) says that I'm like 27% though the game which 
 I'm thinking can't possibly be right because if so the game is WAY too short.
  
  But it's pretty fun sneaking (and object-movement-puzzling) your way around the attractive environments, 
 gathering the items needed to save the critters and then sneaking back out to the start point with 
 them. Which is what you do most of the time, at least for the first quarter of the game.
  
  I can see a lot of replayability for those who like to re-do a level to gather all the extras. 
 I'm not a completist and I usually don't bother going back over levels unless I have to, but as 
 fun and pretty as it is I may just make an exception this time.
  
  My only real complaint is the uber-disapointing multiplayer game. I expected it to be in 3d like 
 the main game but instead you get some slapped-together overhead view minigame with graphics timewarped 
 in from the Sega Genesis era. The fact that it had single card download play was the final straw 
 that made me go ahead and buy the game, so I feel sort of cheated. It's almost like they just did 
 the very minimum so they could say that "yes the game does have single card multiplayer." Anyway 
 it's better than nothing and in the little time I've spent playing the two player mode I can see 
 that it can be fun, and it's certainly better than nothing.
  
  The main focus of this game by far though is the single player and it is quite an impressive piece 
 of work, I haven't enjoyed stealth gameplay this much since the early missions of Zelda Windwaker, 
 and I've bought a Metal Gear and 2 Splinter Cell games since then. (Well the metal gear may have 
 been before, but still...)
  
  As far as the difficulty, I'm only about a quarter of the way through the game and so far it's 
 pretty easy but my seven year old reviewing partner began experiencing some frustration as early 
 as the third mission. So be warned that younger kids may need some coaching.
  
  Overall so far I gonna give Over the Hedge for the DS a tentative 8 out of 10. The impressive graphics 
 and fun cartoony-stealth gameplay have me wanting to stop typing and get back to playing.
  
  UPDATE: I just beat the game and yes it is a bit too short. Also, the ending is weak. On the 
 plus side you can revisit the 15 houses in the neighborhood and try to gather up all the food, 
 but sadly you cannot actually redo the missions fully without starting a new game. : ( 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
