-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pac 'n Roll
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/pacnroll/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good variation in the world types.
 Each level only takes a couple of minutes, ideal for a portable game.
 Decent implementation of touch screen.
 Has the original Pac-Man as an unlockable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control doesn't always feel precise.
 Novelty can wear off quickly.
 Gibberish-style voices are irritating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Aug 23, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a puzzler/platformer that will suffice for killing a few minutes at a time, 
 you can do a lot worse than this game. 

  Namco's yellow-dot chomper is all but synonymous with classic video games, but Pac-Man's transition 
 into modern gaming has yielded mixed results. Whether it's been in platforming, party, or the puzzle 
 genre, Pac-Man games in recent years have never captured the magic that made the original games 
 so iconic over the decades. Nonetheless, Namco has dutifully forged ahead with Pac-Man spin-offs, 
 and its latest is Pac 'n Roll for the Nintendo DS. The game is part puzzler, part platformer and 
 it offers a decent implementation of the stylus and touch screen for control. Unfortunately, the 
 novelty of the interface can wear thin, despite some different wrinkles in gameplay that you encounter 
 over the course of the game.  

          Pac 'n Roll answers the question, 'What if you merged Marble Madness, Pac-Man, and Sonic?' 
     

  Pac 'n Roll's unusual design premise is explained by its plot. An evil superghost named Golvis 
 has arrived to terrorize Pac-Land. Golvis has captured the area hero, Pac-Master, as well as Pac-Master's 
 family, by turning them into limbless and helpless balls. As Pac-Man, Pac-Master's hero apprentice, 
 you also fall under Golvis' curse but manage to escape capture. With the assistance of a helpful 
 fairy, you must take on Golvis and his ghosts across several different worlds in order to rescue 
 each member of Pac-Master's family and restore everyone to their normal state. Each of the game's 
 more than two dozen stages requires you to roll around and collect dots and jewels while navigating 
 tricky mazes, dodging ghosts, and avoiding environmental hazards. This gives the game its puzzler-platformer 
 feel, sort of like a cross between Marble Madness and Sonic the Hedgehog.  

  The top screen of the DS shows you the playing field, while the bottom screen shows Pac-Man's smiling 
 face. You'll use the stylus to move across the bottom screen, which will roll Pac-Man around the 
 level as though you were using a trackball. You can also rotate the camera around using the D pad 
 or the face buttons. And that's the extent of the control scheme.  

  The implementation of this design conceit is good for the most part. You can build up a fair amount 
 of speed by using long, deliberate strokes. You also have the ability to do a speed burst, which 
 is useful for running away from ghosts, shooting up ramps, or breaking open boxes. There's also 
 a palpable feel of momentum, which changes depending on whether or not you've picked up either 
 of the two modifier items: a suit of armor, which weighs you down and lets you sink in water or 
 break open metal boxes; or a feather cap, which makes you extremely light, letting you float for 
 short distances but also rendering you vulnerable to blowing away in gusts of wind. The designers 
 have also thoughtfully included a fail-safe method for falling off of ledges. If you're not speed 
 bursting, you'll need to swipe the stylus an extra time at the lip of the ledge to actually drop 
 off of it. The problem with the control scheme comes in the later levels when you're required to 
 carefully control Pac-Man and perform a lot of abrupt changes in direction. Since the touch pad 
 recognizes longer strokes more easily than shorter ones, it feels cumbersome as you execute deliberate 
 control and change in direction, which are required of you in later levels.  

          Moving the little guy can get frustrating when you need more focused control.     

 
  Within a specific level, Pac 'n Roll plays not unlike classic Pac-Man. You roll about and collect 
 dots while trying to avoid ghosts that are wandering around. The ghosts will actually chase you 
 a short distance when they detect you, but you can turn the tables on them by munching a power 
 pellet and eating them while they're vulnerable. Unlike regular Pac-Man, the ghosts here generally 
 don't respawn after you eat them, so it's very much to your advantage to find power pellets and 
 then gobble up those ghosts. The dots you collect are used to open "Golvis gates," which separate 
 the subareas of each level. You usually don't have to collect all the dots in a subarea to open 
 the next Golvis gate, but collecting all the dots in a level before triggering the goal will reward 
 you with a jewel and a perfect rating if you're playing in the story mode. The jewels, which can 
 also be found in hidden areas, unlock challenge modes of the various levels as you collect them, 
 as well as other content, including the original Pac-Man.  

  Each of the levels can be played in story mode, time trial, or challenge mode. Time trials merely 
 challenge you to get through a level in the fastest time possible, while the challenge modes give 
 you specific objectives, such as not eating a certain number of dots, or eating a specific number 
 of ghosts before you can reach the end of the level. Much of the challenge in each level lies in 
 its design. The hazards of the game really depend a lot on the theme of the world in which you're 
 playing at that time. The levels in the jungle world hide a lot of dots underwater, requiring you 
 to find suits of armor so you can go below and reach them. The flaming fortress level consists 
 of a lot of elevated, moving passageways and platforms, making for some tricky jumps and navigation. 
 The variation in the levels is nice, and none of the individual levels takes more than a couple 
 of minutes to do. The later levels that require detailed control can get a bit frustrating because 
 of the way the controls are implemented, but this still doesn't make the game overly difficult. 
 One disappointing aspect is that the last level of each world is a boss fight, but it's always 
 Golvis, and defeating him is pretty much always the same procedure, so there's not as much variety 
 there as you'd hope.  

          You can unlock the original Pac-Man in the game without too much difficulty.     

  
 Pac 'n Roll's presentation values are decent, but not great. The level textures and edges seem 
 somewhat fuzzy, lacking the sharpness we'd have hoped for from a relatively simple game like this. 
 The thematic differences between each of the worlds is quite pronounced, but other than that, there 
 isn't very much going on in the levels as far as backgrounds or objects. The music in the game 
 is usually pretty catchy, but this is more than offset by the irritating gibberish voices used 
 in the cutscenes. A narrated comic book-style presentation is used to advance the story as you 
 go from world to world, but the baby talk used by the characters can grate on your ears.  

  Namco's latest Pac-Man spin-off does an acceptable job at translating the Pac-Man theme to the 
 Nintendo DS, taking good advantage of the system's unique strengths. In the end, however, there 
 just isn't all that much depth to Pac 'n Roll. But if you're looking for a puzzler/platformer that 
 will suffice for killing a few minutes at a time, you can do a lot worse than this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:36 am PT
Review:  Pac n Roll uses the touch screen for everything and creates a whole new world of pac man and does 
 a good job of it too, you will love the game as you play through and rarely find yourself bored.
 
  
  I really like the idea of this game. The top screen has everything and the bottom screen has nothing 
 but Pac Man (who is a ball) and it is all touch screen control. You simply move the stylus across 
 Pac Man and he will spin in that direction and move that way on the top screen. It is simple yet 
 addicting and fun. The idea is expanded on with a special move that is used by putting the stylish 
 on Pac Man, and then moving it fast in the opposite direction to have Pac Man dash very fast.
 
  
  The game also has power ups that change the way you'll control Pac Man and are fun to get. The 
 ghosts also return and when they touch you they will appear on the bottom screen moving around 
 doing damage and you must quickly tap them as fast as possible to get them off of Pac Man, a cool 
 new feature.
  
  The story is simple, a legendary ghost was revived by the 4 famous colored ghosts and has turned 
 Pac Man into a ball and he has to stop him and return to normal.
  
  The difficulty of the game is good, the levels are on a normal difficulty, maybe a tad hard. There 
 are also side levels you can do such as time trials and clearing a certain challenge that are much 
 harder then the main game.
  
  The length of the game is the game's biggest downfall. Unfortunately, the game is only 25-30 levels 
 and while they are long, the game is still on the short side. However, there are 2 side missions 
 per level so there will be lots of replay value once the game is completed. However, as another 
 lengthish problem, there is only 1 file, which I disliked because I wanted to start another file 
 while saving my old one, and also my siblings wanted to start a file as well. This is simply a 
 pet peeve I have that I have always disliked in Pokemon, but that's going off topic.
  
  Another problem the game has is that you could say it uses the touch screen too much. What I mean 
 by that is that you'll constantly be swiping the stylish across very fast at different angles and 
 you'll be doing it a lot and it can easily make marks on your touch screen. There will be levels 
 in which you must use the dash attack a lot and they can really do some damage to your touch screen. 
 Just watch out for this though and you should be fine.
  
  There really isn't much to say about the game. The touch screen control works very well, I like 
 it, and hope to see it return. The whole game is fun, great difficulty, and really the only flaws 
 are the length and possible damage to the touch screen.
  
  Final Score: 8.25 + Touch Screen Control (1.00) - Length (0.25) - Possible Damage to Touch Screen 
 (0.25) = 8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBoy53
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Pac'n Roll may not seem like a very addictive game on first glance but under the oddness is a truly 
 wonderful game. With over 100 challenges and 5 different worlds this game should keep you busy 
 for a while. It even comes with the original game of Pac-Man. The story is simple, Pac-Man is at 
 a camp with the Pac-Master and must harvest as many Pac-Pellets as possible. The ghost's are helpless 
 of course and must find another way to attack. They decide on Golvis, the rockin' rollin' ghost 
 to help them. Golis turns the entire population of Pac-Men into spheres, I know, the idea of spheres 
 is a odd one but whatever. Pac-Man is the only one left behind and must try and save Pac-Land with 
 the help of a fairy. The objective is to roll through each stage with as many Pac-Pellets as possible. 
 Sometimes there might be a gate preventing you from going any farther. The only way you can get 
 rid of it is by gaining a certain amount of Pac-Pellets. Some of the challenges have different 
 objectives. One being time attack, roll through the stage as fast as you can without being killed. 
 Pac'n Roll may not appeal to all gamers, it is a little bit childish at times. The difficulty makes 
 up for that though. Some of them are insanely hard, and couldn't be beaten by a child. If you are 
 looking for a reccomendation, here it is, I think this is a great game, the only flaw is that sometimes 
 the touch screen doesn't work too well with the game. Otherwise, this game is great, now........................... 
 BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I found more fun in the game then most of the other people who purchased the game. But I don't 
 see why. I realy enjoyed it and as long as you can buy it at a good price, I think you will be 
 fully satisfied as well. The game isn't super long, but makes up for it by haveing insentives to 
 play the levels though multiple times with different objectives. Some of which are EXTREMELY hard, 
 but are workable. the controls are fantastic however and I became a touch-screen pro after just 
 a few hours of play. There are also some realy neat unlockables. Such as the unlockable demo level 
 that they first used to show off the controls at E3 and a completely full unlockable version of 
 the classic pac-man which you play the classic way (with buttons) and even a touch-screen controled 
 updated version of the classic pac-man. Conplete with a high-score keeper. If you love pac-man i 
 think you will find lots of enjoyment to be had. If you can find the game at $24 or lower you will 
 be happy with what your money bought you.
  
  Good: Fun and very controlable controls.
  Good (enough) visuals.
  Tough dificulty (I like that)
  And its a lenthy venture if you want 
 to get everything.
  Great unlockables.
  
  Bad: Not great visuals, simply acceptable.
  controls aren't perfect, but they are VERY good.
  No multi-player? (except there is in the unlockable 
 classic version)
  The unlockables are great, but there arn't meny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 12, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The Ds has many games that are very Touch Screen Heavy, Wario Ware Twisted, Kirby Canvas Curse, 
 Yoshi Touch and Go etc... This game is no exception. This game was surprising one of the first 
 two games i got for the DS don't ask why but they just were. This game features Namco's Favorite 
 Pellet eating friend Pac-Man. However this time he has no legs no arms and is just a ball. You 
 control him by using the stylist to spin him to places. This game is a 3-D Platformer that Looks 
 pretty good for a ds game. However some of the level designs are kinda lame and once you beat a 
 few stages there is no real reason you continue to play this game. This game also features power 
 ups but they are generic and uninspired. Pac-Man has had his ups and downs the past 20 years or 
 so. This a one of the 2 games that is touch heavy with pac man. Overall This was a good game but 
 i kinda felt like i wanted more from the game but go nothing out of it.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: A different way to play pac man some minor flaws with the controls keep it down. Along 
 with lame Levels
  Graphics: Looks pretty Good for a ds game. One of the higher notes of this game
  Sound: Its alright 
 but that intro is very annoying
  Value: You can get it cheap these days and if you play though the game its pretty long but there 
 is no multiplayer or side stuff to speak of
  Overall: Pac man is a cool Video game Character. I though this game might have changed him and 
 put him back on top but all i got was a average Pac man game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I would've said Check Your Bargain Bin , but then again, this game IS the bargain bin = (
  
  Gameplay:
  YOu use the Pac-Track-Ball at the Touchy (Touching is Good.....) roll your Pac-Ball 
 around on the top. HOwever, since the game is just, ahem, **** to easy, this is too repetitive. 
 However, beating the time trials to get the rest of the Diamonds (to unlock extras) is almost impossible, 
 and all take days just to get an almost decent score. Levels are too easy, time trial-ing them 
 is impossible.
  
  Graphics: Bad style, but just barely OK.
  
  Sound:
  Repetitive.
  
  Value:
  Super-Short annoying levels, only 5 microscopic worlds, way too easy.
  
  Tilt:
 
  B. A. D.!
  
  Other:
  Innovative though! But the Super MOnkey Ball Touch and Roll is a carbon clone! If the game here 
 had more levels, it be worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbash14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  A wondrous new game from the creators of the classic pacman, Pac n roll is a game made up of 
 using the touch screen to do absolutely everything. This game is fun for the whole family and very 
 simple to get your head around it offers a new pacman story mode in which you are turned into a 
 ball by the evil Golvis and forced to roll through the game in order to save all the members of 
 pacmans city.
  If rolling around the touch screen is not your sort of game this may not be the best game for you 
 but does offer a classic pacman game where you go around the maze collecting Pac dots. I feel this 
 is a very good game that not many people know about so if you read this please spread it around 
 so we can get more people playing. I would give this game thumbs up but I want to know what you 
 think so please email me your comment on the game at gamefreak14@hotmail. co. uk.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickythenewt21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't really own this game. My sister does. She's my twin, and on our birthday, she got this 
 and I got Nintendogs (I got the better deal) . I'll play it sometimes, and it's fun. I especially 
 love playing the original Pac-Man, because it's just plain fun on two screens.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10. Some of the levels are hard, and some are REALLY easy. A little variety.
  
 
  Graphics: 9/10. I love looking at the bottom screen at that little Pac-Man. They designed it really 
 well.
  
  Sound: 9/10: PAC N' ROLL! That's what Pac-Man yells when you go to the title screen.
  
  Value: 
 8/10. If this gets stolen, I wouldn't care.
  
  Tilt: 8/10. I don't know what this means, but I say 8/10.
  
  If you love Pac-Man and innovative 
 gameplay, you'll absolutly adore Pac N' Roll.
  All and all, this is a good game. Just to let you know, the game is called Pac N' Roll because 
 the main baddy loves Rock and Roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_mess
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of this game were: Wow! 
  This game itself is not famous, but everyone has heard about Pac-man!
  
  In his latest adventure, 
 Pac-man must save Pac-land from the king of Rock 'n' Roll, Golvis.
  
  You control pac-man on the bottom screen, spinning him around the 3D world on the top screen. It's 
 really easy to get the hang of the controls, and the graphics are superb. There are jewels in each 
 level which you can collect to get challenge mode for a certain level.
  
  Overall, this is a great game and any Pac-man fan would love this! There is also a lot of variation 
 between worlds which makes it fun to explore new environments.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroomscout89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Simple. You roll pac man the way you want him to go! Grab power pellets, eat ghosts, use neat hats 
 and powerups to cross gaps and other stuff. 
  I really got a mario 64 vibe going when I was playing this game. I think that says enough for some 
 of you out there. 
  
  Graphics: Wow, simple, yummy, and clean. Not a bit of slowdown. Everything looks right. 
  
 
  Story: Dude, its a half eaten cheese being chased by ghosts. F*** off. 
  
  Sound: Music here rocks. Voices are annoying at times. +_+
  
  Ok, buy this game. Kay? It rocks. 
 A little short, but still rocks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
