-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pac-Pix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/picpax/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inventive gameplay mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very short shelf life.
 Repetitive.
 Repetitive.
 Plain graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.4, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 488 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Genre: Miscellaneous
Date: Apr 26, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The core idea is very cool and unlike anything else on the market. Unfortunately, the game wrapped 
 around that idea isn't nearly as inventive. 

  There's a really neat concept at work in Namco's Pac-Pix for the Nintendo DS. Drawing Pac-Men on 
 the DS screen and seeing your horrific mutant Pac-Creations come to life and chomp around the screen 
 is really cool. Unfortunately, the quest to turn what started life as a tech demo into a full-fledged 
 game has not gone well. You'll probably dig on the game's unique concept, but when it comes to 
  playing  Pac-Pix, that concept gets old real fast.  

          Pac-Pix lets you draw crazy-looking Pac-Men and bring them to life.     

  The story 
 touches on weird stuff like ghost ink, Pac-Man getting trapped in a book, and magic pens. But here's 
 what you really need to know. In Pac-Pix, you'll draw the outline of a Pac-Man on the DS touch 
 screen, and then it will come to life and start moving, eating anything in his path. You can draw 
 walls to change the Pac-Man's directions, and your goal is to eat a specific number of ghosts before 
 a time limit expires. You'll also have a limited number of Pac-Men at your disposal, so using walls 
 to keep your Pac-Men onscreen and active is key to a quick success. As you proceed, you'll encounter 
 a few bosses and stumble onto some slightly trickier puzzles. You'll also gain access to additional 
 drawings that will be key to puzzle-solving. Drawing an arrow will fire arrow-shaped missiles up 
 at the top screen, where you can pop bubbles to bring ghosts down to Pac-Man's level, and you'll 
 also be able to draw bombs and attach their fuses to candles when you need to blow something up. 
 Again, this all functions on a conceptual level, but due to the almost immediate repetition, you'll 
 get interested only when the game throws something new at you, which doesn't happen often.  

  For the most part, you're just drawing a couple of Pac-Man shapes and guiding them around the 
 screen as they gobble everything up. As mentioned, the game occasionally tosses a boss fight at 
 you, which makes for a nice change of pace, though these are rarely difficult. There are 12 levels, 
 and each one is broken up into a handful of stages. If you run out of Pac-Men, or if time expires 
 on any of these stages, you'll have to start the whole series over. This makes losing a boss fight 
 fairly troublesome, since you'll have to trudge through five stages of ghost eating to get a second 
 chance.  

  Graphically, Pac-Pix achieves the intended look of a book that's been overrun by ghosts. The ghosts 
 are small, and though they don't animate very much, they have a nice, cartoony look to them. The 
 rest of the graphics, really, are the ones that you're going to draw yourself. The look of the 
 game is probably one of its strongest features, as it's kind of entertaining to draw crazy, deformed 
 Pac-Man shapes and watch them spring to life and animate around the screen, horrific overbites 
 and all. At the same time, the booklike treatment means that the backgrounds are all blank parchment, 
 which isn't terribly inviting.  

          Drawing an arrow will let you pop ghost bubbles and knock them down to your level.     
 

  Much of the soundtrack consists of remixes of the little bits of music found in the old Pac-Man 
 games, which does well to give the game a decidedly Pac-Man feel. The sound effects are similar 
 in that they're updates to many of the sound effects you've come to expect from a Pac-Man game. 
 Overall, the presentation is functional, but it isn't exactly reaching for the stars, either. Aside 
 from the wacky shapes you'll be drawing, it all looks awfully plain.  

  Pac-Pix started as a tech demo, and the final product doesn't really stray too far from its roots. 
 The core idea is very cool and unlike anything else on the market. Unfortunately, the game wrapped 
 around that idea isn't nearly as inventive. If you have the opportunity to try Pac-Pix, you should 
 definitely mess around with it. But that doesn't mean that it's worth $29.99.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is a Pacman spin off made for the DS. You must catch all the bad guys by drawing the yellow 
 munching dude (to tell you the truth, I have no idea what all the guys names are!) and then letting 
 him munch around trying to catch the bad guys. THIS GAME IS EXTREMELY REPETITIVE. There are all 
 these levels just doing that.
  This has been an incredibly short review of mine. I normally always write really LONG reviews but 
 I just can't find much to say about Pac-Pix. I do not own the game and only played it for a day 
 so maybe there's not much point listening to my review. This game is just too boring for me. And 
 this game was one of the first games for the DS so it's not like the developers had much insperation 
 but the flick of a stylus.
  This is probably the shortest review I have ever written so just saying that not all of my reviews 
 are like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is probably the most original Pacman game since the original. Although that certainly does 
 not mean that it is the best. Pac-Pix is definitely fun for the first hour or so, until you realize 
 that every level is besically the same as the one you've just completed. There are no original 
 levels to be found anywhere in this extremely repetitive game.
  
  Pac-Pix has some neat twists though, the hightlight of the game is that your drawing comes to life, 
 another thing that I found kinda neat was drawing bombs, even though that became extremely boring 
 due to it's repetitive nature. Another upside to this game is that there are a ton of cards that 
 you can collect. But other than that, those are the only positive things that are in this game.
 
  
  This could just be me, but the time limit is this game is way too short, thus making the game extremely 
 frustrating and making you have to repeat levels too many times to get to the next. The sound isn't 
 so great either, the sound of your Pac-man moving around will get on your nerves.
  
  With a little improvement, this game could have easily raised it's score to about an 8.5. Perhaps 
 if the creators added some more colorful backgrounds which would relate to the world that they're 
 in would make this game a little better. If this game had a few mini games, which could have been 
 easily put in, then this game would be better. One more thing that would raise this disastrous 
 game's score is if the levels would have some more variety.
  
  All in all, this game get's a well deserved D+ from me. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone, 
 unless drawing a bunch of Pacmen fascinate you. This game is a little less than descent, but definitely 
 not a complete disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby40
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Well for one thing, if you don't know how to draw Pacman there's asection in there that teaches 
 you how. And when you get farther into the game they add the lessons such as Arrows and Bombs.
 
  
  You can easily get into as the simple and plain graphics and video game music lures you in like 
 bait to a fish, depending on the age group. I'd say it get's people around 7-12 years old, boys 
 and girls, attention and gets them playing easily.
  
  The game is played in chapters, just like any other video game. The only thing different about 
 it and other chapter games to it is that it has no story to it and you actually get to see how 
 many chapters there are.
  
  Speaking of how it is so simple is that you just play the boards and beat the boss and get ranked 
 at the end. I'd say that's simple right there. I never knew why and what ranking would do to you 
 in that game because all I got was C's andmaybe an A or a B.
  
  The graphics are simple that partner with the simple music andif I were to grade it it probably 
 be a C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbash14
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game for those who like the whole idea of drawing the characters that you play 
 as but the gameplay in very restricted all you can do is draw the pacman and draw lines in the 
 way of him to eat ghosts. This game is very simple to understand and very simple to complete it 
 doesnt take any hard work so only the gamers with very little experience might find this game 
 amusing and unique above all other. After playing this game I got bored of it very quickly and 
 was really disappointed so anybody who is thinking about getting this game I would reconsider and 
 go for a game that is at the top of the charts or just a game that you do more with. So I give 
 this game thumbs down. I want to know what you think so please email me your comment on the game 
 at gamefreak14@hotmail. co. uk.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogogotchi101
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Its a good cheap game.
  Uses touch screen well.
  The game is great you draw a pacman and then
  It has to hit switches and eat ghosts.
  You have 
 to draw arrows and bombs to help pacman
  that is my reveiw hope you enjoyed it!
  GOOD JOB NAMCO!
  its fun!
  I used this game when i was on the airplane and it kept me
  Intertained.
 
  I love this game best pacman for the NINTENDO ds for sure.
  I said best pac man game not best game!
  You will enjoy it!
  
  FROGOGOTCHI 101
  TRY IT 
 TODAY YOU WONT REGRET!
  ITS REALLY REALLY FUN!
  ITS GREAT!
  ITS FUN!
  ITS EXCELLENT!
  TRY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  its a realy good only there but i tried of the game because ive play a weak and now im borred! 
 because you can only draw pacman but almost more you cant do : ( but ive not much to say over this 
 game because you do only draw pictures on the game the sound is funny to but the game is realy 
 bad no good graphics only whats funny is of the game the end boss to kill him but i dont like this 
 game they must think to add plugins like a 3d libary and try to find the way back whith that monsters 
 that make the game realistic
  and a much better game but i think i dont buy this game! i had try the demo on a shop! but you 
 cant better buy this game thats mine opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compugraphic
Rating: 1.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend a while ago and was thouroghly dissapointed. The main bases 
 of the game is thta you have to draw pac man and other figures on the bottom screen and eat up 
 all the ghosts. It's fun at first but after a while the game gets really repetitive and pointless. 
 There is really no point to completeing the game and there anrn't many things to unlock.
  
  The story is horrible and unimaginative and half the time it doesn't regognize the drawings.
 
  
  Unless your a really big Pac-Man fan don't bother.
  
  Probably the best aspect of the game is the music. It's pretty funky and fun to listen to but like 
 the other parts of the game gets really boring pretty fast.
  
  Rent or buy: Niether 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzo287
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is one of those games where you have to take a little bit of practice time to get it right. 
 While not really hard, the gameplay in this game is very frustrating at times. The game allows 
 you draw multiple pac-mans (pac-men?) at once and use them to gobble up all the little ghosties 
 on the screen. Yes they're ghosties, it's that cute. The game then screws you up by putting enemies 
 up on the top screen where you have to shoot arrows to get them down. And how do you shoot the 
 arrows? You draw them, another practice session and you'll still be wondering Why the **** is this 
 not recognizing my ******* arrow? And then the bombs. Sometimes you gotta blow up an enemy's outer 
 shell, and that doesn't go so well. Everything else about the game is ok, the graphics are simplistic 
 but good. The sound is the best part because it's one of the things that doesn't cause you problems. 
 Though you might want to play this again and again just to see how distorted you can get Pac-Man 
 to be. If you can find it for like 10 bucks get it. Anything higher and up to 20, it's your call, 
 and it's not worth more than 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capacitor_clock
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Mediocre at best, Pac Pix is a shallow, boring and repetitive game. It has a sterile and un-inventive 
 plot basically centered around a magical ink known as "Ghost Ink" which an evil magician created 
 in order to spread malevolent ghosts. The ghosts drawn with the ink end up just as evil as the 
 magician, the ghosts than spread inside books and paintings, trouble ensues, and Pac-Man attempts 
 to wipe out the ghost problem. He fails and is trapped in this book (the DS console) . Only by using 
 the "Ghost Pen" (The DS stylus) , a device that allows you to enter the book which contains the 
 ghosts, can you draw Pac-Man, bombs and arrows in order to clear out the bad guys. Pac-Pix was 
 specifically developed for use with the Nintendo DS' touch screen. By drawing Pac-Men characters 
 in on the touch screen, the drawing will come to life and eat ghosts in the classic Pac-Man way, 
 only this time you control him by drawing barriers in his path. Boss battles are repetitive and 
 unimaginative with little replay value. Overall I would not recommend the purchase of this game 
 when games of a much higher caliber are available for an equal or lower price. 4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shining_Blade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool at first but becomes a repeat again and again, the mission is the same thing eat 
 ghosts, sure there is other things like draw an arrow to open a door to reach a ghost or use a 
 bomb but the game over uses the techniques too many times ,and the boss battles are the same shoot 
 the the boss with arrows and then eat him or arrows and bombs ,also there is a gallery of cards 
 so you can see who and whats in the game I didn't that was to bad but the cards are hard to unlock 
 ,and there is a second mod which is a little bit hard than the first there more ghosts and a shorter 
 amount of time to catch them, I think Namco could have done better maybe next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pastgamesrule
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Note: The game difficulty varies so don't pay attention to the Scoring section.
  
  Pac-Pix makes a unique splash with ingenious gameplay but a few minor quirks hold it back from 
 being truly essential...
  
  The good: Neat gameplay; has a bit of shelf life.
  
  The bad: Difficulty becomes a problem; graphics could be improved.
  
  Breakdown:
  
  =Gameplay- 
 Draw deformed Pac-Men to be rid of ghosts while restoring an enchanted book.
  
  =Graphics are warm and fuzzy but are rather plain. 
  
  =The music changes throughout each stage. 
 
  
  Replay Value: Medium
  
  Overall: B-
  
  Tip: Although the game appeals to younger audiences the game difficulty poses quite the challenge 
 for adults.
  
  _=pastgamesrule=_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Pacman was probably one of the most famous gam, es of all time, and probably every knows about Pacman. 
 Now, Pacman comes onto the DS, with a new name, Pac-Pix.
  
  Well, the only three words you need to describe this game is repitive, short and boring. That's 
 it. I might as well stop doing this review. But I won't. The three things that plauge this game, 
 boring, repitive and short. 
  
  Welll, about the repitivness. It's just SO repititive! In fact, it's so repititive you hardly notice 
 it. Every single level the same old thing. It's a nifty idea but, REPITITIVE!
  
  The game gets broing very quickly, due to its REPITITIVNESS *flinches* and difficulty. It's punishment 
 playing this game, as it take a long tiem to get used to it and is very hard due to its amount 
 of Pacmans you could make and timing limit.
  
  The game is very, very, very short. 
  
  Well, expect for those three evils, this game would've been great.
  Anyway, you'd wanna avoid 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Pac Pix is one of the early games for the nintendo DS. In this game you draw yourself a Pac-man, 
 any size you want, and the shape of it will affect how fast it moves and what it eats. This Pac 
 Man will move in one direction until you draw a line that he runs into, thus changing his direction 
 of movement. This game is almost all in 2-D, featuring new enemies, and cool boss fights, I must 
 admit, the paper-mario esque of the style of the enimes is pretty cool. Pac man also learns new 
 abilitys like the ability to shoot arrows, in order to do this, you mush draw an arrow, or for 
 bombs, simply draw a bomb. This game may seem cool, customizing your gameplay by how you draw your 
 pacman, but it would have been cool if you could have drawn more, like eyes and stuff. Another 
 thing about this game it is extremely short. You could seriously beat this game on your first time 
 though in less than an hour. That is probably where the game falls the hardest.
  
  Alright, now to the review.
  
  Gameplay 7/10, I gotta give the game props, the gameplay is 
 totally unique and innonative, using the touch screen to its full ability.
  
  Graphics 8/10 Like I said, it may be 2-D, but I love the style of the artwork for some reason.
 
  
  Sound 6/10 This game barley has any sound at all and some weird sound effects.
  
  Value: 1/10 This game like I said is extremely short, and there is nothing usefull to do after 
 you beat it, unless you want to collect cards or something cheap like that.
  
  Bottom Line, just skip this game, no matter how innonative it looks I made that mistake and ended 
 up selling it 3 days after I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is in my opinion a great game that show cases exactly what the DS can do, this means that 
 after a while the game starts to feel like an extended tech demo. Firstly the gameplay is excellent, 
 this shows just what a great idea the touch screen is and really shows how a company can use the 
 touch screen well. The graphic style is simple and yet effective, they won't blow you away but 
 you'll certainly not want to look away. The sound however is terrible, i tend to play this game 
 on mute as it is pretty distracting and can really get on nerves. The game is pretty short but 
 the addition of collectable cards adds a few more hours of gameplay. All in all this game is great 
 if you're a massive puzzle fan, if not it's a try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is not a game to be played for a long time as it will be finished quickly and gets boring. 
 Play it on a bus journey (I am English so I don't know much about American bus's except school 
 ones) and you wont be disappointed. This is not immersive or deep but it is innovative enough to 
 make its existence worthwhile. 
  
  To be honest a combination of this and Pac-and-roll would have made a brilliant game that was worth 
 getting. If you play games a lot you could do worse than rent this but it wont blow your mind.
 
  
  Gameplay, innovative but not varied enough
  
  Graphics, plain but serviceable, the highlight is you funny Pac-men
  
  Sound- nothing special
 
  
  Value- don't play long stretches at a time and it will last a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtimandan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game, although I managed to fly through it in what seemed a rapid amount 
 of time.
  
  In reading some of the other user reviews here, and even the main review, I have to agree with 
 most of them and even a part of me agrees with the not-so-positive reviews.
  
  I found the game to be engaging and a great deal of fun - the ability to draw your own Pac Man 
 and send him around the play field is an interesting concept, one that needs to be explored more 
 IMHO in other genres in the ever-stagnant gaming world.
  
  The graphics are well-suited to the task at hand, as you're playing the game inside a book [forget 
 the storyline or plot; it's not worth any consideration] so the parchment-looking backgrounds and 
 the water-colored characters look nice here.
  
  The sounds and music are done well and also very Pac-appropriate, but the controls could have used 
 some additional fine-tuning before being released upon the gaming public - most notably where the 
 "arrows" or "bombs" are concerned. In drawing either of these devices, it's a crap-shoot on whether 
 it will actually work when or how you expect it to. The arrows are one of the most-frustrating 
 aspects in the game, as they seem to fly with a devil-may-care attitude, caring not so much about 
 where you intended them to go. Also, in the tutorial that teaches you how to draw your weapons 
 on-screen, the arrows don't always work when drawn in the manner prescribed [a triangle followed 
 by a straight line down thru it] . I've found that a near-perfect circle in place of the triangle 
 has a much better chance of becoming an arrow plus it's much easier and quicker to draw a circle 
 than an acceptable triangle shape.
  
  As most others have mentioned in their reviews, getting to a boss level [or reasonably close to 
 a boss] and then losing all of your lives will put you back at the start of that level. GRRRR! 
 Sorry, no redo's here. Tiresome, but again I was able to fly thru most of the levels rather quickly.
 
  
  To me, this game has almost no replay value once you finish it, as if you've gotten this far, you 
 have mastered the game and starting over would only serve to bore you unless you played the HARD 
 mode instead. Yawn.
  
  In all, a fun bit of entertainment with an interesting use of character control, [keep up these 
 sorely-needed innovations, game makers!] but see if you can buy it used instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsucougar86
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  It's true that there isn't a whole lot to Pac-Pix, but it is still one of my favorite games just 
 because of the interactivity. This was the first DS game that could ONLY be done on the Nintendo 
 DS, and it really shows that the system can allow developers to create some wonderful, original 
 new titles. Pac-Pix is a challenging game that takes a fairly long time to complete (if you complete 
 both books) , especially if you want to go back and get a perfect grade on every chapter. The story 
 is a little simple and dumb, the graphics are pretty plain, the music is nothing special, and there 
 is no multi-player mode; but the game is all about the gameplay, and the gameplay is fabulous. 
 The software does an excellent job recognizing the shapes that you draw, and drawing shapes and 
 having them come to life on the screen is really cool. Especially when you are controlling multiple 
 Pac-Men and trying to shoot arrows all at the same time, this game gets extremely intense and challenging.
 
  
  In my opinion, this is one of the game's that ended the DS's software drought in the Spring of 
 2005, and shows off the console's unique input mechanisms better than any DS game other than Nintendogs. 
 If you want a fun, light-hearted, challenging, unique game experience, I really think this game 
 is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeride360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is all about using the touch screen to draw pacman to eat the ghosts. Its all controlled 
 with the touch screen which makes the game so good and fun. There are plenty of levels to keep 
 you going and loads of ghost variations too. Once you have completed the lenghty game you get hard 
 mode which is really diffucult. Theres even a small skecthbook to practice on which is fun. You 
 can draw random pictures and some will animate. To keep you going back for more, Namco added cards 
 to collect when you beat one the chapters. Bosses vary and are a good point in the game. But the 
 best part is drawing Pacman, even if he looks a bit off shape he can still chomp those ghosts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  This is not a game to be played for a long time as it will be finnished quickly and gets boring. 
 PLay it on a us yourney (I am English so I don't know much about american bus's except school ones) 
 and you wont be dissapointed. This is not immersive or deep but it is innovative enough to make 
 its exsistence worthwhile. To be honest a combination of this and pac and roll would have made 
 a brilliant game that was worth getting. If oyu play games a lot you could do worse than rent this 
 but it wont blow your mind.
  Gameplay, innovative but not varied enough
  Graphics, plain but servicable, the highlight is you funny pac men
  Sound, nothing special
 
  Value, don't play for too long and it will last a while
  Tilt, only possible on the DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmandoo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  PAC-PIX : 
  Het is een heel andere spel ervaring met pac-pix. Nog nooit eerder in de game wereld is zo'n spel 
 gemaakt. Het is een goeie launch-titel voor de ds en het spel laat goed de functie van de touchscreen 
 zien.
  
  Het verhaal: Er is een inkt genaamd ''Ghost inkt'' alle gohst dat daar me worden getekent komen 
 tot leven. Je kunt all raden wat er zel gebeuren.... nou alle tekeningen komen in leven ,maar gelukkig 
 hebben we onze held PacMan die met zijn magic pen alle spoken in een boek sluit maar de spoken 
 doe een counter aanval... en PacMan komt ook terecht in het boek... en zo begint het spel
  
  In het spel moet je PacMan tekenen en je moet lijntjes trekken van bijvoorbeeld biven naar beneden 
 en als pacman die aanraakt dan gaat hj naar beneden zo moet je hem besturen. Verder kun je later 
 nog pijltjes tekenen die weg schieten en bommen. Je krijgt telkens met moeilijkere levels te maken. 
 Per 2de LVL komt er een Bosstage die zijn best wel leuk. De spel wordt wel beetje heralend het 
 lijkt net een groote Demo. Er kan ook Cards verzameld worden maar ik weet niet waarvoor.
  
  Pac-Pix is een leuk spel maar het is meer een GROOT DEMO..!! en daar blijft het op.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  There are some horrors in which there is simply no escape. Thy name is Pac-Pix for the DS. It's 
 a game which the true horror lies in the fact in you actually might've spent money or, heaven forbid, 
 TIME on this monstrosity of a game. This is a dimension where there is simply no fun, and no replay 
 value and generally decent graphics and sound simply cannot save you. And the real horror here 
 is that this was one of the coolest tech demos at E3 2004.
  
  The story is about little ink creatures who scurry around books causing mischief. In a failed attempt 
 for Pac-Man to get rid of them, most likely just a failed attempt from him to escape the crappiness, 
 he seals himself away into this book. Funny, he seals himself away just like everyone else who 
 has actually bought this game has sealed themselves inside this horrible creation, which they call 
 Pac-Pix but let's not give these things names.
  
  No seriously, I HATE this game with every fiber of my being. So the gameplay has you drawing Pac-Man 
 to try and eat the on-screen ghosts. On paper, which is the second time I've used the "on paper" 
 pun, this sounds very fun. But in practice, nothing can shield you from this game's completely 
 freaking stupid frustration.
  
  The touch is often not very responsive and you have to draw Pac-Man in the most limited fashion 
 you could imagine. The game will often either decipher something that looks nothing like Namco's 
 own poster boy as something actually capable of somehow swallowing these ghosts. A sin against 
 nature as they call it. Or it will disappear because you didn't draw it in the game's own specific 
 way. Hypocrites as they call them.
  
  But the horror doesn't stop there. Instead of doing something actually creative about the enemies, 
 they decide to "floor it" through the route of true frustration by giving you some of the most 
 annoying levels and enemies you can imagine. So not only do you have to not run out of your limited 
 amount of Pac-Men, but you also have a time limit. And guess what? If , in any of the game's twelve 
 chapters, you lose in the middle of the series of about five frustrating levels you automatically 
 go back all the way to the beginning. So after you get through one pain is the arse level, you'll 
 get to the next one which is an even MORE frustrating one and lose and have to go through ALL the 
 frustration over again.
  
  The arrows, when you receive them, are one of the most STUPID and broken mechanics out there. The 
 same twisted rules apply to these as they do in the Hypocrites Law (as I call it) that I mentioned 
 earlier. Not to mention that these CANNOT be aimed requiring you to use precious seconds until 
 you eventually hit the target usually in the top screen. The bomb mechanic doesn't fare all that 
 much better. And just when you think things couldn't get any worse with any of this, the game finds 
 an even WORSE way to set things up for you.
  
  I don't want to go on about this game anymore. I just escaped this game's true horror by not having 
 to spend money on this horrible, horrible game. I wasn't even able to reach the end because things 
 simply were too awful and too frustrating. I've told you, and you can spread the word to make sure 
 no one else will ever play this game. And let's hope that Pac-Man himself will never have to suffer 
 through starring in another game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 28, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Pac Man has infestedso many games, ate so many ghosts, and has been made a classic of video games 
 that it's ironic and actually interesting that Namco would have a design such as Pac Pix. 
  
  In Pac Pix you draw Pac Man, the catch to it is, is that whatever you draw for Pac Man, is 
 what he becomes. He can be big, small, bizarre, and wel most of the time he's just the 3rd one, 
 bizarre, especially if you have bad penmanship. You then move Pac Man around in the playfield which 
 is awfully boring, a simple white sheet of paper that you draw lines in the direction he goes. 
 Easy enough right? Not really. It gets challenging and this is a surprisingly tough game. The boss 
 fights make you think and are actually done pretty well. You can also draw arrows and later bombs 
 which you have to ignite these bombs to a fire using your stylus, everything in this game uses 
 the stylus. As you progress, you have to use an arrow to hit the fire switch to turn it on. Again 
 using the stylus. These small puzzles actually get in the way more than anything since theres a 
 time limit and only so many pac man you can have. When going into the top of the screen, you can 
 only go in this upside down U, which is pretty bland and every now and then, enemies can be found 
 up there. You have to eat so many ghosts before the time runs out.
  
  Now that I've said the basics, lets talk about the story, which is the most forced and exaggerated 
 story I've seen in a while. A bottle of ink was dropped onto a book and Pac Man was going to stop 
 the ghosts from taking over (how lame) and of course, right at the last second he got brought into 
 the book, which is why you have these boring white sheets of paper to look at. The story is, like 
 I said, ultraforced. It's pretty much and excuse to draw Pac Man and have him run around and eat 
 ghosts. 
  
  The core design can be fun at times and I actually had a laugh or two when my Pac Man's mouth was 
 like this claw and was so mutated it could only be classified as "IT". This is all very cool and 
 is where the graphics really shine. Apart from that though, it's pretty boring although your enemies 
 are detailed enough, nothing special, but compared to the rest of the presentation, it isn't too 
 bad.
  
  The boss fights are actually a highlight. They do make you think, some you have to draw a Pac Man 
 big enough to eat them whole, others you have to use arrows and bombs to send them away, and it's 
 a nice change of pace. A big design flaw to the boss fights is that the game never explains how 
 to beat them, so your forced to figure out how. Luckily it never gets to complicated. 
  
  Another factor that really goes against Pac Pix is the fact that you have to restart the chapter 
 all over again if you get a game over screen. You don't do the level over, the entire chapter. 
 This is extremely frustrating if you got past a tough level but now have to do it all over again 
 plus the other levels in that chapter. The game has 60 levels with 5 levels in 12 chapters with 
 a boss fight/extra level on each one. Theres 2 different books, book 1 and book 2. Book 1 is your 
 campaign and after you beat it book 2 is pretty much the same just enemies move faster, if this 
 game wasn't tough enough.
  
  Pac Pix's music is disappointing. Theres no real music and the "colorful sounds of Pac Man eating 
 his ghosts" is generic. The game just has terrible sound and music, hope you have an MP 3 player 
 or CD player near by.
  
  You probably won't be playing Pac Pix to much, as a matter of fact, with the forced story, boring 
 gameplay, and poor execution, you won't want to finish the game at all. With no multiplayer it's 
 worth a rental at the most, wait don't even bother renting it, it just isn't fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo710
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 11, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Owkay I borowd pax pix from a friend of mine , And At the beginning i thought it was al right untill 
 it started to repeat itself with it's puzzles and bomb ,and a lot of magazines gave it like a 6 
 out of 10 and thats realy not right , It deserves a 3 out of 10 for being a not fun demo it wasted 
 more than 4 ours of my life which i could have spent playing kirby canvas curves , After i finished 
 the first book , for some reason they wanted me to play the second book . off course i didn't started 
 it cause i hate this game . 
  If namco jus't had put the original pac man in it as a extra i would actualy make it a 4 out of 
 10 , The Story is Ultra Crap : 
  The world is full with gost , pacman locks the ghost in a book and he get's locked within it himself 
 also , and it's up to you to save pacman . 
  But what if you can only save him drawing a crap man and have to shoot arrows and draw bombs to 
 save him , 
  Namco please make a final pac man game with The original pac man with a custimisable pac man and 
 stages and leave him alone , 
  I don't want to platform with pac man , i want to eat pils and ghosts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Pac-Pix is a unique game, that places Pac-Man and various types of ghost onto an open field, in 
 which Pac-Man has to be drawn to chase ghost & controlled using lines. WHile the game provides 
 for a unique experience that some like me may find to be extremely enjoyable, the average gamer 
 will get bored by a game that appears to be little more than a "gimicky" DS game.
  
  Gameplay- 7- Drawing your character on the screen in these deformed, usually slack-jawwed creations 
 that suddenly spring to life & go after ghost. After a while though, especially by the time you 
 get to extra "books", you get bored of PacMan and the additional drawn mechanics you earn in play.
 
  
  Graphics- 8- While in 2D, everything is very bright & fun, which just adds to the fun nature of 
 the game
  
  Sound- 8- Many classic PAc-Man tracks have been remixed or redone to give the game a classic, yet 
 fresh feel.
  
  Value- 6- The value is low, because in the end, the game doesnt offer anything past its basic game 
 elements, which lets the game get old too quickly, for the average player
  
  Tilt- 10- This game is unique and uses the touch pad & character controls in a new way... literally 
 creating your hero in real time to play. Its unique factor gets it these points
  
  In closing, while some will love this game & play it till the cart burns out, most will get bored 
 in a week & probably never come back. Play it before you buy it, rent it even, if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecheeta
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 1, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  Pac Pix is an original game that works pretty well on the DS. The controls are pretty good, and 
 the graphics and sound, while not revolutionary, are adequate. The problem for me was lack of depth 
 in gameplay. The game starts off with a yawn. It takes a while for the levels to get higher in 
 difficulty. Eventually, the difficulty catches up, but the game just seems to fall short. Everyone 
 said that Yoshi's Touch and Go felt like a tech demo instead of a complete game. I completely disagree 
 with that comment for Yoshi, but thats exactly how I would describe Pac Pix. It just felt a bit 
 empty. It felt like it was a fun $19.99 or low-budget game. Pac Pix just seems to lack in replay 
 value. I played it for about 5 hours, and pretty much don't have a desire to play it anymore. I 
 think Pac Pix is a cool and somewhat innovative game to experience, but it just lacks depth and 
 replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  What makes a game so interesting? What breaks away from the rest of the games using never before 
 innovations on one handheld game? Pac Pix is an amazing, yet unusual game. It full applies to the 
 interestingness and unusualness. Using the stylus is just amazing on this game. While the game 
 is a bit short lived because it's basically drawing, in a sense, it actually teaches you. I go 
 to a magnet Art school and many things in this game relate to my studies such as Gesture drawings. 
 Now let's be real. Mr. Gerstmann is a great person, although I believe he is a bit biased, he is 
 entitled to his opinion and I think his opinion is very well supported, yet, I still think Pac 
 Pix is more than what he says it is.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is not really gameplay anymore. It's basically having fun drawing and animating your 
 own creations. While it's not as good on the DS screen than the sketchbook, this is a creative 
 and unique game anyone would play for hours.
  
  Graphics:
  It's great you know... I think it could be better, yet the 2D animation is funny and simplistic 
 and the top screen pac teacher is nicely illustrated. It has nice fluent 30-60 fps graphics, while 
 it might not be as noticeable because the animations don't really move organically, as in saying 
 they don't move around a lot.
  
  Audio:
  A bit stupid actually. I think Namco could've used better sound than the re-recording of Pac Man 
 games. While it has much more sound effects, the overall sound is not outstandingly achieving superiority.
 
  
  Value:
  I really think you should rent it. While it's an awesome game, you will get bored of it after a 
 few hours of gameplay. It can be fun at most times, but some are repetitive and makes you yawn. 
 Pac Pix does show outstanding quality innovation, but if you want more than just a sketchbook on 
 your screen, just try this one out as a rental. If you want to play it again, rent it again.
  
  Overall:
  Pac Pix is an outstanding piece of equipment. I say equipment more than a game 
 because it basically attracts you from the way it is, not the way it plays. Pac Pix is a nice achievement 
 for Namco. Although it could do better, I think Pac Pix deserves more than mediocrity in its reviews. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
