-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/phoenixwright/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique and colorful game.
 Excellent presentation.
 Flawless sound effects.
 Great use of the DS microphone and touch screen.
 Fun adventure elements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sometimes a bit linear.
 Legal inaccuracies occasionally frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 3,289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 12, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the game is heavily text-driven and there's little replayability, it's a bright, rich, and 
 lengthy adventure that could hardly have been improved upon otherwise. 

  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney revitalizes both the adventure genre and the Nintendo DS touch-screen 
 functionality by combining an enthralling story with interesting characters, in addition to providing 
 a unique way of interacting with them, case evidence, and the game's scenery. Though the game is 
 heavily text-driven and there's little replayability, it's a bright, rich, and lengthy adventure 
 that could hardly have been improved upon otherwise. If you're interested in a clever, well-presented 
 murder-mystery adventure game, then you'd be hard-pressed to find anything that suits your needs 
 better than Phoenix Wright.  

          Phoenix Wright is adorable in his awkwardness.     

  The game has you controlling Phoenix 
 Wright, a lawyer fresh off the bar who is, initially, more than a little nervous. The first case 
 you take on, a murder trial in defense of Phoenix's dopey best friend, Larry Butz, serves as a 
 tutorial in which law firm chief Mia Fey guides you through the ins and outs of courtroom procedure. 
 Each of the game's five cases begins in the same way, as you're treated to a brief cinematic that 
 shows the events of the murder, during which you'll usually get to view the killer. In Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney, discovering the killer is not the surprise; instead, it's the way in which 
 you bring him or her to justice. The events surrounding the murder always end up leading to the 
 false accusations of innocent witnesses, and as a defense attorney, it's Phoenix's job to get a 
 verdict of "not guilty," despite the lying witnesses, shady prosecutors, and a judge who sometimes 
 forgets the letter of the law.  

  The majority of the visuals appear on the top screen. Though the game has little in the way of 
 cutscenes, the story is told through a sequence of still shots and through the different exaggerated 
 animations of the characters. There are small details in every given scene that help to give it 
 life, such as moving mouths and other body parts, but for the majority of the game you're working 
 from frame to frame. This is so well presented that you'll hardly notice the gameplay is barely 
 animated. For most of the gameplay, the lower screen is used to forward the text. You can simply 
 tap it at the end of each line to get to the next one. However, during many sequences you must 
 use the touch screen to accomplish something else, whether it's selecting an answer from multiple 
 choices, navigating through a tree of menus, or, most compellingly, pinpointing locations and evidence. 
 The use of the touch screen in this game is perfectly executed, and the only problem with it is 
 that it leaves you wanting to do more.  

  Each trial begins with witness testimony, and your objective is to find flaws in it, which, since 
 the judge follows a "guilty until proven innocent" mantra, is the only way to get the defendant 
 off the hook. After the witnesses give their testimonies, the cross-examination begins. During 
 the cross-examination, you're free to scroll through witness testimony line by line to better dissect 
 it. There are two ways to reveal problems with testimony. The first is by "pressing" the witness 
 on particular statements. You can do this silently on the touch screen or audibly by shouting "Hold 
 it!" into the DS microphone. Though you can use the microphone in several different ways -- and it 
 certainly is satisfying -- there's never a requirement to use it.  

  The second method of procuring information from witnesses is to find a contradiction between testimony 
 and a piece of evidence held in the court record. Throughout the game and trial, you'll acquire 
 different pieces of evidence necessary for winning cases. You'll never need to decide whether something 
 is important or not, because the game will do that automatically. So there's never any chance of 
 you coming to trial unprepared. Within the court record, there's a brief description and a picture 
 of the item. The description almost always clues you in to the facts surrounding the object's importance, 
 whether it reveals a detail about timing, location, or the method in which the object was used. 
 Once you've scrolled to the line in the testimony where the contradiction lies, you can select 
 the evidence proving the contrary, and you can, again, either object silently or vocally into the 
 microphone. To prevent you from objecting to every statement with every piece of evidence, there's 
 a meter that consists of five exclamation points. When you wrongfully object, the judge will penalize 
 you once. Get all five wrong and you lose the case and must start over. Although, admittedly, this 
 is difficult to do if you simply pay attention to the events of the case -- and use a little common 
 sense.  

          I am the law!     

  The two methods of procuring information will be your primary tools for breaking down the witnesses 
 and getting them to recant their testimonies. Generally, the witnesses will revise their testimonies 
 a few times before you can push them to confession. The judge, although disdainful of many of the 
 activities that go on in the courtroom (particularly when you falsely object) , seems to put up 
 with the witnesses' many cover-ups, which might be frustrating if you try to take the law in Phoenix 
 Wright seriously. In fact, you might as well suspend your disbelief about the whole procedure, 
 since, although it feels fairly close to reality, many things go on during the proceedings that 
 would probably horrify actual members of the legal system. Though slightly agitating, it works 
 well within the context of the story, and you'll just feel compelled to work that much harder for 
 the underdog: Phoenix Wright.     

  The events of the game are not limited to just courtroom drama, as you'll take your investigation 
 to the scenes of crimes, interviewing witnesses on their home turf and interacting with the defendants 
 and police officers down at the precinct. For each trial other than the first one, you'll begin 
 with the news of the murder and the subsequent arrest. Then you'll meet up with the defendant to 
 take on the case, and after that you'll get the opportunity to explore the scene of the crime. 
 This part of the procedure is critical for procuring evidence and for getting testimonies you'll 
 have to uncover in the courtroom. This gives the game a whole  Law and Order  vibe, as you play 
 the role of both the detective and the lawyer for each case.  

          The witnesses are certainly a handful.     

  At many points during the game, you'll 
 be given the opportunity to choose between multiple options, whether it's to direct a line of questioning 
 a certain way or to reveal new information. Though you'll have a genuine desire to get the correct 
 answer (probably because of the rich reactions of the characters) , all choices inevitably lead 
 to the same result. So if you pick "Give up" as opposed to "Press harder," your legal partner will 
 stop you and say "Oh come on, you can't give up now!" This forces you to object anyway. This makes 
 the gameplay really safe, and if you remember that it's almost impossible to lose the game, you 
 might not be compelled to think out the reasoning fully. Instead, you may guess for a heavy portion 
 of the game. What makes the gameplay significant, though, and what will ultimately drive you to 
 want to come up with the correct answer is the way in which the characters interact with one another... and 
 with the pitiful but adorable Phoenix Wright. It's almost impossible not to find him endearing, 
 and the numerous ways in which other people in the courtroom -- including the judge, the prosecuting 
 attorney, and even the witnesses -- pick on him will have you searching to come up with any way to 
 get him an edge.  

  The presentation of the game is really quite unique and outstanding. The graphics are simple but 
 work very well to reveal the personality and mood of the characters. Though they're not taken from 
 an existing anime, they're cohesive enough that you would think this entirely probable. Each one 
 is over-the-top, from the naive Phoenix and the severe but gullible judge, to the sexy, evil, and 
 quirky characters you get on the witness stand.  

  Very much like any evening drama or soap opera, you'll revisit the same characters in multiple 
 trials, and you'll learn more about them and their relationship to Phoenix as the game progresses. 
 You'll get as much information about the characters in their appearances as you do from what they 
 say to you, as everything is revealed in their mannerisms and in their reactions to the events 
 of the case. And although it's almost always clear what Phoenix is thinking, since he generally 
 grimaces about some new piece of evidence or the action of the other attorney, he frequently makes 
 asides that reveal how he really feels about a person or something that's just happened. Of course, 
 the music and sound effects do an excellent job of keeping you clued in to the drama as well. When 
 things get particularly hectic for Phoenix, the music speeds up appropriately. It gets dour when 
 times are tough, and a tuneful reveal plays when something noteworthy is discovered. There's an 
 aspect of the game's atmosphere, most noticeable within the sound effects, that makes Phoenix Wright 
 almost feel like a fighting game. The cross-examination graphic shows the two attorneys going head-to-head, 
 and the sound of unsheathing swords plays during moments of conflict. It's this facet of the presentation 
 that makes the game feel really unique and much more compelling than your average adventure game, 
 and it gives you the incentive to really want to win each case.  

          The story has as many plot twists as an episode of Alias.     

   

  Phoenix Wright 
 is a unique game that capitalizes on the DS touch screen and its microphone functionality wonderfully. 
 Depending on your murder-mystery skills, you might find the occasional puzzle too difficult, or 
 you might find the occasional puzzle offers you too much help. But despite being a little linear 
 at times, it's completely satisfying. You'll get a kick out of uncovering clues, revealing different 
 aspects of the characters' personalities, and ultimately solving each case. If Phoenix Wright starts 
 any kind of trend, those fearing the demise of the adventure genre need not worry any longer. Adventure 
 games are back and are hipper than ever. And they have Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney to thank for 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (283 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BanjoMumbo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Pheonix Wright Ace Attorney is about a new attorney who has recently been hired by his new chief 
 by the name of Mia. He is called to attend his first case about an apartment murder and you immediately 
 are put into the climactic courtroom with a step by step tutorial on how to solve the case. Pheonix 
 Wright Ace Attorney consists of five episodes, all of which take around three hours to complete. 
 They all piece together to reveal a novel-like full story from whatever point of view you're playing 
 this game. The characters are great, the dialogue is the best I've seen, and this game boasts one 
 of the best fitting, most appropriate soundtracks in the library of Nintendo DS Games. It pieces 
 together like a Japanese anime series in five episodes continue on from where the last one left 
 off. There are several cultural references and easter eggs hidden throughout such as ( Spoiler: 
 Detective Dick Gumshoe, is a reference to "Dick" Tracy, and the NES detective "Gumshoe." ) It is 
 quite simply one of the finest games for the Nintendo DS, whether you're playing for ten minutes 
 or ten hours, it's just a great experience on the DS for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sockers
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying it; Phoenix Wright is great and well-worth the hype. The characters are wonderful, 
 the dialogue quirky and sharp, the cases thorough and satisfying, the gameplay fantastic. It keeps 
 you on your toes throughout the entire game, and definitely isn't one to miss. I could go on and 
 on singing it's praises. My only problem with the game is that at times, it can be a bit too fiddly. 
 Sometimes there's no way whatsoever to know a piece of evidence is supposed to be presented without 
 looking at an FAQ or at least going through a hell of a lot of trial and error. This can make it 
 extremely frustrating at times, and other times it might be unclear why a piece of evidence really 
 needs to be submitted in the first place when another would work just as well. This is my only 
 real beef with the game, however; other than that it's well thought-out and fantastic. A must-have 
 for anyone who enjoys detective type games, puzzles, or just a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:46 am PT
Review:  When i first seen this game i thought it was a joke... I did not know what it was all about and 
 i did not think of it again.... Then one day out of the blue my GF started talking about this cool 
 lawyer game where you defend people and look for the real people behind the crime.... To my shock 
 that game was Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney the game i had overlooked.
  
  Today i know this game is a joke but not in a bad way... It can make you laugh and it will make 
 you think.
  
  The game is split into two parts there is the courtroom where you fight it out (with words and 
 your take on evidence) with a prosecutor and overseeing this is a judge. The second part is out 
 on the field where you go looking for clues and ask differant people question about evidence and 
 things that you have found.
  
  Along the way you may find links to past cases or links to people you have met before (the other 
 games do this as well) .
  
  This game is a point and click (if you can call it that) adventure using the stylus to move around 
 and look at and pick up stuff. 
  
  To be honest this game is alot of fun once you get into it. I have lost track of the number of 
 times i was only going to play it for a short time only to be on it for half a day.
  
  To end look this game up if you have a DS as it may open your eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Who would ever think that a game of the visual novel genre would ever be popular in North America 
 and Europe? For those of you who don't know, visual novel games aren't even really games at all. 
 They are usually characterized by extreme amounts of text inside of dialog boxes, accompanied by 
 a 2D sprite of the character speaking said lines of dialog. Most of them have dialog trees, so 
 the player can choose what to say. Some of the romantic ones are usually referred to as Dating 
 Sims. These younger cousins of adventure games, which aren't even that popular anymore either, 
 are ridiculously popular in Japan.
  
  That being said, they are almost nonexistent in the western world. Unfortunately, some of them 
 are pretty good but never make their way across the pond. So, why exactly would a game of this 
 kind be popular in a place where most gamers don't even know they exist? Sorry, but even I don't 
 know the answer to that question. Maybe it's because it was developed by Capcom, or maybe it's 
 just a genuinely good game. Either way, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney and its three sequels have 
 quite a strong following over on this side of the Earth.
  
  As the title suggests, you play as an up-and-coming defense lawyer by the name of Phoenix Wright. 
 You defend suspected criminals in a court of law, and you have quite a few methods of doing so. 
 When you enter the court, where the main parts of the game take place, you'll be faced with a few 
 tasks. First off, you'll be introduced to what is actually going on in the case. After, you can 
 start examining witnesses. You can press their statements for more information, or present evidence 
 at any of their statements to prove a contradiction.
  
  When not in court, you take direct control of Phoenix and can investigate the crime scene and surrounding 
 areas. This allows you to question different characters for information, collect evidence, and 
 more. There is a lot of cool stuff that happens at these parts, such as a few story events, but 
 for the most part, these sections of the games are not as fun or intriguing as the court sessions. 
 I would end up playing through these parts as fast as possible in some cases to get to the next 
 court scene.
  
  It's really fun proving people wrong and discovering the truth of the situation. This is helped 
 by a really solid story complete with death, betrayal, friendship and plot twists galore. The translation 
 of the story is spot on, with few grammatical mistakes, spelling errors, or cases of broken English. 
 Thankfully, there's nothing like Zero Wing in sight. The writing of the dialog is also well done 
 and feels natural. It's witty and you'll probably find yourself laughing on many occasions. There 
 is a large cast of character, important and minor, that you will probably end up loving (or hating) . 
 All of this helps to immerse you in the story, and this aspect of the game is extremely satisfying.
 
  
  Seeing as how this game was originally on the Game Boy Advance in Japan, and that this is a port, 
 there isn't much DS-specific functionality to speak of. You can click through text and menus with 
 the stylus. Additionally, you have the option of shouting "Objection!" in to the microphone when 
 you feel like raising an objection, but this can be done via the stylus too. For this edition of 
 the game, though, there was an extra case added to the end which features some mini-game style 
 forensic work involving the touch screen and microphone, but they aren't particularly deep or entertaining.
 
  
  The visuals in the game are quite nice. The sprites of the characters have a lot of detail to them, 
 although they are not really animated much. The back drops of the environments during the investigation 
 scenes are also done in great detail, and when looking for evidence you have to look closely. Next 
 up is the sound design, which apart from the story, is the most amazing part of this game. There 
 is a good selection of tracks, for each different part of the game. Some characters even have their 
 own themes. During the intense parts of the court sessions, the music helps to increase the tension 
 and makes it that much better. You know a game's audio is good when there are multiple orchestral 
 concerts dedicated to it, right?
  
  There are 4 cases in the game, plus the bonus one with the touch screen controls. Excluding the 
 introductory case, which is fairly short, each case can take 1-2 hours, sometimes more. After you 
 complete the game, you can replay any case you want, so there is a bit of replay value. Since you 
 can probably find the game for abut $20 nowadays, I say it's definitely worth it. At least check 
 it out for the music alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivitaminwater
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney is a really fun game. For me, just about everything in this game satisfies 
 me, but "me," isn't everyone, so I just can't give it the perfect score.
  Goods:
  Innovative gameplay: The Phoenix Wright series' gameplay is definitely the most unique of its time. 
 From reading text to actually going to court, if you have a dream of being a lawyer, this game 
 is for you. 
  Bits of comedy: In every phoenix wright game, there are walls of text to read. To me, I like that, 
 but to other people, not so much. So the creators decide to add in bits and pieces of comedy almost 
 everywhere. It not only makes the cases, all of which are murder, have some relief in the suspense. 
 It also gives you a good laugh when you get bored and it drives you to go on.
  Bads: 
  One straight path in court: Everything in court is predetermined; therefore, you have to follow 
 the same path every single time you play the same case. Adding alternate paths that still go to 
 a good outcome and not a penalty might've been better to add.
  Mixed:
  Walls of text: I myself enjoy reading this well thought out story, but some people don't. If you're 
 going to purchase any Ace Attorney game, you must be ready to read.
  Presenting different pieces of evidence during investigation: In the 2nd through 5th cases, you 
 get to go out to investigate to learn more about your case. This is a fun part of the game. Presenting 
 different pieces of evidence to people not only gets you further, if you present some certain pieces, 
 you'll get some funny dialogue. Try presenting your attorney badge to everyone in every case. Sometimes 
 it helps, most of the time, it's for comic relief. Although that's fun, if you don't present some 
 specific evidence, the character you're talking with talks about something totally random that's 
 the same exact thing and it isn't really fun most of the time. Some are long so if you present 
 the wrong evidence, prepare to read the same phrase over and over again.
  Overall, the Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney series is to me, the best games for the DS. The first 
 game is by far one of the best and is a must get if you have the right taste. If you're a hardcore 
 platformer fan, this game isn't for you. I am a hardcore shooter fan, and I really enjoy this game. 
 Try it out, you might end up loving it like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Well you know I had always seen these game an new many people who said them but they really didn't 
 just stand out to me until one day I decided to borrow it from a freind and play away. You take 
 the role Pheonix Wright an defense attourney your objective is to prove the inocense of your clients 
 and keep them from getting prosacuted. while You think the game will have a boring consecpt it 
 really does not and it will hold your interest as you unravel who really murder the victim. unlike 
 many games the one seems to make you use your brain in ways that you would not normal use and also 
 makes you think like a defense attourney. While I am a man of RPG I would love to play other games 
 like this as well. with its unique concept interesting cases, likable characters it is a game that 
 many will only play once and really is on that you will only play once, because once you beat the 
 episodes they never change in any way so it is always the same thing when you play it a again. 
 defintely a recommend game to anybody. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  In Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney you play as a young attorney to help clients in 5 cases. 5 may 
 sound rather short for a game, but every case takes lots of time as there is much work to do such 
 as asking the witnesses, searching for evidences etc. However, the ambitious lawyer succeeds in 
 defying his antagonist Miles Edgeworth who is the state prosecutor.
  Apart from that Phoenix gets help from Maya Fey who is the sister of his departed boss, Mia.
 
  Anyway you will find yourself doing lots of other things between the trials as I wrote before.
 
  
  The focus of the game takes place in the courtroom where you must accomplish much mental work. 
 So you have to reveal evidences in the right moment and prove witness statements to convince the 
 judge of your clients innocence. Though negotiations might take much time it is more than satisfying 
 to scream objection at the precise moment to make someones alibi collapse like a 
 house of cards.
  
  The game makes good use of the DS strenghts. While the upper screen shows the characters, courtroom 
 and sites of crime etc., on the lower screen you may click to proceed and of course, search for 
 evidences and such.
  Furthermore you can shout objection for example into the mic while the witnesses 
 make their statements. However, another great feature of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is the cross 
 examination where you have to check whether that what was being said is true or not.
  
  The 5 cases are linked together and result in a very well executed interactive game enriched with 
 challenging puzzles. Any case is suspensefull and logical and with his rhetoric Phoenix Wright 
 conquers the courtroom.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a great game overall which offers quirky characters and enthralling 
 cases.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  To begin, if you are the kind of gamer that loves to shoot at soldiers and get headshots, this 
 game is not for you. It is heavily text driven and you do have to think, a lot! This game gets 
 super specific towards the end that one minute detail overlooked will cost you the trial.
  
  So, basically what this game is, is that you are rookie defense attorney Phoenix Wright and 
 your objective is the get a NOT GUILTY verdict. The game consists of 5 seperate cases that range 
 from easy to killer. 
  
  Each case begins with a crime scene and followed by the trial. In some cases, you must search around 
 gathering evidence to help you during trial. Once you have found all evidence, you then proceed 
 to the actual case where you will hear witnesse's testimonies. More times than none they will lie 
 to you, and it's up to you to call them on their lies and show evidence to back up your acquisitions. 
 
  
  The game eases a new player into the game really nicely with a case that is easy, but not super 
 easy that it is no fun. Beware though, that as you progress from case to case the difficulty will 
 get tougher and thougher. The game gets so tough at the end that it turns frustrating at times 
 rather than fun.
  
  This game is addicting in the sense that you want to know all the stories behind each case and 
 the motives the killers had behind killing. The characters are magnificent! You will love em, hate 
 em, laugh at em, wanna be friends with em. They run the gamut! Definetly pick this game up and 
 experience for yourself the fun that is Phoenix Wright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, the good old, dialogue driven, point and click adventures. It has been a LONG time since 
 I have been able to enjoy a game like this, let alone a new one. I will warn you right now, this 
 game is NOT for the impatient types. This requires a LOT of reading and patience, and to me is 
 more like an interactive novel than a video game.
  
  As always, let me get the aesthetics out of the way first. The graphics look great, but you can 
 tell that this game was not originally a DS game (you don't actually see proper use of the DS tech 
 until the final case, where you have 3D cutscenes) . Still, the drawings are well done and nothing 
 is ever cluttered so you can properly figure out what clues you need to be keeping your eyes out 
 for. There are a LOT of different locations for you to visit, each with its own theme and look 
 and are filled with fun objects to investigate. Each character out of the tons are drawn with great 
 care and uniqueness that gives each one a very special personality. The animations are mostly lacking, 
 which is a bummer, but you get used to it after a while. I just wished they had done a bit more 
 to update the game visually rather than adding in an extra case with 3D cutscenes in it.
  
  The sound is fairly simple mostly, with over-the-top effects to accompany situations that will 
 always make you laugh and the music while not the best of quality, helps to further the unique 
 personalities that each character already has and will sometimes even have you humming along to 
 their silliness as you play. There are minimal vocals but hearing somebody scream 'OBJECTION!' 
 never ceases to amuse.
  
  The story in the game is absolutely FANTASTIC. It starts off with a simple murder case, then you 
 get more and more murders that all start to connect together until you get to the final case which 
 culminates in quite a few interesting revelations. About half of the cases have very predictable 
 twists while the other half do not. Either way, you will enjoy this story. Each character is also 
 very over-the-top and unique and the dialogue will have you laughing non-stop.
  
  The gameplay is simple enough. You explore each screen for clues, discuss the current case with 
 each character then when you have all clues together you go to court, present your evidence in 
 the proper way and hopefully prove your client to be Not Guilty. If you make too many false claims 
 in court then you will get a 'game over'. The good thing about this is that it forces you to actually 
 think about what you have and what the testimony presents so that you don't just sit there and 
 try EVERY option. Granted you can still do that, but when you get a game over you have to start 
 from the beginning of the trial, and some of these trials can be quite lengthy, especially the 
 last few. This means you usually will not want to go by trial and error and will try and figure 
 out the answer by actually thinking.
  
  Also, the case that you unlock after finishing the original 4 makes a bit more use of the DS, having 
 you spray luminol to look for blood stains (tap the screen) and check for fingerprints (apply powder 
 by touching the screen then blow into the microphone to reveal the print) . I have read about people 
 complaining about this, but you only REALLY use the fingerprint thing like 2-3 times and the luminol 
 thing about 2 times... so it isn't overused, but it does add a decent level of interaction (and 
 it isn't hard to do either... another complaint I didn't understand) .
  
  You will find yourself laughing, gasping, getting attached to the characters and not wanting to 
 put this down, just like any good novel. The only difference is that this game actually requires 
 a minimal level of interactivity. The only problem is that like a good novel, the only reason for 
 you to come back to this game is to experience the story again. There is no incentive to come back 
 and all the shocking revelations won't be shocking anymore. Still, this is one of those quirky 
 and unique games that we don't get many of these days, and absolutely must be experienced by a 
 gamer that owns a DS. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toro_Nev
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, lets start off by saying that I never thought I would love a game as much as I did with Pokemon, 
 boy was I wrong =O ....... One of my good DS buddies at school told me to pick up and try this 
 title and I did. I now have no regret at all for buying this game because it proved to be worth 
 every cent and more.
  
  The game is basically the beginning of the life of a Defense Attorney named Phoenix Wright. There 
 are exactly 5 cases to be solved in the entire game. 5 may seem small, but don't fret! Each case 
 will take hours of fun detective work!!
  
  Throughout the course of the game, you get assigned a different case for each of the 5 cases. Each 
 case has a different character whom you must help get a 'Not Guilty' verdict. The storyline for 
 each case is different, and they have many unsuspecting twists around each corner!!!
  
  The graphics for this game are alright, there are no real movement in the characters in the game, 
 but the backgrounds for the areas that you end up visiting or investigating seem highly detailed 
 and well thought out.
  
  The difficulty is Just Right in my opinion, though many would say it is a bit difficult once you 
 move onto the further cases in the game. They require you to find very crucial items that you must 
 use to win the case. This means that they are very carefully hidden so that it will be very hard 
 to find the items, and thus you must look where you might never think of looking in the game.
 
  
  The music is very catchy and addicting. The game's music changes a lot between cases. An example 
 would be the array of Samurai music that was played during one of the cases that dealt with helping 
 out a samurai actor.
  
  The gameplay is really detailed and the game lets you choose what you say to others in the game. 
 This means you can try different approaches into getting information out of others. Also, the game 
 has many witty text as well as a few really good jokes that made almost drop my DS and cry in laughter.
 
  
  Overall, I would give this game a 10/10 rating. I hope that if you do go out and try this game 
 that you will love it. I loved it so much that my user icon is based after one of the games most 
 major characters!!!!
  
  Thanks for reading my review! ~ I hope my review was helpful and OK to read (this is my third review)
 
  
  -Nev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Out-Of-Ammo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  The perfect game. Has a great, GREAT story line. Awesome gameplay. Funny and likeable (and flashy) 
 characters. 2nd, 4th, & 5th cases have enough drama to make Degrassi look like SpongeBob. Gameplay 
 is unique and addictively fun. Finding the real murderer and completing a case is (for some odd 
 reason) EXTREMELY satisfying. You can probably find a used copy at your local GameStop. You play 
 as a rookie lawyer named Phoenix Wright on his very first case were he has to defend for murder 
 his friend, Larry Butz, for the murder of his X-Girlfriend, Cindy Stone, in which you prove the 
 real murderer is a common house thief named Frank Sawhit. The cases, each one different , are all 
 fun and difficult yet extremely addictive. If you have a DS, this is a game that you HAVE to own. 
 Thank you for reading my review.-Out Of Ammo
  
  5 out of 5.
  
  10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  
  In Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, the player takes on the role of Phoenix Wright, who must do various 
 tasks, some being standard operation for a defense attorney and some having nothing to do with 
 the profession. Except for the first case, the game cycles between two phases: Investigation, and 
 Courtroom Sessions. Investigation phases consist of gathering clues that will be needed to prove 
 a client's innocence, while courtroom phases consist of cross-examining witnesses and presenting 
 evidence. The new episode takes advantage of the DS's features at several points, such as spraying 
 luminol with the touch screen to locate blood stains at crime scenes, dusting for fingerprints, 
 or examining a three-dimensional view of evidence.
  
  The first case of the game presents defense attorney Phoenix Wright at his first trial under Mia 
 Fey's watchful eye, successfully defending his childhood friend Larry Butz for murder. However, 
 in the game's second case, Mia is murdered for being aware of corporate blackmail, and her younger 
 sister Maya Fey is charged with the crime because her name was found on a piece of evidence. While 
 defending her, Phoenix is reintroduced to another childhood friend, Miles Edgeworth, who is the 
 prosecutor for Maya's case and has established himself as a "genius" for the prosecution system. 
 Maya is found not guilty of the crime, and becomes Phoenix's assistant in further cases, offering 
 her channeling ability as a "Spirit Medium" of Kurain village to bring the spirit of Mia to help 
 at critical times. Phoenix and Miles find that while they have their friendship from their youth, 
 they continue to face off against each other in the courtroom.
  
  In one case, Miles is charged with murder, and Phoenix steps up to defend him. It is discovered 
 that Miles was set up by his old mentor, Manfred von Karma, who several years before had shot and 
 killed Miles' father (which a young Miles witnessed while they were trapped in an elevator after 
 an earthquake, though Miles had thought he himself had done it) for ruining Manfred's perfect record 
 in court, and who was making sure that all those that knew of this were dealt with. Phoenix is 
 able to expose Manfred's cover-up and achieve a "not guilty" verdict for Miles. After the case, 
 Miles thinks about taking time off from his position to consider the events, while Maya announces 
 she is going back to her home in Kurain Village to train more.
  
  The fifth case, exclusive to the DS version, has the scientifically-minded Ema Skye begging Wright 
 for help to defend her older sister Lana, who claims she murdered someone. Using Ema's scientific 
 help to establish evidence and the surprising prosecution help of Miles during the trial, Phoenix 
 is able to learn that Lana Skye was blackmailed by the Chief of Police Damon Gant into covering 
 for a murder she thought that Ema had committed several years before, labeled the SL-9 Incident 
 (the common name among civilians in the game is "The Joe Darke Killings") , when in actuality Damon 
 himself had committed it and pinned the blame on Ema.
  
  The five cases within the game are:
  
  The First Turnabout 
  
  Phoenix defends Larry Butz 
 for the murder of his girlfriend Cindy Stone. Cindy was killed by Frank Sahwit when he was caught 
 stealing Cindy's items. He panicked and struck her with "The Thinker," a precious item Larry had 
 made for Cindy. This is Phoenix's first trial.
  
  Turnabout Sisters 
  
  Phoenix defends Maya Fey for the murder of her older sister Mia. Mia Fey was really murdered by 
 Redd White with the help of his assistant Mrs. April May (she gave a false testimony to implicate 
 the defendant) . Redd struck Mia with the item Larry gave her after the first case, "The Thinker." 
 Redd also forged evidence by writing Maya's name in blood in an attempt to frame her. Later, when 
 Phoenix manages to track him, Redd pins the murder on him. Phoenix has to defend himself in court, 
 but manages to turn the tables and prove that Redd was the one who murdered Mia.
  
  Turnabout Samurai 
  
  Phoenix defends the actor Will Powers for the murder of co-star Jack 
 Hammer, who was really murdered by Ms. Dee Vasquez. Ms. Dee Vasquez pushed Jack Hammer off the 
 stairs to his death when he fell on top of sharp garden spikes at the bottom of the stairs. Dee 
 Vasquez and the director of the Steel Samurai, Sal Manella, changed the appearance of Jack Hammer's 
 body so it looked as if Will Powers had killed him. It was revealed Jack Hammer did this to someone 
 else five years ago.
  
  Turnabout Goodbyes 
  
  Phoenix defends Miles Edgeworth for the murder of a key attorney involved in the murder case of 
 Miles' father, labeled as the DL-6 Incident. Yanni Yogi turned out to be the real murderer of Robert 
 Hammond who shot him to death after his tragic past. However, Edgeworth protested against his innocence 
 and asks to be tried for the DL-6 Incident. It is revealed that Manfred von Karma killed Miles' 
 father, after Edgeworth accidentally shot him in the shoulder.
  
  Rise from the Ashes 
  
  Phoenix attends Ema Skye's request to defend her sister Lana in a murder charge, despite her 
 claims of guilt. Bruce Goodman wasn't killed by Lana, but by Damon Gant in the Evidence Room, who 
 then got Lana Skye (with blackmail) to help him get rid of the body, Lana Skye changed the evidence 
 everywhere so it made her look like the murderer of Bruce Goodman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo DS is great for these different types of games, which would normally not get any attention 
 in a console, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of those games, it's a very good game if given 
 a chance, and its quality may only be overlooked by someone who really dislikes extremely plot-driven 
 games.
  
  One of the most memorable things about this kind of games, are the characters, they have a special 
 depth and transpire a stronger personality than the ones found in other games, you suddenly feel 
 very connected to them, and when the game ends, it's almost hard to let them go. In Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney you're gonna find lots of this kind of character, they all do their job to make the 
 game unforgettable.
  
  The gameplay is very limited, and that's the part that scares away many players, you never actually 
 control any character, you just examine environments, all formed from one of two still images, 
 collect evidences from them, speak to people in these places and make them questions to collect 
 information to be used in court. You also collect various items throughout the investigation which 
 are needed to be used in key situations in or out the court.
  
  So prepare to use your brain, because, even not hard, some things can be a little tricky and often 
 play with common sense to be solved, it's likely you'll be entertained for hours and hours trying 
 to figure out the challenges.
  
  The cases are very well thought, with lots of unexpected twists, you have one day for collecting 
 evidences, and one at the court, with revelations and new testimonies from witnesses in court, 
 you have the lead to start your investigation the next day, the latter cases all have three days 
 of each, court job and investigation.
  
  Another DS feature used is the microphone, you can pretty much never say anything, but if you urge 
 to make the playthrough a little more realistic, you can use the mic to yell things like "Hold 
 It!", "Take That" and "Objection!" in determined situations for more interaction, if you don't 
 feel like screaming all the time at your DS, you can simply press the button in the touch screen 
 which will do the job just fine with no voice involved. The only voices found in the game are the 
 ones required for you to say, even though you're not forced to actually use the mic, the character 
 voice is triggered anyway to say just the few usual attorney's classic lines, but they certainly 
 make the difference; also, the musics played are actually very good, varying with the actual pace 
 of the situation.
  
  With all this you get a very story-driven game, and it doesn't get a lot more story-driven than 
 this, all the aspects required to make a game like this enjoyable are present, if anyone thinks 
 this type of game could be at least remotely interesting, then this game definitely deserves a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillThePony2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is, fundamentally, an adventure game with a few twists; and yet somehow, 
 Capcom have created something revolutionary, and highly addictive. Much like a book that you won't 
 want to put down.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  There are essentially two phases: collective evidences and conversing with witnesses, and the courtroom. 
 Both have their good and bad sides. Reams of talking in the "evidence collecting phase" are made 
 much more bearable by intelligent and funny dialogues, if not enjoyable- but sometimes, there is 
 just a little too much. However, the simple interface and ability to examine pretty much whatever 
 you want with a witty internal monologue from Phoenix makes up for any button-bashing in between 
 talking. Similarly, the "courtroom phase" is exciting, and it is strangely satisfying to watch 
 Phoenix point his finger and yell "OBJECTION" at witnesses. However, ever so occasionally, you 
 are forced to present a piece of evidence that seems a little too obscure. Overall, however, gameplay 
 is well balanced and enjoyable- to the point that it is addictive enough to keep you up into the 
 night for just "five more minutes". 
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Very catchy tunes- and it is a nice touch that characters have their own theme tune that suits 
 them down to a T.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The backgrounds are simple, and nicely done, with each different case taking you to different scenes. 
 Characters are also well drawn, with a few different emotions that say all that is really needed 
 to be said.
  
  Story 10/10
  A big strength of the game is the characters; often humerous and witty, or the type you love to 
 hate, the characters- particularly Phoenix himself- are what makes Ace Attorney what it is. Main 
 characters particularly are very well developed, and grow throughout the game. Each case is well 
 thought through, but the cherry on top is case 5- which makes use of the DS as it should have been 
 throughout the whole game. There are plenty of twists and turns, characters are believable, and 
 the plotline is sound.
  
  All in all, if you like adventure games or interactive novels, Phoenix Wright is a brilliant buy. 
 
  And if not, its still definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshleyKat
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game, it allows you to think and observe the case as if you were really in court. Of 
 course there are a few statement and contradicting errors but the game its self is amazing. 
  
  You, playing as Phoenix Wright, a defending attorney. Starting as a same fry who eventually 
 wins cases over legendary prosecutors. 
  
  The characters grow on you as you learn more about their past, they change and develop, as the 
 game ends you find yourself unable to let go. 
  
  On thing I'd like to mention on game-play is that I thought it was rather short (It's my first 
 time playing "Ace Attorney series) . Because it was so gripping, I played for hours straight. Funny 
 enough, to me, I thought there'd be over 50 cases to solve. But there were only 5. It was a little 
 disappoint as I played like a maniac and the game just finished after my 5th case. Hmmm.
  
  -A little something to add though, the 5th case was extremely long and the evidence just piled 
 up. I like the whole Luminol spray stuff :D The blue blood was creepy yet cool, all that 3-D checking 
 made it even better. A worth while game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Now here is an original idea, a lawyer game. Most people will have run off already claiming that 
 this is going to be a boring, stupid idea for a game. Those people though will be wrong as Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney is was of the best, well written, fun games I have played on my Nintendo DS.
 
  
  First off I have to mention the story and frankly the cases in this game are fantastically well 
 written. You play as rookie Defence Attorney Phoenix Wright and you play through 5 cases as you 
 go from rookie to Ace Attorney. From defending your best friend Larry Butz, to saving the Steel 
 Samurai and even helping the person you'd least suspect, each case is thoroughly entertaining and 
 has an overall story arc running throughout the game (and the next two for that matter) that will 
 make you laugh, despair and touch you emotionally it really is the best video game story I have 
 ever come across. A fantastic story is nothing without fantastic characters and by the end of the 
 game you will feel attached to all of them from the Happy-go-Lucky Phoenix Wright, the eccentric 
 spirit medium (it is Japanese so it had to be a little crazy) Maya Fey to the cold, sarcastic Miles 
 Edgeworth. Each character has their own distinct mannerisms and personality so that they are always 
 compelling even the side characters have the same amount of depth and effort put into them.
  
  The main bulk of the gameplay is a linear stroll through each of the games locales in the investigation 
 parts where you go around talking to witnesses and fishing for clues (and apparently the police 
 aren't very good at it as there are always vitally important clues lying about) it is very linear 
 and you have to make sure you have got all the information or the game won't move on otherwise 
 and this can be annoying when your not certain what your meant to be doing. The best part though 
 are the courtroom battles between you and the Prosecuting Attorney who tend to be fearsomely ruthless 
 (but painfully awesome) where you cross examine witnesses and try and brake them down by presenting 
 evidence or pressing them into telling the truth. It is compelling stuff and can pose a challenge 
 as you have to think things through before you go objecting (as you have only 5 warnings before 
 it is game over) but a bit of logic and you should be fine. One of the annoying points about the 
 court scenes is that sometimes the logic is a bit crazy and you have to suspend disbelief as a 
 real court certainly doesn't work like it. It is fun though to break the witnesses down until shouting 
 into the microphone to break them once and for all to get your client of the hook.
  
  The game is drawn in the form of any Japanese Anime/Manga with some charming sprites that convey 
 a lot of emotion for such a basic design. The games environments are nicely drawn and the whole 
 thing draws you in with it's colourful look. The music in this game is fantastic with each character 
 having their own tune to accompany them and it fits them perfectly and when you are in court and 
 the dramatic music is playing you feel like your right their in the courtroom just wanting to cheer 
 Phoenix on. It is such an engaging score of music that I can understand why so many people have 
 imported the soundtrack, it is that good.
  
  The game has a fairly decent length to it with each case taking on average 3-4 hours to complete 
 adding up to about 15 hours of gameplay. Plus this game comes with an exclusive DS case which uses 
 the touch screen to nice effect but is never anything outstanding but a nice addition none the 
 less (especially when the case is so good) . If I was to have any criticisms of this game it would 
 be that there is a lot of reading to be done so if that is not your sort of thing then you should 
 probably stay away and the other would be that it is extremely linear which means that there isn't 
 a lot of game here making it more of an interactive novel.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to everyone and is something that is going cheap now so give 
 it a go you might find yourself desperately wanting to play the next two. This is an immersive, 
 entertaining and charming game that deserves your attention and if your not down with that I got 
 one word for you. Objection!
  
  Pros
  
  + Fantastic Story which keeps you hooked
  + Charming Characters you will end up loving.
  + Nice Graphics and a brilliant soundtrack.
 
  + Highly entertaining courtroom and investigation scenes that require a lot of thought.
  
  Cons
  
  - Lots of reading (for those who don't like to read much)
  - Very Linear
  
  9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJMorpheme
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I bought this game second hand as without knowing much about it. It turned out to be a very good 
 purchase indeed. Phoenix Wright is one of the most original games I've ever played and I would 
 recommend it to anyone looking for something different. 
  
  The characters are likable and although it's fairly linear the cases are interesting which keeps 
 you playing for hours. The graphics are pretty good and the music is ok although I would have preferred 
 an old-school 8-bit soundtrack. However, the music and the graphics are as important as playability 
 and this is where Phoenix Wright really delivers. It will give you hours of game play and is a 
 great game to play on the tube or the train. It's like an interactive TV-drama and a good book 
 in one. 
  
  Phoenix Wright has spawned three sequels which are also well worth checking out. I've played them 
 all and although the originality is no longer there the new cases and characters make them all 
 definite purchases. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has been acclaimed ever since its release for bringing new life to the adventure 
 genre. While adventure games have been waning in the past few years, especially on the consoles 
 and the PC, the DS instead brought a slew of new and interesting adventure games to the gaming 
 market on portables. It first started with a game known as Trace Memory which didn't tell the best 
 story out there or have the best graphics but showed how an adventure game can work on the DS while 
 using its different functionalities. More text-heavy adventure games followed after it like Hotel 
 Dusk: Room 215 and Touch Detective. However, one of the biggest contributors to the rise in text 
 adventures on the DS is a game known as Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, a port of a GBA game which 
 was only released in Japan. While it isn't technically impressive, the game has everything needed 
 to make a superb adventure game: a great and gripping story, the ability to invoke a variety of 
 emotions in the player, a colorful cast of characters and most important of all, a lot of fun.
 
  
  In Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, you (obviously) play through the eyes of Phoenix Wright, a fresh 
 defense attorney who doesn't have a single case under his belt yet. Of course, the game starts 
 at Phoenix's first case in which he has to take charge of a murder trial in which his friend was 
 accused of being the murderer. While it sounds simple at first, the story really begins to rack 
 up really quickly and gets intense by the second case. You begin to learn about overarching plot 
 elements, new key characters like the prosecution attorney, the detective, and Phoenix's partner, 
 and much more. It's obvious once you play the game that the story is definitely the biggest highlight 
 (which is fitting for an adventure game) . Each case is written well with lots of witty, interesting 
 dialogue which keeps you interested and the story is just presented wonderfully.
  
  Adventure games are unique in the way in which gameplay is not necessarily the most important part 
 of the game since the focus is more on story. Of course the gameplay is still a key part of the 
 game overall which is a fact Myst DS proved to us which made it so that even typing in letters 
 with the touch screen was hard and even pointing out items became an issue. Regardless of the fact 
 that gameplay isn't the main focus of its genre, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney stays true to the 
 old text adventure formula. You can examine things, talk to people to gather information and move 
 around. While this seems rather simple, it definitely works.
  
  However, there is much more to the gameplay in this game than the usual exploration. As you may 
 remember, this is a game where you play as a defense attorney and as you might expect, you have 
 to go to court. This is where a whole new side to the game is shown. The gameplay switches perspectives 
 and instead of gathering information, your job is to present the new information and evidence you 
 have received in order to point out lies and contradiction in witnesses' testimonies so that your 
 client can get a "not guilty" verdict. This is where a majority of the intense moments of the game 
 end up happening (the emotional scenes tend to happen in the investigation phase) and it's this 
 part of the game which is undoubtedly the most fun. There's only really one flaw I can think of 
 in this gameplay and that's the fact that the game doesn't use the DS' functionality well. It can 
 be played entirely without using the touch screen (although using the touch screen is a lot easier) 
 but when you consider the fact that this is a port of a GBA game then that fact doesn't seem so 
 bad anymore. I should also point out that this game's 5th case uses the DS touch screen to some 
 degree by allowing you to view your evidence in 3D and rotate it around in order to find clues, 
 which was a nice added touch.
  
  When it comes to graphics, this game makes up for its lack of technical power with its great amounts 
 of style. Let's face it; a port of a GBA game will never be the greatest example to showcase the 
 DS' graphic capabilities. However, the game is still really pleasant to look at regardless of that 
 fact. The character sprites, although a bit grainy, are made really well and are quite colorful. 
 When examining things, the sprites are never too blurry or unclear, you'll always be able to point 
 out really peculiar details which might serve as clues and pieces of evidence which is good. In 
 the end, while the graphics aren't totally detailed and high-quality, they get the job done well.
 
  
  One of the shining points of this game is its audio. While the game doesn't offer much voice acting 
 (other than Phoenix Wright and the prosecutors' "Objection!" lines) , this game really specializes 
 in music and sound effects. The music should be noted as it really brings out the fun in this game. 
 When you point out a contradiction to the court, see the witness who is lying get surprised and 
 nervous with the intense Objection Theme playing in the background, the game gets really exciting. 
 The sound effects are also very solid. They play at the right moments and there are a large variety 
 which helps increase the mood and feel of the game.
  
  In the end, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a shining example of how to make an enjoyable adventure 
 game on a portable system. It has charming characters, a story that never lets up meaning it never 
 gets boring, visuals that are pleasing to the eye, and pretty much everything that makes an adventure 
 game great. As long you don't only play First Person Shooters, I'd definitely recommend Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney as it's a unique and quirky game that will definitely not disappoint you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  You play as Phoenix Wright, a young lawyer whose first case will be to defend his best Larry Butz, 
 who's been accused of murder.
  This first case serves as an introduction and tutorial for the game.
  Each of the game's five 
 cases begins with a scene of the the murder, during which you get to view the killer. Discovering 
 the killer is not the surprise, it's the way in which you bring him to justice. The events surrounding 
 the murder always end up leading to the false accusations of innocent witnesses, and as a defense 
 attorney, it's Phoenix's job to get a verdict of "not guilty"
  To do this, Phoenix has to tear down witnesses' testimonies, by finding contradictions, either 
 by "pressing" the witness on partucular statements or providing evidence that contradicts their 
 testimony. The fun part comes when you press "Y" and shout into the microphone: "Hold it" to press 
 a testimony and "Objection" well.. To object a testimony (duh)
  The only way to loose is to throw many stupid objections. When there is nothing to object in a 
 testimony you will loose a "!" point, after loosing all of them (5 I think) Your defended will 
 be automatically declared guilty.
  Also, after the first case you'll be able to explore the crime scene before going to court.
  
 
  Story: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound/Music: 10
  
  So... Why 9.5? Once you finish the game, it's over, no chance for a replay... So this game won't 
 last much time in your "Now Playing" list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Someone would be crazy to ever release a courtroom drama- especially a text-driven one- to the 
 States. I mean, they'd face financial failure, and they'd have to pull it out.
  
  Capcom, however, was actually daring enough to release and localize Gyakuten Saiban on the GBA 
 and port it over the DS, and what do they get? Success.
  
  Anyway, it starts off with the titular character who gets a case virtually right after graduating 
 college. And he is of course, nervous. You on the other hand, will have to control his actions, 
 and what stuff he presents. This means that the game almost immediately puts you right into the 
 action by helping your friend Larry Butz in a murder case, and it does a great job introducing 
 every single gameplay option in your hands- in court, that is.
  
  After a day of a trial, you get to explore and investigate the crime scenes and relevant places, 
 and you go straightforward to these richly detailed and fully-drawn locales by pressing the Move 
 button and the destination's name. It's always met with a really cool status-thingy that types 
 with the sound of a typewriter, you know, like a few movies- and tells you where you are and when 
 you're doing it. You can also press Examine to look at specific parts of the place, and every object 
 you examine almost always comes with a sarcastic remark.
  
  The gripe I always had with this game is pretty minor, and it comes from the fact that you have 
 to initiate a specific event before the game progresses, and this applies to cases where you're 
 stuck. It depends on how deep you think about the cases and whether you'll be able to get the link 
 of one thing to another, because sometimes the game can get pretty vague with the evidence, but 
 the challenge lies there!
  
  However, you only get 5 attempts to present evidence to the judge before he makes that guilty verdict 
 for failure of convincing him, but contrasting that is the "save anywhere" feature. And though 
 it's more of a blessing than a curse to have this type of feature ("Save anywhere") especially 
 because it's a portable game, it renders the "Attempt limit" useless as you can save before presenting 
 evidence and load it up if you run out of attempts anyway.
  
  Plus, it's unrealistic. Seriously, spirit mediums and mystical stuff happening? That's something 
 aspiring lawyers wouldn't really tolerate. But of course, this aspect is what gives the game its 
 charm and originality, so I won't hold this aspect against the game.
  
  Part of the enjoyment goes to the fact that every single detail of the game is oozing with charm 
 and personality, and that's a feat given that the game is purely driven by text. Everything is 
 assisted by some flashes, the speed of how the text actually flows, and of course, punctuation, 
 capitalization, the works. Of course, there is the occasional typographical error, but you can 
 forgive that flaw because of the sharp writing, or should I say, great localization. Come on, there 
 could always be Japanese translations that end up boring, so kudos to the localization team for 
 translating this game with care, thus ending up with a lot of its signature humor that is mostly 
 self-deprecating and referential.
  
  As for the gameplay, it's actually fairly simple. Why? Because it's point and click.
  
  Want 
 to present evidence? Touch the Present button, select the evidence you want to present and touch 
 the Present button again. Want to talk to someone? Touch the Talk button and select a topic to 
 talk about. See? Simple, and accessible.
  
  Of course, there's the cast of characters that drive this game. Each of them isn't boring, and 
 some of them are even annoying. Every individual you see has different likes and dislikes, a personality, 
 and just something that always seem to set them apart. Even the suspects have great backstory, 
 and their testimonies just feel different from one another, and not the same crap all over again 
 (since the cases here are all murders) .
  
  It must be the sound design that helps give this game its overall unique charm and atmosphere. 
 Think about it. Every character seems to have a theme song. If not, the background music in a certain 
 situation simply fits. Some may even give you tension, some may even give you bursts of excitement. 
 Heck, the clashing sound during the Cross-Examination is reminiscent of a fighting game, and that's 
 what the court is all about (kind of) - fighting! Indeed, sound design is excellent, and it helps 
 the game tremendously.
  
  And what would be the game without its twists and cases? I mean, the cases themselves are deliciously 
 something you'd naturally want to solve. And some of the twists that occur could shock even the 
 player as they happen in the most unexpected of times. The real culprit in each crime is also pretty 
 surprising each time, and yes, most of them are still stuck in my mind.
  
  A major highlight of the game's unending potential to the territory of all-time classic is the 
 last case, which is quite lengthy, but satisfying as heck. It's more realistic as well when compared 
 to the other cases, and that's because this one is probably tailor-made for the DS, and it shows. 
 When you present evidence, you could check it out in 3-dimensions first, or maybe you could use 
 Luminol Testing Fluid to check for wiped blood stains, or the Fingerprint Powder to look for fingerprints. 
 They all use the DS's capabilities really, really well, and to my disappointment, these features 
 weren't included in the next 2 games.
  
  Ironically, a part of the game actually feels tacked on, but it's really optional. You can hold 
 the Y button during the court proceedings and say either "Hold It!" or "Objection!" to either Press 
 a witness for more information, or present evidence. But as I said, it's optional, and I'm just 
 nitpicking here.
  
  That's not to say that I can suggest anything that can improve the experience you get in Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney. I mean, even the characters themselves are already worth the price of admission, 
 because the sharp writing is merely the icing on the cake. Its gameplay may not be extraordinarily 
 different until the last case, but it's a heck of a fun ride anyone should not miss. Phoenix Wright 
 has set a benchmark for modern adventure/point and click games, and I don't see anything that has 
 surpassed it. Even Capcom can't outdo this gem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmayaPapaya
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  You start off as a rookie attorney making his way through court case to court case. I dont know 
 if its the fun gameplay or the story line that gets you into this game but they both are great. 
 Find objections in peoples staments and watch them freak out. Find out that spine chilling truth 
 you know you have to solve. when you do you might not be ready!!! jkjkjk. Present evidence. even 
 accuse peope of commiting murder! i thought you were a defense attorny! When you not in court this 
 is where it starts to look like hotel dusk. Look around for evidence and talk to people. sneak 
 into places and get yelled. You yourself might get accused of murder! Sound boring? Well many things 
 sound boring or fun but usually turn the other way around.
  
  Gameplay: most is stated above about the gameplay. i didnt mention that when you in court its 3rd 
 person while you in examine mode you in 1st person.
  
  Story: Amazing. No court case is un-surprising
  
  Music: Nice music that fits the mood.
  
 
  Graphics: This game was made for gba so the graphics are all 2D. Not Great but Not bad either
 
  
  Conclusion: This is a great game that is addictive and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fazzman420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a "text" game for the Nintendo DS and even though the thought of a game that 
 is based on text only, Phoenix Wright is far from boring. You are a defence Attorney and your goal 
 is simple "make sure that your clients are innocent". You will be defending your clients against 
 some of the weirdest.... and fun murder cases ever known in....... whatever state this takes place...... It 
 has everything that you would need for being a defence attorney. You can press the witness, find 
 evidence, and also cross-examine... not to mention you can also yell "objection" at the top of your 
 lungs while ya do it. The game contains 4 main episodes plus and extra episode where you can get 
 an even in dept look into the magic of scientific investigations. This game will keep you at the 
 edge of your seat throughout your whole experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viseroid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I had no initial expectations for this game, probably because a game of this genre is rare. Who 
 would ever want to play as a lawyer in a game when you could be fighting the Flood or terrorists 
 in RB6 Vegas? However, that despite this Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney blow my mind. The story is 
 full of twists and turns, and despite a very linear story driven mechanic, the game play is extremely 
 engrossing and intense. Unlike some game today where the player is often forced to make decisions 
 on the fly PW: AA makes the player think of the consequences carefully before proceeding.
  The style of this game makes it so that replay value is at a bare minimum and besides playing for 
 story there is not much else to do. However, if you have some time to burn definitely borrow this 
 game from a friend or rent it for a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenrard
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of those games that comes along every so often that you find 
 yourself getting really wrapped up in. After finishing the game, I felt like I was actually an 
 ace attorney and that I could hang with the best of them. Of course, in reality I still know nothing 
 about law or the judicial process, but it was certainly fun to get caught up in. Besides, who wouldn't 
 like an old-school point-and-click adventure game on the DS? 
  
  The game is presented over a course of five different cases, in which Phoenix defends someone who 
 is (usually) being tried for the murder of someone else. Each of the five cases are quite different, 
 and they each feature their own little twists and turns. As the plot advances within a case, suspense 
 usually builds with a new break in the case, and much is learned about the background of recurring 
 characters. 
  
  The graphical style of Phoenix Wright is all done as if it were an anime cartoon. All the characters 
 have sharp edges to them, with spiky hair and big eyes. In scenes where there is more drama or 
 climax, the background flashes in the same way it would in fight scenes from any traditional anime. 
 Even though all the text has been properly localized, I am happy they kept the look of the game 
 intact. It is just another reason why the game just feels so good.
  
  There are no actual voice-overs in the game, which is probably for the better considering how you 
 may have to read over things multiple times, and the shear amount of things you must read. This 
 fact does not hold back the other elements of sound, however. The music is very good, it is moody 
 and represents the action in court very well. I found myself putting on headphones to listen to 
 the music. Phoenix Wright is a game that you must certainly play with the music and sounds up so 
 you can hear them at all times.
  
  Gameplay is driven by the stylus and touch pad. The game can be played with the d-pad and A button, 
 but it's much smoother to just tap what option you want on the touch pad. The entire game is played 
 through menus. In the courtroom you select from a menu which option you want Phoenix to say, or 
 you pick from a menu which piece of evidence you want to present. The only thing that isn't driven 
 by menus is the searching for clues interface, in which the background appears on the bottom screen 
 and you tap on the screen the exact area you want to search. There are similar situations in court 
 which are played out similarly, only you are pointing to a specific spot on a map or photo which 
 unveils evidence in your favor. If you want Phoenix to press further during a cross examination, 
 you can either tap the "Press" option on the screen, or interestingly enough, press the Y button 
 and say "Hold it" into the microphone. It's worth noting that the last case incorporates some other 
 uses of the DS's unique features, such as blowing into the microphone and rubbing the touch screen 
 in order to utilize different forensic techniques like fingerprinting and the like. 
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a great throwback to the old point-and-click adventure games. This 
 one has a lot of widespread appeal; If you're interested in the genre, or a good laugh, or law, 
 or just a fun game that'll make you think, you would be doing yourself a favor in giving Phoenix 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is the second best DS game of all time (behind World Ends With You) . I heard about 
 this game from a friend and decided to try it out and I loved it. There are so many fun and inviting 
 characters and the story line was spectacular. The character development was some of the best I've 
 ever seen, I felt for the characters at times. The characters were definatly the best in the series 
 so far I'm sure there will be others. This was the best of the series because it was simpler then 
 the rest with just (somewhat) regular court and investigations and no psyche locks and the little 
 trinkets in case 5 were extremely fun. The best part was the music, that was the first thing i 
 like about the game. They made your blood rush and made you think faster. f you are into games 
 with a lot of dialogue and story this is a perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Its hard to believe in scoring for reviews. It doesn't seem to do any game justice to label it 
 amongst others with a cold and distant number that does nothing other than reflect the reviewer's 
 opinion at that point in time. Whatever i give Phoenix Wright Ace Atourney its always your right 
 to shout "Objection!", and of course thats the basis of this court-room drama game.
  
  The plot itself is one of the two main attractions to the game, i'll get this out the way first 
 without revealing too much. You are Phoenix Wright throughout this game. You are a young defence 
 atourney with very little experience. This lack of experience allows the writers to introduce you 
 to the core mechanics through the medium or your mentor Mia. From the outset you'd expect a pretty 
 narrow game considering your only vehicle to defend your client is apparently finding contradictions 
 in witness testimonies. But with investigations building up prior to other big cases, many choices 
 (both of open-ended and fix right or wrong answered variety) you'll have a large ammount of input 
 in a game that has as many tribulations as trials, with characters revealing their pasts at oppertune 
 moments to heighten the drama that often sends a tingle down your spine as your own mouth shouts 
 the word "objection" into the DSL microphone to save your clients and friends from being convicted 
 guilty by the judge.
  
  The core gameplay is compelling in the way it heightens drama by providing a story that you have 
 interact to save your client. You really feel as if you want to rip the head off some prosecuters 
 and witnesses that you can clearly see are lying to protect their own interest, driving you forward 
 in a game that you will simply refuse to put down until the very end, which is satisfying and open-ended 
 for the sequels which are of the same ilk.
  
  There are, indeed, times that you will be frustrated by Phoenix Wright: Ace Atourney by the very 
 way it is set out. The linear structure of the plot leads you by the collar into to a few situations 
 you can see coming from a mile off. There are also some sequences of annoying animations you'd 
 like to skip through but can't. One animation in particular where a witness keeps handing you lunch-boxes 
 makes you feel like you want to hand her back a fist after the 30th iteration.
  
  There is a rich array of characters with music that beautifully suit their personality adding to 
 the comic charm the game has in portraying foybles and imperfections in human nature in a non-aggressive 
 and acceptable manner, not like games or even movies these days and the writing in this game deserves 
 credit for its universal appeal.
  
  A "court-room drama" may not be the right genre label for PW: AA. Its more like an inter-twining 
 or various lives being ruined, fixed and threatened by corrupt officials, criminals and ordinary 
 people turned insane by protecting their own pride. The 'goodies' are typically optimistic and 
 determined and instantly likable (with the exception of one, you'll know who i mean when/if you 
 play the game) and the 'baddies' and mysterious and consistanty rely on objective evidence to protect 
 themselves or their client (or both) .
  
  The countless twists and turns flow through 5 chapters, seemingly small number? Well you'll find 
 yourself playing for hours on one chapter, a casual gamer like me found that this lasted me 4 months 
 playing 3 times a week. That may be how it is meant ot be played, if you are stuck on an investigation 
 you can go away and think about it for a few days do something else and come back to it later knowing 
 your plan of action. 
  
  For this reason, that you can really use your head and feel satisfied with your reasoning in solving 
 each cases, and the fact you need not play it for hours on end should you choose, AND the fact 
 that it takes a seemingly mundane court-room setting and sets it alight with fantastic animation 
 and epic music to climactic effect, I beleive Capcom have done it again in proving big budget graphics 
 games are not always better than the simple and understated. 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homesrfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I stayed away from this game for a while now. The game really didn't interest me, or at least, 
 what I thought the game was didn't interest me. Being a lawyer and trying to win your cases just 
 didn't interest me. It didn't feel exciting. I was wrong... really wrong.
  
  In this game, you play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie attorney for a law firm headed by Mia Fey. As 
 a rookie attorney, Phoenix is extremely nervous, and that parallels to how the player probably 
 feels. You are introduced in a simple case where the contradictions are pretty obvious. Also, there 
 is no exploring the crime scene. It's a pretty simple case, but the cases really start to ramp 
 up in difficulty after that. What you must usually do, is first learn about the murder. Learn who 
 the victim is, who your client is, and talk to all possible suspects or witnesses to the crime 
 if you can. Then, it is your job to find evidence that you keep in your court record. Some evidence 
 is given to you by the people you talk to, other evidence is found at different places throughout 
 the game.
  
  In court, you must cross-examine witnesses to find contradictions in their testimony. Sometimes 
 this is easier said than done. When cross-examining, you look at each sentence the witness says 
 and can press to find more information, or you can present evidence on that statement. Sometimes 
 you might not be able to find a contradiction, and you must press everything to find something 
 out before you can find anything that the witness is lying, or isn't clear on. I felt that sometimes, 
 it wasn't clear on if you were suppose to present or press. For example, sometimes you just have 
 to press every statement without even presenting anything to advance in the game. This isn't clear 
 at all, and players may become confused. Also, you may figure something out before you are supposed 
 to and present evidence on a statement when you are instead supposed to press the statement to 
 figure out something. This only comes into play occasionally, but it is still a problem, and can 
 mess up beginning or even experienced players.
  
  What really, really shines in this game is the writing, stories, and characters. The brilliant 
 writing includes witty jokes and some subtle pokes at modern culture. The writing truly brings 
 the characters to life, as well as the art in the game. Characters are all different, and each 
 are definitely interesting. I found myself laughing at certain animations that characters do, or 
 what they say. And the characters really help keep the cases fresh and the story interesting. All 
 the cases and stories are extremely interesting and they are all unique. Slowly, by finding clues 
 and talking to people, you get more suspects and you are usually able to narrow down a person you 
 think did it. However, the mystery usually isn't who did, but how or why they did what they did. 
 Talking to characters reveals vital back stories and insight to the past. Motives form, as well 
 as possibilities to how they could have done it. This, ultimately, will keep you playing, really 
 wanting to figure out what happened and see justice served.
  
  The good things about this game don't stop there though. Not only is the game suited with interesting 
 cases and unique gameplay but also amazing music. Not only is the music well made, but it fits 
 so well with what is going on in the game. I found myself humming the "cornered" theme all day 
 after playing it. It really sets the mood of the game and it solid music on its own. In addition 
 to this, the art in the game is beautiful. Most of the art is hand drawn artwork. The backgrounds 
 are static while the characters have some animation. All of it is well done. There are even some 
 3D models in the game that look solid.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a unique game, to say the least. But it shouldn't be praised for just being a 
 unique game, but also an amazing game on its own. Not many other games will allow you to do this, 
 and not many other game nail their gameplay mechanics, and have as much life as thing game. It 
 will pull you, and make you not want to turn your DS off until you finish your case. And it will 
 last you a while, as well. There are five cases (be sure to watch the credits after the fourth) . 
 The first is pretty short, the second longer, and then they just keep getting longer until you 
 have a very complex and drawn-out case. Unfortunately, there isn't much to play again for.
  
  BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZIVX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you don't like to read then I suggest that you don't even play it. But if you like 
 manga then you should get this game. This game is not at all boring but really difficult. Phoenix 
 Wright was originally a GBA game in Japan and was remade for the DS in Japan and American as well 
 as many other countries. Phoenix Wright proved to be extremely popular in this country and it will 
 be hard to find Phoenix Wright games in stores because they sell fast. 
  
  Phoenix Wright is a rookie lawyer working on his first several cases. The game has incredible story 
 lines for every case you work on. The first case goes on for about one hour and the other four 
 cases take about four hours if you are really good, but if you are like me it will probably take 
 a day to solve one case. But after you beat all of the stages you will wish that there was more 
 to this game. That's right this game has absolutely no replay value, after you beat it that's it. 
 But that shouldn't stop you from enjoying this game. This is actually one of the few games that 
 is hard to cheat in and you can't randomly guess the answers. Part of the game is in the courtroom 
 playing as a lawyer untangling the lies to figure the case, and the other part of the game you 
 play as a detective trying to gain evidence to back up all of you claims in court. Overall, Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney is one of the funnest games that I ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a law and order type game with a lot of anime feel, it's essentially a point 
 and click adventure game, only it's for the DS, and it's better than most adventure games for the 
 PC, back when they were popular.
  
  Half the game is played in the courtroom, where you listen to testimony's, present evidence, and 
 try to prove your client guilty, all of the cases are murder cases, which gives you that sense 
 of urgency that your clients life is in your hands. you'd think that having every case be a murder 
 case would get old, but theres many unexpected twists and turns that keep it very interesting.
 
  
  The other half of the game is spent in the field looking for evidence and clues, talking with people, 
 all to find important things to present in court, as well as to figure out what really happened. 
 Interestingly, most of the cases actually pretty much tell you who did it, and you end up not trying 
 to figure out WHO did it, but why they did it and how to prove they did the deed instead of your 
 client.
  
  The game is superbly written, being not only funny but intense, and engaging, and sad, almost at 
 the same time. theres many twist and turns in the plot, but it all makes sense in the end. Theres 
 a lot of pop culture references, to things like singers, movies, and all that. However, if you 
 dont like reading in your games, you're not going to like this game, because it's pretty much all 
 reading.
  
  Phoenix Wright was actually a Japanese GBA game, and thus was ported to the DS with DS features, 
 not only that but this version of the game has an extra case with totally new DS features that 
 are much more engaging than the DS features in the other four cases.
  
  Despite being a some what old GBA game, the game looks fantastic, characters look great and animate 
 nicly, despite the game doesn't actually have alot of animation frames, the music and sound is 
 also superbly done, pretty much all the music in the game is mererable and fun to listen to, as 
 well as making you feel the right emotions while listening to it, the music that plays is something 
 big happend will make you feel tense, the music that plays when you've uncovered some secret in 
 the courtroom make you feel powerful, it's all great music all in all. The sound, well, there isnt 
 alot, other than the music, you and the prosecutor will shout things like objection and hold it, 
 but other than that not a lot of actual voices and sound.
  
  thats where some of the cool little DS functions come in, most of it's just for selecting stuff, 
 but you can use the DS mic to shout Objection! or HOLD it!
  which is neat, but you dont have to say anything if you dont want to. You can also say a lot of 
 weird stuff and get it to register, it's funny when you can yell a dirty insult instead of hold 
 it or objection.
  
  When you object, you have to present evidence to back it up, or you'll get a nice penalty, 5 penalty's 
 and the case is over, on one hand, this makes the games harder moments feel more fair, whats the 
 fun if you get stuck and end up having to spend two or three hours getting back to the spot you 
 failed at? on the other hand, it makes the penalty system useless, kinda like an empty threat.
 
  
  5 cases may seem like not a lot, but considering that most can take upwards of ten hours for just 
 one case, you're getting a lot of bang for your buck. Theres a few things that dont make sense 
 in the legal world of Phoenix Wright, so you need to disconnect yourself from the real world to 
 play it. If you dont want to read, this game probably isnt for you, but for everyone else, this 
 game is a great way to spend a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd19
Rating: 5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Before you purchase this game, you should know that this is nothing more than a port of a GBA game. 
 In fact, the first 3 Phoenix WrightDSgames, are nothing more than a Japanese GBA game ported 
 to the DS, with tacked on touch screen features. 
  
  Gameplay : Do you like reading ? Because that is what your going to be doing through 95 percent 
 of the game. The game is text based ( you do not control your character at all, you only chose 
 which place you would like to go ) , in which you speak to NPC's to discover clues about the case 
 you are working on. Eventually , you will make your way to court, and testify. This is the most 
 exciting part of the game, and even then, it isn't very gratifying. I'm not saying I need a FPS 
 where I'm killing guys within the first 5 minutes of the game, but reading constantly becomes very 
 monotonous. The gameplay also makes very little use of the DS hardware, as you can use the d-pad 
 and face buttons for everything. 
  
  Sound : The music is probably the game's most redeeming quality , in spite of it looping over constantly. 
 I also enjoy the small amount of voice work, as we all love ,OBJECTION ! ".
  
  Characters : The characters are very stock. They are generic, and could of been pulled out of about 
 5000 other games or anime. I'm a Japanese game and anime lover, but I have seen these type of characters 
 too many times. For example, the cute but naive girl. They really didn't take any chances with 
 character design in this game.
  
  Replay : If you enjoy tapping A to get through lengthy dialogue scenes that seem to have no end, 
 then sure, it has replay value. 
  
  
  I love Capcom, and I liked the idea behind the game, as it is something different, but the game 
 feels very low budget. Throughout most of the game, you are doing what you are doing right now, 
 which is reading. A text based game to me , is not only unappealing, but also signs of a low budget 
 game that could not of taken much effort to make. There are plenty of games with low budgets that 
 are full of heart, like Chrono Cross, but this game was meant to be on the GBA. If your new to 
 the DS and want to see what the hype is about, your gonnna wanna play games that utilize the DS's 
 hardware, like Phantom Hourglass or Elite Beat Agents. Okay, now you can disagree with my review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" by Capcom is a high-energy, adventure-style courtroom drama divided 
 up into 5 episodes. Each more challenging than the last.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  You play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney fresh off the bar who's learning the ropes 
 in Court. Luckily, he's got some friends to help him along, including his own boss Mia and her 
 little sister Maya. As well as others he meets along the way.
  
  From the beginning, Mia leads you through the basics of courtroom proceedings. How to deal with 
 the prosecution, accessing and using evidence, and cross-examining witnesses to the fullest extent. 
 The intensity of these events is surprising, and the energy only increases as you delve deeper 
 into the mysteries held tightly by the prosecution, sometimes against their knowledge.
  
  The second episode takes you unexpectedly into the outside world, where you'll explore various 
 locales in your attempt to uncover new clues and evidence about the current case. You'll meet a 
 wide array of very dynamic characters, all bent on either helping or hindering, many of whom will 
 be brought into court to testify.
  
  The cases in each episode stand alone, however there are elements of the overall storyline that 
 carry all the way through. This pulls the episodes together very nicely, and builds on the background 
 of Phoenix himself, as well as the characters around him.
  
  By the time you reach the 5th episode, you'll be biting your nails in your attempts to get your 
 client off the hook, against the worst of odds. To the point where you'll be questioning whether 
 the judge, or even your own client, is on your side.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Like most DS games, "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" makes almost exclusive use of the touch screen. 
 The buttons and D-Pad still function in a few respects, but nearly all actions can be duplicated 
 on the touch screen, so you'll find your stylus in hand nearly all the time.
  
  To begin with, working through how to handle yourself in court is quite straight-forward. The choices 
 you have at your disposal are always clearly visible on the screen, and information for each piece 
 of evidence is also readily accessible.
  
  When it comes to presenting evidence in court, there is some mild frustration at times. You can 
 see how a piece of evidence fits the testimony at hand, but presenting it results in a penalty. 
 "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" is very linear this way, and demands you play and present in the 
 order it requires, even if another action or piece of evidence seems equally appropriate.
  
  Outside of court, things get a bit more interesting, and "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" plays 
 more like a classic adventure game; with a few exceptions related specifically to capabilities 
 of the Nintendo DS. You'll move through various locations, where you can examine elements on the 
 screen, conduct interviews with characters, and collect evidence.
  
  In later episodes, actions you can conduct on the screen expand a bit further, adding new twists 
 to an already well-designed search-and-discover system.
  
  The plot moves forward fairly swiftly, and there are very few times where you'll be at a loss. 
 The game leads the player forward with clear indications of when you've moved ahead in your case, 
 and where to look for clues next.
  
  The courtroom is the only place where you can actually fail, generally by presenting too much evidence 
 unrelated to the testimony at hand. The judge will declare a penalty, of which you have a maximum 
 of five before you lose the case.
  
  That all said, the characters are where this game really shines. A vast array of them are waiting 
 to be interrogated, and their responses and reactions are often dramatic and surprising, both in 
 the courtroom and out. The Japanese stylings in the game can't be missed, but they work superbly 
 in the world of Phoenix Wright, and the dialogue translation is top-notch. Watching witnesses squirm 
 under your questioning is intensely satisfying.
  
  Speaking of dialogue, this is often the main negative most players point to. There is a lot to 
 plow through, especially due to the fact only a sentence or two can fit on the screen at any given 
 time when a character is speaking. The dialogue can be lengthy, but if you're accustomed to adventure 
 games at all, this won't be tiresome in any way.
  
  -- Graphics & Sound --
  
  The overall graphic design of "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" is simply fantastic. The characters 
 are bright and colourful, and though they are not heavily animated they still come to life with 
 no trouble at all. The backgrounds while exploring are highly detailed, allowing one to pick out 
 the smallest of clues.
  
  The interface for the game is equally clean, never getting in the way and allowing the player to 
 do what they want to do: play the game. The only quirk of the interface is when moving between 
 locations, as the screen from which to choose can only hold 4 options. This means only some, but 
 not all, of your possible destinations are visible. You end up jumping to another location so as 
 to have access to your final destination.
  
  The audio is equally impressive; especially the music! "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" has more 
 than 30 individual musical tracks that play at various points through the game. And the designers 
 were very consistent in regards to what should play when. Some tracks are dedicated to the courtroom, 
 some to certain characters, and some to different locations. Your ears will never get bored.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney" is exemplary, demonstrating what can 
 be done with the Nintendo DS, as well as how satisfying the adventure genre can be.
  
  Despite some very minor drawbacks, the characters and storylines are woven together expertly, and 
 the sound and graphics round out the whole package. If you even remotely enjoy adventure gaming, 
 you should try and hunt this one down. There's only one word for anyone who tells you otherwise:
 
  
  OBJECTION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, just because this is a Lawyer game, it doesn't make it sound stupid, but it just 
 makes it more interesting. This is the first game in history to have the main character as a lawyer, 
 but what's more is that it's a great game.
  
  Music: The music is very well made, and fits the atomsphere quite well. Unfortunately, it could've 
 used a few more songs then it has. (8/10)
  
  Gameplay: There really isn't much to say, and it's very text heavy game. You'll later have to find 
 evidence against the prosecutor, and have to prove that your client is not guilty. It might sound 
 easy, but it's not. It takes time to do everything. But t doesn't last too long. (8.5/10)
  
  Characters: In good games, there are always good characters. Well, this game has them. (9.5/10)
 
  
  Story: It's a very interesting game, which really leaves people saying, "who did it". Unfortunately, 
 they're always murder cases, but it's still a great game. (9/10) 
  
  Overall Presentation: It's very well made, and the fun factor is definatly here. I can understand 
 why so many people liked it, and I agree with that. Unfortunately, there is no replay value, so 
 I'm a little disappointed. ( 9/10)
  
  In conclusion, 8.8, but 9 to be precise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I thought I'd take a swing at game reviews since I already somewhat do them whenever I get a game. 
 I got a long list to mow down on with the games I own, so let's get crackalackin'. Firstly, I want 
 to review a game that I've decided to replay through its series before the forth installment came 
 out. I'm talking about the lawyer finger pointing objectionable Capcom oddity, Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney.
  
  The only reason I bothered with this game is because my sister had mentioned it at a point and 
 said that it was pretty good, although I admittedly doubted this notion as my sister is a big fan 
 of court shows like Law and Order for example, so I half expected it to be boring and to difficult. 
 I bought it at a pretty good price at my local Game Stop and decided to give it a go, and boy I 
 was surprised how quickly it became addictive. 
  
  The introduction to the start screen leads to nothing to highly impressive and immediately there's 
 a notice in lack of music, kind of going against video game logic, but we'll let that slide.
  
  The beginning case: The First Turnabout starts up with a intro scene that shows the murderer, 
 the weapon and the victim; it's acceptable that they would do this, giving the player the information 
 that they need to easily step through the first case, since this is supposed to be the first time 
 we're introduced to the game and how it works, a tutorial of sorts. While it works well, the case 
 is rather short in comparison to the rest, but at the same time, you learn a little about the characters 
 that you're going to be dealing with the rest of the game, learning to love them. 
  
  Since this is a character driven game, it's easy to become attached to the protagonist of the action 
 and his sidekick Maya; even the villains have their own charm and you can feel for them. Throughout 
 the game play, murder plays as a constant, though this subject is of serious matter and consequence, 
 Capcom manages to have a diverse and interesting cast line up that delivers drama and comic relief 
 at just the right moments, which never seems overbearing or out of place for that matter. 
  
  As the game progresses, the cases get increasingly complex and shady to exactly, 'who dun it,' 
 it's constantly entertaining and thought provoking, in the way that it forces you to think how 
 the clues added up. For those of which are more of an action beat 'em up, get to the point, type 
 gamer, this heavy text adventure is not for you. However, the basic look from the cover it's self 
 and title implies that there's going to be thinking involved so it's in no way deceiving to the 
 suspecting buyer. 
  
  The DS specific features are somewhat fun, I find myself tapping more on the screen to scroll through 
 the game than button mashing, and yelling out 'Objection,' and 'Hold it,' is not only questionable 
 to your parents, but highly amusing and satisfying when you hit that right piece of evidence that 
 cracks the case wide open. Although I must comment that it is sometimes difficult to get 'Hold 
 it,' to work, leading to some mild frustration as I give up and just press the button on screen 
 instead. The last case added into the game for the DS release is more fun than the rest of them, 
 lengthy and exciting, it utilized more of the touch screen features and gave a greater sense of 
 interaction within the game (Spraying for blood, analizing items in 3D, Piecing together a jar.) 
 I'm glad to hear that they will be utilizing this more in the forth installment of the series.
 
  
  The sprites are suitable for this game and are in a way, a reward system for the player; upon filling 
 certain criteria, such as figuring out the final clue that makes them guilty of their crime, they 
 have a sort of what I would like to call, 'death animation' though they don't really die, it's 
 just an animation you see only once; which on top of the lengthy story feels gratifying to watch. 
 
  
  There's very little of which to gripe on about Phoenix Wright; the whole game carries out smoothly 
 and there's little that feels awkward or out of place. At times, the contradictions seem very vague 
 so may take a while to figure out, but in part, this is the fun of the experience. Penalties, which 
 act like your health bar, can get annoying and it's hateful if you have to start from the beginning 
 of the chapter just because you screwed up, fortunately, you can save at pretty much any point 
 in your game and guess if you're stuck. 
  
  So kicking it to the masses,
  
  Concept is near unheard of but is similar to murder mysteries, except that you're playing a lawyer 
 rather than a detective. 
  
  Graphics: They're interesting to look at, but eventually get a bit repetitive and easy to overlook.
 
  
  Sound: The music is appropriate for the game, and intensifies as the player nears the critical 
 point in their case, stirring for intensity.
  
  Playability: The controls are simple and easy to cope with. 
  
  Entertainment: The storyline 
 is enticing and you can't help but grow attached to the characters.
  
  Replay: Phoenix Wright, with all it's finger pointing action has little replay value in it, the 
 game plays much as an interactive novel, so in this, there's very little branches to explore in 
 the game, except choice branches that get different reactions out of the characters, but that can 
 be easily done by saving before a choice. However, I found it fun to do so after I left it to sit 
 in my drawer for a year or so, I've forgotten much of the context within the game and what was 
 said and done, so it's kind of like reminiscing with an old friend. 
  
  All and all: The length of the cases are enough to keep a gamer busy for a few days. For me it 
 was worth the money spent, but for anyone else, it's better to barrow the game from a friend, as 
 you can only play through it about once
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a rookie lawyer. Do the cases and become famous
  
  Missions: Court Cases and Investigations
  
  Controls: bottom screne and stylus
  
  Features: 
 Good Story, New Type of game, very long game
  
  A. I.: There is not any AI at all. The game is fully scripted its almost like a story book
  
 
  Loading Times: Little to none. 5-10 seconds when loading into a diffrent case
  
  Graphics: Not bad for its time. And its on DS which makes therm pretty good. everything is detailed 
 fairly well.
  
  Audio: From what little audio there is its good. Good soundtrack..
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Requirements: Ds, Stylus
  
  The Good: A allround good game and a good 
 1st try at a new series and new type of game
  
  The Bad: The lack of ANY voiceacting
  
  The Ugly: Mrs Oldbag
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: a new style of game and 
 its really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afriendofnayru
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney is the best third party game out there for 
 the DS. At first, though I have to admit that when I opened it up for the first time and inserted 
 it into my DS, the concept was quite different from most of the games I've played and the design 
 for the courtroom (that golden yellow) kinda irked me. When I finally decided to pick it up, again, 
 though, and this time, playing through the entire thing instead of the first 10 minutes, I was 
 quite impressed and disappointed with myself only for not realizing how intense the story was a 
 whole lot sooner, and how excellent the game truely is. You play as Phoenix Wright, a fresh, new 
 and out of school lawyer with absolutely no experience at all. He is a hilarious character to watch. 
 I love seeing the sweat drip down his face in utmost fear, and thinking things like "*Gulp*... 
 hands... shaking.... eyesight... fading..." Though not an instant classic, this game is amazing 
 and the stories and the characters are really well written. If you like games that turn out to 
 be extremely messed up, then this one is definately for you. I personally cannot get enough of 
 this series, and every time a sequel comes out, I have to purchase it. The only real flaw that 
 I see (which adds to the difficulty a little bit) is that it's very hard to tell sometimes which 
 evidence contradicts the testimonies the witnesses give in court, and sometimes there are a few 
 plot holes but mostly everything adds up and 99% of it makes total sense in the end. This game 
 is VERY heavily text driven as well, so if you absolutely hate text in games, you may want to stay 
 away. Other than that, it is perfect. I would have to disagree with Gamespot on the replay value 
 though. I have played this game many times through and it does not get old. I love it to death. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  America has an obsession with lawyers. Everyone knows a lawyer, we watch shows like Prosecution, 
 and law schools are among the most lucrative businesses in the world. What's the big deal, huh? 
 Why are they so popular? So rich? Do they have fun (doubtful) ? Well, for all you inquisitive minds 
 out there, Capcom has a solution: Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney! Here to answer all your lawyering 
 questions.
  
  There's never been a game quite like Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney before, and there are so many 
 things that make it such a joy to play. If you have ever played a text-based adventure game before, 
 then you have a good idea of how one aspect of Ace Attorney plays out. You travel about various 
 local areas and buildings, talking to people and searching for clues. This part of the games unfolds 
 in a very "point-and-click" style of play, and is fairly boring. When you trigger one event, such 
 as finding a clue, talking to a suspect, or presenting an item to somebody, a new event will open 
 up for you to trigger. Usually, this event is intuitive and is what you'd normally do next. Sometimes, 
 however, this isn't the case, and the next event is obscure. Then, you are forced to endure the 
 bane of all text-based games: wandering around aimlessly and randomly performing actions, hoping 
 to trigger the next event. These sections of the game, while few and far between, are very annoying 
 and discouraging.
  
  The similarity with other text-based games stops here, though, because from that point forward, 
 Ace Attorney is drastically different from other games you've ever played. There are two main phases 
 of the game: investigation, and the actual day in court. While the investigation section is fairly 
 mundane, the in-court part of the game is unlike anything you've ever played. The action slashes 
 back and forth between you, the defense attorney, the prosecutor, and the witness. The prosecutor 
 will call on witnesses to allude to the guilt of your client. They will testify, and then you are 
 given the chance to cross-examine the witness. You may press them with questions to get more information, 
 or you can raise objections. If you find a contradiction between a witness's testimony and evidence 
 that you've already found, you must raise an objection. Continue to tear apart the witness's testimony, 
 until eventually they leave the stand. Then get ready, because another witness is about to be called 
 and you must do this over again. This game play mechanic is wonderful because it is so new and 
 so rewarding. There's nothing quite like the feeling you get when you deliver the coupe-de-grace 
 and prove once and for all that the witness on the stand is lying through his teeth. The feeling 
 of satisfaction is undescribable, and makes Ace Attorney a blast to play.
  
  Ace Attorney was actually originally released in Japan years ago as a GameBoy Advance game, which 
 has been ported over to the DS for we American gamers. Well, luckily, Capcom didn't decide to take 
 the lazy route and simply throw a GBA game on a DS cartridge and call it a new game (although certain 
 aspects of the game do seem to follow such an ideal) . The first four cases could pretty easily 
 be played on a GBA, but Capcom added a bonus fifth case specifically for the DS version, which 
 does a fantastic job of taking advantage of all the features that the DS has to offer. You get 
 to do fingerprint work, which has you spreading the powder on the crime scene with the stylus, 
 and then blowing it away with the microphone to reveal a print. You get to test for blood and even 
 watch crime scene video footage to point out flaws with the prosecution's attack. The entire game 
 is great fun, but the fifth case in particular really is the epitome of the brilliance that Phoenix 
 Wright has to offer.
  
  The game play is unique and fun, but the storyline is the driving force behind Ace Attorney. If 
 you are a fan of such authors as Agatha Christie or Arthur Conan Doyle, you will fall in love with 
 Ace Attorney. Each of the five cases have a distinct, thought-out storyline, and every case is 
 full of intrigues and plot twists that will ensure that you stay hooked until the final verdict. 
 Interestingly, all of the cases are linked to each other in some way. You're not simply given five 
 random cases to solve; instead, all of them are related. Cases start out simply, but become more 
 exciting and complex as the game progresses; the fourth and fifth cases are true masterpieces of 
 detective work. There are countless characters that you encounter throughout the game, and several 
 of them play a role later in the game. Each character has a very distinct personality, and the 
 script does an amazing job of showing every character's attitude. Some characters are downright 
 hilarious, while others are as grave and serious as can be. Also worthy of mention is the fantastic 
 script. The writing is excellent; it keeps the plot moving forward, but also provides some comedic 
 relief. Ace Attorney manages to crack several clean jokes that might actually have you laughing 
 out loud.
  
  The graphics in Phoenix Wright also help contribute to its hilarity. Often, the graphics are pretty 
 out-there, but it they still complement the rest of the game quite well. The graphics are serious 
 when necessary, but also have a charming sense of humor. The wide variety of characters have drastically 
 different personalities, and those personalities are further shown by the graphics themselves. 
 Ace Attorney exclusively features 2D graphics, but they're very well done. Poses and expressions 
 are used depending on the current situation, and the graphics are all very detailed.
  
  Also worthy of attention is the fantastic music in Ace Attorney. Often, the sound a game makes 
 has no real impact on its overall quality. In Ace Attorney, however, the music actually makes the 
 game far more fun and enjoyable to play. There are a variety of different tunes, ranging from light-hearted 
 to serious and grave. The music is interspersed throughout the game, and is really excellent. It 
 beautifully complements the mood of the game at the moment, and thanks to the game's varying brevity, 
 all of the music is played fairly often.
  
  Ace Attorney offers an intriguing, fun gaming experience, but it ends all too soon. The first case 
 will take you an hour or two, and they grow longer from there. Still, cases are never huge; they 
 are always capped at about 5 hours. The game is short, and its also incredibly easy. It's not possible 
 to really "lose" in Ace Attorney, although there is a life meter of sorts in the game. If you do 
 something incorrectly (for example, point out a contradiction that doesn't exist) , you receive 
 a penalty. If you incur five penalties, then the case ends and your client gets a guilty verdict. 
 Unfortunately, this problem can be easily overcome, because you can save whenever you want. If 
 you're about to make a critical objection, you save your game before it, just in case. Thus, any 
 difficulty that the game might have had is completely compromised.
  
  Despite its minor shortcomings, Ace Attorney is one of the best games for the DS available today. 
 The text is wonderful, and it offers an interesting way to utilize the DS's capabilities. It's 
 going to be tough to find, as production was sadly limited, but even if you've got to pay a bit 
 extra for a new copy online or even pick up a used copy, I'd say it's worth it. Ace Attorney may 
 not be for everybody, but if you enjoy a great read, then you should definitely pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This isn't your ordinary beat 'em up shoot 'em dead action game. The action all takes place in 
 court. This game has the best story and charecters anyone could ask for. The gameplay is also unique. 
 Now for the review.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay is ok, very original I'll give it that but, not too impresive, basically it's just 
 the same thing over and over again, gather evidence, go to court repeat. Although once you go to 
 court the game gets more interesting, what with the Cross-Examination ( Finding a contradictory 
 in a witnesses statement) and yelling into the DS mic can be very entertaining. However if a certain 
 cross-examination was extremly dificult, the game might get boring. I also noticed that the game 
 barley took advantage of the DS touch screen 'till the last level of the game, which was a bit 
 disapointing. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are actually fairly decent considering that the game itself was adapted from the original 
 GameBoy Advance console. The charecter movements seem unnatural at times, say if you were in the 
 middle of a conversation with someone and another person just happens to drop in, they would show 
 this by having the person you were talking with just vanish and the person who interupted would 
 just appear in thin air. Another example of this is if a certain charecter were doing a certain 
 action like punching Phoenix Wright himself during an investigation, the person would give off 
 an angry face and then give off a punching sound effect to imply that he is punching you. To wrap 
 this up, there is usually a special screenshot at the end of each level of the main charecters 
 doing some certain action, such as posing for a picture. Overall I had many mixed reactions about 
 the graphics. I was also disapointed that they never improved this in later games. 
  
  So to wrap up this entire review this is a game worh checking out. It has just the right music, 
 charecters and plot fit for any gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney starts an up and coming attorney by the name of ... well ... somewhat 
 obviously, Phoenix Wright. You will guide Wright through five cases, during which you must get 
 your client found Not Guilty. The main thing to keep in mind is the objective of the game and not 
 actual courtroom proceedings. In all cases, you will be tasked with two things: getting your falsely-accused 
 client off the hook for murder and exposing the real culprit. This is accomplished through investigation 
 and courtroom proceedings. The investigation phase which includes point-and click (or tap, if you 
 want to get picky) investigation of the crime scene and related scenes and the courtroom phase 
 includes the cross-examination of witnesses and related parties. The cross-examination is not traditional 
 in the sense that you ask your own questions, however, each statement that a witness makes on the 
 stand can either be pressed for more information or is contradictory to the truth, which can be 
 proven by presenting a piece of evidence. However, if a wrong piece of evidence is submitted, the 
 judge's trust in Phoenix's good judgment (kind of like a health bar that, once depleted, kills 
 your case instead of you) is decreased. The game does allow you to save at any point, in addition 
 to having a checkpoint system between phases of the trial (investigation to trial or vice versa) . 
 After defending Mya Fey against wrongful prosecution for the murder of her sister and your mentor, 
 Mia, Phoenix takes over the law offices. Through Mia, Phoenix is introduced to the Kurain Channeling 
 Technique, of which they Fey family is the current master. Through Channeling, those with spiritual 
 power can, ummmm, channel ... the dead and take their form. The channeling technique is a very 
 important aspect to the ongoing mystery of the disappearance of Misty Fey, current head of the 
 branch of the Fey family that is master of the Kurain Technique. This is useful in that Mia can 
 on occasion be channeled by Mya to assist Phoenix in his cases. In one case, Phoenix must also 
 defend his childhood friend and current courtroom rival Prosecutor Edgeworth in a case that turns 
 out to be related to the mysterious "DL-6 incident," which establishes a numerous amount of growth 
 of the characters and is a very suspenseful edge-of-your-seat case. After this case, Edgeworth 
 takes some time off to do some soul-searching, and we are left to wonder if and when he will return. 
 A bonus fifth case has been included into the DS port (the series itself was originally specific 
 to the GameBoy Advance and released only in Japan) , that makes spectacular use of the DS controls. 
 During this case, the touch screen and microphone are used to spray Luminol fluid to detect the 
 presence of blood, examining evidence in 3-D, and dusting for fingerprints.
  
  The graphics for Ace Attorney are very nicely drawn 2-D sprites with an anime-feel to them. The 
 game is heavily text based and all instructions and conversations are delivered via a text box, 
 but the tense storyline, quirky dialogue, and well-developed characters add to an enriching game. 
 The music from during the cases is very well done and fits the scene or the scenario perfectly. 
 Overall, Ace Attorney is a title that should not be missed for the DS and has added a series to 
 my collection that I highly anticipation each installment of.
  
  Overall: 8.3
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I would like to add to the little The Good, and The Bad section of the official review, and as 
 such, this will be brief.
  
  THE GOOD:
  Colorful characters (wait, was that said already?) , Forensics equipment in Case 5 was quite interesting, 
 Easy, simple control scheme, Newbie-friendly (kinda)
  
  THE BAD:
  Sometimes a turning-point question can have more than one answer that is technically correct. Sometimes 
 when you lose all leads it end up with ages of wandering around showing random crap in your inventory 
 to random people, or cheating, neither of which I particularly like to do.
  
  In conclusion, I would reccomend this game to ANYONE who has some patience and likes a good puzzle.
 
  
  (Im sorry i have to do this... but I have nothing more to say and 200 more characters...)
  
 
  ITS THE FRIGGIN ALGORITHM MARCH! YAY!
  
  IPPO SUSUNDE MAENARAE,
  IPPO SUSUNDE ERAIHITO,
  HIKKURIKAETE PEKKORINKO
  YOKO NI ARUITE KYOROKYORO,
  CHOTTO KOKORADE 
 HIROOYOGI
  CHOTTO SHAGANDE KURIHIROI,
  KUUKI IREMASE SHUU SHUU,
  KUUKI GA HAIETE PYUU PYUU,
  (REPEAT) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is very very text based. When I say very very I mean entirely. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 was a great game for just being a heavily story based game. I loved the court room battles. Those 
 were intense and kept me going to the very end. 
  The graphics are not revolutionary in any way. Just 2d sprites and the only mission with some sort 
 of 3d was the last one. So dont expect to much in graphics. 
  The story however, makes up for the graphics in every way imaginable. You are a defense attorney 
 that defends the innocent and trying to keep them from going to jail or getting the death penalty. 
 Every case you solve in the game has a huge twist in it and it wowed me surprisingly. 
  The way to win Phoenix Wright and keep your defendants from getting declared guilty is to find 
 contradictions in witness' testimonies by presenting evidence against them. But, dont think it 
 is easy finding these contradictions. Some of the testimonies had me stumped for a while. When 
 you find a contradiction it feels great because you make the witness and prosecutor embarassed.
 
  I recommend this game to anyone looking for a unique expierence and fun game that would keep you 
 guessing to the very end. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisalover1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying; I love this game. It's addictive and fun to play, and the story is phenomenal. 
 I just finished th game, and it's one of the few games that I can truly play for hours and days 
 on end. If you're looking for a good pick-up-and-play game, look elsewhere, because Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney will take a long time to play.
  
  The graphics are good, an the animation is decent, but not great. I would say that is where this 
 game lacks, but if you play the game, you'll realize that, given the style of gameplay, it really 
 doesn't matter.
  
  The gameplay is fun, but challenging. And when I say "Challenging", that's a VAST understatement. 
 This game will make you think until your head hurts. Its gameplay, especially in the actual court 
 proceedings. They will make your consider every single possible solution before you make a decision. 
 In fact I dare you to go through this game without looking at a walkthrough of it. Trust me; it's 
 probably not possible.
  
  The story is where this game really shines. It's unlike anything I've ever seen in a game. It's 
 gripping, funny, heartbreaking, confusing, and inspiring. I can't describe how awesome this game's 
 story is with just words. It's too good. The only way you will possibly know how good it is would 
 be to play it yourself.
  
  Replay value. Okay, here's where the game falls. The replay value is very, very low, mainly because 
 once you've gone through all the cases, you know what to do, and what's going to happen, and it's 
 just not nearly as fun the second time around. Sure, it's still great to play, but since you already 
 have, what's the point?
  
  All in all, this game just plain rocks. I'd recommend it to anyone looking to find some of the 
 DS' best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klyern
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Its funny when an easily discarted game such has this "grows on you"... why is that?, this game 
 is straight to the point, ridiculous sometimes but surely entertaining and fun, and i make my point 
 next in this text...
  
  The game is most likely, strictly for anime lovers, in other words people who are already acustomed 
 to the ridicule jokes japanese "sometimes" use in their games and anime shows, other ppl might 
 be better off stearing clear of this.
  
  There are some plotholes mostly in testimonies, anyone with more than half a brain might find themselves 
 using half their "lifes" in the first stages since it might seem like you have multiple choices 
 in evidence, but there is always only one path to take.
  
  Even so the game offers enought excuse for the ridicule trials. Claiming that entry trials were 
 obliged by law to a duration of 3 days, and then the courts became a "joke" because of that.... 
 like i say, pretty obvious from the first stage.... "joke" comes to mind very often in this game 
 so i dont advice anyone up for a serious game to buy this.
  
  Still even with all these ridicule jokes the game still manages to grow on you with its linear 
 based gameplay style, it is clearly because of how fast the game turns on your every objection, 
 making you feel like cornered beast every time, yes even thought the game is very linear and you 
 clearly conciously know from the beggining of the trial that you are going to win and who the murderer 
 is, that is because, this game is a very good mood-swinger.
  
  The music, the inmediate silences, and the very well written story for every stage (despite some 
 plotholes) are very efficient in sticking you to your seat like there was a presure detonator on 
 it that blew when you got up.
  
  This game excels at those points, even thought sometimes gathering evidence might take a few minutes, 
 it most likely wont bore you, and its strong points ultimately will eclipse its bad points (if 
 any) .
  
  Truly a game that "grows on" you once you apreciate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzy113
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  What an absolutely amazing game.
  
  I have never played something so intense as Phoenix Wright. The action in this game takes place 
 in the courtroom as you systematically attempt to break down the prosecution's case piece by piece. 
 When I first heard about this game I though "Wow, how boring". Boy was I wrong.
  
  The characters in this game really bring everything to life, the writing is so good you'll feel 
 like you're listening to people actually talk and not just reading text. The music, the story, 
 the characters, everything just sucks you right into this little world and refuses to let go until 
 you've experienced it from beginning to end.
  
  The game really gets edgy during the closing moments of the different courtroom trials. Sometimes 
 you'll mess up and be left with only one chance to blow open the whole case and expose the truth. 
 I actually found myself sweating as I chose my answers and questions towards the end, in fear that 
 I would frig up and have my client convicted of a crime you know he didn't commit.
  
  I can't say anything bad about this game at all. Honestly nothing comes to mind. My only regret 
 is that I didn't find this series sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic, why you ask? Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney does something no other 
 games dared to do: Take you into the courtroom for a dramatic masterpiece that will make you laugh, 
 smile and cry. Have you ever read an incredible murder mystery and not wanted to put it down? This 
 game delivers the same feeling, with even more excitement, as you are a part of solving the brilliant 
 chapters associated with the game. All the stories connect to each other and at the start of each 
 chapter, it actually looks like your client is guilty until the truth unfolds in the courtroom 
 and you discover the right evidence at the scene. If you are buying this game, be prepared to be 
 bombarded with text, as the game is mostly reading. Yet when you point out objections and press 
 the witness, something makes you realize this is one of the best games you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nash_latkje
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Would someone ever imagine that a text-adventure driven game could be that much fun? Well, we're 
 talking about Phoenix Wright here.
  
  So basically you're in the role of Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney who is beggining to 
 build his career alongside his boss, the beautiful and experienced Mia Faye.
  During the game, you'll basically have to defend someone in order to obtain a Non-guilty veridict. 
 Sounds complicated, but it actually isn't. You'll have a witness who'll give a testimony and then 
 you'll have to cross-examine it while trying to find signs of contradiction. Point the contradiction 
 and prove it presenting the items you have in your Court Record. Get the right item and get the 
 glory or get the wrong item and get a penalization (you can get a maximum amount of 5 penalization 
 warnings, or else the case is closed and your client is considered guilty) . If you succeed by doing 
 the right thing, you'll have your client's innocence as an award.
  Don't worry, you won't spend THAT much time in the courts. Sometimes you'll have to do some homework 
 and do some research in order to prove your client's innocence. Search for clues, interview people. 
 Then go back to the court and make the audience shiver. That's the basics for this game.
  
  The storyline is excellent and very well-planned. The cases are very interesting and may catch 
 your attention for quite a while (specially the last ones) . There's a total of 5 cases (and the 
 last one is quite long) , each of them have a field-search part.
  
  You'll basically use only the touch-screen (you may play as well with the buttons, but in a few 
 parts the touch-screen is mandatory) and the microphone... and that's the best part of the game. 
 Each time you present an evidence, you can either press the "Present" button or hold down the Y 
 button and scream: "OBJECTION", "HOLD IT" or "TAKE THAT". Yeah, I'm not kidding, you can do this 
 to increase the level of fun (and believe me, it's worth it) .
  
  The sound may be kinda boring at first, but after you get familiar with them, you'll end up loving 
 them, both songs and sound effects.
  
  Weak point: the game is extremely linear. You can't do whatever you want or present something. 
 If someone in the court says "show me the proof that there is a contradition in this statement", 
 there's ONE AND ONLY ONE item that satisfies it. Sometimes it's hard to figure it out, but the 
 connection of the object and the crime situation is always logical.
  Another one: the game is relatively short. After you finish the game you may miss "something else".
 
  
  Well, but still, an excellent and definitely worth-buying game. Highly recomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error404_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary,
  no other game lets you play a role of an "attorney".
  
  Although things are unrealistic in the game,
  it was seriously fun solving mystery.
  
  Although 
 I played all 3 in series, this one grew on me
  because without playing the 2nd and 3rd this is a great game by itself and has great storyline 
 and plots.
  
  If you don't like reading so much dialogue in a game this isn't the game for you, because for most 
 part it's reading the dialogue and story, but it doesn't get boring or old like reading a text 
 book or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolo107
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Review
  
  
  
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a text-driven game. You will most likely spend most of your time 
 reading the text then actually doing something, so I'll say it right now, if you don't like to 
 read at all, then this game isn't for you. I must say however, that it has many intriguing and 
 intense stories. It is an interactive story though, so you will get to play your part in the story, 
 and the investigation aspects are fairly enjoyable.
  
  
  There isn't just one overall arcing storyline, but it is rather separated into episodes that tell 
 a different story. In each episode you are handed a client and must defend them in court. You will 
 encounter the same characters occasionally, but there is usually a large amount of new characters 
 to keep each episode fresh and interesting. Overall, the system works fairly well.
  
  
  Almost everything in the game is controlled using the stylus. Of course there is the ability to 
 use the buttons, but you'll find that it is much easier to just use the stylus. In each episode 
 you start out by seeing something that explains to you part of the crime and then are plunged either 
 directly into the courtroom, or into an investigation of the crime scene. You will go to the crime 
 scene and investigate along with going to various other areas trying to gather more info by examining 
 items of interest and talking to people. You will sometimes have multiple investigation periods 
 in a single episode, separated by court sequences. In the court sequences you are placed in competition 
 against an opposing prosecutor. One of the main jobs you'll have in the courtroom is to cross-examine 
 various witnesses. Your job is to find contradictions in their testimony and reveal them to help 
 gain the Not Guilty verdict. When you do the cross-examination you have a few options, you can 
 press their statement to try and gain more info on what they are talking about, or you can present 
 evidence to show their contradiction. You have a health bar in the form of 5 exclamation points. 
 If you for some reason present the wrong piece of evidence or answer a question incorrectly you 
 will lose one. If you lose all 5 then you lose the case and your client gets the Guilty verdict. 
 For the most part, you won't need to worry about dying. But that's when the bad comes in, sometimes 
 you will find yourself just going on the slightest whim and producing evidence only to be shot 
 down, since the correct piece of evidence is something that would be hard for you to just go "Oh 
 of course, that explains why he would do that!" The other problem with the overall game-play is 
 this is almost as linear as it gets. There is only one right answer, no alternate endings to court 
 cases at all. You just play through it one way, this completely ruins the point of any replays. 
 The game does, however, have a pretty lengthy story-mode, even if it is mainly spent reading. You'll 
 most likely take a few hours on some episodes and clock a good 12 hours of game-play by the end 
 of it.
  
  The interface of the game is pretty attractive, but sadly, there is no real variety of movement 
 to each of the characters and you'll grow tired of their repeated small animations. There is no 
 voice acting, which would have been nice with such a text-driven game, even if it would have taken 
 up quite a bit of space. The environments you visit are usually fairly varied and well-created, 
 but considering how still they are, it really makes it rather boring. There are other small grievances 
 but they are pretty minor. The sound is decent, but nothing to get excited over. The music isn't 
 wonderful and there are a few annoying tunes. However, the music will fit the situation and changes 
 to express emotion. It will help set the mood in a lot of parts and it makes the experience a lot 
 more enjoyable.
  
  Overall, the game is a great game for those who like text-driven games with a great story. But 
 because of the shortcomings of the interactivity it really doesn't feel quite like a game, but 
 more like a novel. It is a decent game, but probably only worth a rent, rather then a buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Lawyer game? You're joking? That cant be fun! Or can it? Wonderful, different, and original. Oh and 
 miss one tiny stupid detail and youre dead. That is a quick summary of this game.
  
  You play Phoenix Wright, a rookie lawer. IN this game you solve murder cases, solve them in court, 
 look for clues and evidence, and other lawyer-y stuff.
  
  The story make me want to scream. It is possibly the best game story ever. This is more of one 
 of those Interactive turn to page 21 if you want to open the door goosebumps kind of books than 
 it is a game. But it gets in just enough gameplay for it to be a DS game.
  
  The graphics are good and anime-like, the sound it okay, the gane is fun, what else is there to 
 say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberMegamanX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  This game IS AWESOME 9.0\10 i don't why anyone would hate this game it is the best . Your busting 
 bad guys and saving innocent people. its funny and packs alot of suspense. dont mind the reapets 
 gamespot didn't let me post.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those where the story is the main pusher behind the gameplay. Yes Pheonix Wright 
 is a great game, no it is not perfect. Levels are presented as "cases" which have 3 main parts:
 
  
  1. the investigation 2. the trial ,and 3. the verdict. The cases have multiple trials though as 
 pheonix needs every one of the 3 days he's allowed to use to defend his clients
  
  The story is spread throughout the number of cases, with twists and turns at every part of the 
 game. *SPOILER* you even get help from your dead mentor. The game's host of characters range from 
 normal to strange, and again they all blend into the story nicely. 
  The gameplay is mostly point and click to find evidence on the screen, and then you choose the 
 accusations and theorys you present in the courtroom.
  It is easy to get stuck, as you have many areas to search later on and you have no choice but to 
 keep looking and taping on the DS's screen. The music is very atmospheric and matches the game's 
 different locales and situations. It also adds alot of emotion to the settings.
  All in all, this game is a great experience nobody should miss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawnClover
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Before buying this game, I did my studies:
  
  - Read some reviews;
  - Watched some movies;
  - Pictures, etc.
  
  And then after i was "sold" I got it (it was 
 actually cheap! so I didn't think twice) .
  
  Thank GOD I didn't think twice!
  
  Phoenix Wright Ace Attourney for the Nintendo DS is a port from the japanese original on the GBA 
 so, don't expect huge interaction with the stylus and other NDS unique features (except in the 
 last chapter that was built exclusively for the english version of the game for the NDS) . As I 
 usualy do, let's divide this review into different categories:
  
  01 - STORY ||
  The biggest PRO of this game. If you don't like to read a lot and are usually bored when reading 
 long conversations on RPGs or other games you can close this review right now and never think about 
 this game again. PW lives mainly on the story. And it is worth it for the story. I'll explain the 
 basics, not wanting to spoil anything: Phoenix Wright is a new Defense Attourney and his first 
 job is defending one of his school friends. Tricky, heh? Yeah well, aided by his mentor MIa, Wright 
 goes fourth into his first trial and has to face the accusation... accusing (lol) Larry (the friend 
 he's defending) of murder! Again, tricky, IMO. I'm not saying anything else as a lot of stuff happens 
 right at the end of the first chapter, so, yeah. That's the basics and it doesn't sound like much 
 reading but you MUST try it for yourself, after Chapter 1 the twists and turns are just priceless. 
 The dialogue is filled with comedy and serious scenes. The court ones are my favorites because 
 of the Judge, I bet he was born funny xD || 10/10
  
  02 - GAMEPLAY ||
  Gameplay... hm... Gameplay is almost non-existant though and this is the major CON of the game, 
 though it cannot surpass the big PRO the story is. Basically the game runs on 3 different situations:
 
  - Investigating: You go to the crime scenes, and other relevant places and gather as much information 
 as you can by talking to other people and examining the scenes.
  - After that you must go to trial and listen to the witness' testimony.
  - And after the testimony 
 you must Cross-Examine the witness (my favorite part) by slicing his/her testimony apart and finding 
 the clues that will contradict something he/she said. Reactions on this can be pretty funny or 
 very frustrating lol
  That's the whole playing you'll do. There's more stuff in the 5th Chapter with the stylus and the 
 microphone but it's not much. Ah, in every chapter you can also hold the Y button and scream "OBJECTION!" 
 or "HOLD IT!" or "TAKE THAT!" into the microphone. Just don't do this with people around you might 
 get sued and then, influenced by this game you'll be trying to defend yourself in court and end 
 up in jail for the rest of your life. In the worst case scenario you might as well drag a friend 
 or family member with you. So, careful is advised. xD || 7/10
  
  03 - SOUND ||
  The music and sounds are very well made, I specially like the "tension" music you hear while in 
 court, it fits the scene really well. Of course not forgeting the theme songs you'll hear for each 
 different person. When his/her personality is just dumb/funny so will be the song, this adds a 
 LOT to the ambience of the game. Sound effects are not perfect but they do what they were made 
 to do. Lacks voices. Ok sure, I'm asking too much for a DS Game, but I love voices on games : ( 
 lol || 9/10
  
  04 - GRAPHICS ||
  The graphics are all drawn anime-style wich couldn't be better, as I find the anime-style drawings 
 to be the most able to get the feeling and personality into the characters' face/actions. You'll 
 be laughing really hard with some of the faces you'll see and actions. I know I did. There's also 
 a bit of 3D on the 5th chapter (pretty useless if you ask me, I could live without it, but hey 
 I don't mind it at all, I just thought it was not that needed. Although one of the 3D scenes is 
 pretty cool) . || 9/10
  
  05 - LENGTH ||
  I'll admit it took me a while to finish the game (10 hours I think) and yes, the 5th Chapter felt 
 a bit awkward in this game (though it kind of works) and I didn't have major problems going through 
 it (just save a lot, it's an advice) . You can always remember there are 2 more Phoenix Wright games 
 out there! (already playing the second one, will review when I'm done with it) . It will entertain 
 you for long periods of time and you will NOT want to put it down... Be warned. || 10/10
  
  06 - REPLAY?
  Unfortunatly I see no need to replay this game (unless it's like 10 years from 
 now because you probably won't remember all the story details) . There's nothing to unlock and nothing 
 new to see. So I'd say finish this one and go on to the second title. || 6/10
  
  OVERALL - 9.0
  Epic game + epic characters + epic dialogue - epic gameplay = excelent game
 
  
  Go get it now if you love crime stories or point and click adventures! It's an order. NO OBJECTIONS 
 YOUR HONOR!
  
  Case closed. NOT GUILTY!
  
  ok, i might just have to go get a life now.
  be advised you can have this side affect, imagine 
 you're in school and someone's lunch money just disappeared. and they're all like: "IT WAS JHONNY! 
 IT WAS JHONNY!" without thinking you raise, point your finger at them and give a smile and shout 
 "OBJECTION! There's no evindence on court that says Mr. Johnny did it!" and then be like "oops." 
 when they're all looking weirdly at you! xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The very concept of a Lawyer game was unheard of before the Nintendo DS was released in 2004. However 
 Pheonix Wright filled that void for all of you Bar exam lovers. Pheonix Wright is far from your 
 typical game, featuring psychics, weird characters and a wet behind the ears defense attorney. 
 The gameplay is pretty good, and definitely is a cerebral game that tests your smarts more than 
 anything, the artwork is good as well as the intricate stories, which makes up for the frame by 
 frame direction Capcom took with the title. This is definitely a good DS title that proves what 
 crazy things some developers can do with the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  In short, the game is one of those wonderous miracles that leaves you to question how you lived 
 with out it once you beat it. Though it seems that every case you have to toggle is a murder case, 
 the game still sheds plenty of drama, comical relief, and stunning events in which add up to a 
 great game in general.
  
  Pros:
  
  A unique twist out of the average games, challenges the mind at one point or another, colorfull 
 casts of characters and story; can be controlled via stylus, mic and buttons, has you dealing with 
 real courtroom cirterias.
  
  Cons:
  
  Sometimes you arrive at your answer by mere luck or coincidence, many times does it involve unrealistic 
 material (such as spirit of dead contacts.)
  
  Ocerall:
  
  You may want to reconsider if you are a fan of hard core action or if you aren't to thrilled of 
 heavy text driven games. Though the game has no innovative use for stylus, the game is unique and 
 compelling enough to forgive its lack of such things. The game is not too long but not too short, 
 and can get frusurating at times, or feel like a breeze. Overall, the game is great, thus earning 
 it a 9.5 from my perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleMonkey87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I've recently played Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the DS, and its a very very very 
 good game. The game is about Phoenix Wright, a rookie Defense Attorney. You basically go through 
 the game solving cases. You go from gathering evidence to going up against a Prosecutor to try 
 and find your client Not Guilty, while from time to time proving that someone else involved in 
 the case is actually the real murderer.
  
  I must say, when you hear someone talk about this game you want to say I'd rather taking a f***ing 
 pitchfork, stick it up my ass and eat a bag of dirtya**holes then play this game. But then you 
 start playing the game, and you pull that pitchfork out of your ass, and you put down the bag of 
 a**holes, and you proudly say This games alright. 
  
  BUT as you then get more and more into the game you start to get really into it and your emotions 
 are flailing like a toddler who was denied a box of Cap'n Crunch at the grocery store and you start 
 to FEEL like a lawyer. And then when you hear someone on the bus talking to their friend and you 
 hear something suspicious about the woman they claim to have been banging the night before and 
 you yell out
  
  OBJECTION!! 
  
  Then the bus swerves and comes to a stop, the driver turns around and says Is there a problem? 
 and then you yell out Yes! This man was just telling his friend that the woman he was with last 
 night had a rack as big as Pamela Anderson, and then he mentioned again the woman's rack...
  
  BUT THIS TIME HE COMPARED THE RACK TO BASKETBALLS! 
  
  And then everyone on the bus starts 
 to speak amongst themselves.
  
  WELL!? WHICH IS IT! you cry out through the noise and confusion of the babbling passengers. The 
 driver starts to bang his fist on the horn and yells out Order! ORDER! ORDER!!! and then the passengers 
 go quiet. The driver turns to the man and says Well, answer the question! 
  
  The young man looks around, obviously you have him. His testimony is shot, and theres no evidence 
 to prove hes telling the truth, because hes clearly lying!
  
  Okay! he yells out and then breaks down into tears. She was as flat as a board! and then the commotion 
 of the bus passengers starts up again, and you stand there, victorious as this man weeps at the 
 fact that his lay the night before was actually the ugliest woman he's ever seen.
  
  So as you can see, Phoenix Wright will change your life in ways you'd never imagine possible. If 
 you have a DS, and do not pick this game up. Then I only have one thing to say.
  
  OBJECTION!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demanboy666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of the best Nintendo DS games out there. This game is plain 
 fun. While playing this game you actually feel like an attorney. This game is addictive once you 
 start you won't want to stop until you finish it. This game has a lot of reading and reading and 
 more reading. If you don't like to read than this isn't a game for you. I don't like to read books 
 at all but if you make it funny and add hot anime babes that get killed, then maybe ill read the 
 first chapter. Mr. Wright isn't your ordinary attorney that yells objection then points his finger 
 at the witness. He also does detective work with his underage psychic sidekick. I really recommend 
 this game.
  
  I Give Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney For The DS a perfect 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I put off picking up Phoenix Wright for years but now, thanks to a GameFly account, it so happened 
 that I finally got my hands on a copy of this hard-to-find game. I'm glad I did, as I found myself 
 riveted to this game and sat down for some marathon play sessions, finishing all five cases in 
 about 2 or 3 days.
  
  The gameplay in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is split into two major modes:
  
  The first mode 
 is when you are in a courtroom and you are cross examining witnesses trying to find contradictions 
 in their testimony. This is done by pressing them for information or presenting evidence that proves 
 the contradiction.
  
  The second mode is when you're out on the field trying to find evidence. You have four central 
 commands in this mode: Move, Examine, Talk, Present. Move lets you move to key locations of the 
 case. Examine lets you point out a place on the screen with the stylus to further investigate. 
 If somebody is present at your current location, you can Talk to them or Present evidence to them 
 to learn more about it.
  
  In either mode, you can bring up an evidence screen that lets you examine your evidence or bring 
 up a list of profiles for everybody involved in the case. By having these clues handy, you're better 
 able to formulate your theories as to how the cases are unfolding.
  
  There are five cases in all. The first case is rather short (entirely in the courtroom) while the 
 last case is extra long with additional features such as examining 3d mockups of the evidence and 
 using special investigation equipment.
  
  There's two big things that appeal about this game. First, the characters are all likable and the 
 plot as cases unfold often contain startling twists and turns. The scriptwriters of this game were 
 geniuses, it seems, as there's many exciting moments of suspense and chagrin in this game. Second, 
 this is a game that heavily rewards deductive reasoning, and when you're able to wrap your mind 
 around the situation it's really satisfying to see your sleuthing pay off.
  
  Sometimes I got stuck, but in these cases I just went over to GameFaqs and looked up a walkthrough. 
 The only real way you can lose this game is by managing to tick off the judge five times during 
 a phase in the trial by presenting wrongful evidence. Losing the game results in having to repeat 
 the last branch of the chapter you were on.
  
  The only other gripe I have about this game is sometimes it's a little too picky about what evidence 
 is acceptable. To an extent, the ambitious endeavor that Phoenix Wright tries to be - one that 
 rewards good deductive reasoning - is limited by the computer medium in that it cannot fully do 
 justice to the creativity of the player. Still, this is only a minor speed bump, and the game is 
 overall pretty decent.
  
  Again, I'm really glad I had the opportunity to play this game, and I eagerly look forward to GameFly 
 shipping me the sequel (Justice for All) even though I hear it's not quite as good as this one 
 some ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ace Attorney: Phoenix Wright, at first I was very skeptical of this game. A friend had told me 
 to buy it and that it was amazing but I had my doubts. A very text driven game with close to no 
 gameplay aside from picking commands from menus? Granted I am a huge menu, turn-based RPG gamer 
 I still did not set my standards high for this game.
  
  But how did I end up with this anyway? As I mentioned before my friend essentially forced me into 
 buying this, however myself and him both knew of this game long before I purchased it. On the internet, 
 the Objection! website hit forums pretty hard. People were in love with the thing, as was I for 
 a while. Most of us that knew very little about its roots however and wanted to know more, and 
 it honestly ended up as a good marketing tool on Capcom's part (even though they had nothing to 
 do with the website) . Anyway, I eventually picked up this game myself and found myself attached 
 to it even today, playing through it many times.
  
  First to get the topic of visuals out of the way, everything is very average really, though at 
 the time of this game's original release (on the Gameboy Advance in Japan) it may have been really 
 good. Each character has a waist up sprite that you see when they talk, there are a few different 
 animations they can do but nothing incredibly special or remotely interesting. All of the game 
 settings are a painted backdrop on which the waist-up sprites are on. The top screen has the text, 
 sprites, and background while the bottom screen has a giant button to advance through text. Overall 
 the transition from Gameboy Advance to Nintendo DS is visually flawless as every picture looks 
 crisp and not outdated in the least, its good to see the developers take the time to resize images 
 and assure everything fits well.
  
  As I said before this game is nothing more than a Gameboy Advance port however the final case featured 
 for you to play through was a game on its own in Japan. It was an Ace Attorney game to test the 
 DS to see how entertaining they could make a game using the touch screen and the built in microphone. 
 However the concept of buying a short test game such as this is not as popular in America and since 
 the opportunity was so perfect Capcom decided to tack the game onto this release. The only major 
 difference is the addition of a few cel-shaded cut scenes and viewing evidence. While the two cel-shaded 
 cut scenes shown in this case are nothing spectacular and do not push the DS's hardware at all 
 they are still enjoyable. The major change is the addition of viewable evidence. By clicking on 
 a an item via your court record (which basically is an inventory screen) you get the option to 
 view it in 3D, from there you can turn it, zoom in, and discover new secrets by opening or looking 
 on the back of the evidence. It's a great addition and the 3D models look very nice for the art 
 style of the game. This is a great addition I look forward to seeing in sequels to come.
  
  Ace Attorney: Phoenix Wright really makes great use of small resources. This is shown through the 
 sound effects and music. There are about 30 separate music pieces in the game and each of these 
 serve a purpose. Even if you do not find yourself connected to a certain song you must appreciate 
 how well they use them. Ace Attorney easily makes the best use of music I have ever witnessed in 
 a video game. Every single musical piece sets the tone for a certain situation. If the situation 
 is dire, as if you could never correct what has happened there is a tune that propels this mood 
 forward. Equally once you find a way out of this hole you are greeted with some very fast catchy 
 tunes that give you a rush and you may find your foot tapping along and not even know it. All of 
 this really adds to story very well and proves to me how well developers can connect certain aspects 
 of video games to make a well polished title.
  
  As I said this connects aspects of the game together well, in particular a good story. Being a 
 text adventure you automatically assume there will be some sort of entertaining story involved. 
 This holds true. The game chronicles the experiences of rookie attorney Phoenix Wright, who seems 
 to be a promising defense attorney after winning his first case involving his best friend in the 
 world Larry Butz who was framed for murdering his ex-girlfriend. All of a sudden after this case, 
 his mentor Mia Fey is murdered and Phoenix finds himself defending her younger sister Maya in court. 
 The entire game is spent on character development. There is no real plot that stretches from the 
 games five trials as each story given to us per trial only builds a back story. This is a refreshing 
 concept for video games as a title strongly focusing on developing a character is a rarity. By 
 the end you will find yourself attached to each character in some way or another and new routes 
 open for the future installments of the series.
  
  Ace Attorney: Phoenix Wright is in all senses a point and click text adventure. There is no fighting 
 or platform jumping; in fact you never control a character to move with say the D-pad in a typical 
 video game. Each trial is separated into two sections of gameplay. You have the court sections 
 where you must listen to witnesses and go against what the prosecutor says to stop him from finding 
 your client guilty, then investigations where you arm yourself with evidence needed to win in court.
 
  
  The court section of gameplay is really the meat of the game that creates the mood along with moving 
 the main story line forward in each case. They are basically a simplified version of courtroom 
 drama today. There is no jury, just the judge to make all the calls. You are the defense attorney 
 and face off against different prosecutors with various motives to bring the ultimate truth to 
 light.
  
  Trial sections play very simple. You listen to testimonies from witnesses and then press them on 
 different parts of the testimony or object against what they say. Pressing sentences the witness 
 says is your way to get more information and clues from them to give you a better understanding 
 of what is going on. When that is done the objection command allows you to present evidence to 
 counter what the witness said and eventually win the case for your client. However it is not that 
 easy. Cases last a pretty lengthy time and you only have a small amount of HP. If your objection 
 you raise makes no sense (there are far more of these choices then correct answers) you will be 
 penalized with losing one HP. After losing all you're HP, your client will be found guilty and 
 the game will end.
  
  The game does vary sometimes though. You will find yourself staring at a piece of evidence such 
 as a picture, pointing out a contradiction in it compared to a witness' testimony. Sometimes this 
 is very obvious to the player, but often times it is very challenging and I have found myself stuck 
 on one of these for days at a time. It was not too much of an annoyance though and it adds variety 
 to the trials.
  
  Out of the court room Phoenix drops his attorney duties for a detective hat. You literally do everything 
 a detective would do. You go to specific places such as the crime scene and snoop around the area 
 looking for any clue you can to be used in trials. This part of the game as fun as it is has a 
 few flaws.
  
  I got lost many times and ended up banging my head into a wall as I could not figure out where 
 to progress anymore. I had clicked everything on the screen at a crime scene, presented evidence 
 to characters for them to comment on, and asked every question I could for any information but 
 it just did not progress sometimes. This seemed to happen often and it stumped me more then things 
 in trials did. I really disliked it a lot and wanted to get back to courtroom drama. However, when 
 the pace of the detective work was going smooth I found it very interesting and fun, I just wish 
 you did not literally have close to no leads to go on from time to time, you often find yourself 
 lost within this.
  
  One last thing to add is the last case of the game. As I said earlier this was a title of its own 
 in Japan for the Nintendo DS, and was ported into this game when released on the DS version. It 
 offers a few things that make detective work much more fun and I am looking forward to doing these 
 things in future titles if they ever make their way to North America. There are many tools such 
 as spray to see hidden blood on objects, and a finger printing tool you use the built in microphone 
 to blow away particles to see a fingerprint. There are tons of little things you do like this that 
 makes the detective work feel much more like real detective work and gives it better pacing.
  
  Ace Attorney: Phoenix Wright is most certainly not for everyone. People that hate to read should 
 steer as far away as they can with this game because the number one thing you will be spending 
 your time in it doing is reading. On the other hand those of us that enjoy reading and love video 
 games with a wonderful translated script, and those court drama fans should defiantly have this 
 in their collection. As for other gamers that are skeptical about it I can not say that you will 
 like it. The best thing to do is just try it and see what you think; you may fall in love with 
 the ever growing series as it really is a love hate relationship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney comes off as alot of fun and a perfect fit for the DS. The translation 
 was good, and I think, better in this game than in its follow-up: Justice For All. The fun really 
 is in conducting the trials, thinking things through, trying to come up with your own version of 
 what happened, and getting surprised along the way. The added last case was fantastic, and really 
 added something with the dusting for fingerprints and looking at objects in 3D. It's definitely 
 one pof those games that the thinking person wil enjoy, and if the idea of stepping into the shoes 
 of a defense attorney appeals to you, this is definitely a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoachV
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is one of those few games where the story isn't driven by the game: the game is 
 driven by the story. It is fortunate, then, that this game's story is so excellent. This amazing 
 though less than legally accurate courtroom drama game places you in the shoes of spiky-haired 
 Phoenix Wright, defense attorney. It appears that, in the world of Ace Attorney, all clients are 
 guilty until proven guilty and our constitution says only that everyone has a right to a speedy 
 trial, explained in-game by setting the story ~15 years into the future, where laws have been passed 
 to speed up trials at the expense of fairness. In a world where 99% of clients are found guilty 
 within 5 minutes of a trial, one spiky-haired man will stand up for the innocent client. This is 
 Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney.
  
  The gameplay is centered on two focuses: investigation and cross-examination. At the beginning 
 of most acts, Phoenix will first investigate the crime scene where his client, who is always innocent 
 (at least in this installment) , allegedly committed a crime. After finding an interesting clue 
 and enough evidence to prove his case, Phoenix will appear the next day in court to have a verbal 
 battle with a perfectionist prosecutor. Phoenix will need to pick apart a witness's testimony using 
 his evidence to uncover the fact that they are always lying under oath (though they never seem 
 to be penalized for it at all) . Of course, this is made more fun by the voice recognition; as embarrassing 
 as it is to shout OBJECTION! into your DS in public, it's also very satisfying to hear Phoenix 
 shout out along with you. It is, after all, the only time you get to hear his voice. Ultimately, 
 there's something about unravelling these mysteries that makes the game very compelling to play. 
 The game even incorporates a few touch-screen investigation techniques in the final, DS-exclusive 
 chapter, allowing you to search for fingerprints and tracking blood residue. (The original PW: AA 
 game in Japan was for the GBA, and did not include the new game's 5th chapter.)
  
  One last thing: the music in this game is awesome. It isn't that the sound itself is high-quality, 
 so much as that it sets the mood perfectly for every scene. During the calmer courtroom scenes, 
 the music will play a slow song quietly in the background. When Phoenix shouts out his signature 
 line, however ( OBJECTION! ) , the music switches to another, slightly faster theme as Phoenix makes 
 a fool of the prosecutor by noticing an obvious lie. When he has a witness cornered, the music 
 will hit full blast and you'll practically be jumping out of your seat. This is a beautiful touch 
 to an already good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusFreak1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  After hearing all the hype about this game since it came out, I finally decided to buy it, and 
 I was not disappointed. I can honestly say that this is the best text game I have ever played! 
 With such great characters, character, development, a great story, great dialogue, and great graphics, 
 you pretty much "need" this game if you have a DS!
  
  In this game you play as a defense attorney just starting his career. Over the course of the game 
 you will defend people while finding out who did the crimes.
  
  Game play: How you play the game is pretty simple, you have to defend people accused of murder 
 by finding contradictions in witnesses testimonies, usually by presenting a piece of evidence that 
 contradicts a witnesses statement, or sometimes simply pressing them about their testimony will 
 do the trick. You can also yell, "Hold It", "Objection", and "Take That" into the DS microphone 
 at certain times, which is a cool feature. The game spans 5 Episodes, they get longer as you go 
 on so it will take some time to finish this game.
  
  Besides defending the defendant in court, you also can investigate while out of court by talking 
 to people, presenting items to people to see if they know anything about them, and finding pieces 
 of evidence that are lying around in the crime area. In a later Episode, you can even check for 
 blood and fingerprints in cool ways using the stylus.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics for a DS game. Of course it's 2D anime style, but it suits the game well. 
 There are some 3D objects later in the game.
  
  Sound: Music is nice, there are some original catchy tunes that fit the mood of the game. There 
 is no voice acting other than the lines "Hold It" "Objection" and "Take That".
  
  Replay Value: Not much here, there are no mini games or anything like that to unlock (not that 
 this game needs them) . Once you finish the game, you know everything to do the next time you play 
 it. So the challenge ends once you finish the game, but the story and characters are worth replaying 
 the game for.
  
  Conclusion: Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney is the perfect game for adventure fans. Unlike some games, 
 you need to think for this one. There is not much more I can say about this game except, if anything 
 I said about this game interests you, go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanN003
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll get straight to the point, this game IS NOT for everyone. If you don't like reading or don't 
 like puzzles you will probably find this game boring.
  
  GAMEPLAY :) !
  This game is mostly classified as a point and click game. That's mostly what you do. The game is 
 devided into five cases, the first being a introduction. Each case has two fazes; Trail and investiagtion. 
 The case can have more then one of each. In Trail you listen to a witness' testimony then can either 
 Press (HOLD IT!) or object in which you have to show evidence that you gather in the investigation 
 faze (OBJECTION!) .
  
  GRAPHICS :) !
  The graphis are 2d, but they're very detailed. The characters' are beautiful, as are the backrounds. 
 Just go old 2D goodness
  
  Music :) !
  The music is actualy ok. Usually when I play a game I don't listen to the music, or put it very 
 low, with this game I actually listen to it. It's pretty good.
  
  Overall this game is great and is even better when it's only $10 (At most places) ! :) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavadias1981
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to descibe the game as there are reviews for it all over the place. I'll just give 
 my opinion.
  
  Now I love Japanese made games and I do love anime. This game is perfect for you if you like the 
 same. The art style is the sam as Rival Schools. So this is basically a courtroom Rival Schools. 
 It's flashy, it's fun and it's addictive.
  
  I think the characters are fantastic, the stories are excellent and it keeps you hooked the whole 
 way.
  
  I think it is a really great game but I dont think it will be the cup of tea of the standard gamer. 
 Japanese loving geeks like me will love it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Objection! That's a word you will hear A LOT when playing Ace Attorney, as this game is based on 
 investigating murder cases and trying to clear your defendant's name in court. However, the prosecution 
 won't make this a cake-walk, therefore the pace of things bind and twist to enthrall you deep inside 
 the storyline and discover who is the real culprit of the crime.
  
  Graphics - They are quite good. It's a standard game. This game is in no way a graphic-heavy game 
 (which means no 3D) , relying on text instead. It does present some awesome cut scenes, with bright 
 colors and detail. It will use constant funny movements in court to express the character's feelings 
 and state of mind, therefore you know by his/her expression if she is guilty after a few cross-examinations.
 
  
  Sound - I quite like the sound effects. OBJECTION is the funniest word there is, because it pronounced 
 in a somewhat determined manner a rookie attorney wouldn't present to the court (but PH is quite 
 a genius) . However, we don't have any talking voices except for objection, take that, or hold it. 
 I'd have like to see the culprit say I confess and the judge's decision said out loud to the courtroom, 
 but alas, this doesn't not happen.
  
  Gameplay - While not seeming like a deep storyline game right off the bat, it sure is. Every case 
 will keep you on your toes and sometimes desperate to find your way out of a tight situation in 
 court, or simply proceeding in investigation. The trials are fun, but serious, as this is not a 
 child's game, and it will help you understand better how trials work (witness statements vs. cross-examinations 
 and a lot of objections thrown in from both sides) .
  
  Replay Value - It doesn't present much here, unless you count on the main storyline which takes 
 around 15 hours to complete. However, it WILL have you finishing trials that can last up to 2 hours 
 just because of the text scrolling and cross-examination's. Not a game to play when you're tired, 
 so I suggest saving (you can save anytime except when in a conversation) , and playing another time.
 
  
  Overall, Ace Attorney is a must for DS gamers, and it sure marks it's firm presence after two years 
 of being an awesome game. We have two sequels released, which I'm sure will make an excellent gaming 
 experience. Therefore, if you like to defend people against their (near) doom, get this game and 
 start proving yourself in court! Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidfatdaniel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  GAME PLAY
  the game play is very easy to figure out. There are 5 full levels in the game. each level represents 
 a case the main character is working on. as always the first case is very easy, then it gets harder. 
 there are two parts of the game play, one is in the court trying to find flaws or contradictions 
 in people's testimonies. this game play involves you to use your brain. the other is to find evidence 
 in crime scenes. this is like a scavenger hunt. the game play involves reading.
  
  CONTROLS the controls in this game are very easy. Since the original Japanese version was for the 
 GBA there isn't a lot of touching required. you can also yell in the mic for objections. there are 
 parts where you have to use the touch screen to find things.
  
  SOUND TRACK this game has a piece of music for every situation, and they all sound great.
  
 
  CHARACTERS there a lot of characters in this game. each character is different and unique as another. 
 most of the get their own theme song. you play as Phoenix Wright a beginner defense attorney who 
 is trying ti save his friend in the first case
  
  In the end of the game i felt satisfied. the game has an incredible story line.
  it is like crazy 
 book into a video game. i gave it a perfect ten because their is no game like this, it is fun, 
 suspenseful, and unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellimist314
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of those games that can really only be described as unique 
 . In this game, you play as Phoenix Wright, a Defence Attorney who must prove his clients innocent 
 in the court of law. A large part of the game is investigation and detective work. You go around 
 to places related to the crime and collect evidence, talk to witnesses and suspects, and generally 
 try to figure out as much about what happened as you can before the courtroom proceedings begin. 
 It's easy to get stuck in these parts, mostly because you may be unsure of where to go. Eventually, 
 by using some common sense and with a little luck, you'll be able to figure out what to do next. 
 However, most of the action in this game takes place in the court trials themselves. Witnesses 
 will be called to the stands to present their testimonies. It's your job to go through these testimonies 
 to find any inconsistencies and exploit them. The game makes great use of the DS's capabilities 
 by allowing you to shout things like OBJECTION! , HOLD IT! , and TAKE THAT! into the built-in microphone 
 when you find these errors. It's extremely entertaining to do this, especially since it helps you 
 find out more about what went on on the day of the crime. The cases all have interesting twists 
 and turns, and will leave you surprised and satisfied when you finally piece together what actually 
 happened.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a fantastic game that shouldn't be missed by anyone looking for a fun, interesting 
 game to occupy their time. Playing as a lawyer in a series of court trials certainly doesn't sound 
 exciting, but after playing this game you'll agree that there's hardly anything that could have 
 been done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney has possibly the weirdest concept for any game, including Trauma Center. 
 You play as a defense attorney in a court of law and you must prove that your defendents are innocent 
 whereas the usually, corrupt prosecutors will try and get a guilty verdict no matter what the cost. 
 However, Capcom manages to truly capture all the best aspects of a trial and creates a truly original 
 and great game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is almost all text based and is split into two distinctly different types. 
 The first type of gameplay you will experience is the trial itself. You will be in court with all 
 your evidence and you must cross-examine witness's in order to prove your defendent is not guilty. 
 Once the witness gives his/her testimony, you have the chance to go line-by-line through the testimony 
 and finding all the holes and contradictions that the witness makes. You must also answer questions 
 given by the prosecutor and the judge in order to truly figure out what happened in the murder. 
 The trials are extremely intense and, while most of the puzzles aren't that hard, it feels very 
 satisfying to figure out exactly what happened before Phoenix does. Also, when the trial begins 
 to turn against you, it's a major adrenaline rush for you, the player, as well. The second type 
 of gameplay is more detective work than anything else. You must interview witnesses and find evidence 
 at the crime scene in order to get your case ready for the trial. The pacing to these parts of 
 the game can feel extremely slow especially if you get stuck for a while but they do add a nice 
 break to the intense trials. Also, you generally won't be stuck for too long as most of the information 
 can be gathered by simply going around and making sure you talked to everyone. There are a few 
 times when you simply have to guess what to do but these parts are thankfully few. When you are 
 stuck like this, simply try presenting evidence to all the witnesses and wait till something happens. 
 This part of the game will end once you have all the evidence and information so you don't have 
 to worry about not having everything you need for the trial.
  
  Story: The storyline is probably the best aspect of this game in that all the characters are extremely 
 likable and quirky in their own ways. You will grow very attached to all of them and their over-the-top 
 emotes can prove for some pretty entertaining scenes. The story centers around 4 different cases 
 most of which have something to do with an unsolved case that happened 15 years ago. While the 
 cases are all different, they are all just as important and nothing feels like filler at all. Also, 
 once you are done with the main 4 cases, you will unlock a 5th bonus case to attempt. All together, 
 the game is quite lengthy and will definitely last you for that long car ride.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are probably the strangest thing about this game. They are undoubtably good 
 but you can tell how little effort they really put into the graphics. The characters are entirely 
 stationary and just make little emotes that always fit with what they are saying. The backgrounds 
 are nice looking though.
  
  Sound: The music can really change the mood in Phoenix Wright and go a long way to increasing the 
 games quality. There are no voice-overs but the text is so well written that they aren't really 
 needed anyway.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodacun
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics: While it is true that Phoenix Wright's world is colorful and bright. The game uses static 
 picutes of characters and backdrops. This dated look can make the game a bit tendious at times 
 but doesn't really detract from the game itself. 1 out of 2 for Graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound on Phoenix Wright is not bad but you will probably end up play the majority of 
 the game with the sound off. 1 out of 2 for Sound.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Phoenix Wright is simplistic at best. Look for clues in the static backgrounds, 
 interogate witnesses, go to court. The court sceens are the highlight of the game, as the defence 
 attorney it's Phoenix's job to find holes in witnesses testamonies. But, this is easier then it 
 sounds because all you have to do is press a button after each part of the testamony until you 
 find a hole. And with no real consequence for missing something, the game will probably prove to 
 easy for anyone over the age of 12. 1 out of 2 for gameplay.
  
  Storyline: This storyline is where Phoenix Wright shines. The cases are intresting and have some 
 unexpected turns which will keep any player wondering who done it? The characters themselves are 
 supposed to be funny, but, if you look to hard, they come off more sterotypical then funny. 2 out 
 of 2 for storyline.
  
  Misc.: Phoenix Wright really doesn't have many special features. In fact the stories don't change 
 either so the game doesn't offer much replay value either. Unfortunately what you see is what you 
 get with this one. 0 out of 2 for misc..
  
  Overall: Don't be fooled Phoenix Wright is first and foremost a game for children. Anyone over 
 the age of 20 will probably not get much enjoyment out of it except for it's intresting storyline. 
 However the storyline can only take the game so far and with little replay value you probably won't 
 play the game throught more then once. 5 out of 10 Overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finaaalf9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  its hard to describe really what to say about PHOENIX WRIGHT, one thing im sure to say though is 
 as soon as you put stylus to touch screen its like and endless dream, you cant get out of it you 
 wanna play and when you finaly decide in yourself ok now i gotta stop dinner time has passed and 
 you need to figure out why your smoking less or whatever it is you do besides play games.
  for a long time games have been the same its all endless sport games shoot em ups beat em ups you 
 know the score even most of the games are sharing the same concept as other rival developers as 
 this is what sells, so one of my friends told me it takes a clever person to copy something but 
 a genius to make it their own so here im seeing the facts of it in many different forms that is.
 
  now PHOENIX WRIGHT this is pure genious in itself i think im sure i could even get my DAD who 
 is 60 hooked on this game it has that such flavour. for all who may contemplate buying PHOENIX 
 WRIGHT dont put it off its more than worth it although the price has not really gone down from 
 when it first came out you get the that was money well spent feeling.
  it can seem emotional at times playing this i think if some1 said different i would think they 
 had a POP TART for a HEART or just lying, at least i didnt cry playing this but i could see why 
 some would, it gut wrenching at the times when you dont expect it, builds you up oh and knocks 
 you back down again, really its what gamers want really now i dont care what some gamers say most 
 being the males in society you know the types that hate wii oh and ds this game is for every1 who 
 want it to change i see others the ones who dont like change well say they dont playing some really 
 good games i admit i like them too but also some damn tedious games ill mention the genre in some 
 form if you like for a few (wow yea i got a ball run from one side to the other score score whoohoohooooooooo, 
 hmmm well stats stats loading loading loading time up oh i won loading loading aw man i lost stats 
 stats stats stats time time time loading loading loading cool pictures that never change, cards 
 cards cards cards cards cards cards cards cards cards cards oh yeah it not poker but i get to see 
 weird little cute monster sort of things that have stupid abilitys but still cards  
 not saying all these games if you can see what im getting at are all turd thats isnt worth being 
 flushed it smells that bad but really most are stand up and agree for once ds does it for you and 
 so does wii,
  oh and PHOENIX WRIGHT is a damn sweet game, you may think after doing this game to the max is that 
 it but start again and you will be like ok then, try it you will understand.
  CAPCOM WE ARE NOT WORTHY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makashi805
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Order in the court lol. The game is about an up an coming D. A. (defence attorney) named Pheonix 
 who is basicly trying to help his clients proven innocent with the help of his mentor Mia. (if you 
 haven't played it, dont get to used to seeing her past the 2nd trial) . It has a lot of characters 
 that are animated and for the style or artwork this game has, most of the trials are a little dark 
 . It's a very good game and I recommend it to anyone who has yet to play this game. If price is 
 what your worried about it's on sale at most places for $20. The only downsides I could find in 
 this game is some of the characters cheesy names and not being able to yell objection in public 
 jk. Other than that it's a good buy and is starting to go up in popularity cause word of mouth 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Truth be told, I never wanted this game. My sister got it, and so I got into it too. It's a pretty 
 clever, fun game that really makes you feel like a lawyer, somewhat anyways. The game itself is 
 a complete original idea that was done right the first time, and that's good for this kind of game, 
 so people will buy this type of game. It's a colorful, intriguing, challenging, and very engaging. 
 It'll keep you playing hours.
  
  Positive- Appropriate art style, sounds, and music, lengthy, clever script, all around fun!
  
 
  Negative- even with the safety feature, it is pretty hard, needs some animation, should have some 
 extras or side cases, not a whole lot of replay value.
  
  Despite a few flaws, this is a great game that someone wanting something new should get. Who knew 
 I'd like a game I didn't want my sister to get? Anyways, this game is very rewarding, and a whole 
 lot of fun to play. (Even if it is hard) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6/10
  It's insane that a game can be so harshly text-driven and still find a way to have such a large 
 cult following. It is, no joke, an interactive book. Your Phoenix Wright, a new attorney who is 
 getting taught the ropes. You simply listen to the witness' testimony and find any thing that might 
 contradict some of your evidence, and when they are lying you yell Objection! in the microphone. 
 Like I said before, it's not very interesting. It is a good read though.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  It takes on an anime style with only a few animations per character, just to 
 display the basic emotions. It doesn't get too detailed but the art style is nice to look at. But 
 the characters lose their appeal quickly, because you are stuck for hours looking at the same animations 
 of the same characters.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  The music is really repetitive, and only has about two songs which it switches from. You will want 
 to play with the volume off, because the soundtrack is annoying.
  
  Value: 6/10
  Once you complete all five missions your done. This game has no replay value what so ever. It's 
 good to borrow out to friends, but that's about it. You probably wouldn't play this game more than 
 once, unless your a die hard fan.
  
  Reviewers's Tilt: 7/10
  There just really isn't a lot to say about this game, it has its set of charms but when you look 
 at the game as a whole it is only a monotonus book with the same music and animations being jammed 
 above words. If your into this kind of genre, this game is perfect for you... but this game isn't 
 really a game.
  
  -Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you are looking for a game with intense violence, little plot and guns a blazin, 
 this is not for you. If you are looking for an all around rich refreshing gaming experience that 
 makes itself uniqe and escapes from the rut of cliche games out there with an intense plot, unexpected 
 twists and turns, thrills and mystery, and immersive gameplay, then you might want to check this 
 out. I can hardly describe how I feel about this game. I loved it so much. Its an all around spectacularly 
 written game experience that will make you laugh out loud, gasp in disbelief, scream NOOOOOOOOO! 
 if a certain character leaves/dies leaving everyone around you in the room staring at you as though 
 you are insane for yelling at a game for no reason, and make you cry because such a good game is 
 over lol, and having to go buy Justice for All.
  
  It is heavily text driven, but it is extremely enjoyable as it never gets old. I think anyone with 
 appreciation for a good plot wont find this boring. It wont force you to resort to the ole  
 method like you might use on Ressetti in Animal Crossing. And although there is a set story and 
 it is mostly text, it has plenty player interaction to not make it too linear.
  
  You get to examine crime scenes and other areas to find objects, evidence, and to uncover clues, 
 talk to people and ask them different questions and present evidence to them, and then go to court. 
 This is where the game really picks up. You duke it out with prosecutors, press witnesses and present 
 evidence. It is extremely satisfying to scramble through evidence when the heat is on and the outcome 
 of the trial lies in your hands and presenting a key piece of evidence that proves your clients 
 innocence.
  
  Did I mention its hilarious? In every chapter there are at least part that makes you laugh. Not 
 to mention all of the times Maya says something so bizarre that you cant help but smile or you 
 meet a character with funny idiosyncrasies that are funny also. It also has some really intense 
 moments in the heat of a courtroom battle. It is also the most intriguing game I have ever played. 
 The chapter about the steel samurai had me unable to put it down only for meals and to use the 
 bathroom.
  
  All in all this is a gaming masterpiece that I can find no flaws with other than replay value (And 
 Im usually very critical) and has the best plots in any game I have ever played. It is one of 
 my favorite games of all time. I love this game and anyone with a brain and a DS will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystalmethod
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  At first I appeared to be a bit critical of Phoenix Wright, trying to deduct how the law setting 
 could be implemented into a game. My fears diminished however when I actually laid my hands on 
 this game, and boy how I was wrong.
  
  I won't lay too much into the background story but basicaly you're an upcoming barrister fighting 
 for your clients in court. That's basically the premise of the game. However, I'd say only 25% 
 of the game is actually played in the court, whereas the other 75% involves you going round different 
 locations finding out clues for yourself; which is probably really the only downside because I 
 don't know of too many barristers who get their hands dirty and go to the extremes that Phoenix 
 Wright does.
  
  Anyway, the gameplay plots out as you taking upon a case, going to different scenes back and forth, 
 back and forth getting clues and evidence ready to present to the court. The good thing is that 
 the game will let you know once you've down everything and it will allow you to go to the next 
 stage of the game; i. e. in the court. As I mentioned you will be going back and forth alot through 
 screens again and again trying to find evidence that you might have missed out and this is the 
 only real downside to the game. However, you'll soon get used to it and you'll have to learn to 
 live with it to experience the much better bits of the game i. e. in court...
  
  The court side of the game is the most enjoyable thing in my opinion (Considering I want to become 
 a barrister when I'm older, anyway....)
  In court you basically have to put your wits to the test and from this point on it's a really complex, 
 intelligent side to the game where you have to find flaws in the witness' statements and anything 
 that the opposition might say. Through these ways, presenting evidence, objecting, finding flaws 
 in testimony's, you'll solve the case and ultimately you win.
  
  So that's the gameplay side of things and that's what really makes the game stand out. The story 
 is good, the cases are really varied and detailed and the overall story to the world that you're 
 in unfolds before you and you get some nice little things towarsd the end of the game that make 
 the end-game content really worth getting there for. Anyway, it's a great game that I would recommend 
 to anyone with some patience. If you don't have patience and really cannot go through screen after 
 screen by hitting a move button then this isn't the game for you, sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BucketheadFan05
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game should hold no surprises for anyone who's read about. You're a lawyer, the game makes 
 you feel like a lawyer (a TV lawyer anyway) , and is all around.... pretty fun. My only real gripe 
 with it, the total lack of replayability. One other minor gripe, the DS specific features felt 
 tacked on. Some especially good parts are the presentation. The art and music is fantastic, the 
 graphics are static panels but still look pretty good. Another good feature is the feel, it really 
 feels like Law and Order DS. But all I can say is, there's nothing like yelling objection into 
 the microphone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After a long search for this game, i finally found it. The length of time it took me to find this 
 game was definitely well worth it in every way. Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney is the first game in 
 the series and it follows Phoenix Wright, a rookie yet skilled defence attorney and his first few 
 cases. I wont give any specific cases or details about the story of each case as it is much better 
 to see for yourself. There are returning characters from case to case as well ,some of which are 
 out to help Phoenix and others who want to bring him down, including Detective Gumeshow ( a detective 
 at the local precinct.) ,Maya Fey (your new partner and spirit medium in training) , the judge (a 
 pushover of an old man) and finally prosecutor Edgeworth (your rival throughout the story, a skilled 
 prosecutor.) .
  
  During each trial, the prosecutor will present witnesses and evidence, all seemingly show how the 
 defendant or your client in other words is guilty. What you are trying to do is use the evidence 
 found in the pre-trial investigations, witness testimony, and information from other people to 
 prove your client's innocence by showing contradictions in the witness testimony. The graphics 
 are really easy on the eyes. They definitely have a cartoony anime feel, that allows them to take 
 themselves seriously but during other times crack fun. They are very clean, and the characters 
 all look quite unique, and not only from each other. I suppose some of the locations in which you 
 must investigate could be a little more extravagant to match the character animation style. The 
 sound is solid, nothing too amazing here though. There are no voices, rather they characters speak 
 using text (works really well for the gameplay aspect but faulters slightly for sound) The music 
 is what really makes the sound what it is, with quite a few catchy tunes. The game does have very 
 little replay value as the Gamespot review says because it is all about not knowing exactly what 
 to do at first and experimenting with different possibilities. But this is not even a small problem 
 as the game takes at the very least 15 hours to complete, for me even longer than that. Overall 
 this was an amazing game well worth anyones while. If you dont mind the text based story, and some 
 goofy characters, this game would satisfy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcelice
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright tells the story of a rookie attorney by the name of Phoenix Wright. The characters 
 are all very eccentric and all have very distinct personalities, which adds to the experience in 
 the way that the game's storyline is very immersive and will have you hooked from the first chapter.
 
  
  Phoenix Wright is a verey different game, which sometimes works and sometimes doesn't. However, 
 for this courtroom sim, which sounds like it would be boring, being different is a great thing, 
 this game being very unique and posing as a very different experience from what most gamers are 
 accustomed to.
  
  The technicalities of the game, the technicalities being the graphics and sound, both work. The 
 graphics, though not the equivalent of any Xbox 360 title, work. The sound is very immersive as 
 well and adds a lot to the whole experience. I would definitely recommend that anyone playing this 
 game turn the sound up, for it adds a lot to the atmosphere of the game, and it also adds to the 
 edge-of-your-seat aspect of the game.
  
  The only thing in this game that I think brings it down is the fact that you are limited in how 
 to express your thoughts in the courtroom. Yes, this is unavoidable, but it still is a bit of a 
 problem when it is crucial that you get your point straight out.
  
  Though I was reluctant to pick up this game, I would definitely recommend that anyone pick it up 
 now. It is a refreshing, immersive, addicting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright puts a new spin on gameplay. In this game, you don't fight your way to the end, 
 trusty sword in hand; rather, you wits and your words are your weapons, and the courtroom is your 
 battleground.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is an immensely fun game. Learning the ropes is a cinch. The game walks you through the process 
 of the game, so there's no learning curve to bog your mind down. Instead, you are able to jump 
 right into the battle of wits, completely unhampered. The difficulty of the cases steadily increases 
 as you go along until you reach the fairly difficult (though not TOO hard) fifth and final case. 
 The game makes good use of all three of the DS's unique features: the double screen, the touch 
 screen, and even the microphone.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very simple, but it fits perfectly with this style of game. The graphics are all 
 hand drawn with simple, repetitive animations for the characters. Like I said, the key here is 
 that though it's all very simple, it fit perfectly with the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound was very simplistic and very repetitive. It had a style that fit nicely with the game, 
 but I thought it could have been much improved if there had just been more variety to the music. 
 The sound effects were nice, and the tiny minute bit of voice acting was a nice touch (pretty much 
 just hearing Phoenix or the prosecutor yelling Objection ) .
  
  Value:
  
  This game stands alone in the DS library. You'll find none like it (except the other installments 
 in the series) . The only problem is that there's not really any replay value. There's one way to 
 solve a case, so replaying it isn't gonna change the path you take. Overall Summary:
  
  This is a great game that I can highly recommend. If you're new to the gaming scene, this game 
 is a cinch to pick up and play, and it's save-anytime system makes it a good game to play when 
 you're on the go. If you're a hardcore player, the game is fun and entertaining enough to keep 
 you busy as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacksonHSR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Truely innovative. Phoenix Wright has such a great mystery solving thing with lots of twists and 
 use of the touch screen.
  
  Gameplay: You actually feel like an attorney/detective at law. Looking at evidence and finding 
 condraditions. It's such a thrill to solve mysteries!
  
  Graphics: Great anime/comic style thing and the backgrounds are good. Sound: The music actually 
 feels like the action such as the music suspects would feel when they're cornered. I love it!
 
  
  Value: This is definetely worth buying. Very popular and an original classic!
  
  Tilt: I've been playing a lot! Yet the game can get very hard so I have to on Gamefaqs. com for 
 some help. I definetely recommend this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riviera_Phantom
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright known as Gyakuten Saiban in Japan is a well known series, but this is the first 
 time it's being released outside of Japan so it's not that well known here. For the first game 
 in the series it delivers a classic and memorable experience for anyone to anticipate it's eventual 
 successors.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Very simply in terms of what you have to do. Basic menu navigation, and presenting items for evidence. 
 You also have to search areas by clicking on them for more information. There isn't much more to 
 this other than tapping on the screen. Later on you will be using the touch screen functions and 
 mic for more unique features like blowing and removing stuff etc.. Apart from these PW primarily 
 focuses on you thinking about how to solve problems and unravel mysteries. It's pretty much a mind 
 game.
  
  Sound/Graphics
  
  Great music and although there isn't any voice acting the sound effects are done well and immerse 
 you into the characters. Even if you can't stand reading PW does a good job of keeping you entertained. 
 Graphics are nice and give the game a decent anime look. Animations of characters are a little 
 repetitive but it doesn't really get in the way too much.
  
  Value- 5 chapters and the longest ones will take you around 4-5 hours first time through. Some 
 of the cases are pretty difficult especially without any help. So don't expect to breeze through 
 it. Part of the fun is failing and then becoming victorious at the end. You can get a little emotional 
 too.
  
  Tilt.
  
  This game is though rely enjoyable and is a must play for anyone wanting a fairly lengthy game 
 in which tests your mind skills and ability to solve puzzles through dialog situations. Even with 
 all of that there's still an interesting bunch of characters, well developed plots and great sound 
 and graphics for you to enjoy. If you like anime or reading a good story/solving puzzles then i 
 highly recommend it. If you are into crime solving of any sorts then this is an essential purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HexrapperII
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: So, Judge, as you can see, there is no doubt that the witness is guilty. They 
 left prints, they were caught on security cam, they left behind a belonging of their own; obviously, 
 it his he, and not my client, who is guilty! What say you to that, Judge?
  
  Witness: Uhh! ACK! EEK! DAMN IT! NO! RUINED! RUUUIIINNNEEDDD!!!
  
  Judge:  eh. I need to 
 see more proof. Prosecution, will you call your next witness?
  
  Witness:  ah, yes, you see, I am not guilty, hah!
  
  Phoenix Wright: &gt;_ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanna87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Well.. I played Phoenix Wright when it came out and I find the game simply brilliant.
  I love this game for many reasons.
  The characters; all of them are very much alive and have 
 lots of color in their character and personality.
  The Story; Never fails to surprise me with the twist in the end and puts a wow in my heart.
  
 The humor; It is the right kind of humor at the right time (well.. who cares really as long as 
 its funny!)
  This is one game that make you look silly with or without anyone around you.
  A great game to relax yourself (Take that!)
  It's good to know that the game hits America cuz 
 other english players from other countries could enjoy too!
  Open the japanese culture into America! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eosmera
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  In the game you play an attorney, Phoenix Wright, who is fresh out of law school and onto his first 
 trial where you are defending your friend Larry Butz, who is charged with murder, and this being 
 your first case you are very nervous and even froget who the victum is even though you had just 
 looked at is a second earlier (but they do this so you can learn how to use your inventory to check 
 on important people and your evidence that you have gathered) . Phoenix is a very uncanny character 
 with very witty remarks and some lame jokes (ala Adam West's Batman.) A busty lady named Mia Fey 
 is your superior and mentor (she gives you tips as to what you are looking for) . Mia's little sister, 
 named Maya, is your assistant and she is a medium in training. And then of course, there is your 
 rival, Miles Edgeworth, he became a prosecutor at a young age and does anything to get a guilty 
 judgment for the defendant wether they did it or not. Gameplay:
  
  The game is mostly a textbased adventure but there are some point-and-click parts where you go 
 and find evidence and question defendants and witnesses and such. The story is broken up into episodes, 
 which each has their own case except for one or two two-part episodes. Each episode has you defending 
 another client who you presume is innocent and try and prove them innocent. The trials are fun 
 and captivating in the sense that you start to really like (or dislike) some of the characters 
 you are examining, and the judge is on the whole guilty until proven innocent rule . The courtroom 
 scenes are basically the witness giving you his testamony and then you cross-examine them and find 
 flaws in their story, sometimes this is really difficult which I find interesting cause I like 
 a challenge in my games. Well now that i've told you the good let's get to the bad, which really 
 isn't much, First off sometimes the judge seems like an idiot, you present some evidence that is 
 rock solid and if the prosecution has some counter evidence he right of the bat believes the prosecutor 
 unless you have more evidence. Secondly is it is a bit linear in that you have a set path and there 
 really arent anyother way to get to the end of the game other than the set path, which makes the 
 replayabilty factor kinda low. And finally, they try and add some innovation by letting you hit 
 the Y button and saying Hold It into the microphone, which sounds good on paper but it is really 
 just a gimmick and it is too picky as too what you are saying, expecially when you can just tap 
 the screen and get the job gone quicker. I wish they could have done more with this feature but 
 it isn't that big of a deal. Technical:
  
  The game's grapics are 2d and the character designs are done really well in an anime/manga stlye 
 that is really cool, as a bonus when you talk to someone their picture atually changes with their 
 emotions (I know it's not that interesting but it works really well) . There aren't really any voices 
 other than the Objection and Take That voices, other than that it is all up to your imagination 
 as to how they sound. CONCLUSION:
  
  In all the game is fun, innovative, and very quirky with some laugh out loud moments. Rarely is 
 there a game in which the story outshines the gameplay but this is one case, I hope they plan on 
 bringing more of these stateside cause I had a blast. If you have a DS get this game, and if you 
 don't now is the best time to get one with all of these great games coming out. SCORE: I give Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Nintendo DS-Phoenix WrightAce Attorney
  
  Review 68
  
  Released: October 12, 2005
  Developer: Capcom
  Game Genre: Adventure
  
  Opening Thoughts:
 
  This is an interesting review for me, because I played the sequel before the original game. Before 
 I even start reviewing, let me say this. The first game is ten times better than the second. I 
 should go back to the review of the sequel just to turn the improvements category into unimprovements.
 
  
  Story
  It deserves more than a 10. The game ranges from a weak storyline in the first case, to such a 
 deep and developed storyline in the last case. There are so many hidden things in the first game 
 that turn up in the sequel that its pretty obvious that Capcom knew what they were doing.
  
  You control Phoenix Wright in a text-based adventure. Phoenix is a rookie defense attorney 
 studying under Mia Fey. I wont even say anything else about the storyline because just one thing 
 will be a humongous spoiler because of how deeply the storyline is written. Basically, you go through 
 court cases solving murders. The main theme of the game is turnabout and there are so many turnabouts 
 in one case that it will have your mind reeling and wondering when the case will ever be solved.
 
  
  I have never seen a better storyline in any game.
  
  Gameplay
  The game is based off of the DS touch screen and the microphone. There are 4 court cases to play, 
 and a bonus case at the end that turns out to be better than all previous 4 cases combined.
  
  During the course of the game, Objection, Hold It, and Take That may be yelled into the 
 DS microphone, which will trigger a similar response from Phoenix. If you are in a loud place in 
 which said phrases can not be yelled, then there is always the option of touching a button on the 
 touch screen that does the same thing.
  
  I have never seen such in-depth play in my life. Between cross-examining witnesses, pressing for 
 more info, presenting evidence at the right times, all while trying not to receive penalties from 
 the Judge for making stupid mistakes, investigating crime scenes and interacting with characters 
 throughout the story, the game is incredibly advanced for its early release on the Nintendo DS 
 and is definitely worth picking up.
  
  Graphics
  Such graphical qualities are not seen on any DS game to this day (June 11, 2007) . The real graphics 
 are saved until the fifth and final case, however and so the game may seem like it is lacking graphical 
 qualities until that final case is played. However, the graphics in that final case make up for 
 anything lacking in the previous cases.
  
  Durability
  There is not a replayability factor, but the game will last you a long time, and you will not get 
 bored with it at any point in the game. Once again, the game is much worth picking up.
  
  Sound:
  Ha! Wonderful! A good game on a handheld system that doesnt have terrible sound! How 
 about that! There is a wide variety of music through the game, and each prosecutor you face has 
 his own Objection sound, giving the game a real-life feeling. The music fits the mood of the 
 game very well, and definitely increases the excitement of the game.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  It is very hard to come by a game that gets a 10 rating for me. In fact, I believe this is the 
 first 10 I have given out, and it is my 68th review. This should show you how excellent the game 
 is. Buy it. Play it. You will enjoy it. I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noirkitty
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Awesome! Good to see the new 'Criminal/Detective' genre a growing success - can't wait to play 
 'Hotel Dusk' next! This kind of gameplay is really suited to the design of the DS with its stylus, 
 but I can imagine it being equally as successful if it were initially designed for the PSP because 
 the game plays well even without the stylus. The graphical style is 'anime' which complements well 
 with the quirky and comical themes of the game! The timing of the actions, speeches from each character 
 were just perfect, creating a dynamic storyline and punchy 'call and response' atmosphere that 
 occurs in the court trials. Simply well interactive and addictive to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Randas
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  A game where you play as a defense attorney putting the bad guys away seemed amusing to me from 
 the start. Phoenix Wright offers loads of characters as well as tons of investigating for your 
 cases. The game is totally loaded with text so for anyone who may have a disgust for reading might 
 as well take the game back now. If you don't like to think or solve puzzles than this game isn't 
 for you either. I had a nice, long time completing this game thinking it wasn't as long as I had 
 anticipated. The cases aren't what they seem until you actually find the solution so each case 
 gets more interesting until you get to the end which kept me wanting to find out what is going 
 to happen next. Each character has his or her own personality, and this really makes the game entertaining. 
 I applaud Capcom for creating a new type of game that not only makes you think but also keeps you 
 wanting to play more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -dj2-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  I'd been wanting this game since I read the review on GS. I went to EB Games to window shop a week 
 or so ago and they were having a huge clearance sale. I found it for $20 Cdn... so I naturally bought 
 it. :-) I'm glad I did! It's the only game I've been playing for the last week and I play it whenever 
 I have free time. I like the simple UI and the complexity of the cases is nice. The cartoon graphics 
 fit with the game: I don't think I'd like it as much if it was in 3D. I don't feel like my mind 
 is slipping away...:-) A must buy for anyone who wants something completely different! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me be entirely honest: I thought this game was dumb when it came out. I never would've 
 dreamed I'd ever buy it, and certainly not that I'd get hopelessly addicted to it.
  
  But I did.
  
  This game is a thing all its own. It's hilarious, charming, and insanely fun. 
 It has some of the best characters I've ever encountered (How about a long-winded old lady named 
 Wendy Oldbag?) , and seeing them interact is insanity.
  
  Half of the game is investigation, half is actual in-court battling.
  
  The investigation parts 
 are... I'll admit, a little tedious at times. But they're entirely necessary, and don't ruin the 
 game at all. In fact, later on in the game you get some cool little tools that make it a lot of 
 fun (fingerprinting, for example, by tapping powder on a surface, and then actually blowing into 
 the microphone to blow the dust away) .
  
  The in-court action is some of the best fun I've had. It kind of challenges you a bit, because 
 you have to pay attention to every little detail, and be able to tell when someone's lying (and 
 then be able to prove this by presenting evidence) . Plus, the dialogue is some of the funniest 
 I've ever come across.
  
  One other great thing about the game is the writing. In the later cases, I promise you, you have 
 NO IDEA what's actually going on, during the first day or two of the trial. The plot twists are 
 frequent and surprising, and loads of fun to come across.
  
  Bottom line: If you own a DS, you need to own this game. I stake my reputation (whatever that may 
 be) on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: Deep and engaging story, wonderfully goofy cast of characters, utilizes the touch screen 
 of the DS quite well, very addicting courtroom sequences, is fairly lengthy, proves that the adventure 
 game genre isn't quite dead.
  
  The Bad: You have to read the entire game, no replayability at all.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When you think of real life professions that a video game could be based on, a defense attorney 
 isn't the first thing that comes to your mind. Sure, it would be fun to turn one of those reality 
 courtroom shows like Judge Judy into a game, but how could that honestly be fun? Well, Capcom has 
 created a game that attorneys and fans of CSI should be proud of. It's an adventure game for the 
 Nintendo DS, entitled Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. You play as Phoenix Nick Wright, an upstart 
 defense attorney who begins his career with the trial of his childhood friend, Larry Butz (what 
 an unfortunate last name) . The game begins with the trial of Larry Butz, who is accused of murder. 
 Your job is to prove him innocent using evidence. The first case of the game basically tells you 
 how to play the courtroom sequences, which are the best parts of the game. You must search the 
 evidence presented for each case, and cross examine whitnesses' testimonies to find contridictions 
 with the evidence or other testimonies. This is fun, especially for those who enjoy solving puzzles, 
 not of the typical, lame video game variety. Phoenix Wright is pretty much entirely text based, 
 so you have to read the entire game. This may sound like a bad thing, but because of the game's 
 awesome storyline, you honestly don't see that as much of a problem. It's just like a good book 
 that you can't put down. There are a total of four cases in the game, with a bonus hidden case 
 for after you beat the main game. The four main cases are mostly connected, yet are their own stories 
 in themselves. Starting with case 2, you must investigate crime scenes and interview possable whitnesses 
 to find ammo that you can use in court. These investigative sequences are basically fillers for 
 giving you something to do in between courtroom sequences, but they do give a ton more depth to 
 the characters and make the cases even more interesting. Sometimes, when a verdict is almost assured, 
 one piece of evidence will be revealed that solves the whole case, and it's not something you expected 
 to be important. During these investigative sequences, you use the DS' stylus and touch screen 
 to examine parts of crime scenes. You might come accross evidence that could be important for the 
 case. You also use it in court when you present evidence. The use of the touch screen is actually 
 quite effective, and is a nice addition that utilizes the DS to it's fullest extent. You can even 
 yell Objection! into the mike to get even more into the game. In all honesty, this game was a shock 
 to me. I never expected it to be as good as it ended up being. I've never been a fan of adventure 
 games, but I absolutely adored this game. I honestly think that law offices should heavily promote 
 this game, because it could have middle to high school kids want to become lawyers because of it. 
 The visuals of Phoenix Wright are cartoony, but work out very well with the game. The lack of voice 
 acting is somewhat annoying, but the story is so good, that you honestly don't pay that much attention 
 to that fact. The music is actually quite good for a DS game. Unfortunately, dispite the fact that 
 this is an amazing game, it has pretty much zero replayability. Once you know how to solve the 
 case, there's really no point in solving it again. I would recomend buying the game, finishing 
 it in full, then trading it in when you are done for the second one!
  
  Overall, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the Nintendo DS is an outstanding game that is a must 
 buy for all DS owners looking for something different, yet so addicting.
  
  Gameplay: I don't know why, but this is a game that is almost impossable to put down!
  
  Graphics: 
 Cartoony, but they work with the game's consept.
  
  Sound: There's no voice acting and the sound effects are kinda lame, but the music is actually 
 quite good for a DS game.
  
  Value: This game is definately worth having for the awesome storyline, but there's not much to 
 go back to once you're done.
  
  Final Thoughts: Objection! The evidence proves my statement, you're honor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enral
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Once you start on it, you can't stop. The story is totally engaging and propell you into the world 
 of laws; from another point of view that is. If you need a game of detective, lawyer debating, 
 intense situations and nice story line, go get this game, I promise you won't regret it.
  
  Main story: Nice and good flow, very well done.
  
  Engage: Engages you into the game and story. 
 You can't put it down once you start.
  
  Replay value: High replay value.
  
  Graphics: Nice and smooth.
  
  Music: Not alot, but you kinda get in the mood to forget about 
 the music.
  
  Conclusion: Get this game as soon as you get a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minks00
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  I was quite dubious of this game at first, from reading reviews that said this game had far too 
 much text in it. However, I couldn't have been more wrong. Yes, the game does have a lot to read 
 and that's what you do most of the time, but the dialogue pulls you into the story and leaves you 
 eager to get into the courtroom! This is a truely unique game with well thought-out cases and storylines. 
 The only downside for me are the parts where you collect evidence for the defense - the movement 
 option between buildings and different rooms could have been developed a bit better and it is sometimes 
 quite lengthy. In my opinion this particular function of the game doesn't fully utilise the DS 
 capabilities. Aside from that, there isn't really anything else I can fault in this game. I think 
 it is the sort of game you either love or hate (due to the lengthy dialogue and amount you have 
 to read) , but it does made you think. You actually get quite a buzz from making objections and 
 winning the case - it's very addictive! I can't wait to play the next installment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I simply started playing Phoenix Wright based on the good reviews, and trying to picture playing 
 a lawyer-sim that wouldn't bore me to tears. This was quite the opposite.
  
  Phoenix Wright has all the makings of a great game series that could be just as popular here, as 
 it is in Japan. We have a deep line up of characters that have a bit of backstory to them. The 
 way the DS is used in some cases is innovative and fun. The game does a fantastic job of going 
 between comedy and drama. As for the text-driven gameplay, it's more like reading a very well written 
 crime drama, with all the twists and turns it takes you on. But out of all that great stuff I mentioned, 
 the one the Phoenix Wright does best, is making you use your head at the right moments. Present 
 the wrong piece of evidence, and an innocent person goes free. Say the wrong thing, and you may 
 be in contempt of court. It's so well done, that it keeps you on your toes for most of the game. 
 If there's one thing that would be considered negative about Phoenix Wright, it's the fact that 
 it essentially has no replayability other than wanting to see how fast you can blow through the 
 game again. But that's a minor detail. Phoenix Wright has all the ingredients to make a great game 
 series, and DS owners will do themselves a world of good by picking up this unexpectedly fun and 
 deep game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblemrocks
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is great plot is suspense, so it keeps you like i want to know who killed who and 
 why and discover it all and of course when you are on court you really hate the character against 
 you so when you win the case is simply awesome you say take that you dumb ass it is great you wanna 
 give that lier giving testimonies full of crap what he deserves and when you make that sucker sweat 
 and almost cry giving the contradictions in his testimony, is great, i love this game and you really 
 will get into the story, the gameplay is great but not so great like the plot it dosen't have really 
 much innovation but it fits quite good with the game, now the learning curveis about 10 to 30 minutes 
 you know the controls don't have very much science the gave difficulty is easy sometimes you'll 
 get stuck but only think and analyse the situation and you will do fine you will send 5 hours more 
 or less depends of how well you do but the time yo spend dosen't matter it is worth playing. the 
 graphics are pretty cool very good drawn. So this game is all overall a 10 game but taking in account 
 some stuff it'll be 9 you must get it, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliver_475
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Ace Attorney is the 1st game in a unquie series that lets you be Phenonix Wright 
 (and shout objection a lot :P)
  
  Gameplay: Full on 10/10
  
  This game will have you yelling objection! at your DS mic + friends hours on end! Finding contradictions, 
 Getting Witnesses to crack + collecting evidence, wu knew that been a lawyer is this much fun! 
 This game will make you think, and not make it seem like a puzzler
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Full pure 2D goodness
  
  For once, this is a game thats completely in 2D + is 
 unique in its manga presentation and apparently contains lots of stuff from pop culture (though 
 i didnt notice any... well thts me for u) The cutscenes are also well presented + animated, only 
 from japan as they say....
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The people may not speak, but the music is pain stakingly on point for a game of this type: quick 
 faced tempo peices for suspensefull moments, + slow tempo music to change the mood. This game will 
 have u humming the tunes days on end Value: 7/10
  
  Falling into the same trap as most games... its just too damn short to be satifying! Aswell as 
 that, once you complete all the cases, there is no reason to go back... presenting a limitation 
 in replay value
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Wud never thought law would have come to the gaming world... but it has... a truely unique idea 
 well implicated in the game
  
  Pheonix Wright: Ace Attorney is a diamond in the rought, its truely unique and implicates its gameplay 
 ideas well, giving a overwhelmingly good overall game, you should at least try it! Capcom we salute 
 you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakkabe
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is one of those games that makes you wonder Who's the guy that thought this would 
 work? A court game? Who knew it could be so fun?
  
  As a lawyer in the near future, it's your duty not only to defend your client in court, but to 
 investigate the case and build up a defense using evidence you collect on entirely illegal searches. 
 Search warrants? Pshh. Full disclosure? Nah, too much trouble. By taking a few creative liberties, 
 Capcom was able to make a very exciting and dramatic story. Some of these cases rival professionally 
 made TV shows like CSI and Law and Order, despite the game's simplistic evidence and lack of expert 
 material.
  
  In my opinion, Phoenix Wright is a winner because it takes advantage of all of our natural desire 
 to beat other people in arguments. To maximize this effect, the characters (who all have wonderful 
 personality) display greatly exaggerated emotions, giving us all a guilty sort of vindication every 
 time you catch someone in a lie. It's the kind of thing most games don't let you in on... the feeling 
 that you truly outsmarted a worthy opponent.
  
  The game isn't perfect, of course. Occasionally, the evidence you're meant to present is anything 
 but clear, and other times it's painfully obvious. But while your assistant Maya (or later, Ema) 
 is occasionally annoying with her stating of the obvious, Phoenix always reacts to it in a fitting 
 way that sets your mind at ease.
  
  The final word? This game brings satisfaction like no other, but very few people will get any replay 
 out of it at all. Borrow it if you can, but buy if you must, because you'll be glad you had this 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games that you never expect to see make it outside of Japan, let alone into 
 the stores over here in the UK, but just like Katamari and Trauma Center before it the games industry 
 is realising that these kind of games do have a market over here as well, so i was pleasantly surprised 
 to get my hands on this game.
  To put it bluntly its not what you would expect, it seems to meet the line between Hotel Dusk and 
 Trauma Cnetre for seriousness and comedy and that is no bad thing. The game sets you up as a defence 
 attourney proving the innocence of people up for murder, and its a nice change thats its not your 
 life on the line for once but the life of another, and that life is in your rookie hands.
  Right from the get go this game oozes creativity and the kind of fun you expect from a really excellent 
 Nintendo game.
  this is part courtroom drama, part point and click adventure, between argueing your case in court 
 you explore the city, finding clues, interviewing people and looking for the murderers true identity. 
 And depending on how much evidence you gathered adn how well you got people to like you will affect 
 your sucess in the courtroom.
  Getting to the courtroom portions of the game you listen to the testimony of witness, press them 
 for details, try to find faults in ther testimony and then use evidence to prove it, which at times 
 is glaringly obvious, other times frustraitingly obscure, but regardless when you prove that your 
 evidence clears your defendant youcant help feel a small sense of accomplishment.
  as well as presenting the evidence with the stylus you can do it with the mic. you can object by 
 holding y and actually yelling OBJECTION! , or if you have vital proof TAKE THAT! , adn whilst 
 i wouldnt recommend that on the bus this really amps up the fnu factor of this game a lot.
  little touches like this means its allready an excellent game, but the soundtrack really excels 
 as well, unlike other ds games such as project rub or trauma center, this game has a really memorable 
 adn toe tapping soundtrack, and again the fun factor is raised by victory music straight out of 
 an anime playing clear as a bell on the speakers of the ds when you find that vital piece of evidence.
 
  All in all this makes a fluid, easily accesilbe and extremely enjoyable gameing experience, the 
 only troubel is that once youve played it through thats it. no replay incentives the same game 
 over and over, and given you know were to find the vital evidence and what to say in court this 
 means there is little to no replay value, that said this is an incredibly fun and unique gameing 
 experience that i can heartily recommend to ds owners of any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariocollins
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I can safely say this is one of the best games i've ever played. The stories are clever and witty. 
 The characters are brilliant and one game that will satisfy everyone that plays it. The game is 
 easy to learn and the feeling when you get your first clirnt a not guilty verdict. Magical. The 
 thrill you get when you point holes in peoples contadiction is indescribable. The Characters can 
 be annoying at times but are all cleverly thought up and drawn in such a way you love some characters, 
 and instantly hate other characters.
  Worth it's weight in gold. If you like a very word based story, with excellent plot's and tremendous 
 drawings, this game is just for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsunamiwave
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  It's a lawyer game. Yeah, I know, it sounds boring, but it isn't (unless all you like is going around 
 filling enemies with bullets) !
  
  This is a deep and interesting game. You play the role of a rookie lawyer who needs to make sure 
 his clients get a not guilty verdict. This game needs to be played to be enjoyed. It's basically 
 a test adventure game but thanks to the interesting style it's shown in, together with the excellent 
 writing and catchy soundtrack, it managd to become a very good game!
  
  However, now comes the flaw, like any sort of literature, it all remains exciting and thrilling the 
 first time you play it. When you try it a second time though, all excitement diminishes by 90%. Why? Because 
 this game has a set ending for each mission and if you already know what's going to happen, why 
 bother?
  
  So there you have it, a pretty cool game with low replay value. If you like reading the same story 
 again and again, do what i did, and get this game! Otherwise, this game's pretty much a worth a lengthy 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirktu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  A lawyer sim would never be any good? Well, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (PW: AA) isn't just good, 
 it's great, although it could hardly be called a lawyer sim.
  
  Summary
  
  PW: AA is basically a detective game, with some neat character development and a nice coherent 
 story as well.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay of PW consists of two parts: doing detective work and finding clues and evidence, 
 and the trial in the court itself. Both are done equally well, and both are also story driven. 
 In the trial you'll be the lawyer and you'll have to clear your client by continuously objecting 
 when applicable. But these objections have to be backed up by evidence, otherwise you'll lose points. 
 Lose to many points, and it's game over!
  In general, the game and especially the objection system is quite clever, but it sometimes is frustrating 
 when you're smarter than the game. As the game is totally scripted, you won't be able to back up 
 your objection by perfect evidence if it isn't in the script so to speak. Some people claim this 
 happens all the time, but REALLY usable evidence won't be accepted on just a few occasions. More-often 
 the 'thinking' of the game will appear to be quite far-fetched, but this doesn't really pose any 
 problems.
  
  The gameplay in the last Case is made DS specific, and indeed offers a great experience, but it 
 should be seen as an added bonus, as the general gameplay is already solid enough. It uses both 
 the touch-screen and the microphone more extensively than the previous cases.
  
  The story is nicely done, and all 5 cases interrelate to some extent. It is especially cool to 
 witness the relation between Edgeworth and Wright throughout the game! In the beginning you don't 
 know better than he's your enemy, but throughout the game you'll really get to learn both him and 
 yourself (okay, this is getting way too 'spoilerish'.....)
  One of the biggest strengths of PW: AA is as such the characters presented in the game and the 
 script in general. At times it will let you ROFL or get emotionally involved.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are GBA quality (which is logical, considering it is a port for the 
 most part) , but there's nothing wrong with them. The character animations are often hilarious, 
 but sometimes the pose doesn't fit the English script.
  The graphics in the 'detective' part of the game are a little better than those in the trial, and 
 even stand out at times.
  
  Sound
  
  The music and sounds just fit the game in a weird but fun way as well. The game and especially 
 Phoenix Wright himself don't take themselves too seriously which is also presented in the sound 
 of the game.
  
  Value
  
  For a game built around cases, this game is surprisingly long. And while playing, you absolutely 
 won't get bored. Unless, of course, you can't appreciate the quirky atmosphere.
  If you've played through this game it hardly has any replay value, but due to its length and quality 
 this isn't an issue really.
  
  Closing comments
  
  Phoenix Wright is a really great game, and I even thought about tweaking the GS scores a little 
 to let it obtain an even higher score. But now that it's quite a while that I finished it, it becomes 
 easier to see things in perspective. And that perspective teaches us that PW: AA is just a solid, 
 but most of all a fun game, but isn't polished enough IMO to deserve a score in the 'extremely' 
 high score region. However, PW: AA does serve as an example of good DS gameplay and can even be 
 considered as one of the best DS games to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrfan44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a rich, lengthy and heavily text driven game. If youre into a 
 game with a great story, but lots of reading, this is your game. Phoenix Wright: AA starts you 
 off as a rookie defense attorney working for a law firm. Your first case just happens to be a murder. 
 Youre nervous before you enter the courtroom but your mentor and boss, Mia, helps to calm you 
 down. Finally, its time to enter the courtroom and your first case has begun!
  
  The gameplay in PW: AA mainly consists of 3 phases: First, youll see a cut scene showing you the 
 basic pretense of the case and who may or may not be the murderer. Secondly, you go investigate 
 the crime scene, interview/interrogate witnesses, collect evidence and learn useful information. 
 Finally, you go to the courtroom, cross-examine witnesses, point out contradictions, present evidence 
 and (hopefully) win the case. While this may sound monotonous, its not. The character interactions 
 are so rich, that youll want to explore every environment, talk to every witness, and collect 
 every piece of evidence. It gets to the point where, sure you can present the wrong piece of evidence 
 and still win the case, but you dont want to because youre afraid youll disappoint the judge. 
 Few games that I know of can make you care so much for its characters. The game also makes good 
 use of the DSs touch screen such as pointing out contradictions in a photograph, examining evidence 
 in a 3d viewer, or spraying luminol to find blood. It also uses the microphone for things such 
 as shouting Objection! during the trial instead of just pressing a button. Overall, the gameplay 
 in PW: AA is one of its strongest points and works well with its story to create an immersive atmosphere. 
 The graphics in PW: AA have a distinct almost anime-like style. The characters are very sharp looking 
 and have very sudden changes in their appearance in some situations. The 3d evidence looks ok, 
 more like traditional 3d DS graphics than PW: AAs style. One thing you may notice about PW is that 
 there is very little animation. While Im not saying there is no animation (theres quite a bit) , 
 for most of the game the characters are represented as stills with some occasional animation here 
 and there. But that doesnt take away from the how good the graphics look in the first place. Everything 
 from the environments to the characters has a lot of detail and looks like a lot of care was put 
 into them. Overall, PW: AA is a very colorful, detailed game.
  
  The sound in PW: AA is not one of its strong points nor is it a weak point. Music wise youll have 
 different music depending on the environment youre in. In the courtroom, it all depends on situations. 
 If something funny just happened, then light music will be playing. But if a tense situation just 
 occurred, then fast paced music will play. The characters themselves arent voice acted, except 
 for in the courtroom where your and the prosecutions Objection! s and Hold It! s are voiced by 
 each character.
  
  Value wise, think of Phoenix Wright: AA as a good, long novel. It will take you some time to finish 
 and youll enjoy every second of it. But once you finish it you wont immediately want to replay 
 it, maybe not even for a year or more. But like a good book, every once and awhile youll decide 
 to pick it up and experience it again.
  
  Overall, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a great game and an excellent addition to anyones DS 
 collection. Even if youre not a big fan of text driven games, and you just want a game with a 
 good story that will immerse you, Phoenix Wright: AA may be what you need. I recommend this game 
 to anyone who owns a DS. Try it, you wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have to say that this game is definitely not for everyone. If you don't like games 
 that are heavily text-driven and wordy, take one step back and turn around because you don't want 
 to come anywhere near this game. That being said, Phoenix Wright is a great game that I would definitely 
 recommend to anyone that is interested in the genre. This game is actually suprisingly long also 
 as reading the text alone during the whole game might take up a few hours. The cases are extremely 
 fun and well-organized to give the game a good balance throughout the whole game. The characters 
 are also great and they each provide a different feel to the game. There are also some noticeable 
 flaws with the gameplay. The biggest flaw would be the lack of detail when it comes to choosing 
 an option during a trial. Even though you solved the whole case or that part alone even, when you're 
 asked to select between a few options, you won't be sure which option leads to your own solution 
 you came up with. It's hard to explain but you should see when you play it yourself. Still, I had 
 a great time playing through this game and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hama666
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a heavily text-based game in which players take the role of the protagonist; 
 a defence attorney burdened with the practically impossible tasks of proving his clients' innocence 
 in 5 different cases in which the game is split into, the storyline stretches itself vividly between 
 the cases. One feature that has raised eyebrows over this game is the its' heavily-text-based nature. 
 Many including myself were dubious to whether there would still be a tolerance to such heavy use 
 of text for a game on the supposedly next-gen handheld console, the Nintendo DS. However within 
 completing the first case the gamer should without doubt welcome this feature; the sacrifice of 
 dialogue for mere words can bring a sense of imagination to the gamer, just as a book does to the 
 reader. The game itself might not be an example of the Nintendo DS's maximum graphical capabilities 
 (The game itself is merely a port from the Japanese GBA version with extra added features such 
 as microphone use) but it's no doubt that Ace Attorney portrays an attractively colourful presentation. 
 The environments are well presented and really do engage the player in the atmosphere of the locations. 
 The music despite repetitive at times is excellently timed in relation to events in the game: for 
 example the music will turn more intense as a sudden twist in a court trial is revealed.
  
  The game makes excellent use of the DS's microphone and touch-pad. For example at times you will 
 be able to blow dust away by blowing into the microphone and at other times be asked to draw a 
 picture in court using the touch pad and stylus. The only complaint I'd have to make is that sadly 
 the voice recognition feature is implemented rather poorly: during court cases you are able to 
 object in testimonies by shouting OBJECTION down the microphone, but unfortunately most of the 
 time the microphone for some reason refuses to recognise the player's voice and instead leaves 
 the player rather frustrated, repeatedly screaming the word OBJECTION down the microphone again 
 and again. Luckily there is an LB substitute command for this feature.
  
  The Storyline itself is well written and fits nicely to the structure of the game. From the very 
 beginning of the game a whole series of mysteries and questions needing to be answered are thrown 
 at you, and as the game progresses these mysteries and questions are slowly revealed and answered. 
 Of course accompanying this is a series of shocking, surprising and at times humorous twists. Despite 
 being a lengthy adventure, Ace Attorney has limited re-playability due to the simple fact that 
 after the completion of the game the player is made aware of all the mysteries and twists and hence 
 giving little reason for players to go back and quite literally play through the story again; however 
 players might have found that they have not clearly understood some cases and these so called 'plot-holes' 
 occur in their minds, hence justifying their reason to play through certain chapters again (Exactly 
 as you would re-read certain chapters in a book to fulfill your understanding of the story) . The 
 DS version actually includes one extra case (chapter) than the Japanese GBA version in which it 
 was ported from.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney on the whole proves that text-based games if executed well can bring 
 a great deal of enjoyment to the player. And it is no doubt that the game does this feature rather 
 well, hence I can proudly say that Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an excellent lengthy adventure 
 which I can easily recommend to Nintendo DS owners to add to their library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majinboris
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Okay, let's get down to the meat of the deal: Phoenix Wright is a video game that has you take 
 on the role of a rookie defense attorney whose job is to protect his clients from 'trumped-up charges'; 
 basically, crimes that they didn't commit. The way you do this is during the court proceedings 
 you will have a chance to cross-examine witnesses to the crime and expose the lies in their testimonies. 
 To do this you have to present evidence found in the game's Court Record which basically keeps 
 track of all the evidence you find throughout the game. When you see something in a testimony that's 
 inconsistent with the evidence, that's when you get in the witnesses face and let loose with the 
 goods.
  
  You can't really call this a game, but more like a novel . You'll never truly appreciate this game 
 if you have a hard time reading books, but if you've tried and failed this is an excellent place 
 to start.
  
  Inside this game you'll find some of the craziest, most hilarious, most vibrant, unforgettable 
 characters, stories, music, and plot twists that you never thought imaginable. After all, it is 
 the great people at Capcom who brought us games like Mega Man and Street Fighter, so to assume 
 that this game couldn't live up to those standards is a poor assumption indeed. For example, one 
 case has you investigating an incident that happened 15 years ago and another one has you investigating 
 the murder of a person that happened in two places at the same time on the same day.
  
  This game couldn't be better, although the irksome Japanese-to-English mistranslations occur from 
 time-to-time and the less-than-frequently occuring legal inaccuracies will surely drive you crazy 
 when you run across them. But, all that aside, this is one game you can keep playing over and over 
 again if only for the wonderfully crafted story, characters, music, etc.
  
  A definite Must-own . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lurenceo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  phoenix wright is an DS game that makes you put your thinking caps on with lawers that would do 
 any thing to get a guilty verdict but i say it is a must have when i played it the 1st time it 
 got me going i wanted to make the most out of it seeming it was short but now i desperately need 
 number 2 cause i love the charectars the story is great gameplay great its just to much for 1 man. 
 the hard thing that you need to do and avoid game over is the testimony from the witness. you have 
 to prove that your client is innorcent not gulity so you 1 have to present a piece of evidence 
 that there wrong or lieing and got something wrong in there testimony.2 u anwser questions that 
 the judge will want you to anwser or the witness. then you will prove them guilty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TombolaMan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a law/detective game brought to the DS by Capcom. The story follows 
 Phoenix Wright, a rookie defence attorney who must overcome many challenges. There are 5 episodes 
 each lasting 45mins+. You must first collect evidence and clues before going to the courtroom to 
 prove your clients innocence. I was totally hooked on the game as soon as I started playing (I 
 played till 3 in the morning playing it once =P) . The best thing about this game is the storyline. 
 It is engaging, riveting and surprising with lots of twists and turns to keep you on your toes. 
 The graphics are also passable and are actually remarkably well done. The game is extremely well 
 presented with colourful scenery and intense music. The game has a wonderful finish to it and I 
 cant really find any faults with it except maybe its accuracy. What I mean by this is that during 
 a trial there is always just one route you can go down and you cannot progress until you find it. 
 Also the game is heavily text driven and rather lacks in animation however, this does not make 
 this game any worse as the script keeps most of your attention as it is quriky and well written. 
 At the end of the 4th Episode they do a wonderful job of making it seem as if you have finished 
 the game but just as you sigh and wish for more a well known voice says HOLD IT! and so you find 
 you have one more episode to complete. All in all this game is incredibly addictable and engaging 
 with a truly brilliant storyline, good colourful graphics and intense sound. Apart from the narrowness 
 of the route you go down to progress the game everything else is near enough perfect!
  
  OBJECTION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent writing; great presentation; fun DS features; intense cases, especially the 
 fifth.
  
  The Bad: Often involves guesswork; some will hate the text-driven nature of the game; no real strategy 
 or skill involved, other than deduction.
  
  Text-driven adventures are few and far between these days, and for a good reason: they're usually 
 painfully boring. Thankfully, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney breaks that mold and creates a really, 
 really immersive adventure that still may turn off some players due to its style and pacing.
  
  The best thing that can be said about Phoenix Wright is probably that it's really slick. The 
 writing is top-notch and often suspenseful and hilarious. The visuals are great, as is the excellent 
 soundtrack and the occasional voices. The court battles are intense and enthralling, and are easily 
 the highlight of the game. Investigation phases can be a little slow and guess-driven, but it's 
 still a lot of fun. There isn't a lot of true gameplay here, per se, but it's very fun to play 
 anyway, regardless.
  
  It's kind of hard to describe the appeal of Phoenix Wright. Think of watching a really dramatized 
 anime version of Law & Order with tons of judicial... liberties, and you'd get the idea. Even if 
 you don't like anime, it's just a lot of fun to see peoples' reactions within the game, and all 
 of the cases are interesting.
  
  The only case that fully uses the capabilities of the DS is the fifth one. Without spoiling anything, 
 it's safe to say that the investigation is significantly more interesting there than at other times.
 
  
  Phoenix Wright is a game that all DS owners need to at least check out. It's awesome and gripping, 
 and you'd never know it was right for you until you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micoor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I am not the biggest fan of these types of games but I got fond of this one almost immediately. 
 The fact this is a redone port from the GBA is noticeable is easy to tell because of the simple 
 graphics and functions. Still, this type of game fits the DS very well and the new features is 
 not necessary but still adds to the gameplay. The length of the game is fairly long, if you play 
 it through for the first time each chapter (there are 5) will take a few hours excluding the first 
 one which is a sort of tutorial. If you are interested in a nice story this game has that as well. 
 Each chapter has its own story to experience with different scenarios. The game progress with dialogs 
 and it's a lot of it in this game. Overall I must say that if you are interested in a character-driven 
 game with a nice story and gameplay this game should be just what you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The internet is a wonderful thing, isn't it? Sometimes the most under-looked games can somehow 
 gain a lot of underground popularity due to word-of-mouth. Thanks to fan sites and a site where 
 you can input your own arguments into the game's characters, this game got noticed. And I got this 
 game only by a gut instinct, since I was a fan of the aforementioned site, and the style of it 
 intrigued me. I'm glad my gut instinct was right, because Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, a DS game 
 by Capcom, is a fantastic game. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is the first game in a series of overzealous 
 courtroom adventure games known in Japan as Gyakuten Saiban (which translates to Turnabout Courtroom 
 ) . Previously only in Japan, Capcom decided to grace the Nintendo DS with a remake of the first 
 game. The first Gyakuten Saiban game came out in 2001 on the Game Boy Advance, so Phoenix Wright 
 is in essence, a port/remake of a (then) four-year-old game.
  
  You play as rookie defense attorney Phoenix Wright. Assisted with Mia Fey, you two basically defend 
 witnesses in a court of law. Before the concept of this turns you off, I have to stress it's not 
 anything like real court cases. It's not even close to anything you might've seen on The Practice 
 or Law &amp; Order. Court cases in the Phoenix Wright world last three days, with attorneys shouting 
 Objection! frequently. And for some reason, each case involves murder in some way, shape, or form. 
 I mean, even Law &amp; Order realizes to try other forms of crime once in a while.
  
  The game is split into two game types: The courtroom segments and the investigation segments. When 
 you start the game, you're shown the ropes of the Courtroom segment. It's simple: A witness will 
 give a testimony, and you must cross-examine the witness by pressing statements the witness has 
 given, and find a contradiction between your evidence and the witness's testimony. Once you find 
 that, you present it, and it continues that way. It's pretty simple, although the way of presenting 
 items makes it too obvious to find out if you're right or wrong. For instance, if you're correct, 
 the music stops, Phoenix goes into his diatribe and the game goes on. However, if you're wrong, 
 the music continues, your chances show up, and then you lose said chance. This makes it too obvious, 
 and should've been less so.
  
  You get five chances during every courtroom segment. Every time you make a mistake, you lose a 
 chance. Lose all five, and your defendant is declared guilty, and it's game over. You can't regain 
 chances, so if you make too many mistakes in the beginning of a segment, you have a problem where 
 you might make one small error and then lose 30 minutes of progress.
  
  The investigation segments work a bit like a traditional adventure game: Go to locations, talk 
 to people, present items to them to make them progress the story along, you get the idea. You can 
 examine areas to find items to add to your court record, in addition to other mechanics. These 
 are nice, but then Phoenix Wright shows its glaring flaw: it becomes too linear. There are no branching 
 pathways or alternate chances, which makes it a bit stale, and can lead to problems where you're 
 fumbling about for 30 minutes, trying to do the one particular thing needed in order to progress, 
 be it talking to a certain person or finding something. The courtroom segments lead into this same 
 problem in that there's only one right answer. A little leeway or spontaneity would've helped it 
 from getting overly linear.
  
  There are five cases in the game; the four from the original Gyakuten Saiban game, and one additional 
 case that ties in elements to the later games, including a character you meet in a yet-to-be-released-in-the-US 
 game. The fifth case introduces more DS mechanics such as the touch screen and microphone, although 
 the game itself introduces some DS mechanics in the first four cases. Like using the stylus for 
 examining rooms, or using the microphone to shout out phrases like Objection! and Take That! . 
 While these work, the voice communication is a bit hit or miss. While saying Objection! is usually 
 recognized when I first say it, it sometimes takes a few tries for it to register me saying Take 
 That! or Hold it! These are completely optional, and you can go through the majority of the game 
 without using these features, but it immerses you in more when you actually use the touch screen 
 and microphone.
  
  Graphically Phoenix Wright goes for a somewhat exaggerated anime style, which fits with the game, 
 as every character brings a good sense of emotion when they speak. Since it's an adventure game, 
 expect to read lots and lots of text. The text itself isn't bad, but there are a handful of spelling 
 and grammatical errors. Of course, this is Capcom, who's known for such phrases as The master of 
 unlocking. 
  
  In terms of the character design, most of the characters are a handful of stereotypes, such as 
 a bubbly, flirty girl who appears in the second case to a young child obsessed by television shows 
 who appears in case three. Of course, the designs for characters such as Phoenix or Miles Edgeworth 
 are done tactfully as well, and none of the characters seem out of place with the story. However, 
 it bothers me that all but about 3 female characters are well endowed. And the ones that aren't 
 appear to be teenagers. Silly Japan and their boob fetish
  
  Phoenix Wright brings a nice, robust amount of music during the course of the game, with light, 
 memorable themes, and fast-paced tunes when the time is right. It's not too noisy, and it's not 
 even innocuous. Most of the game's other sounds refer to chirps or beeps when a person speaks. 
 It's odd, but the particular sound oddly fits the majority of the characters. There are also sounds 
 for words like Objection! and Take That , and they tend to fit the character that it's being spoken 
 by. It's all a nice touch.
  
  The way Phoenix Wright saves is a bit weird, and the way it's shown may be at times misleading. 
 You'll always get a chance to save at the end of a chapter point, but you can also save at any 
 time. Except you cannot save and continue, only save and suspend the game (read: Quit) . There is 
 also no way to quit the game to go back to the title screen without saving, so once you save at 
 the chapter point, you more or less can shut the unit off at your own leisure. It would've been 
 nice to be given the option to quit at any time or save and continue.
  
  As always the issue with adventure games, Phoenix Wright has not much in terms of replay value. 
 There is nothing extra to unlock. Which makes sense, I mean, what could they give you, ways to 
 see through your witnesses with magic rose-colored glasses? But the cases themselves hold enough 
 to probably warrant a return trip to now and then.
  
  Phoenix Wright is an underrated title. Had it not been for Internet word-of-mouth, this game would 
 be on those websites where they cover obscure games nobody's heard of. And even then, it's not 
 that well known. Even if you're not a fan of the text-based adventure, you'll love the gameplay 
 (even if it's a bit flawed and overly linear) and story enough to play it again once in a while. 
 It should definitely be in every DS owner's game collection.
  
  Pros: Great art style, decent cases, exceptional music, useful DS functionality.
  Cons: Game 
 is too linear, heavy reliance on trial-and-error gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateelvis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Hesitant at first to bother tracking down a copy of this game, despite excellent reviews, I wondered 
 just how good a game of this sort could be. To tell the truth, I didn't expect anything at all 
 from this game. However, when I found it brand new at my local game store, I just had to buy it. 
 How could anyone resist purchasing a popular, rare game without the hassle of buying it off of 
 Ebay?
  
  There is truly no other game like Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (excluding the sequel as well as 
 the original Japan-only GBA version) . Basically, the main premise of the game is that you're a 
 newbie defense lawyer who takes on a murder case for his trial. While this sounds like a stupid 
 move for an unexperienced attorney, he wanted to defend one of his elementary school buddies who 
 happened to be the defendant in this case. With of the help of your fellow attorney-slash-mentor 
 Mia Fey, you are able to crack the case and expose the truth. While this may seem like a large 
 victory, there is still plenty of unbelievable cases ahead of you. Cases that are so farfetched, 
 it will leave you wondering Wha...... in a state of disbelief.
  
  This aspect is the best and worst part of this game. While nobody wants to play a near-exact simulator 
 of what being a real-life defense attorney is like (as the defendants are almost always guilty) , 
 Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney almost takes it a little TOO far. The truths about what really happened 
 in the cases and about who really did it are way over the top, and the fact that you're a rookie 
 defense lawyer managing to figure all of these out doesn't help the awe either. However, because 
 of this, you will be involved in multiple intriguing, deep plots that leave you wondering at every 
 turn of events. The complexity of some of the cases (the final two especially) will really make 
 you feel as if you've accomplished something huge, which is non-existant in most recent games. 
 The gameplay in Phoenix Wright is rather straightforward. In all of its simpleness, however, it 
 executes every aspect of the gameplay beautifully.
  In all cases excluding the first, you'll be jumping back and forth between the investigation and 
 the in-court trials. During the investigations, you'll be going from place to place to search for 
 clues and talk to people related to the incidents. While this can sometimes get rather tedious, 
 it's an excellent way to fill in the gaps of your knowledge about certain aspects about the case.
 
  The courtroom battles are where this game really shines. As the defense calls various witnesses 
 to the stand, it is your duty to scrutinize every detail of their testimonies to bring lies and 
 contradictions to light. You can press any part of their testimony to obtain extra information 
 about it, and if you do this often with many different parts of the testimony you can sometimes 
 procure plenty of extra information, and in some cases, even evidence. The other option is to present 
 evidence at certain places in someone's testimony that will help you locate lies, contradictions, 
 or connections. If you press their testimony in certain places, most of the time Wright will have 
 some sort of revelation and idea that can hint towards what evidence to present. While this may 
 make the game sound simple, sometimes even that will leave you clueless on what to do next. With 
 only five tries available, you have to be diligent and cautious about what evidence to produce 
 and where, as too many mistakes will force you to re-start the trial.
  
  The graphics are top-notch. The only problem with them is that they are all 2-D, and there are 
 rarely any moving animations. All of the characters jump from pose to pose, and the same poses 
 are used continuously. Because of this, it makes the game feel more of a port of the original Japanese 
 GBA version instead of an actual remake. Fortunately, the final case takes much more advantage 
 of the DS' graphics capabilities.
  
  The sound (or more specifically, the music) is the absolute highlight of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 You can almost tell what is going on in each situation just by listening to the music. If you've 
 just made a breakthrough in court, there's an appropriate, high-quality tune for that. If you're 
 in a light-hearted situation with someone you know and like, there's also an appropriate tune for 
 that. If there's no tune at all, you know that you're not in an area that you need to be. What's 
 more, no matter how many times you listen to a tune for a certain situation, you don't ever seem 
 to tire of them. You're just as happy to listen to them at the end of the game as you were when 
 you first started the game.
  
  All in all, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an amazing game that should not be overlooked if you 
 have a DS. Its amazing ability to intrigue, captivate and shock you on numerous occasions makes 
 it an excellent story in the form of a video game adventure. Don't hesitate to try this game because, 
 quite frankly, you'll surely be hooked from start to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seamascullen
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game yesterday after about 6 hours of play I'm already approaching the last 
 episodes, I really like what I've played so far but I cant believe there are only five episodes 
 in all. The game is very easy, you can't miss any evidence there is really no punishment for picking 
 a wrong answer and the fact the witnesses continually change there testimonies is annoying. However 
 the game is really well presented with nice graphics, good character development and design, it 
 is highly original as well. Its a game that could only work on the DS the use of the Touch Screen 
 is excellent and there is some good use of the microphone. Its a great game to play and its a real 
 treat too especially if you want to try something new. If this game were longer and a little more 
 difficult it would be a must have purchase. Definitely worth playing once but there is nothing 
 in the way of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofoo007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is really cool. I think it might be the first of iy's kind. For the DS anyways. Just 
 beware it requires a lot of reading.
  
  Controls:
  
  Nothing too special. You stylus hit the screen will move you through the text and select evident 
 to present. Really your stylus contols the game. Not much else to say.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie attorney who take cases to well do his job. In court you listen 
 to Witness's testimonies and try to disprove them and get to the bottom of the case. However you 
 will spend quite a bit of time outside the courtroom and investigating the situation. You seach 
 around the area looking for clues and questioning people. This is the basics of the game . Though 
 it doesn't sound fun, it's a very deep game that can be hard to describe. But it's very addicting. 
 The only problem is it's fairly short. The american version has a special case where you can use 
 special features like fingerprinting and luminol testing.
  
  Sound:
  
  It has music.... It adds drama in the courtroom. You know that suspensful music. It doesn't really 
 detract or add to the game. However, you can here the lawyers yell objection and hold it.
  
  Despite being so text heavy this was a very delightful experience. A high recommendation for 
 all DS owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those games where there's no fighting, no blood and gut everywhere, and you 
 have to use your head. But it's a game that'll hook you up until the end. Big twists in the story, 
 5 cases to solve, and a Judge and a Fiscal against you. Your weapons are Evidence and Justice, 
 and only you can save your client.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Mainly there's five options: Present evidence, press the witness, move to a different scene, talk, 
 and examine a scene. It seems simple and is easy to get used to. GRAPHICS: Good anime-style animations 
 that are sometimes funny, sometimes intentionally annoying. Detailed pictures give the game extra 
 points.
  
  SOUND:
  Some voices like OBJECTION or HOLD IT get you in the mood. And the music does an excellent job.
 
  
  VALUE: Great game, worth the money.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  This turned out to be my favourite NDS game ever. In certain moments, it manages to make you smile, 
 and that is allways a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I remember all but giving up on adventure games back when Myst reinvented the genre, putting the 
 focus on pre-rendered graphics and dull clockwork puzzles instead of storytelling and character 
 interaction, and indeed, until I picked up a DS Light, I hadn't played an adventure for years.
 
  
  Apparently, in glorious Japan, the point-and-clicker (now point-and-tapper, I suppose, thanks to 
 the DS stylus) never went out of style. Now, finally, enough of their exquisite titles have been 
 superbly translated and released stateside to justify the purchase of a DS, and to establish it 
 as a thinking man's game system rather than a mere children's toy.
  
  One of the finest of these games is Pheonix Wright: Ace Attorney. Part pixel-hunting, dialogue-tree 
 investigation game, part courtroom simulator, this game should make any fan of classic cartoon 
 adventures feel like they've died and gone to heaven.
  
  The graphics look like a stylish cross between an old LucasArts game and Japanese Manga, the puzzles 
 are fun and intuitive, and the dialogue is stellar. Not only are Wright's mysteries uproariously 
 funny, they also often end up being surprisingly complex and coherent, with nary a plot-hole to 
 be found. In my opinion, the stories and dialogue would be fit for a professional anime series. 
 Not to mention that the sense of achievement and satisfaction derived from successfully detecting 
 a lie, cornering a witness, or locating a decisive piece of evidence is, at least to me, unparalleled 
 in any contemporary puzzler.
  
  In short: I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leverish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  While lots of people would think that a game based on the court of the law would be very boring, 
 Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a game that is anything but boring. The game could appeal to a 
 group people because it is an adventure game, a genre that some would say has been dead for a 
 while now. It is also the first time any game in the series has made its way here to United States. 
 While this may be a remake of the first game for Game Boy Advance, chances are, you have not played 
 that game and this would make a nice introduction to the series, and it is also just a nice change 
 of pace altogether. In this game you play as a Phoenix Wright, a defense attorney, who is just 
 barely getting his career started, which becomes quite evident at the very beginning of the game. 
 He does not appear to know too much of the trade and he seems to have rookie slapped all over him, 
 even in the last case of the game. The entire story of the game is just fantastic thanks to its 
 great cast of funny and engaging characters, the great plot of each of the cases, and all of the 
 many hysterical moments the game will give you. The only time where you will not find yourself 
 smiling while playing the game is when you are stuck with one of the games very challenging puzzles.
 
  
  The gameplay of Phoenix Wright should not be simply overshadowed by the games superb storyline; 
 the game is still entertaining when you are not reading text. The very first case is a simple tutorial 
 to how the game works, so not too much could be expected from it. The game basically holds your 
 hand the entire case, which makes it very easy. Do not let that be an initial impression, though; 
 the game proves to get much harder in the next 4 cases, maybe even a little too hard. Before a 
 case you do your investigation; here, you look for clues in each area, and talk with everybody 
 that might know something that could help. You can expect to present lots of evidence to people 
 to get them to tell you information. After a day of investigation, you go to trial with all of 
 the information you have gathered. In court, the prosecutor will call upon a witness. The witness 
 will then give their testimony of the case. Afterwards, you have to cross-examine their testimony, 
 and try to point out a contradiction in the case. This proves more challenging than it sounds; 
 not everything is just going to wave at you and say it is a contradiction. This continues for 3 
 in-game days until the truth behind each case is finally revealed. The game over system in the 
 game is quite unique. If you present wrong evidence to form a contradiction, or pick a wrong answer 
 when the judge asks you a question you receive a penalty; when you get 5 penalties you lose the 
 case and your client is found guilty. This is what makes the game as hard as it is.
  
  The game does not look too much different from what it looked like on the Game Boy Advance, but 
 that still can't stop you from noticing how great the game looks. The game looks much brighter, 
 crisper, and clearer than it did on the Game Boy hardware. The game's excellent manga style will 
 just leave you in awe, and you can not help but notice how colorful the game is. If there are any 
 complaints, it should only be that the characters could have a few more animations, but even that 
 is forgivable. As for the game's sound, there is not a whole lot to hate. There are a lot of catchy 
 tunes here to like. You can even have the option to say Objection! into the microphone. The microphone 
 is not very picky, so if you want to act like Mr. T and being a lawyer at the same time, you can 
 feel free to do so.
  
  If you do not include the first case, the cases are very long. However, this might not become self-evident, 
 as you will feel you blew through all of them so quickly. This is not so much of the games fault, 
 as the game is not really that short, but you always feel like they could have added in another 
 case. All five cases in the game should roughly last you about a week. Unfortunately, the game 
 does not offer too much replayibility, but it is nice to look back at the story every once and 
 a while.
  
  If you are looking for something new you really can not go wrong with Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 The story alone is enough to warrant a purchase, but it also has very nice and challenging adventure 
 aspects to it that make it much more than a great story. The game will just quite simply leave 
 you with a smile just thinking about. It also stands as one of the best games for the DS, and just 
 quite simply can not be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  The legal genre has never been greatly explored in the videogame world, and with good reason; you'd 
 think it would be dull. But Capcom persevered and brought one out anyway. With a good dose of humor, 
 Phoenix Wright is not the dry game it could've been, but while entertaining much of the way, the 
 deeper into the game you go, the more a series of technical quirks lessens the fun a tad.
  
  You set off the game as the title character, an amazing lawyer mentored by an even more amazing 
 lawyer (and similar to JRPGs, their ages are shockingly young) . Starting off with a tutorial case 
 that introduces you to the legal world of the game, you learn the ins and outs of collecting evidence 
 for your clients and then using it to catch lying witnesses by presenting appropriate items when 
 their statements contradict the facts. You also get to deal with your prosecutorial adversary, 
 Miles Edgeworth, who's equally unbelievably young and who's dealt with rumors of falsifying evidence 
 and dirty play his whole career. As you progress through the game, the cases become longer, with 
 more evidence, witnesses, and 'Law &amp; Order' twists than you can shake a stick at. At the end, 
 there's a DS-only case (the game is mostly a port of a GBA game that never had a U. S. release) 
 utilizing the system's functionality a bit more.
  
  The game's biggest coup is the way it brings out character traits and quirks with no voicework. 
 Emotions and (often ulterior) motives are smartly brought out via animations, some light sound 
 effects, and clever dialogue. The unique setting is also a plus, as the courtroom is not a typical 
 setting for a videogame, so 'legal eagles' will find fun here, especially getting to use the microphone 
 to yell, Objection!! Luckily, even those without a keen legal sense are helped by the fact that 
 the game won't let you progress to trial without all the evidence you need for the next day's proceedings, 
 so you don't have to worry about outright blowing a case by being unprepared. The DS-only case 
 shines in the evidence-collecting department, as you get to use Luminol to find blood splatter 
 and fingerprint dust to lift prints, and getting to blow into the microphone to blow away the excess 
 dust is a great touch.
  
  Sadly, the game has many shortfalls that seem to multiply and become more pervasive the further 
 you get into the game. Too often you're required to take ridiculous leaps in logic to tie evidence 
 to a witness statement. Even worse are times when there are multiple items that one could logically 
 use to point out an inconsistency, but the game only deems one to be 'correct.' It's even worse 
 when you just know that the other evidence items you thought of will be used later to point out 
 nearly the exact same truth with a near-similar statement, and then be proved right. Worse still, 
 this issue grows as cases get more complex and have more evidence. Some legal inconsistencies range 
 from benign (trials only can last 3 days) to laugh-out-loud stupid (anyone who's seen My Cousin 
 Vinny knows the prosecution has to give you its evidence, but here it's a closely-guarded secret 
 to be kept from you if at all possible) . While the fact that they tried to give the game a backstory 
 tying many characters together can be appreciated, it just serves to be needless dialogue with 
 no real bearing on the main gameplay. There's enough advancing through text with the stylus as 
 it is. Another minor downfall is that it's almost always frighteningly obvious who committed the 
 crimes the second you meet them, so there's rarely a surprise.
  
  While from a purely functional standpoint, everything works well (the game can be played entirely 
 with the stylus) , the illogical way you're required to use evidence in court hampers the flow of 
 the game and just frustrates you. What graphics there are typically are just static, but are very 
 well-crafted to give you a lot of subtle information from a simple 2D view. There's very little 
 sound, and what there is merely falls in the good category, as even the cell phone beep could've 
 been better. You can get over 20 hours out of the game, but some of that sadly is needlessly tedious 
 text reading that gets a bit irritating when things are repeated in different language. In the 
 end we're left with a game that ambitiously tries to turn the courtroom into a viable videogame, 
 and while it succeeds on many levels, if the sequel allows for multiple pieces of evidence to be 
 'correct' in pointing out inconsistencies, when multiple pieces are, in fact, correct, it will 
 be a vast improvement and more worthy of your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright put you in the shoes of a wannabe defense lawyer that not only gets to declare his 
 clients not guilty but also prove who the real culprit is! So you basically get to be both lawyer 
 and prosecutor. If only things were so easy in the real world... ;-)
  
  The game is divided into 5 chapters, each of which is contains a new case which is longer and more 
 difficult than the other, but they are all connected in one way or another.
  
  The gameplay in each chapter takes place both in the courtroom and around the crime-scenes. You'll 
 be spending around 70% of the game-time reading the tons of dialogue this game contains. This can 
 be a bit much for people that want much interactivity with the&iacute; r games. The dialogue is 
 very important however since every bit of text can hold a clue as to who the guilty one is or what 
 you're supposed to do next. The other 30% is where you investigate crime-scenes, find clues and 
 question witnesses...
  
  The game constantly drives you onward with its story and diverse characters. You just want to bust 
 the arrogant bastard who commited the crime and save your innocent client. The graphics is excellent 
 with nicely animated characters. The music and sound on the other hand gets a little repetative, 
 still good though.
  
  One thing that bothered me at first was how completely unrealistic the whole courtroom proceedure 
 was! Witnesses constantly gets to correct themselves once you've proven them to be liars, and some 
 people can basically tell the judge how to judge or to shut up with no reprecussions at all???
 
  
  Still, this is a great story-driven adventure game with nice graphics that's easy to recommend! 
 Here are some pros and cons...
  
  Pros:
  -Easy to learn
  -Good graphics n sound
  -15 to 30 hours of gametime
  - Really good story through 5 chapters
  
  Cons:
  -Linear game. 
 No reason for replay.
  -The tools from chapter 5 (Fingerprint dust, blood-detect fluid) should've been introduced earlier...
 
  -Unrealistic courtroom proceedures (although I dont think it would have made the game funnier, 
 It could've at least been educational?)
  
  If you like adventures games or maybe some of the courtroom series on TV, then BUY this game!
 
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright AA uses the DS's touch screen to good effect and thus, introduces a game different 
 from many others out there in the market.
  it really manages to put you in the game with its first person perspective and the distinct feel 
 for each different area / environment you are able to explore.
  
  the cases that are set forth for you to solve are tough at times and provide some good twists and 
 turns in the plot. you will have to be thorough and very in sync with what you find to be able 
 to spot the loopholes in the tetimonies presented.
  
  all in all it is a worthwhile recommendation to anyone PROVIDED they are ok with text driven gameplay 
 because in PW, thats basically what you are subscribing for. text text and more text. personally 
 for me, i found the game a little draggy and boring towards to end due to the text driven gameplay, 
 but the cases and the underlying storyline involved made me press on towards the finish.
  
  and a very rewarding finish it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth81
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  It's not every day you get to write about a game which is about a criminal defense attorney. However 
 Phoenix Wright is exactly such a game for the Nintendo DS. What's more Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney 
 is a window into the past of game design, and i mean that in a good way, as it's a graphic adventure 
 very much in the spirit of adventure games from Lucas Arts and Sierra in the early 90's on the 
 PC. And while there is certainly a lot to love here a few annoyances hold it back from instant-classic 
 status.
  
  As I said the game is very much a classic adventure games. The gameplay consists of a few basic 
 things. Courtroom drama where you have to cross examine witnesses looking for contradictions in 
 the testimony versus what's in evidence. Another major element consists of searching for evidence 
 which utilizes the touch screen and stylus in a traditional hot-spot hunt. And reading what other 
 people have to say and engaging in conversation with them. Each of these modes work together in 
 concert to move the various shorts along but each could have been done better. In both the dialogue 
 trees there is very little penalty for failure -- you do get a set number of objectionsbut it's more 
 than forgiving enough. THe conversation otherwise proceeds on rails unlike something like Indigo 
 Prophecy where if you head the wrong way in the conversations the game's narrative will alter themselves 
 a bit. Further the hotspot hunting and knowing where to go to talk to people can get a tad bit 
 on the tedious side. The two biggest problems arise in court -- on a few instances I really had to 
 just guess and hope I was right on where to raise objections. Sometimes stuff that seeemed obvious 
 to me wasn't where the game intended for me to object. The real primary annyance in this game is 
 that it really does a poor job of simulating the legal rules that any viewer of tv shows like Law 
 and Order or The Practice would be familiar with. There are no rules of evidence, the defense has 
 to create an alternate theory of the crime and convict someone else on the witness stand. This 
 wouldn't even be noticable if the writing wasn't otherwise so good that it makes it stand out even 
 more. Presentationally this game looks and sounds good enough for an adventure game on the DS. 
 It doesn't use the stylus all that much and that's a bit dissappointing but otherwise this is a 
 technically fine game for a port from the GBA especially. It's not perfect by any stretch of the 
 imagination but it's a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Let me say u this... this game is frickingly addictive... so dont try playing this game with homework 
 or assignment waiting for you to do coz once u start playing, chance is u won't stop until u finish 
 the case... or until u sleep while trying to solve the case....
  
  Gameplay.... i can say it is unique.... it uses the DS voice recognition and the touch screen features 
 effectively... can't have the same feeling in other consoles.... Graphically, this game is much 
 better than my expectation... well not much, but enough to make me felt that this game was worth 
 playing...
  
  Sound... i can say a bit boring... especially when I was left with no clue what to do and had to 
 randomly do trial and error... but it's all about the story baby....
  
  The thing that can make this game valuable is only one... THE STORY... I personally like mysteries 
 and detective stories like this and that's what made me fell in love with this game... I couldn't 
 get enough with the story... and that was what kept me playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Phoenix wright is fun thanks to the good use of the touchscreen and the microphone. You'll 
 search for clues when not beeing in court but according to me, beeing in court is the best thing. 
 There are totally five cases with storylines that will get you hooked up in no time. The stories 
 are really interesting.
  
  GRAPHICS: It was in the beginning a game for GBA but it still looks amazing on the NDS. The characters 
 are well drawn and they've a good sense of humor. But the movements of the characters are REALLY 
 REALLY REALLY repetetive. But anyway, the environments are top notch with many beautiful colors.
 
  
  SOUND: OBJECTION!!! Yes, you'll use the microphone to say those kind of things. If you want to 
 present something in court as an evidence, you press Y and scream TAKE THAT and other stuff. The 
 sound effects are top notch.
  
  In a short review like this, I just have to say that Phoenix wright Ace attorney is a really great 
 game. It may be finished after 5 hours but it's well worth it. Also, the chapters can be played 
 again and the stories won't get bored at all.
  BUY IT OR OBJECTION!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I was a little leery about getting a game where you play a defense attorney. How could this be 
 fun? Trials are dull, long affairs. Well, I have to say, this trial game isn't boring.
  
  The game does have a lot of text. If you don't like reading, this game isn't for you. However, 
 the stories are quite entertaining and the dialog is almost never boring. The game doesn't really 
 take itself seriously, with character names like April May, Redd White, Oldbag and Detective Gumshoe. 
 It's really kind of funny.
  
  But, the trials are muder trials after all, and you have to figure out who did it, while defending 
 someone who was falsely accused. Being the detective and managing cross-examinations is actually 
 pretty fun.
  
  To me, the biggest annoyance is how inaccurate the trials are. For example, no trial by juries, 
 and the attorneys seem to be able to talk whenever they want. Witnesses are given several chances 
 to redo their testimony if they've been caught in a contradiction (without being charged with perjury) , 
 and the judge is quick to call a judgement. It's annoying, and it's absolutely nothing like the 
 American (or basically any democratic) justice system.
  
  But it's fun to press witnesses, present evidence that contradicts what the witnesses say and answer 
 questions from the judge. You are given just a few chances to do something seriously wrong, after 
 which you lose the trial.
  
  It's fun, and it's simple. The stories are all very well written and fun, and the game itself is 
 very nice looking, looking like a Japanese anime (with those funny character emotions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, is a game that puts you in the role of Phoenix Wright. Some people 
 may think that a game about law an lawyers may be boring, but this game shows a completely different 
 perspective. In this game, cases are both dramatic, and hilarious at the same time. Ok, now since 
 thats out of the way, time for the breakdown of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay, the most important part of a game. Being put in the Role of Phoenix Wright is very 
 amusing, seeing as you will find Multiple, Colorful characters throughout your adventure. Theres 
 to parts of Gameplay for Phoenix Wright, the investigation, and court. In the Investigation phase, 
 you must search through different scenarios for clues and hints, for your trial. In court, you 
 will have a lot of fun, yelling Objection! in the microphone as you find contradictions in a witnesses 
 testimony, or yelling Hold it! to further question a witness. Now for the fifth case (the final 
 case in this game) . The fifth case was specially added specially just for the DS to use its unique 
 features and such. In this case, you will use the touch screen to look into items more in-depth, 
 and even solve some puzzles as well.
  
  Gameplay Overall: 9
  
  Graphics:
  In this game, the Graphics are anime style characters. Each character is very nicely done, with 
 every last detail. Every character design reflects the personality of the character very, very 
 well. And also the anime backgrounds are bright, and also well done to show a great crime scene.
 
  
  Graphics Overall: 8
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is... ok. I can't really praise anything about any of the music because 
 at times it can get kind of annoying in my opinion, but usually goes well with whats actually going 
 on. But the sound effects are pretty well, Phoenix's Objection! and every prosecutors Objection! 
 seem to make it look like the actual character is saying it. (except for the first prosecutor, and 
 the 4th cases prosecutor... but his Objection! fit his personality very, very well.)
  
  Sound Overall: 8
  
  Value:
  Whenever the DS gets a Player's Choice or Greatest Hits this 
 game should most definitely get first in line for that. There are many memorable characters, scenarios, 
 trials that you will remember whenever you think about the game.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Tilt:
  Personally, I thought this game was a masterpiece. But whenever you get stuck (it happens 
 more than often) you can can randomly just want to stop yourself from playing, but when you find 
 one thing it, its like finding more pieces to a puzzle that you don't know the real picture to, 
 the more pieces you get, the more you want to keep going.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound:8
  Value:10
  Tilt:9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilmaypie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  I'm not usually a real big fan of text driven games but Phoenix Wright definitely got me hooked 
 to it. With a very deep and interesting story and complicated murder cases really made text games 
 that much more better. And with uses of the microphone and the touchscreen really makes it a more 
 enjoyable experience. All the characters in the game are very well designed and fit with the whole 
 story. But I would really like it to have full voice overs but maybe we, ll just have to wait and 
 see later. Certainly one of the best from the ds and not a let down at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Scientist
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is quite an interesting game. It doesn't really fit into any genre 
 found in the US, though if you had to pick, you'd probably pick the Adventure genre. But Phoenix 
 Wright is unlike most adventure games. It lacks most of the traditional puzzles found in adventure 
 games, but replaces them with extremely enjoyable court and investigation stages.
  
  Set in an alternate version of LA set slightly in the future, you play rookie defense attorney 
 Phoenix Wright, just out of law school. In this world, soaring crime rates have resulted in some 
 rather unpleasant changes in the legal system and an overall degeneration of legal processes. Reasonable 
 doubt and innocent until proven guilty don't have much meaning anymore. Fortunately, despite initial 
 appearances, Phoenix Wright is quite up to the challenge of defending clients in such a world.
 
  
  The slightly twisted world actually works to the advantage of the game, for the most part. While 
 there are a couple of frustrating moments as a result, it also allows Phoenix's role to be much 
 more than any defense attorney in the real world. In fact, as Phoenix, you are something like a 
 detective, defense attorney, and prosecuting attorney all at once. You investigate crime scenes, 
 examine evidence, and talk to witnesses. You defend your clients in court. And ultimately, you 
 prove you clients innocence by proving who the real guilty party is.
  
  The game consists of 5 cases. The first one acts as a tutorial, and introduces you to the court 
 stages of the game. While quite short, it's fun, and serves as a good help for those new to the 
 series.
  
  The court stages of the game consist mostly of cross-examining witnesses. Witnesses in Phoenix's 
 world, you will soon learn, are a thoroughly unreliable sort, and often tend to hide things and 
 neglect important details, whether intentionally or not. Your job is to reveal these contradictions 
 and mistakes. You do so by going over parts of a particular testimony, and either pressing the 
 witness for more details, or, if you see something wrong, objecting and presenting the piece of 
 evidence that contradicts the testimony.
  
  In addition to cross-examining witnesses, you will often be called upon to answer questions about 
 the case or present evidence in regard to certain matters.
  
  While most of the time in the early cases it's never too hard to figure out what you need to do, 
 all the court stages are very fun, thanks largely to the great writing. And some of the later cases 
 will definitely make you think before you make an objection or present evidence.
  
  While the first case consists of a single court stage and is over soon, each of the next 4 cases 
 consists of multiple court and investigation stages, and the cases get progressive longer. It is 
 during the investigation stages that the detective part of Phoenix Wright comes out.
  
  During such stages, you move to various locations, examine crimes scenes, and question witnesses 
 and other people involved in the case. You will often uncover new evidence, and sometimes you will 
 need to present pieces of evidence to a particular person in order to uncover new information.
 
  
  Like the court stages, it's usually not too hard to figure out what to do next, though sometimes 
 you can miss a small detail and not know what to do next as a result. Such times can be frustrating, 
 but shouldn't happen very often as long as you are decently thorough. And like the court stages, 
 the investigation stages are very enjoyable due to the incredible writing.
  
  I've mentioned the writing twice now, and should mention it again. Phoenix Wright is largely a 
 story and character driven game, so the quality of the writing if very important in determining 
 your enjoyment of the game, or lack thereof. And fortunately, Phoenix Wright delivers in spades. 
 The game contains a great cast of likable and interesting characters, as well as a selection of 
 despicable villains. The tone of the game is a nice blend of the humorous and serious. It is one 
 of the funniest I have ever played, yet at the same time it manages to be occasionally touching, 
 emotional, and tense.
  
  The graphics of the game are somewhat anime-style, and consist of a collection of colorful sprites 
 and detailed backgrounds. It's nothing awe-inspiring (in fact, the game is actually a remake of 
 an old GBA game that never made it outside of Japan) , but it fits the game well and looks quite 
 nice.
  
  The game doesn't have a huge amount of sounds. Voicework consists just of characters yelling Objection! 
 and the like, and sounds consists of things like the judge banging his gavel. Sounds are also sometimes 
 used to add emphasis to certain parts of the dialogue. All in all, the sounds are fine, but nothing 
 great.
  
  The music, on the other hand, is quite nice. Like the game itself, it ranges in tone quite a bit, 
 and it manages to always fit the particular situation quite well, with somber tracks playing during 
 particularly sad or serious moments in the game, a nice fast-paced track for when you've just done 
 an objection and are on a role in court, etc.
  
  The game is decently long, especially compared to similar games, and should take most people a 
 while to complete all 5 cases. The game if fairly linear and doesn't have what a lot of people 
 would consider to be heavy replay value , but you may find yourself wanting to play the game again 
 and again just to experience the cases again, and to experiment with some of the more humorous 
 and obviously wrong choices you can make at certain points.
  
  As has been mentioned before, Phoenix Wright is actually a remake of a Japanese GBA game. As a 
 result, there's not a huge amount of DS specific features in it. But there are a few. You can use 
 the touch screen to play the entire game, and it's actually quite convenient for navigating menus 
 and examining an area. In addition, you can actually yell Objection! and Hold it! into the DS microphone 
 in order to object or press a witness on a certain point. And finally, the 5th case in the game 
 is all new, and designed with the DS in mind, and includes several interesting mechanics as a result. 
 These include using the touch screen to examine objects, and a fun fingerprinting mechanic where 
 you use the touch screen to apply powder and then blow into the microphone to reveal the print.
 
  
  To sum it all up, Phoenix Wright is quite simply one of the most enjoyable games I've played. It's 
 not easy to describe exactly why it is so fun, but it is probably a result of the way the great 
 writing and all the features somehow come together to provide an experience completely different 
 than just about anything else you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  In Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, you play as a lawyer named Phoenix Wright and it's your job to 
 solve cases and to protect what you believe is right. Sounds boring right? The idea of being a 
 lawyer and doing a whole lot of reading didn't appeal to me that much, but boy was I wrong. The 
 game is really rare to find in store these days but with the upcoming Phoenix Wright: Justice for 
 All, fans won't be paying attention to this game (I got mine off eBay for $34 new, not bad) , but 
 it would be nice to start the game from the first of the series. This game has 5 cases total, sounds 
 short right? Well it'll take you at least 2 hours to finish each with the last 2 or 3 taking at 
 least 3 hours so it should take you a hefty load of time to finish. The game is a  
 type of a game where you have to go to the scene of the crime, find clues or evidence, and use 
 that to your advantage to solve cases in court. You can reject, object, and listen to testimonials 
 just like in real court cases. This game will be a great way for those of you trying to find out 
 if the lawyer career is right for you. This game also has the cool lookin anime type of cut scenes 
 that may appeal to those of you and it's real fun to listen in on the story and going along with 
 it. It can suck you in. This game is recommended for people I'd say 14 and up, 13 year olds and 
 below won't appreciate this game. It has no multiplayer but doesn't need it for people to appreciate 
 it. I give it a 9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. It takes something boring, and makes it into a fun franchise.
  ------------------------------------ Graphics: 6/10
  The graphics on this game are GBA quality 
 (with one exception, which is a 3D video sequence, which is very well done) . The character models 
 are 2D, with ok animations. ------------------------------------
  Sound: 9/10
  I love the music in this game. Everything from the sounds of a desk slamming, to shouting Objection, 
 to its action music, it is really catchy and well done.
  ------------------------------------
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Definitally a great experiance. The game 
 is sortof a mix between being a lawyer ( presenting evidence and showing contridictions) , and being 
 a detective (finding evidence to present in court) . Though the game is allitle predictable at times, 
 and messes you up when you show evidence too early, it is enjoyable and addicting. The game is 
 also very funny. Oh, and did I forget to mention the voice recognition? You can shout: OBJECTION/HOLD 
 IT/TAKE THAT! Into the mic, and works. though at times, it is a little picky, it is a great addition. 
 -------------------------------------
  Value: 10/10
  This is a great value of your 26-30 dollars you will most likely have to spend. It has a lengthy 
 and enjoyable single player, though contains no multiplayer. And each case could take you between 
 3-6 hours.
  -------------------------------------
  This game is enjoyable, has a great storyline with many plot twists, and is easily recommendable 
 to anyone who doesn't mind reading, looking for a fun game, a good single player experiance, or 
 just a few laughs. -------------------------------------
  Overall: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehReaper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've always wanted to try this game since it came out. I just got it a few days ago and I'm 
 not disappointed.
  
  I'll break the review down to:
  
  Game play: 10/10 Its hard not to love the game play. You can play the whole game using the touch 
 screen, but using the control pad works to. There is some parts you have to use it, like uncovering 
 blood stains with special spray, and checking for fingerprints in which you apply powder but touching 
 the screen, then remove it by blowing on the screen to reveal a fingerprint =)
  Other then that, Its pretty simple and easy to get used to. You get to move around different scenes 
 by pressing move you can talk to certain people and present evidence to deal the final blow. Its 
 also very fun to shout Objection! , Hold it! and Take that! into the microphone while in the courtroom. 
  
 10/10 This is the main reason everyone loves PW. The story =D Well, you start as a rookie defence 
 attorney named (what else?) Phoenix Wright who is trying to make a name for himself. He does so 
 by participating in various cases which are split into episodes, which are all different cases 
 to solve. There are five episodes in all, which consist of different (and fun) cases for you and 
 Phoenix to solve. He doesn't do this alone though, he has help from other characters that ultimately 
 help him to solve the cases. They might have important information to share, or evidence for you. 
 You can only play as Phoenix, though. The cases are pretty lengthly, so it will take you a while 
 to beat the game. I can't really tell much more about the story so you'll have to buy it and find 
 out =) (its lots of fun)
  
  Sound: 8/10 There's not to much in the sound department, aside from different background musics, 
 some sound effects, there's no voices so all you hear is the sound of text scrolling, the only 
 voices are that of the objections! , Take thats! and Hold its! . The music still goes well with 
 the game, though. I've found that I didn't get annoyed by the music very often to, so thats always 
 a good sign.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 The graphics in the game are all mainly still pictures, with the exception of the 
 slight movements of different expressions, and the moving of lips. This isn't really a bad thing 
 though, since it matches the game play well. They're well drawn characters and backgrounds, so 
 you won't be ripping your eyes out or anything like that.
  
  Replay Value: 7/10 After you've beaten all five cases, there's really not much to do. The only 
 thing is to replay the cases again, which can be fun if there's one you really like, but thats 
 pretty much it. So overall, this is defiantly a game to get for your DS. If you feel disappointed 
 that it ended so soon after you play it, don't worry because the sequel comes out on Jan.16/07, 
 So just hold on a little longer =D
  
  MY Final Score: 9/10- I Hope you enjoy it like I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Who'd have thought a Japanese text adventure would become such a cult smash in the States? Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney for the DS is a comedy/adventure game where you have to prove your client's 
 innocence against seemingly insurmountable odds (such as, in one case, the client pleading guilty) .
 
  
  It may be too slow for some people, occasionally myself included, but the storyline itself is generally 
 compelling enough that you can easily play for hours at a time -- especially when the tide starts 
 to turn in your favor. Really, the story is the only thing the game has. The graphics are typical 
 manga style. The only sounds are music and an Objection! or a Take That! here and there. The gameplay 
 is mostly clicking through the text, waiting for the opportunity to present some evidence. But 
 the story is strong enough and the characters quirky and funny enough, that you'll keep on clicking 
 through anyways.
  
  The best case is the final case. No spoilers, but it's the only case that was designed with the 
 Nintendo DS in mind (the others were originaly designed for a Japanese Game Boy Advance) so it 
 uses different forensics techniques with the touch screen and the microphone that none of the other 
 cases have, such as using the touch screen to spread fingerprinting dust and then blowing into 
 the microphone to clear it away. Also, it's the most difficult, complicated case of the game, and 
 thus the most rewarding when you finally crack it.
  
  If you enjoy reading books, you will probably enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_kun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  An absolutely thrilling game that keeps you at the edge of your seat til the not guilty verdict 
 is passed, only to find the fun keeps on going. With well-developed characters and storyline, Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney will keep you glued with your eyes on the dual screens and the stylus in your 
 hands until you prove your client innocent! i believe the only objection it will get is the fact 
 that the game ends too soon! Though the graphics and sounds may be not as 3D and realistic as the 
 square-enix series (who are well known for such) , its twists and revealing of events make up for 
 it. The player must find clues, cross-examine the witnesses and fight (mentally and wits-wise of 
 course) with the prosecution. With help from various side characters, the difficulty ranges from 
 just right to just a little harder than that.
  
  The controls for the game is very basic, allowing the best results for a little learning curve. 
 Once you get the hang of it, surely in the first few minutes, you'll find yourself addicted to 
 the courtroom and murder.
  
  Verdict: 8.6/10 MORE PHOENIX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azn_Tomato
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Greatest game ever. The gameplay is smooth and good, and the only problems are occasional grammer 
 errors, few they are, and ocasional law contradictions.... in true phoenix wright vocabulary. The 
 graphics are good, and the music good too. The clues can be a little hard tofind., and presenting 
 evdience correct evidence that is, can be sometimes near impossible. HOwever, those are rare instances, 
 and Phoenix Wright is a game to play, not matter what kind of gamer you are. The storyline is a 
 bit corny ill admit, but what game's story isnt? The game is great and satisfying to play, and 
 is funny and random too. Must have Phoenix Wright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Wow I must say when i first heard about a new ds game about a lawyer i thought that everything 
 was going wrong in the gaming world however when i bought it it was amazing and really addictive. 
 i always wanted to find out what was going to happen next in the story.
  You play phoenix wright who is a defendant and obviously you must defend any accused people that 
 are taken to court. the anime is really good and is really colourful the game is full of humour 
 and is very entertaining.
  Although there are only 5 storys these could keep you going for about 2-3 months if more.
  
 
  Conclusion:
  One of the best games for the ds (and theres a lot of them) colouful, charming witty this is a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo_Sarevok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  First let me get this out of the way: This is the best game available for the Nintendo DS, period. 
 There is simply no other title on the DS market that can offer the qualities Phoenix Wright: Ace 
 Attorney, aka PW: AA, has to offer. Even though Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an anime inspired 
 game, you do NOT have to be an anime fan to appreciate it, although it certainly doesn't hurt to 
 be one.
  
  PW: AA is a courtroom drama story about a man named Phoenix Wright. Trained by his mentor, Mia, 
 he is a fresh new defense attorney who is about to tackle his first murder mystery. As a defense 
 attorney, it is Phoenix's job to prove each of his client's innocence. All of his clients have 
 been wrongly convicted of murder and it is Phoenix's job to set things straight while delivering 
 justice to the true culprit in the process. Along the way, Phoenix will meet a ton of interesting 
 new characters, including a psychic named Maya, a crazy detective named Gumshoe, a senile old judge, 
 and most importantly, his nemesis, Edgeworth, who is the game's main prosecutor. Phoenix and Edgeworth's 
 rivalry fuels the game's fire, as the two hurl objections and evidence at one another in the best 
 courtroom drama you'll ever see, even if the drama is a bit exaggerated. What's important is that 
 EVERY character in PW: AA has a unique personality that sets them apart. You will grow attached 
 to almost all these characters - a rarity in a handheld game!
  
  PW: AA, is divided into five chapters. The first chapter is purely an introduction to the game's 
 mechanics, which will last you only about 45 minutes. Each case afterwards increases in difficulty 
 and gameplay length. On average, the 2nd chapter takes three hours, the 3rd takes five hours, the 
 4th takes eight hours, and the fifth could very well take ten hours or more. Needless to say this 
 game will take a while to beat. This is a good thing because once the game is done, for many, there 
 is very little incentive to play through the game again. There is almost zero replayability; however, 
 many will argue against this, stating it is much like reading a book - in the future, you'll pick 
 it back up and read it again. Don't let this lack of replayibility stop you from purchasing the 
 game because the value it possesses is certainly worth the asking price.
  
  The game itself is told through mostly still-images. The characters expressions change accordingly 
 based on the mood. It's sad to draw comparisons to Japanese hentai games, but alas, it shares almost 
 all of a hentai game's similarities, minus the hentai (thank god) . The game is divided into two 
 segments: The Courtroom and outside investigation. The courtroom is where the fun is - you'll do 
 battle with a prosecutor (usually Edgeworth) , you'll find contradictions in testimonies, you'll 
 present evidence, and you'll get to see culprits go berserk as their murderous secrets are revealed. 
 Unfortunately, the outside of the courtroom in the investigation segments feel very bland in constrast. 
 In these segments, Phoenix walks from room to room looking for clues. Sometimes this room searching 
 can persist for a couple of hours before finally sending you back into the courtroom drama segments. 
 The characters do a good job delivering humor and quirky dialog to keep you moderately distracted 
 from this blandness, but it's not enough to keep you from noticing the flaw.
  
  It's also worth noting PW: AA has an excellent soundtrack. It's strange saying that for a handheld 
 game, but it really does. Depending on the game's atmosphere, it will play a certain music. This 
 is especially noticeable when a client's testimony is falling apart - the music is replaced with 
 a new song variation that plays faster and louder. In regards to sound snippets, when Phoenix or 
 the prosecution yells an objection, you will literally hear a voice acted OBJECTION! emit from 
 your DS. The same applies when Phoenix yells HOLD IT! or TAKE THAT! If you enjoy roleplaying, you 
 can also yell these voices into your DS' microphone, although the microphone is a bit buggy at 
 times.
  
  Overall, PW: AA is simply a treasured DS title that everyone should try. It's something truly innovative 
 that will make you think, Why hasnt anyone thought of this before? Already there is a sequel planned 
 for a January release as well as the strong possibility for a third and fourth sequel. Needless 
 to say, this game is popular.... VERY popular and there is no better time to jump on the bandwagon 
 than now - you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the DS is a difficult game to review because it is so different 
 from anything most gamers have ever experienced. It is hard to accurately describe the game and 
 make it sound interesting at the same time. This game is primarilly text-based, and frequently 
 makes use of the touch screen. There is absolutely no platforming, and no traditional puzzle solving. 
 While it sounds like this game offers little more than reading, it is really quite entertaining. 
 The graphics are nothing to brag about, but the cutscenes do manage to present a comic book type 
 feel. The fact that there is no spoken dialogue may deter many gamers and adds to the overall level 
 of reading involved. As a defense attorney, the main character must investigate crimescenes, speak 
 with witnesses and suspects, and make arguments in court. The touch screen is utilized to examine 
 different areas and present different forms of evidence. While there may have been numerous point-and-click 
 adventures on the PC, they have been rare on consoles and non-existent on handheld systems. Capcom 
 deserves credit for bringing something original to the DS. Gameplay is easy to suspend, and players 
 can resume from the beginning of a chapter or the exact point where they left off. This allows 
 gamers to refresh their memories and makes this title very suitable to portable gaming. Action 
 fans shouldn't bother with this title, but anyone who is intrigued by the game's premise owes it 
 to themselves to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  With the popularity of shows about law on TV it seems like an obvious idea for a game, and yet 
 to this point, no-one had brought courtroom drama to the consoles in any meaningful way. Legal 
 battles are perfectly suited for drama because of the inherent conflicts presented. Add in detective 
 work, which is like cerebral crack, along with some good old who done it guesswork and you have 
 all and makings of an engaging story, which Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney executes well.
  
  Most of the gaming experience revolves around discovering and sorting through evidence, finding 
 contradictions in testimony and then finding the perfect time to nail the guilty party -- it's 
 a lot of fun and very satisfying. PW: AA is well written, or at least well localized and the simple 
 graphic design is stunning in it's ability to convey so much. Like the graphics sound is used sparingly, 
 but to good effect.
  
  My problems with the game are mostly technical. I did not realize it at the time, but I missed 
 the last third of the second episode and all of the fourth episode due to glitches in the game. 
 I did not realize this until I was thoroughly confused in the fifth and final case and consulted 
 a FAQ, only to find out that my confusion was due to me missing out on many key plot-points.
  
  The other problem I had was that the game is exacting in when you can and cannot present evidence. 
 There were times when I found a contradiction in testimony but could not present evidence until 
 the exact statement that the game design dictated. The game is primarily refreshing in it's originality 
 and for that alone is worth trying. Whatever you experience while playing the game it will be unlike 
 any other gaming experience you have ever had. My low score reflects the technical problems which 
 ultimately made my gaming experience less than great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a fantastic game. This game is bursting with great ideas, wit and charm is bursting 
 out of its seams. If you have a DS you can do much worse then this game because this game is down 
 right amazing.
  
  Story: I can't really explain the stories here because in doing so I will ruin the entire game 
 for you. However, I will tell you the basic premise of the game. You are Phoenix Wright, Ace Attorney 
 and your job? To save your clients from imprisonment of course! The stories are fantastic whodunits 
 (my fave genre of story telling) with great twists and surprises and keep you guessing right until 
 the very end! Great stuff!
  
  Gameplay: This is an interactive book with very minimal input from the player. The game doesn't 
 make great use of the DS features except for Case 5*. Case 5 lets you dust for fingerprints on 
 evidence, examine evidence in a similar vein to the 1st Resident Evil, spray for hidden bloodstains 
 and watch surveillance videos. But for most of the time you merely use the stylus to advance the 
 text or to pick an option. The game breaks down into three categories: Court Proceedings, Examining 
 Crime Scenes and interviewing witnesses and suspects. Of course, the most fun part is the Court 
 Proceedings. It's here that the revelations start to unravel and where all the excitement starts. 
 One unique aspect in the court is having the ability to yell into the microphone Objection! or 
 Hold It . But to be honest, I never actually used it and they aren't necessary or worthwhile. It 
 can make you feel like a real lawyer but in actuality in makes you feel like a fool, particularly 
 in public. You also have five lives when you start your cross examinations, and you lose one if 
 you make bad objections and you can't gain them back if you have lost them until the next day. 
 Examining crime scenes is simple but you do have to pay attention and have an eagle like eye to 
 spot the minute things that are out of place. You touch an area of the crime scene you want to 
 examine and it sort of zooms in and greys out. Usually Phoenix has a comment or two on the area 
 and will take the next action, such as collecting it or photographing it. It's not very taxing 
 but it is enjoyable.
  
  Talking is basically simple. You talk by touching a question and you read the text, and then press 
 the play button to advance the text. A good thing is you can re-read the text you may have missed 
 the first time round. All in all, the gameplay is simple and doesn't get overwhelming or confusing. 
 It's slick, accessible and suits the DS perfectly.
  
  *: In terms of DS capabilities and general interests and ideas, Case 5 is by far the best case 
 of the game. It's a case specifically designed for the DS and it 's all for the best. It's also 
 the longest and quite possibly the most difficult one but never the less, Case 5 a fine addition 
 to the game.
  
  Graphics: The game is primarily two dimensional with big two dimensional sprites that have a great 
 range of facial expressions and postures that bring the characters to life. They aren't outstanding 
 in technical terms but they certainly make the game enjoyable and fun, and most importantly bring 
 the game to life! I personally love the graphics, as they are colourful, bold and unforgettable. 
 It's down to taste really. If you're a fan of anime or manga then the game's look and feel will 
 definitely appeal to you. If however, you're after a realistic looking game then you need to look 
 elsewhere. But in doing so, you are missing out. The environments are greatly drawn and coloured 
 and go well with the characters. The environments range from the prison cells, to the courts (complete 
 with witnesses that cheer and throw confetti at the end of a successful case) to the bloody crime 
 scenes, which for some strange reason aren't that disturbing. The text is easy to read and understand 
 and doesn't strain your eyes. The text is quite big and bold.
  
  Sound: The game has a great soundtrack ranging from the emotional, to sheer excitement and finally 
 to victory. Like the game, the soundtrack is over the top and it's even better because of it! The 
 characters don't speak, except for Phoenix shouting Objection , Hold it and Take that but to be 
 honest, the game doesn't really need voice acting. There's little to no sound effects in the game, 
 but that are acceptable. There's the odd gunshot, phone ringing and so on. Overall: This is a fine 
 game that anyone who owns a DS should purchase as soon as possible! If not, I'll see you in court! 
 Rent it, buy it or borrow it. You need to play this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixWright2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a wonderful game, it brings back to life a genre that some people 
 thought had died. It is also a very lengthy adventure at that. It has some of the greatest dialougue 
 that a game could have. The problem is that if you don't ever read the story line in a videogame, 
 chances are that your not gonna enjoy reading the lines of text in Phoenix Wright. This game is 
 text, the gameplay is text, but since the gameplay is text Phoenix Wright excels, because of the 
 witty lines, outrageous plot twists, and even humor. This game has five cases, which may seem short 
 but the cases are long (unless you count the first case) .
  Almost each case is 3 days long (the second and first aren't 3 days) . Each day consists of two 
 phases, the investigation phase, and the court phase. The investigation phase is the part where 
 you just investigate. The court phase is the part that makes this game more different then other 
 adventure games. It is where you will most likely have the most fun and it is the part that usually 
 unveils the plot twists. This game is also pretty long for a portable game, it is roughly about 
 20 hours long. The only problem with this is that this game has little replayibility since you'll 
 know the plot twists and you will most likely know exactly what to do when you are investigating 
 and cross-examining witnesses. Yup, I said cross-examining. The main gameplay of this game is when 
 you are cross-examining witnesses, this is what makes this game so fun. I'll go into more detail 
 on this later. This game has a excellent cast of characters as well. You will meet some people 
 that are strange and you will meet people who will try to turn the case against you. This game 
 is both different and unforgetable.
  
  -Gameplay- This game doesn't really have actioney gameplay where you have to mash buttons. This 
 game got a 10 in gameplay because it hits the nail on the head for how adventure games should be. 
 In the Investigation phases you have 4 options, each appearing as a button on the bottom screen. 
 You can Examine, Talk, Move, and Present. When you examine you look around the area and you can 
 look at stuff. When you find a important clue you put it in the court record. You can talk only 
 when a person is in the room with you. Talking is just getting information out of the people. You 
 move just so that you can go to a different area. You can present when a person is in the room. 
 When you present you choose one of the items in the court record and you show it to the person. 
 If you show the right item it can be used to get more information out of the person. The best part 
 is the court phase. When in the court phase the judge may ask questions or he may ask you to present 
 the right evidence. When questions are asked boxes with the answers are on the bottom screen, one 
 of them is right and the other answers are wrong. In the court phase you have exclamation marks 
 that are used as the health (you have five of these) . When you get somthing wrong you might lose 
 one of these or sometimes you wont get penalized. In the court phase you also have what this game 
 is all about, the cross-examination phase. The witness gives a testimony which is broken into smaller 
 statements. When viewing each statement you can choose to either press or present. When you press, 
 the witness gives you a more detailed description of the statement. When you present, the court 
 record opens up and you choose which evidence to present. If you choose wrong you lose a exclamation 
 mark and if you get it right you move on through the proceedings. This game is pretty linear for 
 a adventure game, but then the story would probably have to change drastically if it had different 
 outcomes. When you lose all your health you are then shown to the title screen and you can restart 
 where you last saved. In case 5 the game really starts to show off its DS exclusive features as 
 well.
  
  -Graphics- Although this game doesn't really show off the DS's graphical capabilities, it still 
 shows a good art design. The backrounds have been carefully drawn and they depict all the details. 
 The characters are also nicely created and you can tell the character's emotions. The characters 
 also have some animatons that go along with them to really show off what they are feeling. The 
 game has a nice kinda cartoony look to it. In case 5 you also have some 3D objects to examine.
 
  
  -Sound- This game has some memorable tunes in it. The music is very good, you may even want to 
 put headphones on to listen to it. Although it isn't Metallica it would make some great elevator 
 music. The music can also descibe whats going on in the game. When you are talking to the detective 
 you here some detective music and when you are in a high energy arguement with the prosecutor you 
 get some upbeat music. You also get some good little sounds such as the sound of the judge slamming 
 his gavel, to a dog barking. There is also some voice acting. You will be hearing Objection! , 
 Hold It! , and Take That! through out this game. The only bad thing is that this game doesn't show 
 how good the DS's speakers are.
  
  -Value- This game is long for a portable game. With a length of about 20 hours this game will be 
 in your DS for a some time. The problem is that after one play through you will know what evidence 
 to present and what to do. This is kinda a one time game. If you do replay it it will be like re-reading 
 a book, you already know whats going to happen, or when you watch a movie again.
  
  -Tilt- This game is one of the funniest games out there. Although it ain't no Simpsons it is still 
 pretty funny with its awkward moments. I also didn't think this game was that good when I first 
 saw it, but then I was pretty much blown away at how fun a text adventure can be. This game sends 
 shivers down my spine every time I get to the conclusion of a case. Something about Phoenix Wright 
 just makes me want to give it a 10 tilt. -Final Comments- The bottom line is, if you want a nice 
 long game and you like comics or good storylines then Phoenix Wright is the game to get. It is 
 one of the greatest portable games and the greatest DS game I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS, known for its often quirky, yet fun games has yet another classic. Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attourney. In this game, you play as Phoenix Wright, and up and coming lawyer with little grasp 
 of even the basics of law. Through the help of his mentor, Phoenix Wright slowly, yet surely becomes 
 a confidant and competant lawyer as he solves cases and defneds those who have been wrongly accused.
 
  
  There are two main parts of the gameplay. The first part it the invstigation part, where you wil 
 interview witnesses and look for evidence to help you in the upcoming trial.
  
  But the real meat of this game are the trial parts. Here, it's a fast paced battle of the wits 
 between you and the persecuting attourney. Here, you listen to witness's testimonies, look for 
 the inaccuracies in them, and use your evidence to prove your client's innocence.
  
  The game is overall enjoyable, although short with only five missions, and four of them are from 
 older Phoenix Wright games in Japan known as Gayakuten Saiban. Also, the game lacks replay value 
 as once you've solved a case, there' s little challenge afterwards. Still, while you're playing 
 it for the first time, it's sure to entertain you.
  
  The graphical quality is usually pretty detailed and charming. The expressions of many of the characters 
 from Phoenix sweating with anxiety to some creepy guy who throws his toupee at you out of pure 
 anger.
  
  The music in this game fits well, though it's nothing spectacular. There's no voice acting other 
 than the words, Objection! , Hold it! , and Take that! , but they all still sound good and fit 
 in well nonetheless. The music overall also has a nice tune to it from the quick paced theme of 
 the testimony analysis to the slow and solemn tune of the Police Station.
  
  Overall, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney, is a great game that while, has a few kinks and lacks replay 
 value, is still another great and quirky game on the Nintendo DS that any owner of the handheld 
 should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney was a hard game for me to come by. When the first game released, I 
 was at a stage of my life where I had to cut back my expenditures, and Phoenix Wright unfortunately 
 was one of those games that got cut. Thank God Capcom did a second run. I just happened to be in 
 my local game store one day, saw it on the shelves and immediately snatched it up.
  
  When I first read about Phoenix Wright, I thought to myself, How the hell could a lawyer game be 
 fun? But as the first wave of impressions began to hit internet forums, my interest in the game 
 rose. When I finally got around to starting this game last month, I began to see why so many people 
 highly recommended it.
  
  For starters, I will say the dialogue and the localization are both top notch. The real hook of 
 this game is the outstanding characters and the complicated cases. Going around interviewing witnesses, 
 gathering clues, presenting evidence in court and cross-examining witnesses really is a lot of 
 fun thanks to the awesome writing. Each case gets more complex and more interesting, and if it 
 wasn't for having consoles at home, I would have continued to play it into the wee hours of the 
 night.
  
  To be honest, this isn't the type of game for everyone. Phoenix Wright demands your attention, 
 and this is a text-based adventure, so there's a ton of dialogue to read. There are also times 
 where you'll get stumped and can't come to any logical conclusions as to what evidence to present, 
 which in turns leads you to simply present everything until you finally come to the right piece 
 of evidence at the right time. These occasions are very rare, though.
  
  My only gripe in the gameplay department is that it never really evolves until the last case, where 
 it introduces new evidence examining mechanics, such as looking over objects in 3D, sparying for 
 blood samples and dusting for fingerprints. I'm sure these features will be introduced in the sequel 
 Justice for All at the start, and will make the gameplay more fun right away.
  
  For this game being a graphic adventure, it's not really that graphically impressive. That's not 
 to stay the artstyle isn't fantastic, as it is, but it's a shame that the animation is very sub-par. 
 I really wished Capcom would have put, I dunno, at least five more frames of animation to make 
 the characters move a little more smoothly. This screams bad Japanimation. I know this won't affect 
 many people, but it was a major pet peeve for me.
  
  The game's got great music, at least from what I've heard. You see, I played the majority of this 
 game at work in a breakroom with other people, and I never got in the habit of bringing earphones. 
 But from what I heard, each piece is well composed and fits the mood and atmosphere of each scene 
 nicely. It also picks up in court as the tension between attorneys build. There's also really not 
 too much in the way of sound effects. The constant banging of the judge's gavel is the only thing 
 that sticks out in my mind.
  
  I said the character designs were outstanding, I and I'm not kidding. I'm not going to go into 
 any detail about them, as I don't want to spoil anything for anyone, but there are characters you 
 will love and love to hate. You're going to laugh at many things they'll say, and your eyes will 
 open wide when a case's mystery unravels right before you. You'll end up getting attached to Wright 
 as his confidence continues to grow throughout the game, and when the game's all said and done, 
 you'll have a warm feeling of goodness as you feel that you've shared each and every character's 
 story with them.
  
  I'm glad I found this game. I really am. It's one of those unique games that you just can't imagine 
 being on any other platform. I'm eagerly awaiting Justice for All, and I can't wait to see what 
 knew gameplay features they'll introduce. I only wish Capcom would make a version for the Wii, 
 as I can see slamming my hands down on the table to object by swinging the remote and nunchuck 
 down in the air as being a whole lot of fun. Those who love text adventures probably already own 
 this game, but for those of you who still don't, make this your number one priority. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RojAvon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I've changed my mind about this game.
  
  Months ago I bought PW as one of the first games I bought for my DS. The store I bought it from 
 had a 7 day return policy and after about 4 days it went back.
  
  I had heard so many good things about this game and then after playing it I was profoundly disappointed 
 in it. I posted a fairly negative review and made a point to give my opinion on it in the forums 
 when I had the opportunity.
  
  However, recently after a discussion with a big fan of the game I reconsidered my views.
  
 
  Here is the bottom line. I think that the biggest disservice you can do to this game is to expect 
 it to be like Law and Order . If you go into this game expecting it to be a complex mystery that 
 you solve by using realistic investigative and legal techniques then I think you will be profoundly 
 disappointed. This is what happened to me the first time I tried to play it. I went in to it with 
 the wrong expectations and based on them, I found it very unsatisfying and silly.
  
  However, recently, after a bit of a dispute with another poster about this game I decided to give 
 the game another chance. A local shop had the game at a great price so I bought it again.
  
  This time when I played it, I lightened up on it. I stopped expecting Law and Order and just 
 decided to enjoy the storyline and the crazy characters.
  
  If you come at it from that point of view, then I really do believe that you can really have a 
 good time with this game. Don't take it seriously and appreciate it for the cartoony little innovative 
 game that it is.
  
  Actually though, if you do want a TV show comparison then Perry Mason or Matlock isn't that far 
 off. Law and Order is a lot closer to reality than those other shows. On those older more simplistic 
 shows, much like in PW, the defense attorney doesn't just inspire reasonable doubt in his client's 
 guilt he pretty much has to solve the case by proving that on of the other witnesses did the crime. 
 That's not terribly realistic either.
  
  I was wrong about this game. It's not perfect but it's innovative and fun if you let it be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddballrulez
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  there are few games i particularly enjoy that are text driven in this nature. But hell, thought 
 id give it a shot. And boy am i glad i did, this is a well executed, well put together 'who dunnit', 
 with several fantastic stories to tell, that really make you think about the case. Its impossible 
 to play to the end and not feel hooked to ANY of the characters. They all have an abundance of 
 personality, and unique design. The sound is amazing, some great midi soundtracks are used to set 
 the mood, with the occasional Objection! or Take that! . gameplay= Solid. no other way to describe 
 it, very self explanatory and intuitive, and near the end of the game you get to check for finger 
 prints by tapping on the screen and blowing away the residue. This game is worth picking up... 
 end of... you WILL grow to like it ALOT after the first few cases, and the game is long enough 
 to last you maaany nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  This game took me by surprise. By the second trial, I was irreversibly hooked. I've always loved 
 a game that required you not to be stupid, and this game is definitely not for those lacking in 
 the brain functionality department. Phoenix Wright in downright fun from the get go.
  
  The text can get kinda frustrating, given that most gamers are used to hearing characters talk 
 nowadays, but people need to expect it from a cartridge based handheld... its only got so much memory.
 
  
  I love the fact that it involves so much more than a courtroom. You have to talk and investigate, 
 and put everything together when it comes to the evidence. I love cross-examination, the noise, 
 flashes, and character reactions when you catch them in a lie really help you get into the game.
 
  
  And for a handheld, this is a lengthy game. I've only just beaten the third case, and I've been 
 playing for roughly 8-10 hours, and there are five cases, with each case being about 3 times longer 
 than the last. I can; t wait to finish the other two,
  
  If you're looking for a change of pace and an unlikely heart-pounder of a game, then definitely 
 take advantage of the recently re-printed Phoenix Wright, because people we're paying good money 
 for this before, and I have a feeling five or so years from now, they will pay good money for it 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is awsome for your Nintendo DS Collection. Well this a great game but alot of text 
 still awsome game to play, when I first played it I was amazed. The graphics are great, the sound 
 is pretty good, the story line is pretty funny. I love this game, sometimes the cases are long 
 mostly the last one, still I have fun playing this game. This is great for everyone who likes to 
 think and figure clues. The characters in this game are really funny, but sometimes the clues can 
 be diffcult to figure out. I can wait for the second one to come out, knowing the second will be 
 awsome as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has unique features that no other system has and I highly doubt, that Phoenix Wright 
 be as much of a success if this was not the case. Due to it's unique nature, the stylus and microphone, 
 though does not shatter or revolutionize the gameplay, it does allow the user to get wrapped up 
 into the game. It isn't a gimmick, it's a tool you can choose to use and it's quite fun as well.
 
  
  Phoenix Wright has you starting off as a lawyer in his first case- a murder case. It's more a tutorial 
 than anything else but it does get your gears spinning in your mind. Primarily, there are two modes. 
 One of them is investigation, where you collect clues and information from witnesses and others, 
 and the other is the defense proceedings in court.
  
  In court, you primarily listen to witnesses testify and it is your job to find contradictions causing 
 them to change their stories until the truth can be wringed out from their deceptive hides. To 
 do this, you can either press, or present. Pressing has you questioning the witness to elaborate 
 further on their statement while presenting means you have evidence that usually shows the witness 
 is not telling the whole story. Either way, if you play your cards right, you will eventually find 
 the truth.
  
  It can be very satisfying catching someone in a lie and proving what actually happened and who 
 did what after it's all said and done. Another neat feature is the ability to speak into the mic 
 either hold it, or objection and it will do so as if you hit the buttons on the DS or the stylus. 
 It doesn't really change the gameplay but it is an interesting side note.
  
  The trials have a maximum of three days for trials so the stories unfold in that time line but 
 that doesn't mean you have time restrictions to gather clues or to talk to people. The game is 
 quite linear and most of the contradictions you can find can only be found by choosing the right 
 piece of evidence or pressing the correct statement. To make sure you don't abuse this function, 
 you only have five chances for each chunk of the trial to get it right. If you fail five times, 
 you fail and the preceding is over so you can't keep guessing though time to time, you may be stumped 
 what to do so you may want to give it a try once in a while.
  
  The evidence is the key to the best moments of the game. For example, one witness says he hears 
 the time on the TV and then you can refute that with the blackout report that clearly contradicts 
 it. There are other instances where you have to watch videos and look at maps and photos to pick 
 out the discrepancies. If you're not one to comb over your evidence and look at it once in a while, 
 you're going to make the judge very made, which is okay because you can save almost anywhere but 
 there is only one save slot.
  
  Characters in the game are detailed and seem to have their own unique personalities and it's fun 
 to get to know them as you progress through the game. At the end of it, you actually feel like 
 you know them and you want them to either succeed or fail. Although many of the villains are easily 
 identified because of their traits, it just makes it that much more satisfying when you can them!
 
  
  The graphics aren't exactly amazing and could have been portrayed on the GBA except for the last 
 mission where 3d graphics are employed. If more of the game was presented that way instead of nicely 
 drawn pictures with three or four frames of animation, it would have been much better but that 
 game is still quite good in this area. The pictures are drawn well and since the game is almost 
 entirely text based, the graphics won't be a glaring issue for the most part.
  
  The music and sounds of the game are so unbelievably good, it's hard to believe there's no soundtrack. 
 When there's a turn in the tide of the court, you can hear the music and you can feel the momentum 
 shifting for or against you. When you catch someone in a lie, it's the same intoxicating feeling 
 that's hard to top in a video game experience. Even though the music does get repetitive, without 
 it, the game would have been sorely lacking. In the end, the game has only five cases totaling 
 about ten or so hours. The game is linear so there's no extra endings or hidden eggs either to 
 encourage to play through again other than the fact that you can zoom past the text with a button 
 for the cases you've already won, which is probably a useful feature if you lend the game to a 
 friend so he can read as quickly as he wants. Unfortunately, the game has little or no replayability 
 so once you beat it, it's hard to play through again but even with that in consideration, it's 
 hard to deny that this heavily text based game, is fun and on the DS it's even funner. It is difficult 
 to say that this game is revolutionary but it's impossible not to get engaged with the characters 
 and the story and in the end, you'll be glad you read through it. It's time for everyone to rise 
 up and say, OBJECTION!
  
  One last thing- did anyone else find the music remind you of Shadowrun on the SNES? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Here is an idea for a game: you play as a defense lawyer who is just starting out on his new career 
 and you take on cases where you have to prove your client is not guilty of the crime they are being 
 prosecuted for. Seriously, I have no idea how Capcom approved of this game, but believe it or not, 
 it actually works really well. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an adventure game that is heavily 
 based on text. You can play the entire game using the stylus, which is what I recommend, and you 
 pretty much read for about 70 percent of the game. If you are getting the feeling that this game 
 is bad, I ask that you please hear me out on this.
  
  First, the writing is genius. Phoenix Wright was initially just a Japanese only game, and I am 
 so happy that they brought it over to the west. The localization team did a great job of taking 
 the entire script of the game and turning into something I really enjoyed reading through. The 
 stories and characters in each case are so deep and contain all the twists and drama that one would 
 find in a mystery novel. I like to call Phoenix Wright an interactive mystery book.
  
  Secondly, no, you do not only read in the game. Along with having conversations with people to 
 collect evidence for your case, you can also search areas to find more evidence. The game is presented 
 in first person, but you do no walking. All actions are menu based, so if you want to talk to someone, 
 just hit the talk button and you can ask one of several questions. Hit the examine button and you 
 are given a still picture of the area. Using your stylus, you can point to any object in the area 
 and further examine it. This is how you come across other evidence. You also have the ability to 
 present evidence in your inventory to people in order to learn more about that particular piece 
 of evidence and maybe even acquire new evidence through this process. When you are in court, you 
 will have to listen (read) to witnesses testimonies and use the available evidence to point out 
 contradictions in what they have stated to the court. By squeezing the truth out of the witnesses, 
 you get closer and closer to proving your client is innocent of the crime, which will always have 
 to deal with murder. If you show the wrong evidence at the wrong time, the judge will think you 
 are just wasting time and will give you a warning. You can be warned four times, but on the fifth 
 time, the judge will stop the trial and just claim the defendant is guilty, which is pretty much 
 game over, and you have to start from your last save point.
  
  Saving in Phoenix Wright is probably the easiest and best save system in any game. All you have 
 to do is just press start at any time and you can save that exact moment, that exact screenshot. 
 This can make court trials a little easier since you can just be warned and restart until you present 
 the right evidence.
  
  The final chapter of the game will enable you to do other things for collecting evidence, like 
 testing for fingerprints, and performing forensics tests on an area for blood that can no longer 
 be seen with the naked eye. Checking for fingerprints requires you to tap the screen in order to 
 apply the white floury substance, and then you blow into the microphone to reveal the fingerprint. 
 Checking for blood requires you to tap the screen to apply a spray all around and the blood will 
 show up in an cyan color. I thought these small gameplay elements were fun and useful, but it is 
 unfortunate that you only use it at the very end of the game.
  
  The graphical style of Phoenix Wright is all done as if it were an anime cartoon. All the characters 
 have sharp edges to them, with spiky hair and big eyes. In scenes where there is more drama or 
 climax, the background flashes in the same way it would in fight scenes from any traditional anime. 
 Even though all the text has been properly localized, I am happy they kept the look of the game 
 intact. It is just another reason why the game just feels so good.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a DS game, which makes it understandable that there is no voice acting, but with 
 all the reading that goes along with the vibrant and flashy characters that animate while they 
 talk, it felt like it was missing that one element that would bring this game to a higher level. 
 Each person seems to have a specific sound blip when the letters are typed onto the screen, but 
 the difference is barely noticeable, and there were a few situations where Phoenix Wright would 
 talk, but since it is in first person, you never notice him speaking unless he is making a thought 
 to himself in which the text turns blue. It would have been better if there were clearly unique 
 sound effects for each character speaking. There is an indicator of who is talking, but I rarely 
 checked it. Remaining on the topic of sound, the music in the game is just great. The themes, tunes, 
 and songs are all catchy and make you feel comfortable while sitting and playing through the game. 
 It makes for good reading music when much reading is needed to be done, and it kicks up a tempo 
 when you are reaching a climax to the trial or are discovering a critical piece of evidence.
  
  In all, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney makes for a very unique and enjoyable game. I always love 
 to try new types of games, and even though text heavy adventure games are nothing new, a game where 
 you are a defense attorney is something that may make people do a double-take. If anything, it 
 makes for a great read, and I feel that it works best on the DS, even though the limited space 
 on the game chip is too limited to implement voice acting. There are five chapters, or cases, in 
 the game, but each chapter can take you an average of four hours to complete, except for the first 
 chapter. It is no lawyer simulator. In fact, this is far from being anything of the sort, so do 
 not get any ideas of having this game act as training. If you hate to read through a lot of text, 
 I suggest you pass on this game, but if you are up for a good read, then Phoenix Wright is definitely 
 recommendable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReggieWhite2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  As Mega Man, youve blasted Dr. Wilys robots. As Chris &amp; Jill, you killed many a zombie. As 
 Ken &amp; Ryu youve perfected the art of trapping with the hadoken. None of your past experiences 
 with Capcoms games will prepare you for what youll face as Phoenix Wright. Youll be going into 
 one of the most dangerous, most deadly, most chaotic places imaginable: the court room. Being a 
 rookie defense attorney may not sound like a walk in the park but thanks to some very intriguing 
 court cases, a terrific cast of characters, and excellent use of the DS touch screen, it sure is 
 a lot of fun. Ace Attorney takes you through five unique murder cases. You read right, murder cases. 
 Do not let the games cover art fool you. Each time you begin a case, someone gets killed. Every 
 single one of your clients has been wrongly accused of committing murder and as his/her defense 
 lawyer, its your job to discover the truth and prove their innocence. The first case is on the 
 easy side and will get you into the swing of things so youll know how to proceed throughout the 
 game. After that, the cases become far more complex, so much so that youll spend hours on a single 
 case trying to uncover the deception thats going on. These intricate cases are a large part of 
 what make the game such a joy to play. You may very well know who committed the crime, but arriving 
 at a conclusion as to how said killer carried out the vicious act really is half the fun. Each 
 case has a witness (sometimes more than one) that will be called to the stand to testify. After 
 hearing his/her testimony, you are given a chance to cross-examine the witness. These witnesses 
 may be under oath but that doesnt stop them from lying. During cross-examinations, you can expose 
 their lies. The touch screen has a button called press. By pressing a witness you can get them 
 to reveal more details about what they saw or things they were trying to keep hidden. Or if you 
 dont want to hit the press button you can also say Hold it! (which is what Phoenix says when 
 you hit the press button) into the DS microphone. In some cases youre given the option to press 
 further if you think theres more digging to be done. Youll need to use evidence to prove a contradiction 
 to things theyve said in their testimony. Showing evidence prompts Phoenix to shout Objection! 
 Like the press button, you can also say Objection! into the mic, which also results in Phoenix 
 saying the word. However, you have to present the right piece of evidence and at the right time, 
 otherwise youll be penalized. In each case you can be penalized up to five times. Once you lose 
 all your penalty marks its game over. Its also game over if your client is found guilty. Despite 
 the involving court cases its pretty tough to actually get a game over. You can save as often 
 as you like and resume at the very last spot you left off, making it possible for you to make it 
 through a case without being penalized. You can also go through the witnesses testimonies an unlimited 
 amount of times to prevent looking like a fool in the court room by jumping the gun. Phoenix Wright 
 may be a defense attorney but he may as well add detective to his resume as well. Not only do 
 you spend a lot of time in the court room, you also spend an almost equal amount of time at crime 
 scenes, the detention center, and other numerous places. Any clues you find are added to the court 
 record for ammunition in a case. You can also talk to witnesses outside the court room or chat 
 with officials that may be working on the case. You never have to worry about going into a case 
 without the proper goods. The game never lets you move into the court room until youve spoken 
 to everyone that needs to be spoken to, or picked up every piece of evidence possible. Ace Attorney 
 uses the touch screen in ways that will make your jaw drop. Though out the entire game you use 
 the touch screen to check out crime scenes. Just use the stylus to touch on anything in the background 
 like desks, pictures, trophies, etc. There are even times where youll have to specifically point 
 things out like a location on floor plans or something vital in a picture. The final case goes 
 even more in depth by giving you access to forensics tools. Youll be able to check for fingerprints 
 and traces of blood thought to be long gone. Tests for blood are used with a special chemical called 
 luminol. Just tap the touch screen to spray any area you think blood might be. If blood was there, 
 the luminol will pick it up. Testing for fingerprints uses special powder. Tap the touch screen 
 to apply powder and then blow into the mic to see if any prints can be found. During the final 
 case you can also examine evidence even further with the touch screen by moving it around in any 
 and all directions. A text heavy game like Ace Attorney would be very dull if it didn't have interesting 
 plots and characters. Thankfully, this game is loaded with both. The most deep cases and go even 
 deeper when more witness are brought to the stand or when some unexpected evidence suddenly turns 
 up. Characters have their own distinct personality and are very well-developed. Phoenix himself 
 is a pretty likable guy who believes in the innocence of his clients. Even when he screws up or 
 has events happen that he didn'tt see coming, hes still determined to win. Prosecutor Miles Edgeworth, 
 the man youll often match wits with in court is someone youll respect, but will also be a thorn 
 in your side at the same time. For all the seriousness in the game it is not devoid of humor. The 
 dialogue is very well-written and will often have you laughing out loud. Theres also plenty of 
 pun names to be found in the game like Lotta Hart, Jack Hammer, and Wendy Oldbag to name a few.
 
  
  Gorgeous still backdrops make up the majority of the games visuls. The large character sprites 
 are crystal clear on the top portion of the DS screen. The DS probably isn'tt being pushed to 
 the limit but the game still looks beautiful, all the same and the art style really lends itself 
 to the games atmosphere and charm. The music is another one of the games high points. You probably 
 wouldn'tt expect such memorable music from this type of game, but youd be wrong. Theres a music 
 track for every mood the game hits, be it dark/edgy, suspenseful, melancholy, or upbeat.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney might be a bit too straight forward, but it never fails to keep the 
 players attention. The game succeeds on so many levels that you can easily overlook the fact that 
 its too linear and thats its nearly impossible to get a guilty verdict. These are things that 
 can easily be corrected in a sequel. As it is, this is one of the best reasons to own a DS. Its 
 one of the best reasons to be a gamer. Even if adventure, text heavy games, aren'tt your thing, 
 odds are pretty good youll love Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is the kind of game where you will either have a love or hate relationship. 
 It deals heavenly on scripted gameplay, and for those gamers who lack the patience will no doubt 
 find it boring. However, if you manage to get engaged in Phoenix Wright, you will find one of the 
 most satisfying, brilliantly written, and engaging handheld game ever.
  
  Phoenix Wright follows the story of a young defense attorney named, yep, Phoenix Wright. You are 
 working at a law firm when you get thrown into your very first case where your childhood friend 
 is on trial for murder. Here you will learn the basics of the game, of how you must use evidence 
 and successfully cross examine witnesses to get a Not Guilty verdict. Since Phoenix Wright is a 
 defense attorney, he will never settle for anything but a Not Guilty verdict. The gameplay pans 
 out as sort of a CSI show. There is short cinema at the beginning of every new case, showcasing 
 what you believe is the truth. While you may see someone kill another person that may not be actually 
 how it occurred. So it is up to Phoenix to discover the truth behind the false accusations. Although 
 it is primarily a law-based game, Phoenix will actually spend most of his time out in the field 
 collecting evidence to use in his trials. This form of detective work allows for a break in norm, 
 which is great considering some of the evidence you find can mean the difference between a Guilty 
 and Not Guilty verdict. But the fun comes with the many different ways for you to gather your evidence. 
 Any part of any location can be searched at ones pace, and almost anything can be viewed. Although 
 most of the stuff will be just nonsense, some of the items you view will end up being added to 
 your evidence list for the trial. How you will use them in the trial is another story.
  
  The DSs touch screen is used primarily for the clue-solving portion of the game. Using your stylus 
 you are able to search areas for clues, spray on luminal fluid for traces of blood left behind, 
 or even spreading powder, and than using the microphone to blow it away to reveal fingerprints. 
 It is really used in a clever and exciting way, and every case brings something new to use the 
 touch screen for, which always makes the game feel fun and never repetitive and dull. In fact, 
 the entire game can be played using the stylus, but some will find it easier to just use the D 
 Pad to engage in conversations for the fact that it is less tiresome to point and click every answer. 
 Phoenix Wright also has its fair share of unique and memorable characters. The game features a 
 huge list of major and minor characters that will be active in your role as attorney. While each 
 case will only have a few characters you will only see once in a while, some characters will stick 
 with you throughout the entire game. In a chance to not ruin any spoilers, I wont reveal who any 
 of them are, but I can say that they are extremely funny and entertaining to have around. Not only 
 do they bring unique outlooks on the situations (For example, if Phoenix feels like he is going 
 to lose in court, one character will respond I knew you were never good to begin with anyways) . 
 The characters rely mainly on stereotypical clich&eacute; s, such as the bumbling good/bad cop, 
 and the saucy yet sweet blonde witness who tries to flirt her way out of trouble. One of the most 
 memorable characters was a director of a childrens television show who kept talking in computer 
 lingo.
  
  The fun of Phoenix Wright comes in the form that not everyone is safe, meaning that people, who 
 were witnesses in cases prior, may actually be suspects in preceding cases. Phoenix himself is 
 rumored as a suspect for a short period of time, and it seems that everyone in the game will always 
 find themselves on the opposite side of the law. The court proceedings play out sort of straightforward. 
 The case starts with the witnesses detailing the events, and than each lawyer getting a chance 
 to cross examines the witness. This is where you get to use all of the evidence you found through 
 your detective work, and you will get the chance to present evidence, object to statement, and 
 even yell at the prosecuting attorney. The only fault I could see in Phoenix Wright is probably 
 that there are times when you simply do not know what to do. You will know if you talked to everyone 
 because there is a check mark next to the question, however, sometimes presenting one minor piece 
 of evidence to a certain character can advance the story. Its times like these which may be irksome 
 for some, mainly because it could take a while before you actually figure out what you need to 
 do, or where you need to go. But besides that minor fault, Phoenix Wright is definitely one of 
 the most intriguing and clever titles out on the Nintendo DS, with its crazy cast of characters, 
 brilliantly written dialogue, and off-beat scenarios, it is one of most exciting and engaging games 
 Ive ever played on a handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafs_ducks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  this is second game i bought for the ds. i was hesiant at first when i i was told it was a text 
 adventure game. but i bought it anyways, and man am i glad i bought it.
  this game lets you play as an denfense attorney which takes you through 5 cases. each one longer 
 than the previous one. finding edvince with your detective work and condrictions proving your client 
 innocence. gameplay= great use of the stylus, cool story line with twisting plots that keeps you 
 gussing throughout the case. the graphics are superb for the ds. the sound is also well done. overrall, 
 this is a game that shouldn't be missed for all ds owners! go get it now! since its kinda hard 
 to find nowadays! you won't regret this decision.
  8.8 out of 10 is my score:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALLeyesONme68
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Story You are Phoenix Wright, a young lawyer right off the Bar, and without even getting a chance 
 to settle into your new career, you are thrown into your first case: a murder case with one of 
 your childhood friends as the suspect. Many shocks, twists, and surprises are in store throughout 
 the game, all of them topping the last. Easily the best part of the game.
  
  Gameplay The gameplay in this game is broken down into two parts: investigation and courtroom battles. 
 Investigations are basically you examining the crime scene (s) to gather evidence for use in the 
 courtroom. These sections are nicely done, especially with the dialogue, which foreshadow the big 
 events that will unravel in court. The court battles are the real draw though. Each section has 
 you breaking down a witness' testimony, pointing out all the lies and deceptions to insure your 
 clients' innocence. Almost all the twists are revealed here, all with a great style, whether it 
 be humor, dramatic monologues, etc. The gameplay won't really ever get repetitive, since you'll 
 be too busy wondering what surprise or twist is around the corner.
  
  Sound Great music that is deceptively simple. The songs are usually just background music, but 
 it is also used for immersion and ambiance when something big is or is about to happen. Now I said 
 deceptively simple because you might not think it when you are playing it, but those songs WILL 
 get stuck in your head. Couldn't be better here either, with the exception of spoken dialogue, 
 but because of space on the DS cart and the amount of time it would take, I doubt that would be 
 physically possible. All is forgiven. Replay Value This is the game's only weak spot because once 
 you beat it the first time, all of the surprises are out of the bag. Still, I will go back to it 
 before Phoenix Wright 2 comes out so that I am refreshed as to what happened.
  
  Overall Some will say that Phoenix Wright is only popular because of its rarity. Well, I have one 
 thing to say to that:
  
  OBJECTION!!
  
  It is popular because of how amazing the game and its story truly are. I will go as far to say 
 that this may be the BEST HAND-HELD GAME OF ALL-TIME. And that is my honest opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Law games are an untouched genre, and Phoenix Wright is the most original and fun game for the 
 DS considering the idea of the game slighty unpredictable. The novelty of the idea is you play 
 the role of a rookie lawyer: Phoenix Wright who stands up for justice, sounds dull already, but 
 read on you'll understand what im on about. The concept of this game is refreshing as even I intially 
 didnt know what to expect from this idea. Very briefly I'll explain the concept of the game. Basically 
 you defend the accused, who always happens to be innocent, your briefed on the crime and given 
 evidence, you read the witness testimony, who also happens to be the guilty one who does the dirty 
 deed in these murder cases, and pick out the contridictions between what they say and the evidence 
 at hand. whats so amazing is the way this is all presented, its so colourful and lively, the Stories 
 of the cases are enteraining, and having to find the missing links in the cases provides a fun 
 challenege that requires you to think. For every objection you make is judged by... the judge and 
 if you dont have a valid point you lose a mark, lose all the marks and you can be expected to lose 
 the case. Slipping up is an easy mistake as some witnesses are crafty and its diifficult to find 
 anything to pin them on. aside from the court trials themselves, yuo do spend dome time observing 
 several locations and trying to gain new evidence as well as question other witnesses. For a game 
 with only 5 cases, (Ive just finished the second one) they are quite long and involve several different 
 trials. The game eases you in gently with your 1st trial, think of it as a tutorial where you are 
 simply explained the system of the game. The story is full of depth and you'll be hooked with trying 
 to beat your rival lawyers. The stylus is used quite a lot, but you could easily substitute for 
 the D-pad or microphone. Needless to say you'll be doing more than just reading the text.
  Graphically everything is animated and done nicely with some neat little actions from each charatcer. 
 Phoenix's slams on the desk provide real drama and is excuted brialliantly. the characters really 
 provide emotion to the story, Miles Edgeworths cold outlook that the defendent is always guilty 
 policy and Maya's tears from her sisters death really create a strong atmospheric drama to a original 
 game full of suspense.
  The music in the game is in a league of its own, the turnaround point for you to win the case is 
 delivered with some pretty cool over the top music. In all honesty theres nothing that you wont 
 feel unhappy with in terms of quality.
  
  Phoenix wright doesnt have much replay value however, once you crack one case, its pretty breezy 
 to do again once you know the contridictions, still that doesnt mean its not worth playing. Like 
 me, you'll want to move on to the next case and see what unfolds the first time around.
  Without a doubt a classic for the DS, In time you'll remember how amazing it was, forget all the 
 cases and probably play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique... I think that best describes it. It has very nice graphics, O K sound, decent 
 gameplay, and an incredibly wacky storyline. It may seem like a short game but in actuality it's 
 pretty long. One of my favorite features of the game was saying Objection or Hold it in to the 
 DS microphone.
  
  In this game you play as Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney, a defense attorney. You get clients evey 
 chapter, and the goal is to get a Not Guilty verdict for them. You have an investigation phase, 
 an interrogation phase, and you present evidence to help you in the process.
  
  I started off thinking this game is ok, but it somehow really grew on me. And towards the last 
 2-3 chapters I really got into it. So I raised my score to 8.3.
  
  I can't really recommend buying this game because it has zero replayability. But it's a good rent, 
 and if you have nothing better to play this really is a decent game to run through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_asswhooper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is the third best game I have ever played. It is freaking AWESOME the story is amazing the 
 graphics are amazing the creativity in what you get to do whilst investigating IS AMAZING. The 
 story is so awesome, its enough to rival the likes of J. K Rowling. Weelll... mabey not, but its 
 pretty damn sweet. It's a really surprising  type of story.
  The only dissapointing part is that there isn't very much interaction in the game it's a bit like 
 one of those old mystery books where the book isn't written in order, but you start at the beggining 
 at pick choices every 5 pages which direct you to the page of the corresponding choice. Never mind. 
 Its an INCREDIBLE game, I just finished it and it kept me busy for at least 30 hours. Buy it.
 
  NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Pheonix Wright is the best non video game I have ever played on the DS. This experience will not 
 be for everyone unfortunately. This title was made for those people who enjoy reading novels and 
 are looking for a little interaction.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Solid storylines, plots aren't cliche, inventive twists that keep you guessing, memorable characters, 
 music that fits the events, enjoyable reading, save anywhere
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Lots of trial conduct inaccuracies, only one way to prove contridictions in testimony, could of 
 had better animation, interface not as user frieldly as it could have been, missed the boat that 
 could have made it stand out as a must have title
  
  THE UGLY:
  
  Only 5 cases
  
  Pheonix Wright isn't a video game. I just want to make that really clear. This title is hard to 
 review like a videogame because its more like an interactive novel. But I will do my best.
  
  In this title you play a young inspirational defense attorney. He is new in the field as was 
 trained by one of the best. Throughout the course of the story you have to defend clients that 
 have a case setup that looks like they are ready to be convicted. Its your job to prove they didn't 
 do it and you will have a small cast of supporting characters to help with this.
  
  Even though each case has different characters added in, there are other support characters such 
 as friends, fellow attorneys and detectives that will come back in more than one case. This is 
 a good thing. It allows you to learn each character and grow repor with them. It also makes the 
 game feel more like real life. I don't want to go any further in this area, because I don't want 
 to risk spoiling anything for any of my review readers. I will conduct this review a little differently 
 because its a form of graphic novel.
  
  CHARACTERS
  
  The characters in Pheonix Wright are class acts all the way. Each character has their own unique 
 personality that really comes alive on the screen, some characters are flat characters (don't change 
 at all in the story) while others are round characters (change during events in the story) . The 
 small animations of each character lets you know their moods. In the short time you have with these 
 characters some will stick with you past the experience. Most of all your character (Pheonix Wright) 
 goes through a pallet of emotions in trial. In and out of court you get a real sense of what he 
 is thinking. Ever story is well detailed allowing you to learn the different characters and how 
 they tick.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in Pheonix Wright is centered around reading text, asking questions and figuring out 
 how to use evidence. The problem with the game play is the 5th case (last case) is the only case 
 out of the whole game where there are other things to do with evidence besides looking at it. The 
 final case adds a gameplay mechanic which allows you to look at evidence in 3D and find problems 
 with it and so forth. These minigame type things you do with the stylus could have really made 
 the game appeal to more users, because it was only implemented at the very end it seems kind of 
 tack on and really seems almost like its teasing you at the end once the game is going to be over. 
 The title really missed a golden opportunity by not using this method for all cases.
  
  When your not in court, you are talking to witnesses with a pre determined set of information you 
 can reveal either by examing the backgrounds, presenting evidence or just by talking to them. This 
 isn't really intuitive at all but the stories in this game are very good and deep. There are many 
 times when I thought something was one thing and it turned out to be another. Which is refreshing 
 for the industry considering most game titles have very predictable stories. Luckily the detail 
 and quality of the stories save it from being boring, but I wish more methods would have been used 
 to find out information.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics of this title are underwhelming, they aren't bad or blurry by any means, but the characters 
 are rather still. This title uses still images for character animation. Only one character cna 
 be in front of you at a time as well. There are slight animations where characters will change 
 how they look to show their mood but its not smooth animation, its from one look to another. Although 
 the looks of the characters do a good job of getting their dispositions across it would have been 
 nice to see fluid animations (more frames) and more variety in general. Over all because the title 
 is more of a graphic novel then game, it comes across alright and can be forgiven. The presentation 
 of the game makes sense and is believable.
  
  One thing I really didn't like is how they chose navigation of different crime scenes and so forth. 
 You start from one point and if you chose to go somewhere else you get a list of different spots. 
 This isn't every possible spot you can go to, but instead a couple of spots that you then have 
 to go through other screens to get further into those spots and do the same to get back out. This 
 is really clumsy and can be fustrating. However its not enough to be a turn off and is easy to 
 forgive.
  
  SOUND
  
  I enjoyed the music in the game. I thought it fit very well. There were upbeat themes, sad themes, 
 curious themes, intense courtroom trial themes and so forth. It would have been nice to hear a 
 large library of music though. Many were overused and it would have been nice if each case had 
 its own unique music. The sound was clear and loud though and it fits the mood of what is going 
 on, overall I think everyone who picks up this game will warm up to it.
  
  Sound effects in the game are really out of place, you hear this slamming sound effect when you 
 are surprised and so forth that really doesn't fit, but the screen shakes with it and it adds a 
 sense of intensity to itself that is nice. There really is no stand out thing regarding sound effects, 
 but nothing really sounds out of place either.
  
  VALUE
  
  Rather this game is a value to the normal gaming consumer is really a mystery to me. I myself am 
 more open to unique types of games and game like experiences so I got alot of value out of the 
 game. I think it really depends on rather your into mystery novels or like a good mystery and would 
 enjoy being in the center of it all. Pheonix Wright definately gives you a unique experience on 
 the DS and it doesn't feel shallow or gimicky. Even its short commings aren't enough to sway enjoyment 
 in this title. I would say there is lots of value there in the fact the stories are all intresting, 
 you can save anytime allowing it to be an on the go title. There is no time limit in trials either 
 so you can take as long as you need to find the contradictions.
  
  TILT
  
  I really enjoyed this title, I was really ashamed to be done with it, I was left wanting more, 
 I don't exactly know if that is a good thing or bad thing, but I will tell you for sure the last 
 case will send you out with a bang. I like this kind of stuff though. It's unfortunate that this 
 game will not be for everyone, because people will really miss out on a wonderful experience that 
 you just don't see in gaming today. It's a 10 for me. For me it was a one time play through, but 
 I was expecting it to be so it didn't sway my tilt, it met my expectations.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Pheonix Wright does a good job of keeping you entertained and wanting to know 
 more about what is really going on in each case. Even though the game isn't for everyone, I encourage 
 everyone to try this title, its stories are good enough that it might sway you to want to go through 
 the whole experience and even if it doesn't you will not be wasting your time. Its short commings 
 aren't enough to warrant a pass by any means and is well worth its new price tag amount. This game 
 shows there is much more they could touch on in future iterations. For its intresting stories, 
 decent presentation and merorable characters I give Pheonix Wright a very deserved 8.4. With no 
 objections allowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riavian
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  I hate adventure games, but this one had me on the edge of my seat the whole game. Recommend it 
 to anyone who owns a ds, and recommend buying a DS to those who want to buy it.
  
  The gameplay may be a little linear, but its still very involving.
  
  The graphics are not 
 top of the line, but they have this really cool anime style character effects going for them.
 
  
  The sound is a bit tideous... pokemonish.
  
  Value, is great I got it for 40 AUS, which is about 20-30 dollars cheaper than most DS games.
 
  
  I love this game, I really do, nothing else out there like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niko_sama
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  As the underdog defending clients against veteran prosecutors in murder trials, there's much flailing 
 to be done which makes for hilarious scenarios.
  
  Before you go out and buy this game, it's important to know that it's not for everyone ... especially 
 the illiterate. Don't be fooled by the cute anime characters, this is a text adventure. Though 
 seemingly boring and short (only 5 cases) , the story is well-developed with quirky characters and 
 many plot-twists ... and no plot-holes. The localization team did an excellent job of making the 
 game American-friendly.
  
  The legal system is a bit questionable, but understandable because it would be faaar too tedious 
 to take all laws into account. In the near future, crime rates sky-rocket that trials must be concluded 
 within 3 days and the judge is the one to deliver the verdict. With the crowded prisons, capital 
 punishment is dealt to anyone found guilty in a murder. Also, you don't need to present a search 
 warrant to go snooping around offices and crime scenes to gather evidence. You're not limited to 
 just the court room, you can venture to the aforementioned areas and examine them using the touch 
 pad. Originally, this was intended for the GBA so there's half-assed implementation of the DS up 
 until the final trial which pulls out all the stops, goes the whole nine yards, whatever else cliche 
 that can convey it does everything.
  
  During testimonies you can press testifiers by screaming, Hold it! This makes the person further 
 explain their statement and might even reveal more information that could help build your case 
 if there's a contradiction. Basically, feeling around before madly grasping; the defense sure has 
 it harder than the prosecution. Once you've found a contradiction, you'll need to present evidence 
 proving so by bellowing, Objection! You only have 5 tries each time court is in session. If you 
 run out your client is sentenced guilty, tarnishing your reputation FOR-EV-ERRR.
  
  Not really, you'll have to restart from your last save.
  
  It's not mandatory to scream into 
 your mic, except for the end. I usually play my DS during class so when I beat the game yesterday 
 I couldn't complete it without having everyone think I had Turrets. I regret not doing it anyway, 
 it would've made an awesome story and spare me the pain of kicking myself in the ass later. See, 
 when I got home I opened up my DS to resume the game, but instinctively pressed power ... which 
 shut it off. -__-
  
  While Phoenix Wright is a blast to play, it has its downfalls. The gameplay is very linear leaving 
 little replay value, but at the same time aimless. Triggering the next step in the sequence of 
 events will sometimes be extremely vague. It's a fairly simple game; however, presenting evidence 
 can be really particular. You can have the right proof, but you need to show it during a certain 
 statement or else you'll be penalized. This can be really frustrating that I have resorted to GameFAQs 
 just to move on. For only $30 it is well worth it. It's a great game for playing in class because 
 you don't have to worry about roaming baddies running into you while you're taking down notes and 
 you won't be moving your hands noticably. Just be careful the cheeky humor doesn't make you laugh 
 aloud.
  
  http://niko-sama.1up. com/do/blogEntry? publicUserId=5645138&amp; bId=5997374 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtiful26
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is going to be one of the rarest gems of recent years. In it, you 
 are a rookie defense attorney trying to earn a reputation. Phoenix Wright is a likable character, 
 as he defends the innocent of the crimes.
  That's where you come in, as you cross-examine witnesses, and reveal their lies. In these court 
 phases, you read a string of boxes, and one of them is going to be misleading, vague, or a blatant 
 lie. If it's the latter, you present an item that is related to what the witness is saying, which 
 is going to contradict the witness. There are also phases where you gather evidence, intereview 
 police, bystanders, etc., and move the story along. These phases are not as interesting as the 
 court phases, but the colorful cast of characters moves things along easier. Yes, this game has 
 a good sense of humor, which is often expressed by the very unusual cases and the characters that 
 give exaggerated expressions.
  This is a very rare find nowadays, so if you happen to see it, buy it. It's very story driven, 
 and lengthy (maybe about 13 hours) , although it doesn't have much replay value. The logical puzzles 
 are probably only going to stump you on your first playthrough, but either way, this is one of 
 the DS's best games, especially if you like anime. Unlike most animes though, this game has been 
 translated effectively, mixing in some humor more native to this region. Keep in mind that this 
 is a text-based adventure though, but if you're reading this odds are you'll love the game anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Ants
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this is my 2nd review, so i may mess up on some things, just forget them.
  
  You may have heard people saying Phoenix Wright is very good, and worthwhile, but you must think, 
 how can a lawyer game be any fun? On the contrary, its actually the opposite. The game starts out 
 as you, Phoenix Wright going to the courtroom to solve a case. You are guided along the way by 
 the help of Mia Fey, the chief Attorney. I myself have not yet completed the game, but so far, 
 its brilliant. I think it has a total of 5 cases, it may sound small but you can spend and hour 
 on one case if you dont rush through it. Phoenix Wright also has a humorous side to it too. Just 
 seeing the faces of the Witnesses when you prove them wrong can make you laugh. Even names of people 
 will give you a small chuckle or two. I cannot say much about gameplay, since i haven't played 
 it for a long time, but you choose what Pheonix says most of the time, showing evidence of a crime 
 scene, and searching the scene of the crime. The only thing negative about this game is that it 
 does not have a lot of replay value.
  
  All in all, Pheonix Wright is a must-buy game, if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neozero9731
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  At this day we can see that there are developers that have forgotten that the principal point of 
 a videogame is to entertain the user, luckily time to time we can find some jewels amidst the sport, 
 action and shooters genres.
  
  This time the game in case is Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, even when is heavily text driven and 
 there isnt any replay value after you clear the game, is still one of the greatest games I have 
 played and that any good gamer should have.
  
  First thing first, in here you take the role of a rookie defense attorney, your job is simple, 
 find the truth and clear the name of your client has you find the real culprit, has strange has 
 this sounds the game is quite easy to play, at the start the game helps you at giving the basic 
 things you should learn to do, and little by little gives you hints on what to do next depending 
 on the case youre working at.
  
  One of the highlights of the game is the great and elaborate story in each case, each time has 
 youre progressing you see awesome plot twist that changes the perspective of the case up to that 
 point, and it manages to hook you on taking an active role in trying to solve the case. Other good 
 point is that it got a set of likable characters that you can see how the relationship with each 
 one improves with the progression of the game, besides it has nice and fluid animation of each 
 character and they are quite expressive, most of the soundtrack is great and goes really well with 
 the event at hand, so you never fell any kind of music out of place during the game play.
  
  Has you go through the five cases the game places you on harder situations where you really 
 think is impossible to solve, but there is always a way to go on and sometimes is quite clear in 
 there but if you dont paid enough attention you could miss it easily, and the best is that the 
 fifth case that was special designed for the DS is really good and gives you more advantages on 
 the system capabilities to make more fun to play. Maybe one of the best things of this game is 
 that you start to uncover the truth before you point that on the game, and you guess it right, 
 that really makes you accomplished of being smart enough to solve some of the case before the game 
 states that point to you, it really is an awesome game that manages to do something that most of 
 the new games even with is high quality graphics doesnt do, to be fun to play.
  
  Only when you play Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney you will see the great game that awaits you, this 
 one got one most important term on is game play that other games doesnt include, to think, and 
 believe me, its a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redX5112
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great, you are a rookie defense attorney who has incredible luck..... or skill.
  There are 5 total cases in this game that you will be going through. The game is about 15 hours 
 long, but it seems longer because you can get stuck sometimes because the game has some obscure 
 things you have to do to continue the plot line, but most of the time this does not get in the 
 way.
  
  How you play the game is you click on things using the touch screen, you can examine the scene, 
 talk to witnesses, and present evidence you may have found to them in an attempt to give you some 
 more info that they may not have been willing to give otherwise.
  
  The sound in this game is AMAZING, the music is really good all through out the game. It does a 
 really good job of conveying the mood that is happening. The sound also shows it self off when 
 the mood gets real serious or sad the music just stops and lets you read but then when the mood 
 changes again it comes back. The sound is also good when just talking to people, like when people 
 are yelling you will hear loud clanging and the screen will flash, the mood is also conveyed by 
 the excellent animations that the characters are doing and the style that the words are written.
 
  
  There are things you can do besides just examine and talk o people, you can also spray luminol 
 liquid to test for blood at the scene of the crime, or collect fingerprints by spreading metal 
 powder down and then blowing into the microphone and then putting the fingerprints into a machine 
 to try to find a match. The only problem I found with the 2 gadgets you have is that you can only 
 use them in one of the cases, all the other cases you just use your evidence and your brain.
  
  The way things work in court are as follows, the judge asks the prosecution for a witness and 
 then he or she gives their testimony, after that you do a cross examination. From there you can 
 Press on their statements to try to find a contradiction, you can also present evidence to the 
 court to prove your contradictions.
  
  This game is great fun, even though all you do is click on different stuff , it has an incredible 
 story, it is a very captivating game, and should be cherished in the hearts of adventure game fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therandar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  The first game I bought for the DS, actually the game I bought the DS for. This is such a kewl 
 game. Play style hearkens back to the days of adventure gaming on the pc. Quirky Japanese premise 
 and story is charming and involving. I love the over the top objections and gestures by the attorneys. 
 The game's soundtrack is forgettable and repetitious, but not quite annoying. I guess there is 
 not much replay value once you beat the game, but it is still a value. The game is like Columbo 
 meets Matlock meets Anime. Oh, just one more thing, buy your copy if you can still find it, cuz 
 I'm not selling mine, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikzai
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game before the famous shortage at an EBGames, along with Jade Empire. I had heard 
 good things, but was still cautious about the purchase. When I returned home, I put Jade Empire 
 into my XBOX and began to play, forgetting all about Phoenix Wright until the next morning, when 
 I opened the box, and put the game card inside my DS. I was amazed. I had such fun with this game, 
 I felt good for outwitting the Prosecutor, and proving Larry Butz to be innocent. It was such a 
 great feeling of accomplishment that I've never felt before in a game. The gameplay is full of 
 moments like these, moments that NEVER get old. The graphics were cute, and did the job, but at 
 the same time seemed limited. (But that is to be expected, since this is a slight upgraded version 
 of the GBA version, that was only released in Japan.) The sound, oh the sound. So many catchy tunes, 
 that keep you humming throughout. It fits the game's mood very well. Once you hear the Steel Samurai 
 song, it will STAY in your head. The music quality is very good. Much better than you would expect. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who has an attention span, and enjoys a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killjoy188
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright has received a lot of 7's from gaming review sites, and for the most ridiculous 
 reasons. Requiring too much reading was a big reason, but it's a text-based adventure game! That's 
 like criticising GTA for being unnecessarily violent. One site said that Phoenix's attraction to 
 his boss was creepy, but I don't remember any kind of suggestion of romance between Phoenix and 
 anybody. And many reviewers complain about the graphics. The graphics are much better than, for 
 instance, The Minish Cap, and that got a 9 in graphics at Gamespot. And since it's drawn in the 
 manga style, there's no point in whining about the spiky hair and visible cleavage, it's supposed 
 to look that way. They also complain about legal inaccuracies. From what I've heard from my Japanophile 
 friends, in Japan it IS guilty until proven innocent. Anyway, it's kinda arrogant to assume a game 
 from Japan will have American laws and culture.
  
  The official reviews have really not done Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney any justice. For example, 
 one reviewer apparently played the whole game and never realized how to tap the screen to make 
 the text go faster. Another intensely disliked the adventure game genre. Gamespot's review was 
 better than most (check out the others on gamerankings. com or bottom right of the summary page) 
 but way too many of those reviews were very misinformed or unprofessional. I'm sure you've already 
 heard how the game works, so here's a summary of what's so great about Phoenix Wright:
  
  The characters are likable (even the evil ones) and funny, and it has plenty of good jokes and 
 puns. The art is decent, and the plots are easy to follow and intricate without being like a soap 
 opera. It's not a very hard game, but it does require you to think, and to point out logical fallacies.
 
  
  Of course, I could mention the drawbacks to PW, but you can always read those other biased reviews 
 for that, or Gamespot, their reviews are okay. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright brings us back to the glory days of adventure gaming. It was one of those odd Japanese 
 games that I did not expect to grab me as it did. I was expecting a simple lawyer game but I was 
 blown away by the amazing story and characters.
  
  What was really surprising about this game were the characters. They were extremely well written 
 with all sorts of unique personalities and problems. What was also amazing were the inventive ideas 
 for puzzles during the investigative and trial sections. They really make you think and will challenge 
 your detective skills. While the first case was nothing more than a tutorial, the other four cases 
 were extremely long and satisfying. I was floored by the HUGE amount of plot and story. Just when 
 you thought something was over, it just keeps going. These major plot twists really add to the 
 value of the game and kept me totally hooked. The humor that is pravalent throughout the game helped 
 keep me entertained and really add to the the casts' likeability. It made me care about their problems 
 which isn't easy for a text-driven game of this type.
  
  Speaking of the text, this was an extremely well written game. The English translation may be one 
 of the best ever. Capcom really did a great job with the dialogue. None of the words spoken by 
 the characters ever sound wooden or stiff. They really worked hard to bring these characters to 
 life. I was surprised at the amount of text these guys had to translate. There were only a few 
 typos but I only saw them in the final case. In any case, the dialogue flowed really really well.
 
  
  The graphics were nothing special. They're colorful 2D art with some minor bits of animation to 
 enhance the gameplay. They won't blow you away but they're well designed and everyone is instantly 
 recognizable. It's one of Capcom's more inspired designs. The fifth case has enhanced DS graphics 
 though. The 3D art and animations for that part of the game was well done although you won't be 
 blown away by that either. But the art design is cohesive as a whole.
  
  The sound is basic but they do add a lot of lively effects to the otherwise empty text. The little 
 crash sounds and phrases like Objection! and Hold it! never get old. All the other minor sound 
 effects are well done even though they're a little sparse. The music is well done and adds to the 
 whole investigative/court atmosphere. It's like listening to an anime version of the Law &amp; 
 Order TV series.
  
  But not everything was perfect. The backtracking in the game is extensive. They don't provide you 
 with a lot of locations so you might get sick of visiting the same places over and over again. 
 I was also a bit peeved at the heavily scripted sections of certain trials. Sometimes, when you 
 knew what type of evidence to present, you'll get shot down cuz it was shown during an incorrect 
 part of the testimony. It takes away from an otherwise cohesive experience. I wasn't a big fan 
 of not being able to skip dialogue either cuz the game will force you to re-read everything if 
 you lose a trial which sucks.
  
  Overall, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an amazingly well done game. It really brought me back 
 to the time when adventure games were fun and exciting. The huge amount of interesting characters 
 along with the incredibly well written stories scored big with me. There were so many nail-biting 
 moments and tons of twists, it almost made me faint. This is by far one of my fave adventure games 
 of all time. Although the replay factor ain't high, you'll be taken on a long amazing journey to 
 the truth. Awesome. I can't wait to play the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney puts you in the position of a rookie defence attorney, Phoenix Wright. 
 The game is a text based adventure where you will be using the DS's touch screen and built in microphone 
 to save innocent people and to expose dirty liars in heated courtroom battles. It may sound boring, 
 but once you get into it, the game is great. The gameplay goes like this. Before the day of a trial, 
 you will look around everywhere relevant to the trial and try to gather evidence and information 
 to use in the trial. Once you have enough evidence, it's time for the trial. You will be given 
 some sort of intro and then a witness will testify. After, you will have to cross examine what 
 the witness said and try to find contradictions between the testimony and the evidence. This is 
 your main goal during a trial and it can actually be quite challenging sometime, but most times, 
 it will be fairly easy. The cool thing about this is, you can shout into the DS's built in microphone 
 when someone is lying. The characters have alot of personality and charm. The music fits the mood 
 of the game and the sound effects are cool. Although there are only 5 cases in the game, with the 
 exception of the first case, the cases stretch out for long periods of time and going through the 
 cases correctly will take some time. One thing that is great about these long cases is you can 
 save the game at any point in time so if you're on the go, you can play for a few minutes and not 
 have to beat the whole trial or you can play in long stretches. This game will also have you laughing 
 the entire way through while keeping it serious with some clever dialogue. The music is excellent. 
 It perfectly fits situations in the game and is just great to listen to. This is by far, one of 
 the best gaming experiences I've had on any system in a while. Please do yourself a favor and pick 
 up Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaPeachyMike
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Mr. Wright makes his first appearance in the states with Capcoms Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 Aside from a few inaccuracies in the games style of law, Ace Attorney is a quirky gem that any 
 DS owner interested in solving not-so-normal murder mysteries need to check out. Its almost impossible 
 to resist cracking a smile while playing with the games wacky sense of humor, art style, and charm. 
 Despite the fact that the game is heavily driven by text, its bright and colorful cast of characters, 
 intriguing cases, and twists will keep you entertained all the way to the last chapter.
  
  The game puts you in shoes of Phoenix Wright, a rookie Public Defender straight out of law school. 
 Phoenix goes up against some of the most ruthless Prosecutors, has to deal with lying witnesses, 
 and solve cases that at first glance are literally only the tip of the iceberg. Among the Public 
 Prosecutors, Phoenixs biggest rival is Miles Edgeworth, an ace attorney with a history of falsified 
 evidence and ruthless techniques to get a guilty verdict. Without giving away the story, lets just 
 say their rivalry is also just the tip of the iceberg. The game's interesting cast is comprised 
 of Mia Fey (Phoenixs boss) , Maya Fey (Mias sister, with psychic channeling powers! She acts as 
 your assistant and helps you through the majority of the game) , Larry Butz (the Defendant in the 
 first case, and Phoneix's childhood friend) , Detective Gumshoe (the wannabe hardened detective 
 that assists with evidence in each chapter) , and a variety of quirky witnesses that correspond 
 to each case. Although the game features no voice acting, the dialogue is so well written, you 
 can feel the characters personality without it.
  
  The first, and shortest, chapter of the game serves as a tutorial giving the player insight on 
 how the court cases run. In later chapters, you will actually find yourself outside of court, gathering 
 evidence and information as ammo for cases in court. The first chapter (like the other four) , start 
 out with a brief cinematic, depicting the crime. On a few occasions the killer is actually shown 
 in this cinematic. As the game progresses, the intro for each chapter becomes more and more vague, 
 giving the player less help in solving the crime. This is where the game gets interesting. About 
 half way through the case youll probably be able to put your own mark on who did it. What you 
 will never be able to conceive, is how the crime was committed. Each case goes through twists and 
 turns, when entire theories are refuted by new evidence and so on. This aspect of story telling 
 keeps the chapters interesting all the way down to the heart stopping verdict.
  
  Ace Attorneys visuals can be described as bright and colorful. The game has a heavily anime inspired 
 look to it. Each character is expressive and beautifully rendered with cell style shading. In court, 
 the game is viewed from a third-person perspective. The camera pans around the court room, showing 
 the witness on stand, the judge, Phoenix, the prosecutor, a zoomed out version of the whole court 
 room, and during intense parts, a funny Street Fighter esque close up of Phoenix and the opposing 
 attorney. When youre not in court, the game takes a first-person perspective through Phoenixs 
 eyes. Whats one thing you might notice is that the witnesses' and characters' position and size 
 never change. So when you see Detective Gumshoe on the stand testifying, he looks exactly the same 
 when hes at his office giving you an autopsy report. Simply put, the character models are rehashed 
 wherever you are. This slight visual inconsistency is easy to write off, but is worth mention. 
 Overall the games visual style is easy on the eyes, and for a game of this nature surprisingly 
 fits the mood.
  
  Speaking about the games mood, what really sets it is the games fantastic sound design. Perhaps 
 the best production aspect of Phoenix Wright is the games amazing sound and music. Anything from 
 the idle court music, to Phoenix yelling Objection!, the game sounds great. During the intense 
 this-could-be-the-truth parts in court, the game plays a fast paced version of the Ace Attorney 
 theme and feels perfectly placed. The music is fun to listen to and the sound effects really immerse 
 the player that much more into the game.
  
  Ace Attorneys gameplay, like its visual perspective, depends on where you are. When you are in 
 court, the game is entirely linear. Once a witness gives his/her open testimony (this should be 
 done during Direct Examination, but that doesnt exist in this game) , its up to you during your 
 cross examination to pick out contradictions. You can do this by calling an objection (there are 
 no hearsay or leading objections that you have control over) , and you may only call one if you 
 have evidence that proves a portion of the witness testimony false. If you call a wrong objection, 
 then you will lose a life. If you call a total of five wrong objections in a single day of court, 
 you get a game over screen and will need to load your last save. When you are outside of court, 
 the game is a little bit more free form allowing you to roam around different locals to find evidence 
 and learn more about your case by interviewing witnesses. Its also important to note how much 
 text there is in the game. There is a lot of reading. But even though there is a lot of reading, 
 even though the game is entirely text based, Ace Attorney still has its share of intense parts. 
 Most of these intense parts are during court, when something the Prosecution is hiding manages 
 to slip out during a witness testimony and you press them for it. When you do you get that much 
 closer to the truth.
  
  Simply put, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a game like no other. Its personality, style, humor, 
 and twists will keep you interested to the very end. Its definitely one of the more unique DS 
 games out right now, and its upcoming sequel looks to continue Wrights legacy of wacky cases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckdodgers13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  When i started playing Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney i never expected it to be what it is, one great 
 game. The dialogue and characters lend the game so much charm you will love it.
  
  In the game you play a Phoenix "nick" Wright an attorney who just began his career, you go through 
 various cases trying to prove your client not guilty while at the same time catching the true criminal 
 at the same time. But before you do any of that you have to learn about your client their alibi 
 and evidence to show how they are innocent by going to the scene of the crime and talking with 
 the witnesses all of which are colorful and memorable characters. After collecting all the evidence 
 you can gather you get to fight it out in court, most of the times with the notorious prosecutor 
 Edgeworth. The courtroom scenes are easily the greatest parts of the game. After the witness's 
 testimony you grill them for weak points in what they said and when you do the witness gets even 
 more flustered sometimes to hilarious results. 
  
  The writing in this game is some of the best i've seen, it's funny, memorable, and very interesting 
 even by the second case i couldn't wait to see what was coming next. One example is a man named 
 sal manella, a man who speaks primarily l337 which just surprised me and made me laugh. The sound 
 is also nice and cuts away during an intense scene telling you you've hit the jackpot on the testimony. 
 90% of the time the next step in what you have to do in the case is logical without being totally 
 obvious which is great.
  
  The only problem with the game i could see was not much replay value since the game is pretty linear 
 with cross examination. But the only other problem is how your will run out of batteries from you 
 playing this game so much but i guess that is a good point.
  
  All in all you should at least rent this game if you are not into text heavy games but if you are 
 you should probably buy it. Phoenix Wright is a great game for the DS and a great game in general, 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WINDWAKER1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Gyatuken Saiben was some Japanese game for gba that was made a while ago. Now, Americans are going 
 to get the chance to play this extrordinary game. 
  
  In the game, you play as Phoenix Wright, a defense attorney (yeah it sounds stupid, i know) , and 
 solve 5 cases using your mind and some evidence you find from crime scenes. Your prosecuting rival/friend 
 Miles Edgeworth is against you for most cases, so your job is to beat him. 
  
  The game does this strange idea scarily well. it makes lawsuits fun! Yeah, i guess it is possible. 
 
  
  The graphics may be made of sprites, but it is so artistically done, that you will think its genius. 
 The movements of the characters can be seen from the trailer (yeah, the finger pointing "objection" 
 is already pretty famous) . 
  
  The soundtrack is probably the best ever for video games. Its so natural, and well performed, it 
 may require headphones to hear it clearly. its just so well done. 
  
  DONT JUDGE THE GAME BY THE FIRST CASE! the first case is short, and doesn't have as much heart. 
 Judge the game by the second case, or, possibly, the fourth (i didn't like the third to much) . 
 Just try a friends game or something. It's hard to find, so be careful where you look. 
  
  Overall, Phoenix Wright Could Possibly Be the Best Game Ever Made. It all depends on your tastes. 
 Adventure game or interactive novel fans will drive this game foward. Action game fans who like 
 blowing stuff up may be dissapointing, but hey, people do get hit with miniature statues of "The 
 Thinker"! And Die! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Articuno76
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney is the first of a line of lawyer games known as Gyakuten Saiban in 
 Japan. Whereas the Japanese are gearing up for their 4th iteration, this spring we embraced our 
 first. It would be incorrect to think of this is a true DS game, in fact Gyakuten Saiban 1 was 
 originally a GBA game, but its been retooled for the DS. The game gives you the role of Nick Wright, 
 a lawyer whos just come out of law school, under the tutelage of experienced attorney Mia Fey 
 he starts his career in earnest; defending his best friend from murder charges no less. The gameplay 
 elements that allow you to do this are pretty simple; the game is broken up into two phases, evidence 
 gathering (which operates like a point and click PC adventure game) and the court room sequences 
 which revolves around ripping up witnesses testimonies with the gathered evidence or pointing out 
 logical fallacies. This all further progresses a very character driven plot; its worth pointing 
 out that PW is very, VERY heavily text and character driven and laid back in nature. For those 
 looking for a lot of interactivity or challenge, you wont find it here. The biggest charm this 
 game has is its sparkling translation and Characterisation, its often witty and funny and the 
 general mood of the game tends to be light-hearted.
  
  The game has been retooled well for the DS; the artwork for the character sprites has been up scaled 
 from the GBA without too much damage to the level of detail in the game, and Capcom have been kind 
 enough to add in an extra chapter after the games conclusion which utilizes the DS features for 
 microphone and touch screen use (fingerprint testing for instance) . Other than that the DS features 
 are fairly and understandably reserved given the games GBA origins. You can still use the microphone 
 to shout out Objection or Hold It to freeze a witness testimony but the face buttons can be 
 used just as well. Interestingly the game can be entirely stylus controlled as its all menu based, 
 if you want to move between areas you choose to do so from a menu, the same for talking to NPCs 
 or showing them items, because of this PW can be comfortably played with just one lazy hand (see 
 what I mean by laid back now? Lazymans experience right here) . Thats really all there is too it, 
 its surprisingly simple and unengaging, gameplay serves as a vehicle for the story rather than 
 the other way around From a sound perspective it seems little has changed from the GBAs synth instruments, 
 but its done well enough. It really adds up aurally when you pass a rally of objections back and 
 forth between you and the prosecutor, to be backed up with a riff of encouragement.
  
  Due to the linearity of the game and lack of replay value its paramount that it is fairly long, 
 PW comes in at around 10hours, which isnt all that. Some people are going to be very reprehensive 
 about shelling out 30 big ones for a short game with no replay value.
  
  Its fair to say that PW is a pedestrian affair for the most part, very linear and devoid of any 
 replay value (even for the token sake of replaying it) but its endearing enough that you might 
 want to give it a go. Its the kind of game that some people are going to eat up, those people 
 are bound to love every quirky fibre of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a game that I'd never have thought would appear on any console, 
 let alone the Nintendo DS. It puts you in the role of a defense lawyer (with the aforementioned 
 name) . You're sole aim in the whole game is to get the Not Guilty verdict. Bearing in mind that 
 if you do nothing, your client will be Guilty.
  
  This game is in fact a remake. The original game was only released in Japan, but had the core mechanics 
 of the game in it. Yeah the touch screen and microphone are new, but they're new additions to the 
 system.
  
  Anyway, so how do you persuade the judge that your client isn't guilty? Well, you listen to witnesses 
 testamonys, sift through your court record (with evidence and profiles) and find the inconsistancies. 
 For the first few cases, this is pretty easy. Some however are far more difficult to deduce. This 
 is why this is game is potentially challenging.
  
  The game has two types of scenario. Evidence obtaining, and Trial phases. Evidence obtaining is 
 fairly similar to the typical point and click adventures, where you search for clues relevant to 
 the case (i. e. Murder Weapons, Autopsies, etc) and talk to witnesses. Showing witnesses some items 
 may help them remember important bits of information or otherwise. While this may seem sufficient, 
 in the NEW CHAPTER, you get to perform more DS orientated things. You can use a special spray to 
 find traces of long gone blood, aluminium powder to search for fingerprints, and you may examine 
 items obtained. Bearing in mind these aren't able to be performed in the previous chapters.
  
  Trials are pretty much search through the case file, find the lies and expose them. You can 
 press them to explain what they've just testified. Now with the DS, there are THREE ways of doing 
 this. One is by pressing the L Button. Two is by touching the icon on the screen. Three is by holding 
 the Y Button, holding the DS towards you and saying the words "HOLD IT!". This game is accesible 
 to whatever method you wish to play it! Thankfully, all the mechanics work equally as well as the 
 others. If you find an inconsistancy, click Present (or press R) , choose what item proves that 
 inconsistancy and click Present, R, or hold Y and say "OBJECTION!". Personally, I love the idea 
 of watching people on a train shout OBJECTION! at their DS. Plus its fun! You may also have to 
 say "TAKE THAT!" at your DS. One thing I have noticed, is that it doesn't respond to blowing for 
 any of the quotes, but you can shout the word "LIAR!" for objection. Its not quite a perfect mechanic, 
 but it works in the perfect way at least.
  
  There are 5 cases overall. The first one is pretty darn easy, but the others may challenge you 
 slightly. This is pretty good for a game that relies heavily on text. The translation is remarkable. 
 The characters speak as if they're involved in a courtcase, rather than using normal speech.
  
  Visually, the game gets more impressive every trial. Sure Phoenix himself and Mia look slightly 
 odd, but thats the style of the game. Each of the murder scenes looks impressive and the layout 
 of the court record (and evidence) is as good as you can get.
  
  Though the evidence parts are important to the story and offer up important clues, sometimes you 
 may feel as if its dragging too long until the actual trial stages. While the evidence gathering 
 can be fun, the real draw to the game is the trials themselves.
  
  Also the games varying lengths between levels is frustrating. Just when you think you've solved 
 the case and you have the Not Guilty verdict, the game throws something else at you. This is very 
 good for the games already incredible plot, but it can annoy you.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a fantastic throwback to the traditional Point and Click adventures 
 of the 90's, but it tries something new, and it works like a charm. Sure you'd be tempted to FAQ 
 through the full thing, but the real fun lies in just playing it and seeing if you'd make a good 
 attourney. The Courts in Session, Is the Defense Ready?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  I've been a fan of adventure games for a while now. Even though this game is a little dumbed down 
 from some of the greater PC games. It still had many unique aspects. Being able to yell into the 
 mic to say "Objection!" was cool. Dusting for prints (though not used nearly enough) and looking 
 for traces of blood both incorperate the DS's unique hardware features. The court record for the 
 most part keeps track of the information you need, so there is no need to really have to dig deep 
 into anything. This isn't a lawyer simulator of course. Probably the biggest problem with the gameplay 
 would have to associate itself more with the story. There are many times where silly legal issues 
 either don't pop up or do. Or you'll present evidence that you swear is correct only to be wrong 
 because of minor issues. These problems can cause the game to turn into a guessing game. Over then 
 that however, its fine the way it is. Even though there is little to no replayability the quest 
 is lengthy for a game of its kind on the DS (doesn't keep track of time, but I would say my time 
 was around 12 hours) .
  
  STORY 7/10
  This varies a lot in the game. There are 5 cases in the game. Each with a different story. Some 
 aspects of the previous cases make their way over, but for the most part they stay separate. The 
 problem is some are memorable and great. While some are just boring and really contain no surprises. 
 When they go one way into the tragic direction that makes you think "oh man thats sad, but awesome 
 that a game would do that" they just rip you right out of it with some new seamingly come out of 
 nowhere evidence that proves the opposite. Turning the game into another "The hero always wins" 
 story. However, there are some good cases and interesting "twists", so I can't fault it completely.
 
  
  CONTROLS 10/10
  You can use the stylus or control pad for most everything. Stylus works great never had any problems. 
 Can't fault it anywhere.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  Hard category here. This game is intended to look similar to an anime. It's all still images so 
 the "graphics" don't really exist. There are some pieces of evidence in the game that give you 
 some 3D, but there are very few. However they are rendered pretty well and the still art is also 
 very nice. There are some short animations for characters at specific points, but they are one 
 or two frames. However, they do help keep the game fresh. I can't give the game anything lower 
 just based off of design choices. Especially when these choices didn't affect my enjoyment of the 
 game. Really walking around in this game the traditional way probably would have detracted from 
 it.
  
  SOUND 9/10
  Awesome music and great sound effects.
  
  REPLAYABILITY
  Not even going to bother giving this a score. Just know that as with most Adventure games there 
 really isnt a reason to come back and play again. There are no amazing cinematics or anything you 
 would want to see again. Its basically stills and text. Once the games over it's over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melante
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This great game is the proof that the old fashioned model of text adventure games can still be 
 successful nowadays when implemented in such an original style. Though touch driven, Phoenix Wright 
 is clearly a adventure game derived from the "oldies" and it brings to the whole adventure genre 
 new life.
  The game its extremely captivating and, thanks to an intriguing storyline, good graphic images 
 and suitable music, really succeeds to catch the player's attention and make him/her feel the in 
 game's atmosphere.
  
  This is surely a game to try and enjoy till the last case! No objections to this! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game, this game. This is by far my favorite game ever. Pheonix Wright offers the classic style 
 detective game. This game is the reason I bought the DS. Even if it was short its still worth every 
 penny (and all the time spent looking for it in stores and having to end up ordering it online.) 
 The microphone funtion lets you yell "OBJECTION" as if you were actually Phoenix. Whats not to 
 love about this game? The stories are excelent. As you go through the trials you worry as if you 
 missed something, which sometimes you do, and you end up having to start over after losing the 
 case.
  
  This game is worthy of a 10.0. w00t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geostrike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is definitely a game to be played for all Nintendo DS owners. In this 
 game you play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie Attorney, who has so solve cases in court by finding 
 contradictions in the witnesses statements and prove this with evidence. 
  
  The game is split into two modes of play. The investigative mode, which you go around the crime 
 scene and collect evidence and talk to various people.. And the court mode where you have to listen 
 to a witnesses statement and find the contradictions from their stories and the stories of others, 
 and make objections to statements. 
  
  I liked this game a lot. it has great originally and it's fun and easy to pick up. This game utilizes 
 all functions of the DS. The microphone can be used to shout objections and present evidence in 
 court. The touch screen is used to sift through various menus and to do forensic work in the last 
 chapter. 
  
  This game is fun, innovative, and has a great storyline. There is no voice action, except for the 
 things you would shout into the microphone, but all and all it is a must have for those who like 
 solving mysteries and are looking for a high quality DS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsmyth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first 10 minutes of this game, I was hooked and couldn't put it down until I 
 completed atleast the first chapter. The characters in the game are all very different and intersting. 
 
  
  It's fun to try and predict the culprit when your watching the eye witness accounts. Everyone is 
 so suspicious which makes it less obvious who is the guilty party.
  
  Being able to have so much control over the game is a great factor and keeping track of evidence 
 and reports makes the idea of the game feel real and therefore much more realistic and fun to play.
 
  
  Overall I would say the game is awsome and the only downfall is the time it takes to complete a 
 section of the chapter in order to save your progress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickgamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I almost couldn't believe how much fun this game was. I was honestly grinning through the entire 
 game like a school girl with a lolly. I couldn't help it... it is just so much fun. This is the 
 kind of game that I live for. Something completely brand new. Who would have seriously thought 
 that playing as a lawyer would be so much fun?
  
  Awesome character design, awesome plot/story, awesome gameplay. Why hasn't there been games like 
 this before? Is the gaming industry so afraid of doing something other than the same old franchises 
 over and over again? 
  
  This game was actually lengthy with an additional case in the american version which rocks!! I'm 
 so glad I didn't import this as that added case was awesome. I love this type of puzzle detective 
 game. Capcom... you guys scored big on this. 
  
  This game is just near perfect. I really can't think of anything that could have been better except 
 for maybe some more detailed cutscenes but then I remember that this game was originally on the 
 GBA so then I cut it some slack. 
  
  Seriously, if you own a DS and haven't played this game, you are seriously missing out, buy it 
 on amazon because you might not be able to pick it up at a local Gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Adventure games have fallen in popularity in the past years, people favour other genres these days. 
 A lot of people are sad this genre has become unpopular and it looked like no more will be made, 
 however Pheonix Wright: Ace Attorney is the return of the genre.
  
  You play as a rookie attorney, you goal in the game is to have defendants declared innocent. You 
 will be interviewing people, looking for clues, and going head to head with the prosecutor in the 
 court room. The plot is not that simple however. As you play there will be many plot twists as 
 you get to the bottom of the case, this keeps you interested but at times you might get confused 
 and if you play this game from time to time you can easily forget what happened since the last 
 time you played this game. The game has four chapters aswell as a secret one, each chapter is a 
 new case whith new people to meet and new places to go.
  
  When it comes to gameplay it is quite linear, the difficulty can be easy or hard depending on how 
 logical your thinking is. Even if it is an easy game, playing this game alone for just the story 
 is fun, its almost like reading a digital book with images and the sense of satisfaction you get 
 when you win a case is unmatched by any other game. You can use the DS' mike to say commands like 
 that "Objection!" "Take that!" or "Hold it" Imagine being in court and you have a tough case, the 
 witness slips up you shout Objection, present evidence that shows their testimony is false and 
 win the case, its really great fun.
  
  Graphics are nice and characters are so interesting to look at, they are so different from each 
 other so you know the developers did not get lazy and took time to make sure this game is bright 
 and colourful.
  
  You can use the touch screen to examine objects and can play the whole game with it, if you want, 
 you never have to press a single button while playing the game.
  
  A major problem though is the legal inaccuracies, things that in real life you know would be different. 
 This aint a major problem but it can be annoying in the game where you think you can win the case 
 and it turns out you can not but this is rare.
  
  Sound is nice and can indicate if you are along the right track during a case, if you present the 
 correct evidence music stops, and there are some great tunes for different occasions. For starters 
 some fast paced music starts as soon as you catch the witness out and watch him/her getting mad 
 or just sweating. Clear sound effects but there is no voice acting, just text.
  
  Humour plays a large part in this game, there is a lot of it and it really suits the game, keeps 
 the fun feeling in the game. One good example is in chapter 3 where "fanboys" as they are called 
 in the game are stereotyped, or when you win you first case and the murderer throws his fake hair 
 at your face.
  
  All in all this is a nice text adventure, the first case is short but they are all much longer 
 after that. The story will change depending on the chapter so you will not get bored. It is really 
 unique and makes great use of the DS' features, good graphics, good sound, good storyline and only 
 a few problems, this is a good game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infectellect
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I was slightly hesitant at first to play this game. It came highly recommended 
 to me from a good friend of mine. I was kind of busy with a few others games and never gave it 
 a try. A few months later I asked my friend if I could borrow it. Needless to say is that I am 
 disappointed I did not borrow it sooner.
  
  I really have to get to the point. This game is a lot of fun. I was surprised how the text based 
 storyline has held my attention for so long. Don't get me wrong, I've played almost every RPG starting 
 with the original Dragon Warrior at the time of it's release. Searching crime-scenes for evidence, 
 pressing the witness, and making Objections are all part of the blast that is Phoenix Wright: Ace 
 Attorney. The quirky, sinister, scandal filled and over the top characters give such a great performance 
 on the stand. It gets a little intense when the prosecution yells, "Objection!" right when you 
 feel like you are getting somewhere. 
  
  Only a few negative things comes to mind when reviewing this game. There is virtually no replay 
 value. There are maybe a few possible choices you could make that would present something new in 
 the storyline. However, it would be fun to play it again after a good length of time. Also, the 
 lack of a multiple save file feature really hurts the value. My girlfriend wanted to play through 
 this game the entire time I was playing it. There is only one save file so she had to wait for 
 me to finish.
  
  This game is amazing and I would recommend it to any DS owner. All it asks is that you have the 
 patience to read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rendarian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright was out for quite a while before I finally borrowed it from a friend. What a great 
 game! It's a fantastic change from the usual blah that the gaming world seems to be full of. It 
 really reminds me of some of the stuff that used to come out in the SNES days before 3D and FPS 
 seemed to squash all imagination.
  
  The story isn't anything deep and thrilling, but it doesn't need to be. Each individual 'case' 
 provides a good basic story with enough twists and turns to keep you busy as you research and figure 
 out the who dunnit. However, things can be a bit basic. While the judge will punish you for making 
 certain kinds of assumptions the player can basically try all the options on every part of the 
 process. By this I'm reminded of old click-and-point puzzle games where you'd scan the screen looking 
 for the hotspot on the screen. The levels nevertheless stay fun and fresh although there were a 
 few points where I was stuck but it was out of my own stupidity.
  
  The graphics are very good for a 2D game. Everything is crisp and clean. You don't have to squint 
 and wonder just what the heck something on the screen is. The character's have some really interesting 
 facial expressions depending on their mood.
  
  Sound is also very good for a handheld. There are mood changes at relative spots and sound effects 
 that match what is going on. It's no 5.1 surround, but, hey, it's a DS game. Get over it.
  
  However, the real thing that makes this game awesome is that it so perfectly fits the handheld 
 genre. You can easily play it on the go, shut the DS lid if something comes up, pick it up again 
 and keep going. You should get a lot of time out of the game as well which makes it even better 
 for those long road trips.
  
  If you're looking for an amazing game to add to your DS collection, definitely pick this one up!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is unique in every way. Never was this kind of game created, but finally, 
 developer Capcom did it and gamers were pouring in to witness this spectacular game. 
  
  The game focuses on the main character: Phoenix Wright. A rookie in the beginning of the story, 
 but after time goes by, he becomes a real defense attorney, with the help of the evidence, his 
 objections and of course, his friends and rivals. The game offers a great experience, which leaves 
 you astonished for several days. Also the humor in this game is to be recognized. It is fairly 
 good and doesn't spoil the gameplay.
  In the beginning of the game, you'll go through a tutorial, where you'll learn the basics of a 
 trial. It's very simple: find contradictions in the witness's testimony and you'll get your grip 
 on the case, whether it is a large grip or a small grip, it doesn't matter. As long as you can 
 find them, you'll accumulate them and eventually, in theory, you should solve the case, by presenting 
 the facts.
  
  The gameplay is very unique; with proofs and objections you should be able to find contradictions, 
 helping you to get a clearer view on the case and eventually solving it. These basics are very 
 simple, but also very efficient, since this is the only way to prove a victim's innocence or proving 
 his or her guilt. Although this sounds repetitive, it is certainly not. On the contrary, it is 
 very interesting, since you'll find new ways of finding proofs and also, all cases are linked together. 
 They all have something to do with each other. In addition to this: the story is also very unique, 
 not only as a collection of stories, but also each story is as interesting as the previous one. 
 It doesn't lose its uniqueness and that's the main thing this game relies on: its unique story. 
 Without it, the game would be a standard game. 
  But not only the story is unique, also the way of finding proofs is very interesting. In the beginning 
 you can pick things up and add them to your court record, which you can use for showing contradictions 
 or for clearing things up. Later on, you will have more tools at your order, like a fingerprinting 
 set, which allows you to observe objects on the existence of fingerprints or luminol testing fluid, 
 which allows you to find bloodstains which have been wiped off.
  Also the use of the stylus is remarkably simple and effective. No other handheld is able to bring 
 out this game, only the Nintendo Dual Screen (Lite) with its stylus is able to bring up this unique 
 gameplay. You can use the stylus to check objects in your court record to find clues in the place 
 of the crime and its surroundings, also it is a good way of pressing the witness fast when he or 
 she is finished with his sentence in his or her testimony. 
  This is one way to press the witness, the other way is the voice recognition, which works very 
 good. It immediately recognizes when you say: hold it! You can sometimes use the y button to activate 
 the recognition, if you don't feel like using the stylus, or if you just want to know how it feels 
 like to be an attorney.
  As for saving, it is very simple: every case has its own amount of chapters, between the chapters 
 you can save. But also, between the conversations, or during one, you will be able to save your 
 game. The only bad thing is: you can only save and suspend the game. You cannot save and continue, 
 then you have to suspend and from the main screen, you can press continue.
  I did however find a flaw between all these positive notes. And that is the fact that if you have 
 noticed a contradiction, you sometimes don't know how to tell it. You have to find and reveal the 
 contradiction in pressing and showing evidence, but sometimes you don't know what to press or what 
 to show in order to reveal the contradiction. This is annoying, but luckily doesn't ruin the gameplay.
 
  
  The graphics are fairly good, it reminds you of anime movies. Although, when analyzing the graphics, 
 and when enlarging them, they look like drawings. Nothing to worry about though, since they still 
 look very good. The proofs are very detailed, you can immediately see what they represent. Also 
 the characters look very realistic, even though they're game characters.
  
  The sound is perfect. The music it plays when finding decisive proof, the music it plays when showing 
 proof. It all fits perfectly. And when everyone is all interested in the story, or when the case 
 is starting to get very interesting, the music goes faster than normal, and that does seem perfect 
 for you, since also the player would want to know what's going on and this is a nice way to get 
 you all excited and continue playing.
  
  Its value is very high, the game offers you hours and hours of gameplay, which consists of court 
 sessions, finding clues, etcetera. And most of the time, youll enjoy this game, sometimes it seems 
 repetitive, but after a while, youll notice that the cases are becoming more and more difficult, 
 also youll find more clues which make the game harder to finish. Also, in addition to these challenges, 
 the story will keep you on playing, until you know every detail. Though, theres less to no replay 
 value. But dont let this scare you off, since this game will leave some great experience behind 
 when having finished it. 
  
  If there would be a prize for most original game, the award would definitely go to this DS game. 
 It just offers unique gameplay which is also very enjoyable. Never has there been an attorney game 
 which is as popular as this one. It just keeps you playing and playing, and theres no stopping, 
 since its addictive. 
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an instant classic, based on its uniqueness and its great gameplay 
 and story. Its a game you should have in your collection, when youre the owner of a Dual Screen 
 (Lite) . You dont want to miss this great experience, the game is offering.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cassiopeia_can
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This is basically one of the best game I played on DS.
  
  I would not get into details about this game, since I assume you already read the official review.
 
  
  In this game, you become a defence atterney to protect your clients who are innocent from receving 
 guilty decision from the court.
  
  You examine various evidences that you received from the court or the things you have discovered 
 personally from the crime scene.
  
  The pros are pretty much everything.
  
  Superb storyline, Innovative gameplay, good graphics, great characters, etc.
  
  The only down 
 side of this game is it does not have much re-play value.
  
  Anyways, Buy this game!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  I personally have to say I enjoy a good murder/mystery novel or crime/thriller, but when the dedicated 
 job of being an attorney is emulated on to a video game it usually takes itself far too seriously. 
 And thats where Phoenix Wright comes in, a game that never really takes itself too seriously at 
 all. Phoenix Wright strikes a balance with excellent and sometimes hilarious characters but has 
 a story which is engrossing and dark enough to attract players of all ages. 
  
  As you may have guessed Phoenix Wright is the main protagonist in this story, a bright yet naive 
 young attorney with a impressive dedication to the truth, he feels he owes the world a favour and 
 you need to help him! Phoenix Wright is a game based on protecting the innocent from vicious prosecutors 
 who would do anything to get a guilty verdict for your clients. You have to help your clients out 
 by proving them innocent and catching the real criminal!
  
  There are 4 initial episodes in Phoenix Wright. Each one starts with a gloomy black and white Cold 
 Case-esque opening sequence which pretty much gives you the idea that a murder has been going on 
 and you'll see a sillhoette of either the murderer or your client, or both. The first episode is 
 all about learning the basics of courtroom gameplay but in the episodes after that you will be 
 able to visit and examine the murder scene and many other places, search for clues, as well as 
 talk to some excellent characters who will usually appear on the witness stand later.
  
  The brunt of the courtroom gameplay is about cross-examining the witnesses that appear on stand. 
 Cross-examinations are basically puzzles where the witness repeats his/her testimony so you have 
 enough time figure out any contradictions and rip the testimony apart by pressing the facts and 
 presenting evidence, while hacking deeper into the truth and what makes the story and characters 
 of this game so enjoyable.
  
  The characters in Pheonix Wright, really, truly are fantastic, Mia Fey is Phoenix' mentor and very 
 strict but genius lawyer, Larry Butz is Phoenix' best friend from grade school who is usually the 
 center of trouble, there are about 40 characters in the game who usually have pun names, (like 
 April May) aswell as very different personalities and reactions.
  
  The presentation of the game is pretty awesome, the characters of the game are anime but not disfigured 
 mutant anime like in Japanese kids shows (although some characters do have abominably huge eyeballs) . 
 The backgrounds and environments of the game are in a gritty, mundane style which well suits the 
 theme and contrasts with the crazy characters. The characters usually have different facial expressions 
 (the ones that have the most impact are when you break there testimony and they pretty much explode, 
 not literally of course) . 
  
  The sound effects are also fantastic, banging on desks, sounds are made of unsheathing swords when 
 you go into conflict with the prosecutors, pinging noises when you find clues or red herrings, 
 there aren't any voice-overs in the game but unless your mentally retarded this shouldn't matter 
 (although if you are you'd probably be more into Resident Evil DS) .
  
  Overall Phoenix Wright is a great little (yet lengthy) adventure game that never takes it self 
 too seriously but always manages to strike a balance. The presentation is near flawless and while 
 the gameplay is heavily text-based it really suits the game. This is one game that is well worth 
 picking up, (if you can find it) seriously, it's better than most adventure game out there, even 
 with it's context! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkygirl007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I can tell you that this game is very Addictive. If you like mysteries and crime solving than you 
 will love this game. 
  Although this game is heavily based on text and lots of reading is involved and I am a type of 
 person that doesn't like reading that much, I don't find this game boring at all.
  This game, once you start getting into the cases you just don't want to stop until you find the 
 answers to the whole truth of the story and prove your clients' are innocent. 
  Over all this game is just simply Amazing and worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblems
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot got this one wrong the minnimum i would give this game would be a 9.4 the game carrys 
 with it a rich characters big twists in the cases and all sortts of goodys, the only two things 
 in my mind that kept it away from the gloriouse 10 is the difficulty because at least 4 times in 
 case 4 and 5 your like holy crap wht do i do!!! yes i addmit it i... i.. i looked at a walkthrogh 
 im sorry i did it for the family!!!........ moving on.. every character is unique you feel like the 
 king of the world.... wait a second what was the second thing wrong with the game well it was the 
 only 5 cases in the game their long thogh .... ok where was i you feel like the king of the world 
 when you find something wrong with the testimony ohh also the DS has a microphone right well you 
 can yell Objection its verry liberationg well just get it its verry good and if you see it for 
 29.99 or 39.99 well suck it up i live in mexico and payed 59.99 or more!! if your an old foggy 
 this game is sortta like mattlock 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViS6pt7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Japan has a notorious history of coming up with the oddest niche games, most of which have never 
 seen a stateside release. But every once in a while, one of those games just happens to see the 
 light of day in English; and that day for lawyer sim Gyakuten Saiban, otherwise famously known 
 as Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, has arrived. But how does one simulate the trials of a lawyer, 
 exactly? Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney forgoes the drudgery of professional schooling and places 
 players immediately in the shoes of Phoenix Wright, a fledgling (albeit awkward) lawyer on the 
 rise. Fresh out of law school, hes the prot&eacute; g&eacute; of star defense attorney Mia Fey, 
 who happens to be his mentor and boss. Shes savvy, and hes notwhich works perfectly as she takes 
 both Phoenix and the player under her wing through the first introductory case in which the basic 
 moves of the courtroom process are taught. Phoenixs first task is to vindicate his friend Larry 
 Butz of alleged murdera daunting yet simple feat that eventually goes off without a hitch. But 
 as soon as the first trials training wheels are off, Phoenix is thrown into a world of seemingly 
 impossible cases and a host of intimidating antagonists and prosecutors where every bit of small 
 evidence is the key to a greater truth, and where the slightest slip of tongue could mean a complete 
 turn around victory.
  
  Gameplay in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney hearkens back to the style of point-and-click genre games 
 like Monkey Island and Konami cult-classic Snatcher. The content is broken up into five separate 
 cases, or chapters, and their respective trials that usually span three days. Each case usually 
 opens up with a cinematic consisting of sequential, painted still frames which sets up the crime 
 and characters that follow suit; a low-tech yet gorgeous mechanic used often in the game. The game 
 then enters the main mode of interaction where Phoenix switches between two phases of the case. 
 The first phase is investigatory, which takes place before and in between trials. In it, Phoenix 
 and his assistant Maya Fey (Mia Feys little sister, their firms secretary and Phoenixs spunky 
 sidekick) traverse the city gathering important clues to aid them in the trial. Navigation is driven 
 through a menu-style interface akin to Japanese dating sims like Tokimeki Memorial where you are 
 given several options per screen to either inquire potential witnesses, move around to another 
 location, or stay and investigate the scene. Empirical evidence is everything in a trial, so visiting 
 crime scenes and obtaining tangible objects is just as essential to Phoenixs success as getting 
 information out of people. This is accomplished easily and intuitively by the DSs touch screen; 
 if anything is amiss, simply enter inspect mode and point and click. If its a key item a dialogue 
 is brought up where Phoenix and Maya talk about its potential relevance to the case at stake, foreshadowing 
 its significance. The item is then catalogued in Phoenixs portfolio for use as evidence in the 
 trial to come, as well as any tidbits of information gathered by witnesses in the form of written 
 testimonies and files accessible through the main menu.
  
  When all the events of the investigation are fulfilled (triggered by talking to all the necessary 
 witnesses and gaining key evidence) , the game immediately shifts to the second phase of the casethe 
 trial, and the meat and bones of the gameplay. In a sense, the trial moves in reverse because the 
 cinematics of the case already clue you in as to who the real perpetrator is. However, you have 
 to prove your clients innocence nonetheless and coax the true villain into confessing. Its handled 
 quite similarly to a real trial, though streamlined for convenience and simplicitys sake. The 
 prosecutor presents a witness that testifies in court in a dialogue that repeats in a text window 
 over and over. Its Phoenix and the players main task to find the discrepancy in that dialogue 
 between the witnesss account and whatever information Phoenix has ascertained. At a particular 
 junction of the witnesss testimony where the discrepancy is present, pressing the X button (or 
 holding Y while shouting Objection! into the DSs microphone, if you are so inclined) causes 
 Phoenix to object to the testimony. If your hunch is correct, Phoenix begins to explain himself 
 to the courtroom; if its a shot in the dark, the judge questions your reasoning and a point is 
 docked from your credibility score. Guess incorrectly all five times in a trial and the judge immediately 
 stops the trial declaring your client guilty, so making educated deductions based on information 
 and evidence is vital.
  
  As right as Phoenixs hunches may be, theyre inconsequential unless you can prove them with hard 
 facts. This is where all of the clues youve picked up come into play. Phoenixs portfolio is brought 
 up with all of the key evidence found during the investigatory phase, and its simply a case of 
 matching up the discrepancy and the evidence with a press of the X button (guessing wrong here 
 again, however, docks points still) . Proving your word breaks down the witnesss testimony and 
 psyche, causing him or her to recant his initial statement and make up a new one. Repeating this 
 process slowly reveals the falsehood or incompetence of the witnesss credibility to the courtroom, 
 leading to Phoenix and his clients victory. It sounds simple, but the actual courtroom process 
 is trickier than it seems. The actual complexity of the cases along with the many twists and turns 
 in the games scenarios that will keep even the most attentive players on their feet.
  
  The games visuals are a total divergence from the polygonal graphics present in most titles today, 
 instead sporting the completely hand-drawn sprite style Capcom is famous for. The result is an 
 incredible cast full of colorful personalities and designs that mesh well with the games cartoony 
 vibe and quirky sense of humor. Its all quite anime-themed, down to the over-the-top dramatic 
 gestures of both legal teams and speed line-laden action backgrounds. Flashbacks and important 
 events in the game are brought to life by CG illustrations similar to the ones in GBA title Metroid 
 Fusion. Simple, but effective. If anything, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney may even be coined as 
 an interactive manga or anime in its unique presentation.
  
  But what anime would be complete without a cool accompanying soundtrack? As far the game goes, 
 its never on short supply of awesome tracks that suit the mood of the moment nicely. Aside from 
 having an overall great suite of background music and character themes impressively done on the 
 DSs limited audio hardware, the games audible shining point lies in the platitude of pulse-pounding 
 tracks present in the trials. The music dynamically shifts according to the action present in the 
 courtroom, providing a nice bit of ambience to complement the current mood of the scene. At one 
 moment, the tempo could sift down to a coolly calculated pace to match picking the right bit of 
 crucial evidence. At another moment, the pace could pick up to a hurdling, rhythmic frenzy with 
 Phoenix pointing at his rival prosecutor with impunity upon finding the breaking point in the testimony. 
 The sound effects are also well played, with abstract onomatopoeia-like audio cues signaling emotions 
 and reactions (a piercing sound, followed by Phoenix mouthing off in shocked flabbergast is a common 
 one) . Its an effect that suits the games anime style well, and a nice substitution in place of 
 voice-acting in a game as dialogue-rich as this.
  
  A new addition in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney not present in the previous GBA titles is a bonus 
 fifth case made specially with the DSs hardware functionality in mind. Goodies like spritzing 
 crime scenes with blood stain-revealing agents, fingerprinting clues by dabbing the touch screen 
 and blowing into the microphone port, and examining items in Phoenixs portfolio in 3D by clicking 
 and dragging the stylus are elements that add greatly to the rich gameplay experience already provided 
 by the game. And coincidentally, the bonus case happens to be the longest, so players are in for 
 a treat during the last lengthy stretch of the game.
  
  Although immersive with a visual novel kind of flair, the text-heavy reliance of the games menus 
 and the linearity of the trialss gameplay are some of the games few shortcomings. RPG veterans 
 need not worry, but everyone else may feel anxious waiting around for something to happen. The 
 trials are virtually impossible to lose (choosing to pull back from an argument only elicits contempt 
 from Maya) , and once you memorize the sequence of actions to take the game could very much feel 
 like a case of Dragons Lair on a second playthrough. This results in almost zero replayability, 
 although the first run through of the game is enough to make most an instant fan.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a fun romp for anyone thats ever wanted to get a taste of courtroom 
 action and even for those who dont. In its totality its a thing rarely seen these days: fresh 
 gameplay and a risky departure from the norm. Capcom took an initial gamble with its limited release 
 in 2005, but has since then pressed more copies for release in stores due to overwhelming demand 
 by the public. And if that isnt indication enough, your honor, then I dont know what is. I rest 
 my case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kernnee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a new DS game in a while. My loaded brother has just about every good DS game 
 that's been released. He's been urging me to play some games like Advance Wars, to get my DS used. 
 But, I've been avoiding it because really, I don't have the paitence for a game that makes me work. 
 But, when he was finished with PW : AA and went back to the turnip stock market, I said I'd have 
 some time with it, because it didn't look dead boring ( Hey buddy, this review is dead boring) . 
 I knew I'd like it when I saw the nice visuals and simple gameplay, and this is what I found out.
 
  
  The story starts with your character, Mr. Phoenix Wright, taking his first case, that of a close 
 friend, who has been charged with murder of the girlfriend that dumped him. This almost sounds 
 life like, but then you see the defendants name is Larry Butz, and everyone is happy again. This 
 first case is really a training level, but it's nicely disguised. Your 'chief' Mia Fey helps you 
 along with the trial, showing you the ropes with techniques that will make you an Ace Attorney 
 .
  A court record at your disposal which you can access at anytime, that holds evidence like murder 
 weapons and statements from witnesses which you have found exploring crime-scences or by questioning. 
 This evidence is used to find contradictions in the testimony of a witness, during a cross-examination. 
 You'll have to make them slip up first, by using the Press button at the bottom screen or, if you 
 don't mind people looking at you, holding down ' Y ' and shouting 'Hold it!!' into the mic. When 
 the witness stutters and makes a contradiction, you make your move by touching Present ,highlighting 
 evidence in the Court Record, and presenting it using the button on the bottom screen or again, 
 holding ' Y ' and making a big objection. You're a big man, remember that.
  
  They manage to get out of this bind, as they too, have a very good lawyer, and prolong the trial, 
 but you get into it, and it doesn't get boring. You can't object as many times as you want to though. 
 Let's just say the game uses a Life system, where if you object, but the evidence you present doesn't 
 link to a part of the testimony, you lose a life. One thing that makes this game a bit easier is 
 the Save feature (I know, how amazing is a save feature?!) which lets you suspend play so that 
 the next time you turn on, you'll be exactly where you left off. This is handy for when you have 
 one life left or, you get a multiple choice question. A 'gamebreaker' question really.
  
  There's a good bit of dialouge in this game, but it's given a lift by 'Larry Butz' humour. And 
 there's a bit of snooping to do, exploring crime scences for clues and evidence is simple point-and-click 
 stuff.
  
  The visuals are in an anime style, simple and more wlecome thatn a clunky 3-D engine. There's also 
 the traditional Japenese female character design, guys. Some kinda funny animations are thrown 
 in too, like when you corner at witness and they crack like an egg, they usually go from care-free 
 to demented. Music is nice, simple and cheesy. It's a bit like the E. R music at tense moments. 
 Not that memorable a sound, but hey, it's not Goldeneye Rogue Agent.
  
  The only problem, and it's a small one, is that the game isn't that interesting. While you have 
 it on, it's really fun to play and you get into it, but when you turn it off, it's not one of those 
 games. The ones you play 'till 12 at night before you go to sleep, and then get up at 8 just to 
 play again. We've all had those games, so you know what I mean. But that really is nit-picking. 
 PW : AA is great fun, it can be played by almost all ages, it's easy and layed-back, and it's a 
 cool to play. I like it alot. Nice job guys at Capcom.
  
  Now about 30 more minutes of play, and I've unlocked OJ.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkvampirewolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  it's worth playing for me it is. Most of the time I don't play these type of games but this one 
 is really different from the other games that I have played. This is worth every penny, so this 
 game was my first and happy I got it as well. There aren't any games like this before and this 
 is something new and it's really different in a certain way, I recommended to people who like law 
 or into solving puzzle games. I'm taking a law class and this is the right game for me and glad 
 to buy it. Can't wait for the second to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game was very good but with every game there are bugs. I'll get the bad points out the way. 
 Sometimes it is easy to get lost and bored, its one off those games that you can play in small 
 bursts like 2 hours but its hard for me at least to sit down and try play through it for ages. 
 Another point is that a few times i've been playing and the microphone hasn't worked at all but 
 at least you don't need the microphone. The good points are that the illustrations are great and 
 it is the only attorney game i've ever heard off. I am positive that sometimes music from an old 
 yu-gi-oh game for the gba comes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I regret not buying a copy of this game when it came out. It was on my "to buy" list and just never 
 got picked. Now I am searching frantically for a non-eBay copy and I feel kinda like a nerdy Indiana 
 Jones tracking some great relic. Luckily for me, Gamefly had a copy and was able to ship it out 
 to me for my gaming pleasure until I can find a copy of my own. Yes, I have beaten this game, and 
 yes I still want to buy it.
  
  The Nintendo DS has been home to some quirky, innovative titles that could only call the DS home. 
 This is the biggest flame in my passionate fire of love for my DS. It's games like this that make 
 gaming fun... And this is about as far from a standard game as possible. You play a defense attorney, 
 the titular Phoenix Wright, and have to piece together evidence to solve crimes. Sounds simple 
 enough, but there are some spots that get quite tricky. Those other children from my era might 
 remember the novels that had different paths you could skip to depending on which page you read 
 next... That's kinda how parts of this game pan out. Your choices really do affect the outcome of 
 the trials.
  
  Fantasy courtrooms aside, the game isn't really true to the legal system. I don't think that's 
 all due to translation, either... But a real courtroom wouldn't make for a very interesting play. 
 Phoenix Wright is mostly text driven, which can some may find disenchanting, or be put off by, 
 but I found it quite unique and expressive. Visually, there isn't a whole lot to be seen. The characters 
 have a handful of positions they change to depending on mood, and there are a scant few cutscenes 
 and such. The real meat of the game comes from investigating.
  
  Unfortunately for the game, the real investigating gets interesting in the last trial (albeit a 
 LONG trial) . You have to spray luminol fluid to find traces of blood, take fingerprints and some 
 other neat things I won't get into. Using the stylus for clue searching is quite ingenius, actually. 
 To dust for prints you touch the screen to sprinkle powder down then blow into the mic to blow 
 the dust off. It's small touches like these that make it quite thrilling.
  
  The game is kind of linear, since you can only go as far X until you do Y. Then so on and so on. 
 This is good, but sometimes gets frusterating going back and forth to every place to try to figure 
 out what you didn't do yet to open up the next scene. Still, challangers are good, and it's especially 
 good that the game makes you think... Not only in court, but outside too. Getting to the bottom 
 of the cases isn't easy, nor is it obvious some of the time. There were a handful of times i had 
 to save every few minutes in case I messed up to go back and start over. Despite that, it didn't 
 really feel like trial an error... It was more like you had a hunch which was the best choice, but 
 you needed to check out your other options just to make sure.
  
  While the game may not hold much replay value, it is still fun to go back and try out alternate 
 ways of getting to the end of the trials. And being so hard to find, it's worth owning a copy for 
 bragging rights, if nothing else. The story is top-notch, the graphics are bright and pretty, the 
 sound is ace... This whole experience has really won me over. I was completely engrossed with the 
 game and played for hours on end. Very few games grab me like that anymore, so for that, Mr. Wright... I 
 thank you.
  
  TAKE THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faridmon
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  a reviwer (has a PSP) review: -
  
  This will be a slog of a review. But it has to be. It has been hard. The conclusion is difficult. 
 This game is unconventional. The reasons follow.
  
  As an overview, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney is an adventure game based on court proceedings. 
 Phoenix Wright is the main character (mysteriously also known as Nick) ; an up-and-coming defence 
 attourney. He must use his wits and his friends in order to get to the bottom of every case presented 
 before him, and find his defendant NOT GUILTY. So then, on to business. The prosecution calls 
 ProfessorLesser to the stand. Professor please testify.
  
  Very well. These, your Honour, are the simple, conclusive facts:
  
  1) There are only 5 cases. 
 No more, no less. And for the most part, they are about as difficult and involved as reading a 
 book.
  
  2) You do not play Phoenix Wright. Consistently, that is. As a player, you are forced, without 
 warning or reason, through a variety of perspectives, in every case being thoroughly confusing 
 and tooth-gnashingly frustrating. The practical upshot of this is that the game never credits you 
 for your own skills of deduction, nor gives you any influence on the proceedings at hand. It detracts 
 from the experience a great deal, and will put a good many of you readers off.
  
  3) Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney is not a game. The analogy in point 1) is relevant  this game 
 is in fact a book. Events will happen linearly, whether you want them to or not. It is even extremely 
 difficult to fail  though you are given 5 penalties in court, you will either know instantly 
 what to do, or have no idea, relying on quicksave trial-and-error to proceed. Which leads me onto 
 the next point
  
  4) Though it is near-impossible to fail, this does not mean the game is easy  it mostly is, but 
 at times, it is punishingly hard. It doesnt matter, youll either work it out eventually by chance, 
 or give up. A significant flaw, though. Often you will find yourself having no clue how you are 
 meant to prove something in court, as the cases are so convoluted there can be no human way to 
 know. Other times, out of court, there is no indication whatsoever of how to proceed.
  
  5) The game is never clear whether it wants you to work things out for yourself or not. One thing 
 is clear, however. When it does want you to, its impossible. When it doesnt want you to (preferring 
 instead to deliver this part of the case as narrative  see point 2) , youve already done it, and 
 feel robbed of credit.
  
  6) You have to quit the game to save. You have to leave subsets of locations to return to a hub, 
 then onto separate locations. You have to navigate an awful lot of menus to perform simple actions.
 
  
  7) The graphics are largely static, and what few animations there are are simply repeated for each 
 character. The bright colours involved considerably undermine the underlying seriousness and horror 
 of each murder trial.
  
  In all but the last case, there is absolutely no need for this game to be on the DS.
  
  9) 
 The first case is incredibly short, and the third case incredibly tiresome.
  
  The prosecution rests, your Honour.
  
  It seems a flawless testimony to me. Yes, the facts 
 of this matter are quite clear. The game shows remorseless error in several departments, and fails 
 to address obvious flaws, minor though they may be. Me as reviwer, therefore finds Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attourney to be a
  
  4/10 
  
  Phoenix Wright:
  
  OBJECTION!!!
  
  Your Honour, the defence requests to exercise his right to cross-examine the gamer! Firstly, the 
 prosecutions summary of the game is pitifully dismissive! The game is played out in a series of 
 chapters for each episode, or case. What these episodes essentially add up to is the oscillation 
 between investigation and trial. During investigation, the player will delve into the heart of 
 the crime, discovering witnesses, evidence, and entertaining skits.
  
  During trial, the prosecution will call witnesses to testify. Phoenix will then proceed with his 
 cross-examination, during which he can press the witness to elaborate on their points (and place 
 them under stress) , or present evidence to point out contradictions in the witness testimony. 
 This is a fuller and more accurate summary of the game. So then
  
  Hardocore gamers  this is what Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney is all about:
  
  
  The Prosecution 
 claimed:
  There are only 5 cases. No more, no less. And for the most part, they are about as difficult and 
 involved as reading a book.
  
  HOLD IT!
  
  Your Honour, the issue here is quality, not quantity! Although, now you mention it these episodes 
 can last a great length of time! There may be only 5 episodes, but they last a good while long 
 indeed. You will certainly feel like youve played through your moneys worth by the end of it. 
 And as for difficulty, well I will address this later. As for involvement (hmm, the argue seems 
 pretty airtight. Id better steer away from this or itll damage my case) ah, er I mean, moving 
 on!
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  You do not play Phoenix Wright. Consistently, that is. As a player, you are forced, without warning 
 or reason, through a variety of perspectives, in every case being thoroughly confusing and tooth-gnashingly 
 frustrating. The practical upshot of this is that the game never credits you for your own skills 
 of deduction, nor gives you any influence on the proceedings at hand. It detracts from the experience 
 a great deal, and will put a good many of you readers off.
  
  HOLD IT!
  
  Not at all! The defence asks the prosecution what reason is there for the player to control a 
 character?! While what the prosecution has said is true, it is irrelevant to this case! It is merely 
 a mechanic of the game that the player is expected to shift perspectives in order to make the most 
 of the experience. For the most part, it is expected that the player lets the story unfold before 
 him/her, as cases and trials progress. The players input is to occasionally guide Phoenixs hand, 
 asking the right questions here, providing the correct evidence there, and ultimately allowing 
 the proceedings to, ah, er proceed!
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  Though it is near-impossible to fail, this does not mean the game is easy  it mostly is, but at 
 times, it is punishingly hard. It doesnt matter, youll either work it out eventually by chance, 
 or give up. A significant flaw, though. Often you will find yourself having no clue how you are 
 meant to prove something in court, as the cases are so convoluted there can be no human way to 
 know. Other times, out of court, there is no indication whatsoever of how to proceed.
  
  HOLD IT!
  
  Your Honour, recall the prosecutions opening statement Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney 
 is an adventure game! Steep difficulty spikes are inherent of the genre! They provide the need 
 for cerebral input  for the mental probing of the gamer to needle his way deeper into the case. 
 A chance to reflect on facts and gain an understanding of the scenario as it stands. More than 
 anything, it provides the feeling of satisfaction once overcome, and that is the issue here. That 
 is what challenge is all about.
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  You have to quit the game to save. You have to leave subsets of locations to return to a hub, then 
 onto separate locations. You have to navigate an awful lot of menus to perform simple actions.
 
  
  HOLD IT!
  
  These are trivial claims, your Honour! Every gamer worth his salt knows that such things are forgivable 
 should the game provide an experience of worth such to compensate the inconvenience! Furthermore, 
 saving the game is possible in 98% of any instance throughout the game, so no need for save points. 
 Saving is done quickly, even considering the time taken to re-enter the game proper. The labyrinth 
 of locations is more a simple branched corridor, and is only evident in 3 out of the 5 cases. The 
 menus are quickly and efficiently navigated using the stylus.
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  The graphics are largely static, and what few animations there are 
 are simply repeated for each character. The bright colours involved considerably undermine the 
 underlying seriousness and horror of each murder trial.
  
   OBJECTION!!!
  
  Your Honour, the prosecutions claims here are horrendously inaccurate! Such such sheer blasphemy 
 is unforgivable! Unforgivable! The graphics used in this game are of the kind most functional that 
 I have ever seen! More than that, they are bright, detailed, pleasing to the eye and handled with 
 an exceptional degree of emphatic direction! Everything does exactly what it needs to, when it 
 needs to. And as for the repetitive animations  they are the cherry on the icing on the cake. 
 They are the epitome of expressive body language, conveying in perhaps 5 frames what most authors 
 would struggle to convey in a paragraph! This click of a hand, the slamming of a desk, the wide-eyed 
 disbelief, the bending-double in recoil, the overstated outburst of anger and all done in that 
 loving, anim fashion that so many of us gamers know so well. Make no mistake if anything, graphics 
 are Phoenixs strongest department.
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  In all but the last case, there is absolutely no need for this game to be on the DS.
  
  HOLD 
 IT!
  
  Your Honour the prosecution is clearly a PSP fanboy!. To overlook the simple importance of being 
 able to select an option by touching it, to examine a scene by sweeping over it and the shouting. 
 Oh, for the shouting. With the stylus and the mic, the game feels so much more current. In situ, 
 as it were. The DS makes this game the experience it is.
  
  The Prosecution claimed:
  The first case is incredibly short, and the third case incredibly tiresome.
  
  OBJECTION!!!
 
  
  This is clearly a matter of taste! Of course the first case is short, its a bleedin tutorial, 
 and it does its job well! For my part, its true, the third case was the one to reveal the games 
 ugly flaws. But the fourth case is exceptional. Truly a cut above. Touching to the last, it is 
 a story so perfect, yet so understated, that it may just well last with you forever.
  
  In addition, your Honour, the defence has this to add: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney is gold. Those 
 of you whove looked ahead to my score will now be confused, but regardless of score, there is 
 no changing the fact that this game is gold. It certainly has flaws, but these are inherent, and 
 are just to be borne like an ugly scar. Live with it. The rest of the game is fantastic.
  
  The episode I have tried to portray above touches on the proceedings in a court trial but comes 
 nowhere close to the emotions that fly, the exhilaration as you begin to tip the scale, or the 
 actual scripting itself, which is superb, and perfectly complemented by the graphics, characters 
 and animations. All of this is in turn complemented by the frankly amazing score, the likes of 
 which I cant say has ever been better suited to a game. Just play it and find out for yourself. 
 Music cant be described in prose anyway.
  
  You will come away from this game having had some of it rub off on your personality. I think I 
 have shown this recently around the forums with my overly-critical edge and an unwillingness to 
 cease shouting Objection! I hope, in this lengthy drama of a review, I have come some way to 
 doing the game justice.
  
  9.1/10
  
  
  
  TAKE THAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great storyline for it's cases; a great mix of puzzle/storytelling elements; beautiful graphics; 
 wonderfully charming characters
  
  Cons: So much text you could probably make a novel out of it; totally linear; too much length between 
 save points
  
  If you could take any elements that would form a terrible game it would more than likely be text...... a 
 courtroom.... and anime-ish themes. But somehow Capcom has taken these elements and done the exact 
 opposite. In the game you play a defense attorney named Phoenix Wright; where you take on seemingly 
 impossible cases to win but through justice and evidence gathering you reach the truth. Phoenix 
 Wright which had alot of things going against it turns out to be the most charming.... and arguably 
 the best game for the DS.
  
  The gameplay for Phoenix Wright is so simple you can pretty much sum it up in a few sentences, 
 but it's how you have to use the gameplay elements that makes it so intriguing. There are basically 
 two parts to the game much like the show Law & Order, there's an evidence gathering period and 
 a trial period. During evidence gathering you will go around to various locations that deal with 
 the case you are investigating, and you will gather physical evidence as well as talk to witnesses 
 and deal with police etc.... all of this evidence gathering is talking is done with a menu that 
 you use your stylus to utilize... when you come to a location you're given 4 options..  
 (MOVE) ..... the first and last options are pretty self explanatory... where you press talk to talk 
 to witnesses in the area and gather important clues for their testimony... and when your ready to 
 move to another location... (PRESENT) is alil more complex in that in order to incite certain reactions 
 from certain people you'll need to present some sort of evidence to them to keep the story going... which 
 brings about one of the flaws of the game, in that it's all on a totally linear path... there are 
 no alternate routes to solving the cases.... you basically have to sit and figure out what you have 
 to do before you can progress. (EXAMINE) will basically lay out your location flat and you have 
 a cursor that you can run over and spot to examine for physical clues pertaining to the case. The 
 next major aspect for gameplay is in the courtroom. This is where things really heat up as witnesses 
 will take the stand; and you'll find contradictions in their testimony through the physical evidence 
 you discovered or by pressing them and making them explain further to bring out holes in their 
 logic. Testimony is the true heart of the game, as this is where you have to do all of your deductive 
 reasoning to reach a "Not Guilty" verdict. What really makes the game engaging is it's storylines 
 for the cases. The cases will keep you intrigued from beginning to end, there are 5 cases in all.... and 
 cases 3-5 will take up most of your time and puzzle solving. Certain gameplay elements in case 
 5 are exclusive to the cases... like taking fingerprints and examining evidence from a 360 degree 
 angle which are a blast to enjoy. The save system honestly is probably the biggest flaw of the 
 game. If you want to save your progress; especially in the latter cases; you better be able to 
 invest alot of time between save points. Because all of your progress you make will be for naught 
 if you cant make it to the end of a chapter where all of the save points are located. 
  
  The graphics for the game are superb... from the wonderfully put together cut scenes at the beginning 
 of the episodes to the characters that are portrayed in the game. The look of the game really draws 
 you in and the colors are well used especially for the lighting in the cutscenes.
  
  The music and sound of the game is where the game falls to mediocrity. While the music and sound 
 really doesnt take away from the game; doesn't as much as the graphics and gameplay does either. 
 Basically when there's intense moments you'll here intense music and when it's laid back you'll 
 hear laid back music. One of the coolest features from this department is the simple yet intriguing 
 dialogue which is three phrases, "OBJECTION"... "TAKE THAT".... "HOLD IT"... when you or the prosecutor 
 presents evidence or presses a witness the phrase will be uttered or yelled and is quite catchy... you'll 
 find yourself running around the house yelling OBJECTION to people... so that's pretty cool
  
  Basically there's no real reason to play through this game more than once. So even though the 
 game is a blast and the cases are incredible after one play you might just put the cartidge up 
 to never be played again. But the game is so intriguing the first time through that it's impossible 
 not to recommend this game to anyone that loves great characters... deductive reasoning .... or a 
 great story... if even 1 of those three elements appeals to you then go pick up a copy today, you 
 wont be dissappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackIceJoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a game where you play as a rookie attorney and this is a game you can not put 
 down until you beat it.
  
  One of my all time favorite games to date.
  
  There is no game out there that I have seen that makes you feel so happy and get excited.
  
 
  The game play is of using the mic to say what to do.
  
  Wording is of text one of the things I do not like about it would have been more fun if it had 
 the person saying what is going on plus text if you want to read that way. It is of a Very high 
 text reading game but you still will love it.
  
  Replay value is of little value. When you beat it it will play out the same way so it is not a game 
 you will want to pick up after you beat it until some time has gone from the last time you played 
 it.
  
  Things you will win after the level you are on are of a picture that will go over that level just 
 beat.
  
  The game also makes you wonder if being a attorney would be a fun job to go into.
  
  The plot 
 is a nice a crisp story with nice twists and turns.
  You will fall in love as soon as you start to play and will be wanting more.
  
  So Phoenix 
 Wright is a game you will want to buy just so you can add it to the games you own. Plus give Phoenix 
 Wright a chance to come out with more games like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  In Phoenix Wright, players take the role of a young defense attorney straight out of law school, 
 making his great debut. Along with five trial cases the game also features investigative segments 
 where Phoenix accumulates evidence and testimony as patronage of his clients case. These sections 
 of the game usually bring forth drama and twists in the plot, as well as exposing some of Phoenix 
 Wrights backdrop. One of the games biggest strengths seems to be its wide array of characters. 
 In the game you get a chance to meet some very unique personalities - from screwy characters like 
 Larry Butz to unfortunate characters like Miles Edgeworth.
  
  Immediately youll notice the gameplay consist of little action. Its an extremely text heavy game, 
 however, it makes up for it through quite an interesting plot. After all, who wants to buy a video 
 game, broad in text, but refuses to deliver a great story? The script is surprisingly well written. 
 It has to be one of the best of our time. It provides very humorous dialogue, and is very scintillating.
 
  
  Each of Phoenix Wrights five cases split into two parts: the investigation, and the trial. Each 
 case will also have an introductory scene that will establish the victim and the suspect. Your 
 clients are left guilty, until proven innocent. This means youve got to find all of the evidence, 
 find the inconclusive, and interpret the witness testimony to the prosecutions case. The game 
 takes freedom in how the legal system operates to make things more entertaining. For instance, 
 a lawyer would normally not be allowed to sneak into a crime scene to gather more evidence, but 
 in this game, due to Phoenixs growing friendship with the detective, youll find you wont have 
 to worry; you wont be disbarred. 
  
  The investigative scenes usually involve Phoenix and his sidekick going to the scene of the crime, 
 and attempting to get evidence. These parts are stylus driven, usually requiring close examination 
 of several areas, and talking to witnesses, and drawing testimony or further evidence out of them 
 (by pressing them on certain points, or presenting evidence at an appropriate time  this can be 
 a slow and painful process in the latter cases) . The final case gives players much greater level 
 of interactivity, with fingerprinting and UV equipment for detecting finger prints and bloodstains. 
 Eventually, the games linearity will kick back in, and itll be time to go to the courtroom.
 
  
  The courtroom proceedings in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is based more around a civil law system, 
 rather than a common law one. As a result, the judge is much more involved in the case. The judge 
 in the game is often easily swayed by witnesses. The prosecution will run the witness through their 
 account of the events, after which the player will have a shot at finding holes in the witness 
 testimony.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney uses a manga (Japanese graphic novel) style for the majority of its 
 artwork, which suits the setting of the game near perfectly. Im not much of an audiophile when 
 it comes to in game sound effects, but the sound doesnt seem to excel the way one would expect 
 throughout the game. For the most part it its an easy on the ears, almost generic tone. It does 
 tend to get a little more exciting when in the mist of a trial, however. Voice acting is done well, 
 but very limited to the wails of Objection!, Hold it!, and Take that! by members of both 
 defense and prosecution.
  
  In the end youll find drawbacks little in amount for a game like Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 I would assume its only ones are the fact it provides an extremely linear experience, and the very 
 little replay value, as they are the only minor disputes Ive had with the game. Anyhow, Phoenix 
 Wright is something owners of the DS should consider needing a little more investigation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Adventure gaming has become stale over the years. What, with so few good ones being made these 
 days, it's a wonder the genre is still around. Well, adventure gaming has just met its' savior. 
 That savior's name is Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the DS.
  
  Now, a court game doesn't sound too fun, does it? In fact, it sounds rather boring, compared to 
 all of these other plots normal adventure games dish out. But will you be suprised when you get 
 your hands on this and find out that not only is it similar to those Long Journeys or vacations 
 to Myst you're always taking; it's better than most of these titles!
  
  The way each episode in the game works is like this; you start out going around, looking for evidence 
 and information, much like Law and Order. After you gain the nessacary stuff to move on, you'll 
 go to court, listening to a witness' testimony. Now, your client is as good as dead, unless you 
 make a move to point out contradictions in the witness' testimony. Contradictions will cause the 
 witness' lies to fall apart in a great big explosion.
  
  At the beginning, this is an easy task. The contradictions are so blatant that you can't help but 
 feel offended that the witness thinks you're that stupid. However, when you go into later stages, 
 you really have to "think outside the box" to catch them red-handed. These are the shining moments 
 in the game; when you see someone you've grown to dislike fall into a grave they dug. The animations 
 are wonderful; seeing someone's face turn from a grin into a frown, sweat beading down their face. 
 And the ultimate blow you give them; now, that is worth infinate words.
  
  Unfortunately, this offering feels very short, leaving you screaming for more. But with a sequel 
 approaching, maybe that's not such a bad thing. Before you say no because it's a "law game", give 
 it a try. As an adventure game fan, I feel honored to play such an amazing game.
  
  As the adventure game genre almost reaches the point of no return, this game yells OBJECTION! and 
 keeps the spirit alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humantarget00
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 12, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney Review
  
  Some people (myself often included) tend to frown on games that aren't filled with plenty of action; 
 but I'm glad that I gave this game a chance because, despite the slower pace and text driven gameplay, 
 it's still a lot of fun. It's really a good break from the ordinary for people who want to use 
 their heads a little bit and enjoy a fun story along the way.
  
  The way that the game is set up, is that first you see the crime from the sidelines, (Only the 
 first two chapters show you who did the murder beforehand, after that you have to figure it out 
 for yourself, which really adds to the mystery.) Then you play as Phoenix and try to prove your 
 client's innocence by examining the evidence from the scene of the crime, trying to identify items 
 used in the murder and out-of-place things in the scene, and presenting them at the right time 
 in court.
  
  The day in court is based around the witness stand. The prosecutor makes his statement and brings 
 up a witness. They say what they saw, (or what they want the court to think that they saw) and 
 then you, as the star lawyer Phoenix Wright, have to do a cross examination. This is where you 
 go through all the statements that they made and can press them about specific details, (say "Hold 
 it!" into the DS microphone and ask them for more details about what they said, trying to catch 
 them in contradictions and such.) or present evidence that undermines their testimony. To prove 
 your client innocent you end up becoming basically a counter prosecutor, showing your client's 
 innocence by proving the false witness guilty. Sort of a TV drama view of how a courtroom operates.
 
  
  When in court, you have a "Five strikes and you're out!" system that determines when you've lost 
 the case. Sometimes, just pressing a witness about the wrong detail, or even about the right detail 
 but at the wrong time, can give you a strike. That didn't happen until chapter four for me, though. 
 However, usually if you receive a strike it is just because you presented evidence at the wrong 
 time, when it doesn't show a contradiction; which is a big deal since, in Ace's world, "zinging" 
 the false witness is your best (and pretty much only) path to saving your client from a lengthy 
 stint in the slammer.
  
  The storyline is very good overall and really keeps your interest pretty well. The only problem 
 I had with it, is the magic thing. (If you are familiar with the focus mode in the game "Trauma 
 Center Under the Knife", you'll get the general idea.) Colorful characters are everywhere, and 
 most of them are interesting enough (like a film studio guy that talks in leet-speak) that you 
 don't feel the slightest desire to skip through the dialog. You get chances to interact with the 
 characters by choosing sentences from list at predetermined moments. Some choices make your job 
 easier and some just makes things worse.
  
  It does have it's shortcomings though. Too frequently the otherwise solid script has the bad guys 
 narrowly weaseling their way out of their obvious lies, leaving you wondering if the judge has 
 been paid off or is really just that stupid, but this is probably needed in order to keep the game 
 from being too easy and is forgivable considering the constraints that this type of game operates 
 under, plus you can always catch the liars in the end if you pay attention to details.
  
  The game may seem to be short at first, considering it only has five chapters, but the chapters 
 are fairly long and get far more complex in scope as you progress through the cases, culminating 
 in chapter five. And while the cases get harder as you advance, the pleasure of beating each chapter 
 is like a blast of joy-inducing satisfaction rushing to your brain. And once you reach chapter 
 five, new DS-only features open up, (reportedly because Phoenix Wright was originally developed 
 for the Game Boy Advance but completed on the DS.) Which take advantage of the unique abilities 
 of the DS hardware and add more variety to the gameplay- as well as providing some possible insight 
 on what to expect from the upcoming sequel.
  
  The scarcely-animated storyboard type of graphics have an attractive style of artwork that is decent 
 enough and helps tell the story. While the sound is adequate but uneventful. It's pretty much just 
 basic music with the occasional accent. The controls are so straight forward that they're barely 
 worth mentioning- they just do what they need to.
  
  When all is said and done though this is one of the most emotionally rewarding games that I have 
 ever played. . When you catch that tiny little contradiction in the villain's testimony during 
 cross examination it makes you want to scream, "OWNED!!!!!!" at the slimy weasel that you just 
 made a fool of on the witness stand. And when you beat a chapter (win a trial) on this game, you 
 feel good, REAL good.
  
  If you have a DS and might enjoy a fun "choose your own adventure" style romp through a highly 
 fictionalized legal system, then I would recommend giving it a try. There's nothing else quite 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright takes a novel twist on the adventure genre by having you play as a a defense attorney 
 rather than a detective as is usually the case. This gameplay mechanic means that rather than finding 
 pieces of junk lying around and being told what their purpose is, it's /your/ job to piece together 
 what the purpose for it 'was' (or indeed wasn't) . This isn't including the corrupt prosecution 
 lawyers, mistaken witnesses & bumbling detectives all trying to keep you from your elusive 'not 
 guilty' verdict.
  
  There's 5 seperate cases in total (which are in effect chapters) . 4 of them are GBA ported, while 
 the 5th case is made exclusively for the DS. It blatently shows too as the final case is twice 
 the length of any others and has extra functionality with the microphone & stylus along with 3D 
 animations. Judging that Capcom had no idea how well the game was going to do in the West this 
 could be excuse enough for the minimum effort port but needless to say if all the cases/chapters 
 were given the treatment the 5th one was then this game would be near on perfect.
  
  The usual flaw with adventure games is limited replay, this is also the case here. Although if 
 you refuse to cheat (which to be honest isn't really needed as common sense is enough to see you 
 through this one) it'll take you 25-30 hours to get from beginning to end which is a fairly decent 
 length for the price (much better than Touch Memory) .
  
  One other minor gripe is the story progression & the location movement.
  The story doesn't progress 
 until you've had ever conversation possible & collected & investigated every piece of evidence. 
 No doubt this is so you don't go into the court room unprepared but can be annoying when it's not 
 been made clear than something/someone in the game world has changed since you last looked/conversed. 
 Also the movement between scenes is somewhat time consuming due to its menu based system.
  
  The option to download-play some extra cases would have been welcome in todays WIFI age but 
 I guess that doesn't make financial sense when a sequel would no doubt sell equally as well.
  
  Overall it's one of the better games to comeout so far on the DS & keeping in line with the 
 ethos of the machine it's likely to appeal to a wide audience rather than just the adventure game 
 fanboys. Due to the limited replay however if you can resist temptation it might be worth waiting 
 till the game goes into the sale bin or at least until it's discounted from the RRP.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cody-SR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is good game for people who watch C. S. I or have common sense. This game is pretty 
 much much about you, Phoenix Wright, as you may have guessed your an attorney doing murder case 
 after murder case. After the first level the difficulty goes up. Some parts of some cases make 
 you think WTF AM I SUPPOSE TO DO but thankfully it happens only every now and then. The graphics 
 may not be Halo2 but good for the DS system. The sound is also actually really good. Also the learning 
 curve is really easy (my mom figured out how to play it in one session) , The value like everything 
 else is pretty good the cases are long but not to long, don't think 5 levels are short. Some of 
 the names are weird too 
  cough*Dick Gumshoe*cough. The only problems i can think of is that getting to certain area's take 
 to long and the wtf i listed above.
  In other words this was just a great game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticxstat
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Humor and lawyers. Once in a very long while, someone tries to merge two themes that are rarely 
 nice to each other. Usually, the result is a morbid CSI cast-away. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 is what can be called a "success."
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney stars Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense lawyer who is surprisingly 
 likable. Wright begins his career working under the direction of Mia Fey, head of the Fey & Co. 
 Law Offices. During Wright's few but formidable cases, he must uncover and use evidence to protect 
 his clients, but getting from point A to B isn't going to be a straight line.
  
  In a world where lawyers spike their hair, the court system is too efficient for its own good. 
 Three days is the limit of a trial, and if Wright can not prove that his defendant is not guilty, 
 the defendant is declared guilty. Three days may not seem like a lot, and it isn't. It becomes 
 increasingly clear when Wright enters the courtroom with little more than a few pieces of evidence.
 
  
  The gameplay is divided into two noticeable parts: an exploration phase, and a courtroom phase. 
 During exploration, Wright must travel from place to place, talking to people and collecting evidence. 
 In each area, Wright can find evidence by examining the scene. If something looks suspicious or 
 out of place, a simple examination will allow Wright to view it more closely. Talking to witnesses 
 is not as much of a challenge, but certainly not less entertaining. Each witness has a distinct 
 personality, and some will only talk with the right "persuasion." To move on to the next phase, 
 Wright must find all of the evidence. This ensures that he will go to court unprepared, but sometimes 
 it is unclear what he is supposed to find.
  
  After the exploration is completed, the battle of wits begins. Wright must make wise decisions 
 and examine witnesses, find lies, and present evidence. The courtroom is when the game is at its 
 peak, and it can be quite a ride. This phase is the only phase when a game over is possible. If 
 Wright presents the wrong evidence five times, or if he makes a bad decision, it will cost him 
 the case.
  
  While the gameplay is good in its own part, it wouldn't be the same without its presentation. The 
 animated-style goes great with music that plays to the mood. Even with the inviting atmosphere, 
 once Wright has played through his career, there's little to make anyone want to go back and do 
 it again.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of the few, if not the only, games to put a personality to 
 law. Anyone wanting to test their reasoning with a great story should give Phoenix Wright a call. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Interesting use of the DS functions. Challenging puzzles. Lengthy adventure.
  
  THE BAD: Trial and error formula can get tiresome. Not much replay value.
  
  Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney is a quirky game that is loosely based on the legal system.
  
  GAMEPLAY is easy to learn and it has a good tutorial. You control Phoenix Wright, an amateur lawyer, 
 who must interview witnesses and search for evidence. The game doesn't make full use of all the 
 DS abilities, but that's okay. However, it can get frustrating when you don't know how to proceed.
 
  
  GRAPHICS are for the most part just anime still pictures that look good. It doesn't do anything 
 flashy, but that necessary isn't a bad thing. Considering this was a game originally on the GameBoy 
 Advance, it looks decent for Nintendo DS standards.
  
  SOUND has some great scores. Depending on the situation, the music will change and make the game 
 more dramatic. Some voice acting other than objection could have given the game more personality.
 
  
  VALUE is definitely in the game. It can take anywhere from 20-30+ hours to finish all 5 scenarios. 
 Of course, it depends on how fast you can figure out the many puzzles in the game. There isn't 
 much replay value considering if you already beat a scenario, it won't be much of a challenge since 
 you already know what to do.
  
  OVERALL Phoenix Wright is an interesting game that has its really fun moments and sometimes tedious 
 ones. Unless you check a walk-through every 5 seconds, this game will last a good amount of time 
 that makes it worth owning. However, if you can power through the game, renting is also an option. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaschmo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a game where you step in to the shoes of not-so-ace Phoenix, a 
 budding young defence attorney fresh out of law school. At the beginning of the game your mentor, 
 an intelligent and beautiful young women named Mia, shows you the ropes to being a defence attorney. 
 
  The game is split into two parts. For half of the game you will be investigating crime scenes, 
 gathering evidence and talking to anyone who might know something about the case. A confused but 
 good natured detective helps you out, sometimes letting slip more information than he intended 
 to. 
  The other half of the game takes place in the courtroom, and sees you defending suspects and interrogating 
 witnesses. You are pitted against defence attorneys, ranging from wimpy old men, to vicious men 
 who'll do anything to win a case, and even your childhood friend. The game makes good work of the 
 stylus and voice recognition, allowing you to shout 'OBJECTION!' at the appropriate times. You 
 don't have to do this, but it does add a certain novelty.
  The game has a wealth of characters, most of them completely different to the next. Some you'll 
 notice though, have disturbing similarities to past or even dead characters...
  Although the whole game is a masterpiece, the fifith case is b far the best. It isn't base on the 
 cases from the GBA games like the first four, so this this time you get to make full full use of 
 the touch screen and microphone. You can examine objects in minute details by rotating and zooming 
 in on them, make clue finding much easier and more intuitive. You can blow powder off surfaces 
 to check for fingerprints, and spray luminol liquid over a crime scene to check for traces of blood. 
 The fifth case is also the longest, with a tale that twists and tuns at every available corner. 
 A man murdered in two places simultaneously? Two confessions to the crime? You name it, case five 
 has probably got it.
  That brings us on to perhaps the only real letdown in Phoenix Wright. The length. The first and 
 second cases are a fair bit shorter than the others, and none of the five cases should take you 
 more than a few hours to complete. All in all, the game lasts for around 8-9 hours, and by the 
 end leaves you wanting a whole lot more. There isn't really any replay value either and the game 
 could have done with at least another five cases, but at least there are rumours of a sequel on 
 the way.
  The games graphics, while not technically jaw-dropping, are incredible. Superbly animated characters, 
 with individual facial expressions bring the whole game to life, while giving it a slightly comic 
 book, wacky feel. The sound is just as good. Different characters have their own theme tunes when 
 you talk to them, some fast, some silly, and some chillingly serious. Phoenix Wright is game that 
 fairs amazingly well in terms of presentation.
  Phoenix Wright is an amazing single player game, that you should definitely check out if your looking 
 for a good story and a solid game for your collection. Even though it is short, It's definitely 
 worth it in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Pheonix Wright is a heavly based text adventure, hey! don't leave because you must read! reading 
 is fuuun. Seriously. This game is highly addictive for a week and than you get a little bored of 
 it, and than youll play it again for a little, and its done. Since theres no replay value than 
 you might just store it in your secret safe and wait for 30 years and it'll be worth millions! 
 hahahaha- wait , oh they're restockinh them : ( ignore that last thought.
  Anyway now to the review.. in this game you are pheonix wright, Ace Attourney! yeah, and you have 
 about five or six cases which get longer and longer, and harder. The gameplay is mostly talking 
 and searching for clues and walking.. and searching for clues.. than walking.. and walking.. and 
 some more talking... and walking and than court!! and than walking.. well you get the point. Although 
 my review sounds bad , its not, its a great game, fun game to sit down with some chocholate milk 
 or maybe cofee have some classical music on and just.. play my friend, and than you feel the adrenalin 
 rushing and your heart beating. during court you must prove the witnesses wrong by finding controdictions 
 in their testimony, smart guy for lies. And you push the 'a' button to say "take that" or "hold 
 it" , and "objection", but no, you must shout it as loud as you can and than you will be a true 
 lawer, by screaming.
  Although the game gets a tiny, tiny bit repetitive and has no replay value its still great and 
 a must buy for any DS owner even if ou think your not "wright" for it. haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizkid333
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  You're in court.... and the judge asks you 'Point out the Contradiction in this testimony'. It's 
 the final straw before the witness crumbles... you've only one more warning before you lose... you 
 look in the evidence'... there's nothing there that even RELATES to it!... damn... wait a min... didn't 
 he say-' You check the evidence again and find it 'You didn't do it, huh???.... OBJECTION!'
  
  This is what Phoenix Wright: Ace Attroney is all about. If you hate whodunnits or lots of text, 
 close this review down and go play Metroid Prime - Hunters. Other wise, read on!
  
  Phoenix Wright is set in an American court (Well duh!) and puts you as a rookie defence layer. 
 You start out with your mentor, Mia Fey, who holds your hand while you take on your first case. 
 Before long, you're all alone and having to fight your own battles.
  
  So, Let the trail of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney BEGIN! *BANG*
  
  The defence of Phoenix Wright... it's 
 great! You have a case, and you solve it. You can even shout 'OBJECTION' at the bits of evidence 
 you don't like... how cool is that! Each case is original and has more twists than the 1960's, so 
 you're not short of something original. The anime style suits perfectly and Phoenix's smart-ass 
 comments throughout the game can keep your sanity even if it seems like you're not going anywhere! 
 It also teaches you American law, such as the two rules of evidence and the 3 day initial trials.
 
  
  Yet, the prosecution has a point... it's short. I completed it in over a week. I wish it was longer, 
 but since it only has 5 episodes, it doesn't last. I feel sorry for the Japanese, who have already 
 played the original GBA game, who can skip to the 5th episode. That isn't long enough! Another 
 thing, to those non-Americans, is some things might confuse them. For example, in Episode 1, you 
 have to find a clue. Yet, you'd only know this clue if you were American. I just guessed! Ah well...
 
  Another problem is your lives. It's great there's a system (5 strikes and you're out) , as it can 
 really put pressure on you, yet that's it. Once you lose all your lives, you have to start again 
 from your save point of the beginning. The problem is that you have to go back through the entire 
 chapter and go through the same procedure again. It makes you regret your mistakes, but if you're 
 on your final contradiction and you start again, it can be very annoying!
  And finally, the DS features. It's great you can touch the screen, but saying OBJECTION 2 ro 3 
 times before the DS accepts it can become annoying, and pressing the screen in better than saying 
 it. Oh well...
  
  The decisive evidence is Episode 5. This gives you more DS features, such as examining the evidence 
 and collecting scientific evidence. So, episode 5 is CSI + Law and Order. It's good, as you can 
 experiment with the screen and do 3D missions instead of being stuck with 2D objects like in Episodes 
 1-4. Also, the new storyline and plot twists are the best yet. Plus, you get to watch VIDEO. How 
 cool is that?! 
  The problem with episode 5 is Angel Starr. She can't talk straight and it can really baffle you! 
 Also, objects can look pixelated, unless you zoom in on them. Surely, they could have done a bit 
 better in making zoomed out 3D objects look good! Plus, if you're Japanese, this is the only episode 
 in the Phoenix Wright series, out of the 5 episodes, you won't have played. So, buying a game just 
 for episode 5 is a bit of a waste of money...
  
  And so, to my verdict. This is a fanatastic game, which should be played by all people with a brain. 
 The anime is quirky and you can SEE the emotion. It's great! Even if it's short, it's one everyone 
 has to play.
  
  This court finds Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney as a game to be played by everyone with a DS. The 
 sentence is a great game with some memorable characters and startling court scenes.
  
  Now, all together...
  
  OBJECTION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is my favourite Nintendo DS game that I have played so far. The game is surprisingly 
 long, and will take you days to complete so it's great value for money. It's a game that you will 
 be thinking about when you are trying to get to sleep, if you can put it down that is.
  
  Initially I was not captivated by Phoenix Wright. The game put's you straight into your very first 
 defense case in court, there's no evidence collection during this first introductory mission which 
 teaches you everything you need to know to play the game. However over the time I played this game 
 I saw the error of my ways and totally loved the whole experience.
  
  The gameplay consists of reading a lot of text, and choosing a response/question from a limited 
 selection of choices, examing scenes to find and collect evidence, and then when the game let's 
 you you go to court to defend you client. Incidentally, ALL of your cases are defense cases and 
 the objective of the game is to find all of your clients NOT GUILTY.
  
  A word for people who play adventure games... there is a LOT of text to read in this game. True, 
 that would make it sound like any other adventure game you have played, but the big difference 
 here is that a majority of the game (like 95 percent of it) involves talking to other characters, 
 and unlike other adventure games you won't be combining different items with other items or using 
 items on the environment.
  
  So basically what this game boils down to is an interactive anime courtroom drama with a little 
 bit of interactivity thrown in to make it feel like a game. Luckily for Phoenix Wright it's a great 
 story, so even though initially I was put off buy it's text heaviness, overall this didn't matter 
 so much as I was totally entertained by the game.
  
  In the courtroom you will hear witness statements, and your interactivity consists of "pressing" 
 or "objecting" during your cross-examination. Whether this game mimics real life court is irrelevant, 
 because what you get in the game is so entertaining you care less about any lack of realism. Now, 
 you can use the microphone to press and object if you like, but I personally didn't and still enjoyed 
 the game. Either way you will have to press a button to press or object, so the use of the microphone 
 feels like a gimic to me, and besides it doesn't actually recognise WHAT you are saying, so as 
 long as you make some kind of loud noise into the microphone the game will do the appropriate action.
 
  
  Graphically the game is not good looking at all, at least as far as adventure games are concerned 
 where typically we are used to beautiful looking 2D environments. The game makes up for this though 
 with it's sense of style. The one exeception to this is the fifth mission which was made for the 
 DS where the environments actually look pretty.
  
  The thing which I found most memorable other than the storyline was the music. I particularly liked 
 the music used in the detention room, and the theme you hear in your lawyers office. There are 
 some incidental effects you hear repeated throughout the game, like a bell noise which sounds when 
 someone you are talking to says something which make be a clue to the current mystery (as in something 
 which leads you to where you should be headed next) .
  
  So what is not good about Phoenix Wright? Well I've already mentioned that there is a lotta lotta 
 text to read, but this only bothered me initially. Something which is poorly thought out is travelling 
 to different locations. You can only go to a maximum of 4 locations from your current location 
 at one time. This is really annoying, a scrolling list would have been much better. As it is you 
 have to remember which location you need to go to to get to the location you wanna go to. For example 
 you cant go straight from your lawyers office to the evidence room at the police station in one 
 mission. Instead you have to select to go to the police station, and once you get there select 
 to go to the evidence room.
  
  Another annoyance which I'd say is true of many adventure games, and in the case of Phoenix Wright 
 this problem only really occurs in the final mission, is that sometimes you just do not know what 
 to do in the game next. Like you may have spoken to EVERYONE, but you have missed something somewhere 
 in some location, and until you find that thing via the Examine function you will not be able to 
 proceed. This problem of "getting stuck" is a mechanic employed by basically every adventure game 
 ever made and is a way of artificially extending the play length of a game (and no doubt selling 
 a few hint books along the way) . The reason it's a problem with Phoenix Wright is that the game 
 is already LONG without getting stuck!
  
  Overall this is one of the best DS games, and as long as you don't mind reading through 1000's 
 of lines of text and you enjoy adventure games or perhaps if you like anime then you should buy 
 Phoenix Wright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lVIrNguyen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  OBJECTION!
  As a rookie defense lawyer, you'll take on five intriguing cases to reveal dramatic, stunning, 
 and even comical court proceedings. 
  -survey crime scenes, interview witnesses, gather evidence
  -present evididence, cross-examine 
 witnesses, listen to testimonies
  -voice recognition capabilities
  -first person perspective
  
  This game has a bit of reading and adventure altogether. It has 
 LOTS of dramatic story lines. Although replay value is low, you will think about what happened 
 to the characters after the game. 
  
  This game makes you think unlike most games. So if you want a good murder, puzzle game, get Phoenix 
 Wright Ace Attorney
  
  OBJECTION!!
  
  P. S. you will love this game so buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRIMEhUNTER1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep you thinking for a good while. It has a great story, twists, comedy and it 
 will give you a challenge. Pheonix Wright: Ace Attourney is a game for people who are mature and 
 who has a sense of humor.
  
  It puts to use the features of the Nintendo DS. During a trial, you can press and hold the "Y" 
 button and yell into the mic. "HOLD IT" or present your evidence do to the situation and object 
 by holding the "Y" button and yell "OBJECTION". And when you look for evidence, you use the touch-sensitive 
 screen to look around for clues. During dialougue, you can tap the square to keep the dialougue 
 going to your speed (I know, not the greatest touch screen feature it's just dialougue but it still 
 uses it) you don't have to use it though.
  
  Two of my favorite charecters are in this game, Pheonix Wright, and Miles Edgeworth. The girls 
 look good (for anime, er) . You won't like some of the personalities of some charecters, or you 
 may think that it's funny. Or you may think both. One charecter is an **** and pisses me off but, 
 in away it's funny. Facial expressions are great. Some are hilarious and some are frightening.
 
  
  This is definately a should-buy for DS owners. You may even put this as one of your best games 
 in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhomerun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to make this real short.
  
  - The game is a port of a GBA japan only game, with an added "chapter" specific to the DS version
 
  - The game is totally 2D, with the exception of some parts of the DS only version.
  
  Graphics:
  + Effective, personal art.
  + Clean 2D
  + Some 3D in DS specific chapter
  
 
  Sound
  - All GBA quality.
  + Effective at conveying mood, but again, straight from the GBA version (including the DS chapter)
 
  + No compression
  
  Gameplay
  + great for what I call "slow" gamers (RPG, RTS, Adventure)
  - "fast" gamers probably won't like 
 it (FPS, Sports, multiplayer)
  + Incredible story/mystery, whatever. It really makes you want to know and keep playing to find 
 out what happens
  
  Value
  + For a linear game, it really takes a long time to finish
  
  Tilt
  + You'll enjoy shouting "Objection" into the microphone, just don't do it in public.
 
  
  The best part of this game is that we all know an excellent DS sequel will be coming around that 
 takes advantage of the unique capabilities of the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Twilight-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  In Phoenix Wright, players take the role of a young defense attorney straight out of law school, 
 making his great debut. Along with five trial cases the game also features investigative segments 
 where Phoenix accumulates evidence and testimony as patronage of his client's case. These sections 
 of the game usually bring forth drama and twists in the plot, as well as exposing some of Phoenix 
 Wright's backdrop. One of the game's biggest strengths seems to be its wide array of characters. 
 In the game you get a chance to meet some very unique personalities - from screwy characters like 
 Larry Butz to unfortunate characters like Miles Edgeworth.
  
  Immediately you'll notice the gameplay consist of little action. It's an extremely text heavy game, 
 however, it makes up for it through quite an interesting plot. After all, who wants to buy a video 
 game, broad in text, but refuses to deliver a great story? The script is surprisingly well written. 
 It has to be one of the best of our time. It provides very humorous dialogue, and is very scintillating.
 
  
  Each of Phoenix Wright's five cases split into two parts: the investigation, and the trial. Each 
 case will also have an introductory scene that will establish the victim and the suspect. Your 
 clients are left "guilty, until proven innocent". This means you've got to find all of the evidence, 
 find the inconclusive, and interpret the witness' testimony to the prosecution's case. The game 
 takes freedom in how the legal system operates to make things more entertaining. For instance, 
 a lawyer would normally not be allowed to sneak into a crime scene to gather more evidence, but 
 in this game, due to Phoenix's growing friendship with the detective, you'll find you won't have 
 to worry; you won't be disbarred. The investigative scenes usually involve Phoenix and his sidekick 
 going to the scene of the crime, and attempting to get evidence. These parts are stylus driven, 
 usually requiring close examination of several areas, and talking to witnesses, and drawing testimony 
 or further evidence out of them (by pressing them on certain points, or presenting evidence at 
 an appropriate time  this can be a slow and painful process in the latter cases) . The final case 
 gives players much greater level of interactivity, with fingerprinting and UV equipment for detecting 
 finger prints and bloodstains. Eventually, the game's linearity will kick back in, and it'll be 
 time to go to the courtroom.
  
  The courtroom proceedings in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is based more around a civil law system, 
 rather than a common law one. As a result, the judge is much more involved in the case. The judge 
 in the game is often easily swayed by witnesses. The prosecution will run the witness through their 
 account of the events, after which the player will have a shot at finding holes in the witness' 
 testimony.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney uses a manga (Japanese graphic novel) style for the majority of its 
 artwork, which suits the setting of the game near perfectly. I'm not much of an audiophile when 
 it comes to in game sound effects, but the sound doesn't seem to excel the way one would expect 
 throughout the game. For the most part it it's an easy on the ears, almost generic tone. It does 
 tend to get a little more exciting when in the mist of a trial, however. Voice acting is done well, 
 but very limited to the wails of "Objection!", "Hold it!", and "Take that!" by members of both 
 defense and prosecution.
  
  In the end you'll find drawbacks little in amount for a game like Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 I would assume its only ones are the fact it provides an extremely linear experience, and the very 
 little replay value, as they are the only minor disputes I've had with the game. Anyhow, Phoenix 
 Wright is something owners of the DS should consider needing a little more investigation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is developed by Capcom. It is intended to play on the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  This game is originally a port from Gyakuten Saiban (Comeback Courtroom) for the Gameboy Advance. 
 This game was only released in Japan. This port has updated music and graphics as well as a touch 
 screen menu. It also has microphone support. There is also a brand new case that is considered 
 the fifth one in the game. The japanese name for this DS port is called Gyakuten Saiban: Yomigaeru 
 Gyakuten.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a text adventure game. A text adventure genre is basically a game 
 heavily based on text, as the adventures and dialogue are represented with nothing but text. In 
 this game, however, you will have that and pictures to make the scene.
  
  The game is about the cases of a rookie defense attorney called Phoenix Wright in the courtroom. 
 The objective of each case is to prove Phoenix's client (otherwise known as the defendant) is not 
 guilty and to find out who committed the crime and murder. To prove your client's innocence, you 
 must cross-examine the witnesses' testimonies of the crime. Cross-examine is basically review the 
 testimony that the witness provided. In this game, however, you will likely find out that there 
 is a hole in their testimony. You must prove them wrong in one of the sentences of their testimony 
 by objecting to it and presenting the evidence to make their story crumble apart. If you need more 
 information according to the testimony, you can press the witness to find out more and maybe even 
 find what you just need to prove the witness wrong. When you're not in court, you'll go to places 
 to examine places to find clues and evidence to present in court to help prove your client's innocence.
 
  
  While it could sound a tad bit boring, what really makes the game stand out is the comical and 
 hilarious acts that happen during crime investigation and even in court. Things happen in court 
 in which you will never see in an actual court in the real world, which is why is so outrageously 
 funny. Aside from the comedy relief in the game, the cases are all well presented. They will make 
 you come back for more as each case keeps you asking just who did it and how can you prove it in 
 court. It will keep you motivated to play from the beginning to the end of the game.
  
  One great thing that you can do in this game is that you can yell "OBJECTION!", "HOLD IT!" or "TAKE 
 THAT!" when you need to by the Nintendo DS' microphone, making it more exciting. It's flaw is that 
 it sometimes won't pick up the response depending on how you say it, so you have to say it in a 
 linear way. It still doesn't stop it from being fun to yell "OBJECTION!" to it, though.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely great. There's a sprite for almost every mood in the game. 
 From the pointing attorneys to even the breaking-down witnesses, they are all presented beautifully. 
 The music fits each situation great as well. When there's suspense, you feel suspense. When there's 
 sadness, you feel sad and so on.
  
  This game's cases are all very long. It should keep you busy for many days, perhaps even less if 
 you can't control your urge to continue the adventure. Unfortunately, unless you like to read books 
 more than once, you will not be playing the game again once you've finished, as the game is very 
 linear. Perhaps you could replay it to see that funny moment or see what would happen by presenting 
 the wrong evidence.
  
  All in all, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a great, memorable game. While it's playability is 
 low, you won't forget the great characters and scenes the game has to offer. A definite try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game... Great! One of a kind. You are the new attorney Phoenix Wright 
 and you go through the game getting different cases that you have to win in court. This game has 
 great graphics and sound. The game play is good and you can't wait to see what your next case will 
 be. This game is out of print however, I herd it was coming back. On ebay it sales for $50-$70 
 but you can find it on Amazon. com for around $35.00. I will have to say this game is well worth 
 the money I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitomi69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a game a lot of people were waiting for, something different, something unique. You first 
 start off a newbie lawyer (Phoenix Wright) , but you work your way up to the top with the help of 
 your chief (Mia Fey) . The twists and turns in this game are so unexpected, some sad, some cool, 
 or just downright amazing, some of the events that happen you are able to see ahead of time, but 
 most of them, unexpected. I liked the fact that the game was presented in an anime feel, gave it 
 a warm, humorous feeling. You can present evidence, or press the witness for information, it made 
 my feel like a lawyer, and that's another great aspect of this game, it brings you into it, making 
 it feel like you are actually trying to defend your client, or cross-examining the witness of that 
 crime. The game starts off pretty easy, but as you progress, it can get really hard, just make 
 sure you have enough common sense and patience to figure things out, because this game will make 
 you think a little, and you'll be doing alot of reading. If you are a new fan to the DS, or you 
 are a DS veteran, this game is a must have for your collection.
  I remember playing this game for about 2 weeks nonstop, that's how long you'll be playing this 
 for. There is only ONE drawback to the game though, the replay value, once you beat it, you know 
 whats going to happen, but it's always fun just to play once a while. Especially if you don't remember 
 anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney really breaks the ''Text based games are boring'' stereotype, it is 
 one of the most entertaining game you will ever play, it has excellent sound effects, great graphics, 
 it gets the most out of the DS' features the mic and the touch screen.
  
  You take control of Phoenix Wright, a young charismatic lawyer who gets very nervous in his first 
 murder trial, defending his friend Larry Butz, such case serves as an initial tutorial. After playing 
 it you will be very excited and you will KNOW that there is a great game awaiting you.
  
  You will not believe how much fun you get from the beggining of the game, the tutorial is excellent, 
 the music is great.
  
  The game has exquisite little cutscenes that are accompanied by a very cool music, all the trials 
 begin with evidence analyzing and witness testimonies.
  
  As a gamer... when you think of courtrooms, legal related themes, text driven adventures, you will 
 instantly say ''BORING'', but I guarantee that you will get a huge surprise with these little masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skurai123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, this being my very first review on Gamespot, I hope that it would be a good one. In Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney, you take the role of Phoenix Wright a defense Attorney. There are five cases 
 in total and the last case allows you to use more of the unique DS capabilities. If you absolutely 
 hate text more than anything shy away from this game! But if you don't mind text, you must try 
 out this game.
  
  I shall explain the game mechanics to the best of my ability. In the Court, you are to cross-examine 
 the witness and find loopholes in his testimony through the use of evidence. For example (Not in 
 the game just self-created) : The witness says that: ' I did not meet with the victim that day". 
 But you have a picture taken by the security camera that showed the witness entering the victim's 
 office when the victim was there. You must then go to your evidence list and click on that evidence. 
 After that you must tap the Objection! button at the top of the bottom screen. Just for fun though, 
 you can shout objection in to Microphone by holding the y button. 
  
  This game has lots of interesting characters with their unique traits, from the clumsy and happy-go-lucky 
 Detective Dick Gumshoe to the fearsome Prosecutor, Manfred von Karma. The game is also full of 
 wit in the conversations and would probably make you laugh quite abit. This game requires a lot 
 of thinking and there will sometimes be huge twists at parts where you least expect it. You may 
 get stumped at some points during the Cross-Examination but I recommend you to just look through 
 the evidence list and try to find one evidence that can contradict that statement. 
  
  Well I kind of forgot to mention that the game does not revolve around the Court only. Before a 
 court case you have to gather evidence yourself by visiting the crime scenes etc. or searching 
 for those who supposedly witness the crime. The game tends to be quite dramatic in a way that sometimes 
 you think your losing then something unexpected happens. The game's story is linear in this way. 
 So it is not really heavy on replayability.
  
  This game is certainly a game you should at least try out as it really brings an entirely new experience. 
 I myself played this game non-stop until I finished it and found out what happened and who the 
 murderer is etc.
  
  I hope you find my review helpful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  At first glance I thought this game was just going to be plain old boring. And once I found out 
 that it was basically nothing but text I was even more turned off by the idea of the game. But 
 once I started playing the game I was so addicted to it that I actually felt like I was a lawyer. 
 
  
  You play as Phoenix Wright (Nick) , an up and coming defense attorney who is trying to make a name 
 for himself as a serious lawyer.... I mean who can really take him serious with that spiky hair. 
 There is a total of 5 cases that you have to solve. And the best part about the game is that it 
 is not just based in the court room. You go around with your assistant (Maya... and at the end Ema) 
 investigating crime scenes and asking questions to anyone that you can talk to. Some examples of 
 investigating crime scenes are checking for traces of blood, examining evidence and taking fingerprints. 
 All of the cases are murder cases but Capcom places some hilarious stuff in there so it's not so 
 serious. 
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney does a good job at using the DS. Yes there is nothing but reading 
 in the game but the stylus is put to use. The stylus is used for examining the crime scenes, taking 
 fingerprints, spraying chemicals to find blood and checking floor plans. You can also use the microphone 
 in the DS to yell out 'Objection' or 'Take That'. Not to mention you have to blow into you DS so 
 that you can get fingerprints. 
  
  The characters in the game are very unique. They all have their own funny personalities that brightens 
 up the game. There where times when I got a little stuck and didn't know exactly what to present 
 as evidence. But for the most part the game does a good job at guiding you the right way. 
  
  So if you have a DS you should totally try to find this game. Its a cool game that you can 
 really get into and have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinOfPride
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  There are games that come along once awhile that are not particularly popular but excite a small 
 crowd very much. Sometimes these games are called mediocre by most, other times the marketing behind 
 a game is simply not enough and only a select few hear about the game. The latter is what happened 
 to Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. This game is destined to become a cult classic with its great 
 one-liners and awesome cast of characters.
  
  Taking the role of Phoenix 'Nick' Wright, a rookie attorney, you will be the defense lawyer in 
 5 high profile murder cases. You will mostly experience the game in a first person view; from time 
 to time it will shift to Phoenix (mostly in court room setting) in a second person view. It is 
 with the first person view that a lot of the games intensity and humor shines through. It was 
 surprising when the game finished recalling just how much drama they managed to pack into a game 
 that beforehand seemed to promise mostly humor. Especially in later cases when it becomes increasingly 
 difficult to figure out the contradictions in a witness testimony. It is the games namesake, 
 Phoenix Wright, which really makes the game go from good to great. Often times a games story can 
 be bogged down by a character that isnt appealing. This was never in danger of happening to this 
 game. Phoenix, put simply, has a style about him that is both charming and endearing. From his 
 cringe when the prosecutor shoots down a theory to his confident smirk when he knows that he is 
 right on the money. It is important that the character that represents you, especially in a story 
 driven game such as this, is to your liking and actually represents what you are thinking a lot 
 of times. Phoenix pulls this off wonderfully and it added a lot to the game. One of the best things 
 they did with Phoenixs character was have him voice his thoughts every now and then which are 
 usually worthy a chuckle, seeing the ridiculous people (who similarly make ridiculous comments) 
 Phoenix hangs around with compared to his mild mannered self.
  
  The game has two primary settings. One is out of court, where you will gather evidence, meet with 
 the defendant, and sometimes talk to future witnesses in a trial trying to piece together their 
 situation and what possible testimony they would have to offer at the trial. Sometimes it is a 
 helpful way to think ahead so you dont have to take too much time when the actual trial is at 
 hand and you are asked to cross examine the witness. You will, for the most part, be totally clueless 
 about the murder that happened. So the first session where you are out of court will be pre-trial, 
 where you get a grasp for the situation. This part of the game play tended to be rather hit or 
 miss. While at times some comments made from the cast brought a smile to my face, the work itself 
 was often times tedious. In many situations it appeared that there were no more options to explore 
 and it was frustrating that the game did not progress, giving no hint of what to attempt to do. 
 Sometimes it was as simple as going back to the main office to regroup for the day. Other times 
 it was a very minor detail, a piece of evidence that had yet to be found that needed to be found. 
 It could be a real pain every now and then, but nonetheless this part of the game isnt too bad, 
 just a bit lacking at times. Like the courtroom, you can present evidence here for people to look 
 at. However, if you present something that isnt related to the person, they will just give you 
 a funny look with a snide comment.
  
  The other setting for this game is the courtroom, where all characters and game functions shine 
 their brightest. It should be said, to start off with, that court proceedings are not realistic 
 to what one would find in actuality. The defense, that being Phoenix, cannot call any witnesses. 
 The only option for Phoenix is to cross examine the Prosecutions witnesses. What you must do is 
 find contradictions in the witness testimony, as mentioned earlier. Unlike a real court of law, 
 however, there is no such thing as perjury in this game. The judge will always allow the witness 
 to correct their testimony unless you have them firmly trapped in a web of lies that they cannot 
 spin their way out of. While for some realists this will be nothing but annoying, this can also 
 be a very satisfying process over time. As you break through each wall of lies, you will inevitably 
 get closer to the truth. By doing this, you can sometimes predict how the witness will react and 
 be a step ahead of them, then enters the Phoenix smirk of victory as their testimony falls apart. 
 The other glaring contradiction between real life and this game is the fact that not only do you 
 have to represent your defendant in proving his innocence, but you must also prove who committed 
 the murder before the case can be won. While that may seem like a bad thing, once you get in the 
 heat of a case, you will want to find out the truth. Plus, some of the murderers are real bastards.
 
  
  To help you in the courtroom, you have two basic commands. You can either press a witness for more 
 information or present a piece of evidence that shows a contradiction with the witness testimony. 
 Pressing by itself wont win a case, however it will often make the witness give up information 
 that contradicts either what they have said on the stand or previous facts that have been established 
 (How a person died, time of death, etc) . What pressing usually will do is clarify a witness statement. 
 More times than not someone has been vague or left out a detail that seemed to be important. By 
 pressing what you essentially will do is narrowing the gaps between facts. If a person is lying 
 not all of the filling is a truth, and thus contradictions shall arise.
  
  The second of the commands is to present evidence. Presenting and looking at evidence can be done 
 by going into the Court Record, and every time you find a piece of evidence it will be stored 
 there. From autopsy reports to murder weapons, it is all there. By choosing a piece of evidence 
 to present you raise an objection. However, not being wise with your objections will lose you the 
 case very quickly. You have five lives, or !s to use in each day of the courtroom (max number 
 of days being three) . When you present evidence that does not prove there is a contradiction in 
 the witness testimony the judge will take a ! from you and reprimand you for doing a poor job 
 with the evidence. When you run out of !s, the case is lost. Needless to say when you present 
 proper evidence things tend to turn in your favor quickly. Sometimes a little bit too much guesswork 
 is involved and it can be a bit hit or miss with those precious objections. The good far outweighs 
 the bad though, and this is easily the games strong point.
  
  Besides the two normal commands, every now and then you will be prompted by a prosecutor to give 
 a theory on what you believe happened at a certain time and point. Answer incorrectly and the answers 
 vary as much as the judge asking you again to the case being over, with your client getting a guilty 
 verdict.
  
  A part of the courtroom drama is the minor voice acting the game employs. While the script itself 
 is all scrolling text, a few preset lines are vocalized. Phoenix, as well as the Prosecutor, both 
 yell out Objection! when they need to say something. Either it is Phoenix presenting evidence 
 or being prompted, or the Prosecutor rambling on about all sorts of reasons why the witness shouldnt 
 answer that question. Then there is the one that you will be hearing every time you press a witness, 
 Hold it! These two grow on you over time because they add a refreshing mixture of both drama 
 and humor to any court proceeding. Humorous when Phoenix is asking some off the wall question that 
 has nothing to do with the trial, drama when he accuses someone of murder.
  
  Speaking of sound, the music for the game does its job well. There wont be any tracks that win 
 awards, but there wont be any that make you scream in annoyance either (unless the game is trying 
 to be intentionally annoying, which occurs once or twice during the game.) The best placement of 
 sound is when it was decided that sound would be absent during objections that are sustained. It 
 adds a lot to the tense atmosphere when suddenly the music stops and Phoenix has his finger pointing 
 at the witness in an accusing manner. There are a few catchy tunes, and that is good enough to 
 not distract from the great characters and game play this game presents.
  
  The graphics for the game are sharp and clear as well as being presented nicely. I never once had 
 trouble figuring out what an object was supposed to be due to blurriness or any other graphical 
 error. The character designs, from Phoenix himself all the way to the judge that rules on the cases, 
 are well defined and are a pleasure to look at (unless their intention is to be gross) . The world 
 is a bright and colorful one, if not fleshed out. Each character has unique and humorous facial 
 expressions. From the aforementioned Phoenix victory smirk to Edgeworths (A prosecutor whom 
 you face off against several times during the game) shocked and stunned look. The games graphics 
 are flawless as far as the eye can see, which adds a lot to the games atmosphere which most of 
 its charm builds off of.
  
  The story for the game is multi-layered and presents itself in many wicked turns and shocking twists. 
 While details will remain vague to prevent any type of ruining of the plot, let it be said that 
 the background for the characters as well as the characters unique style put on an absolutely charming 
 show. From bantering with an old friend, to staring down a cold blooded murderer, Phoenix and the 
 rest of this games cast put together a great performance. There will be characters that you learn 
 to love and others which you will hate with a passion for what they have done. If you are a fan 
 of offbeat humor, it will have left you with a smile on your face from ear to ear, as well as disappointed 
 that there wasnt a bit more left to unravel.
  
  On that note, a downside to the game is that it has little to no replay value. Aside from being 
 able to replay your favorite case at your leisure, once you know all the turns to take inside the 
 courtroom it becomes a cakewalk. Nevertheless, this game should last you anywhere from 20 to 30 
 hours, so it is certainly no short adventure like some might have feared.
  
  If you wish to buy this game, you will find no objection here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku2639
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  many people look at this game and  they are wrong... very very 
 wrong.. this game is very fun and humorous at time so no one should get the wrong idea when looking 
 at this game. it takes a true gamer to fully appreciate all the types of games there are. this 
 is true for many games but so much so for Phoenix Wright. i hope you dont think i am babbling on 
 too much about this game but trust me i cant stress this enough...... if you think your brain can 
 handle it you really need to pick this game up its well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I had a wonderful time playing this surprisingly lengthy game. I really had no idea of what to 
 expect when I got this game, and was pleasantly surprised to find something different and quirky 
 in a very good way.
  
  I got my DS 2 months ago, and have pretty much only played this game for the last 2 months until 
 I finally finished last night. The 5 cases were really entertaining and interesting, and the unique 
 gameplay was really fun. The 5 cases that make up the game had some great stories with very memorable 
 characters and very well translated dialogue - no hokey japanese translations here.
  
  After what seems like 30 hours pf gameplay, I was really kind of sad to get to the end and I hope 
 they make another of these games with even more cases included. I think I am going through a withdrawal!
 
  
  I very much recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexxuss83
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Men This is Amazing! Great graphics, cool music and easy to control on DS touch screen. The language 
 is not hard in it! The story tells the first 5 case of a rookie defensive lawyer. The caracters 
 are very simpatic, and the story is very exciting (like a krimi novell or a book) Use the touch 
 screen to examine evidences or use the microphone to hold the witness testimony! English Non native 
 english players (like me :D) let's try it, if you like Columbo, Poirot or Sherlock! This is a "must 
 have" product like Trauma center, Castlevania or MArio 64DS. If You are not Guilty, you'll play 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is extraordinarily fun to play through; like the GS review says, though, there isn't 
 really any replayability, but going through the first time and unwinding the plots behind each 
 of the cases is powerfully fun stuff. One of the other major highpoints of this game is it doesn't 
 take itself seriously; it doesn't try to take the opportunity to discuss serious current events 
 (perhaps because only one of the cases was newly written for the DS version. . .) or make it seem 
 like everything portrayed in it is plausible, while at the same time not being overly whacky.
 
  
  If for no other reason that because Capcom stopped making cartridges of this game already and it'll 
 be a huge collector's item in a few years, make sure you buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelbugger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  I give it a perfect score a dreaded 10 yayayayayayayayayay
  Any way it gets more scarier as the further into a case Sooooooo its really fun and i think its 
 sooooo fun that i wanna to keep playing it i stayed up 24 hours straight without no sleep so im 
 aiming for 2 days 48 hrs straight and I loved it so i just bought games silimar to this game Trace 
 memory , and alot more so I thought that its a good learning experencince for kids who want to 
 be cops, lawyers, detecive which i want to be , and things silimar to those jobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonoy619
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I think this game has very good graphics. I jsut bought mine yesterday and I beat the first episode 
 already. And I thought it was pretty good.. The characters look pretty good. I think Capcom did 
 a fantastic job on the making on this game. I heard that there is a part 2 and part 3 of this game 
 and hopefully they will bring those to the United States also, But from what I heard This game 
 didn't sell as much so they are discontinuing this game. I think the reason why people didnt see 
 it as interesting as it was because.. I dont think the viewers and gamers didnt think salving mysteries 
 was that fun. That is what I thought untill I bought the game and tried it out,.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan_Lee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Development for the DS has definitely yielded some off-beat yet fun titles and Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney can be considered to be one of the better off-beat releases the system has to offer.
 
  
  In this game, you assume the role of Phoenix Wright who is working for the Fey and Co. Law Offices 
 as a rookie defense attorney. The game wastes no time thrusting you into the courtroom situation 
 where you will have to defend your childhood friend Larry Butz, who is accused of murder. From 
 there, you will take other cases as they present themselves from the overall storyarc. The cases 
 within the game do have continuity with an overall storyarc and connections will be established 
 from one case to another but the drawback here is that there are only five playable cases with 
 little to no replay value. But, one of the strengths of this title is it's storyline which is filled 
 with twists and turns as one might expect from a good mystery. You may save at any time during 
 the game which is very handy.
  
  The game can be split up into two phases: investigation and courtroom simulation. The investigative 
 portion plays out like a point-and-click adventure game where you will find yourself trying to 
 obtain clues and information vital to the case at hand. However, these investigative phases can 
 tend to be a bit long and somewhat frustrating as certain triggers to progress the investigation 
 are not readily apparent at times but this is often rare. A lot of the interaction here involves 
 examining crime scenes and other places of interest to talking with a good number of characters 
 (most of which are re-occuring) from suspects to other attorneys. Later, in the game, some forensic 
 technology is introduced as well where you will check for fingerprints and blood residue. Clues 
 and items that are found will be kept in a Court Record which can be used as evidence during the 
 trials if they are relevant. Some of the items are required to be used during the investigative 
 phase.
  
  Investigation may be essential to produce evidence but the real action is within the courtroom. 
 Here, you will hear witness' testimony and then cross-examine to find holes and contradictions 
 within their testimony. Your first option is to press the witness in order to see if they will 
 slip and reveal a contradiction. Your other option is to object and present evidence once you find 
 a contradiction or something 'fishy' with a witness' testimony. Most of the ebb and flow of the 
 courtroom is standard legal fare. Prosecution presents witness, defense cross-examines and finds 
 a hole, witness re-testifies, etc. Bear in mind that this game is no way an accurate reflection 
 of the real legal world but that proves to be self-evident. You are given 5 exclamation points 
 during the courtroom phase. If you make a mistake with an objection (and very seldomly pressing) 
 and produce the wrong evidence, then the judge will penalize you and have an exclamation point 
 removed. Once you're out, the game is over and your client is declared guilty. Most of the cases 
 will require multiple days of alternating investigation/courtroom drama.
  
  The graphics are good and of course within the anime/manga vein. The music, believe it or not, 
 is also decent and, somehow makes you feel like you're in some law drama (especially the pre-courtroom 
 music) . The game is definitely dialogue-heavy (I believe the import version had actual voices for 
 the characters but Capcom USA didn't opt to re-record them in English [matching the lip movements 
 would make it sound sorta Speed Racer I guess...] ) and will turn off those who can't stand a lot 
 of text while playing a game. Unfortunately, you can't speed up the conversation initially and 
 can only do so if you've read it already (this resets from day to day at times but will provide 
 you the same info as before which can be somewhat annoying) .
  
  With a little foresight by Capcom USA, the game was released in limited quantities here and became 
 a rarity rather quickly. This is unfortunate since many who would be interested will be turned 
 off by the fact that they can readily purchase this game for more than it's original cost and usually 
 only through eBay or Amazon sellers . Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney will definitely appeal to 'true' 
 adventure fans and those who like a lot of story with their games, especially mystery and drama. 
 This game is definitely not one for those who want action as the pacing is slow but for those who 
 are looking for something different and don't mind 'thinking outside of the box' will find Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicianky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  A games concept is of utmost importance, not only to its production, but to its popularity. In 
 a time where we are bombarded by the same basic concept with a little fluff over and over again, 
 the idea of a lawyer game is both welcome and a little bizarre. A game where you have to sniff 
 around crime scenes and find evidence so you can defend your client is not something that we have 
 seen much, at least not on this side of the Pacific. And lets face it, the idea is a just weird.
 
  
  A remake of the Gameboy Advance title Gyakuten Saiban from Japan, Capcoms Phoenix Wright: Ace 
 Attorney brings the aforementioned lawyer game to the States. You play as, guess who, Phoenix 
 Wright, a rookie defense attorney, whose first real case is chapter one of the game. Other characters 
 include your boss, Mia Fey, her sister Maya, an old friend by the name of Larry Butz, the detective 
 Dick Gumshoe, and city prosecutor Miles Edgeworth (obviously your primary adversary throughout 
 the game) . 
  
  The game consists of the original four cases from Gyakuten Saiban, as well as an additional fifth 
 case created exclusively for the U. S. release. Each case is broken into days, with each day requiring 
 different things to be done. Each day you must investigate the crime scene, interact with various 
 individuals that have something to do with the case, and gather evidence to use in the trial. Each 
 day also has a trial segment, wherein a witness is called to testify, and you must pick their testimony 
 apart in order to show they are somehow lying. Sounds simple right? 
  
  Knowing what evidence to present when is the single most important aspect of the trial. If you 
 present the wrong piece of evidence at the wrong time, the judge penalizes you. After five penalties, 
 you are held in contempt and your client is declared guilty. Game over. This forces you to not 
 only pay very close attention to the witness testimony, but also to know your evidence and know 
 it well. It is this requisite attention to detail that makes the game so addictive. So many times 
 you will find yourself lost in the story as it develops, because you know you have to pay attention 
 or risk losing your case.
  
  The stories are the games other greatest aspects. Each one is carefully thought out, with interested 
 plot twists and WTF?!?!?! moments. Each piece of seemingly useless evidence comes to play an 
 important part role as the story and case develop. Every time you think you have lost, and believe 
 me there will be plenty, something happens and you are right back in the case, with a sigh relief 
 of course.
  
  I am a firm believer that every game has its own unique charm. In the present case, it is the artwork. 
 In one regard, you could call it cell-shaded. In another, you could call it anime. Whatever the 
 case may be, the artistic presentation added to the unique gameplay to create an experience unlike 
 any other. The witnesses are shown both vulnerable and arrogant, their reactions to certain pieces 
 of evidence and when they realize they were just outwitted are some of the best in gaming, the 
 girls are unnecessarily busty, and the evidence is meticulously presented.
  
  From it unique gameplay, to the quirky cast of characters (my personal favorite character is the 
 director from Chapter 3, Sal Manella, who speaks to Phoenix in l33t speak) , to its one of a kind 
 artistic presentation, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a triumph of a game that should not be 
 missed by anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasami-chan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Having enjoyed the GBA version of this game way back in 2001, I was thrilled to learn that the 
 DS remake of Gyakuten Saiban will also be released outside of Japan. At my insistence, my friend 
 and I spent three days tracking down two copies of this game as soon as we got our DSes in November 
 last year. Since we were playing Gyakuten Saiban 3 on my GBA Player at the time, we already knew 
 how cool this game was going to be. Needless to say, we were hooked the instant we started playing 
 it.
  
  Phoenix Wright retains all the enjoyable elements of the original - the wonderful cast of characters, 
 the immersive storyline, the dramatic courtroom battles, the anime style presentation, the catchy 
 tunes and sound effects, and the highly accessible gameplay. It also offers numerous enhancements, 
 from subtle interface changes (slightly larger view area, touch pad, microphone) to a completely 
 new lengthy fifth case that takes full advantage of the DS' special capabilities.
  
  For details, please refer to the excellent GameSpot review by Carrie Gouskos. The article is mostly 
 spot on, and I see no reason to repeat what is stated there here in my review. Below I will only 
 mention the things I have noticed about the game that were not mentioned in that article.
  
  The translation team took some liberties with the translations, but for the most part it serves 
 its purpose and works well for the audience it is intended for. Nevertheless, having already played 
 the original, there are parts that irritated me. Several members in the cast speak out of character 
 from time to time, some parts glaringly so that it makes those of us who have already played the 
 2nd and 3rd installments wonder how the remakes, if they will in fact be done and make it to the 
 shores outside Japan, can manage to remain consistent.
  
  Other minor issues also exists in the DS iteration. The most noticeable being the excessive use 
 of the flickering white screen effect, which makes playing the game in a dimly lit environment 
 difficult on the eyes. If my memory serves me correctly, such effect was used less frequently in 
 the GBA version. Saving also seems to take much longer than the GBA version. And some of the new 
 interface elements make navigating the menus a bit of a chore.
  
  Such are minor gripes, however. It has been a long time since I found myself so emotionally attached 
 to the characters in a game. I strongly recommend Phoenix Wright to anyone who owns a DS, particularly 
 those who enjoy reading detective novels or playing interactive fiction games. Even if you have 
 already enjoyed the original GBA release, the new fifth chapter alone is more than worth the price 
 of picking it up. Capcom should be commended for creating such a wonderful series (but not for 
 halting the production of the game only several weeks after its release due to perceived poor sales 
 figures) . Let's hope more is on the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_Zwei
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is an incredible text-based interactive adventure of a quality not seen in America 
 probably since Snatcher for the Sega CD.
  
  The wait has been Abysmal, but Phoenix Wright it's such an incredible and lasting experience that 
 hopefully will help revitalize one of the most underrated and overlooked genres of gaming.
  
  You play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney, and with the help of his trusty and 
 often weird sidekick, who's a rookie spirit medium, will try and solve 5 totally memorable chapters, 
 In probably what is one of the best written and funny games ever made.
  
  The game consists mainly of 2 fronts so to say: Outside of court, where you will be doing all your 
 hard work, gathering all the evidence and info you can find to better help your client, who in 
 this particular take on law is totally guilty until you can prove him/her innocent beyond any doubt. 
 And the other front is in court where all your hard work will (hopefully) pay off.
  
  Once in court the accused, or a witness will be called to the bench, and the prosecutor will proceed 
 to examine, and take his/her testimony, after that you will be able to cross-examine and most of 
 the time, ask as much questions as you please.
  
  Basically your job is to find holes in their testimony that contradict the info or proof that you've 
 gathered off court prior to the trial. You can do it by a set of questions or by actually showing 
 proof.
  
  The game also uses the DS unique capabilities effectively. You can use the stylus to navigate through 
 menus and dialogue, as well as to examine a scene. And as a fun bonus feature, you can use the 
 DS internal mic to yell HOLD IT" or TAKE THAT! when you feel inclined to, which probably will be 
 very often since almost every character in the game will grow on you in a certain way.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a very easy game to get into, there's no game overs, the game also proceeds in 
 a linear fashion, there's no way that you can get into court without all the info and proof you'll 
 need. None of this really matters though, as every chapter is just a joy to read through.
  
  If there's a downside to Phoenix Wright is that it's not until chapter 5, the final one, that 
 you really get to use some of the game's most interesting features, such as finding fingerprints, 
 examining items in 3D Resident Evil-style, and finding blood traces. That's just to name some. 
 And you'll probably can't help but wish that you had spend more time doing that stuff because it's 
 just so fun an unique. 
  
  Add to all that , that the game is on a handheld, and you really can't ask for a better experience.
 
  
  Phoenix Wright is not as innovative as some people may think, as games like this (well not exactly 
 like this) used to be made in a past long forgotten. Games like Snatcher and Policenauts moved 
 the genre to a new dimension, but only to end up being forgotten and overlooked, as I guess game 
 companies thought gamers were only into shooting and punching bad guys, and certainly not into 
 reading and taking part into amazingly engaging stories. Yeah right. Hopefully Phoenix Wright will 
 prove them wrong, as it shows that the genre is alive, and more than ever!
  
  Phoenix Wright is a long lasting experience filled to the brim with humour and good stuff, and 
 will probably make you chuckle every time you think of the game even years from now. 
  
  I really can't recommend this game enough, just buy this little diamond and be a very happy gamer.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AryaSvitkona
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I LOVED THIS GAME. I was lucky enough to snag the LAST copy at my local EB. I'm just lucky that 
 I got it over Winter Break. 
  
  After blowing one hundred dollars at EB, and getting this game, I spent the next three days playing. 
 We're talking two in the morning, get up at nine in the morning, then play until two again. It 
 was just hilarious at points, and the plot made me want to go further and further and further. 
 My mother had to force me to put my DS down and do something else, and my neighbors began to think 
 I was a vampire. 
  
  This game starts out with you as Phoenix Wright, Rookie Attorney. The first few cases are amazing, 
 yet simple, and as the game progresses, the cases get harder and harder. I lost once or twice, 
 but figured out what to do. 
  
  This game is underappreciated, because NOBODY I knew had heard of it. Yet, it could EASILY win 
 an award for "Best DS Game of the Year".
  
  All I can say is: Capcom, PLEASE BRING THE REST OF THE SERIES OVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donald_Duck_Fan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I am a slut for fun games. That should be painfully obvious just by reading the tagline. 
 I have watched every single God-blessed courtroom drama, and none have been as much fun (or as 
 well written) as this extremely innovative adventure game from Capcom for the Nintendo DS, called 
 Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (Gyakuten Saiban: Yomigaeru Gyakuten in Japan) . 
  
  The series is called Gyakuten Saiban across the Pacific. I think that this game is so well-written 
 that the game could be funny on its own! I love the goofy characters, the screwball witnesses, 
 the too-crazy-to-be-even-real crimes, and the against-all-odds comebacks (obviously, its called 
 Comeback Court, a literal translation, for a reason) . 
  
  I just wish that Capcom could have been more sensible and not make such a limited amount of game 
 cards. Just my humble opinion, and shared by a bunch of fans. I hope that Capcom comes to their 
 senses and makes another batch of game cards, but until then, Ill settle for trying like hell 
 to find it used (or new in-box if the price is right) . I played it on a Gamefly rental and unwittingly 
 returned it!! Silly me!! Anyways, I was really impressed with the game, and it will reflect in 
 the score that I will give the game.
  
  The game is one of those  games. It is so simple to learn, even 
 a child prodigy could play it, yet it is so hard, even a high-ranking MENSA member could play it 
 while getting a serious challenge out of it.
  
  Review by BJ Wanlund, aka Donald_Duck_Fan
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-bow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  (This is my first EVER review so don't come down on me hard. Please leave a comment if you have 
 suggestions for review writing.)
  
  Ok, this game can only be put into a one word category and that is: GREAT.
  Some people may say, 
 "It's just a game where you play a lawyer, it's probably goin' be boring", but that is completely 
 an understatement. With 5 cases and dozens of chapter points with comedic characters, this game 
 will keep you thinking and amused for as long as you play it.
  
  The game does have a few negatives but it's filled with positive points such as the character design. 
 Very anime-like (seeing it as it was originally developed for a Japanese audience) and detailed. 
 The story for each chapter is sometimes short but will keep you interested. The learning curve 
 is suprisingly short because of it's slow yet appropriate difficulty pacing. Yes, the game uses 
 only 2D animation but it's attractive and well 'drawn'. And the 2D characters do show emotion through 
 slight movement and facial expressions but their movement is limited to about 5 or 7 types. (Such 
 as sad, 'anime sweating', happy, nuetral, etc..) The cases are well thought out and some-what original. 
 And when you're not busy trying to bust your brain cells solving the more difficult cases you're 
 given the task to collect evidence and info in between trials which will help you win the Defendant's 
 freedom. There are alot of 'case-plot twists' which really get you thinking of what else they might 
 just come up with it..
  
  There's also a unique yet useless feature of the Nintendo DS's microphone and that's being able 
 to display court evidence or stop a witness during their testimony to find a 'contradiction' or 
 lie by holding the 'Y' button and saying phrases like "Hold It" and "Take It". These functions 
 can flawlessly be carried out by tapping the screen.
  
  Now for a few negatives : ( ...
  The game doesn't really use the DS touch screen to it's full capacity because the only thing you'll 
 do with the touch screen is tapping the Continue Arrow which can easily be accomplished with the 
 'A' button and 'Go Back' is accomplished with the 'B' button. There is also the Court Record which 
 sorta serves as your bag or pocket. You can easily access it with the 'L' button. Honestly the 
 touch screen isn't used to the best of it's abilities so I gotta take off a few points there. But 
 besides a few minor grammatical errors (2) , and the first person perspective that I personally 
 didn't like sometimes, the game lives up to it's hype. (Which was mostly in Japan because it's 
 currently in it's 4 or 5th installment I think..)
  
  To rap this all up: the game makes you think since well, you're a lawyer and all.. And there are 
 points in the game during the cases where you prove the prosecutor wrong and make him stumble on 
 certain points, this really good beat starts to play making you feel more confident than ever. 
 If you like puzzlers (this really wouldn't count as one but it's close) you'll like this game. 
 It isn't all complicated and really easy to get into. Although there are only 5 cases it'll keep 
 you amused until you can't play anymore. If you get the game you'll understand what I'm trying 
 to say. It's well worth the wait and the mere 30 bucks..
  
  EDITED: One downside is that, there isn't much replay value once you've beaten the game. Sure, 
 you may forget about most of the cases but once you start it up again, you'll be able to do each 
 case flawlessly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SageIgna
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  With the release of the DS, more games originally thought 'too different' for sales anywhere but 
 Japan itself have began to take a shot at bringing their more eccentric games over to the US. Trauma 
 Center is one good example, but the best is Phoenix Wright, and its considerable success is proof 
 that these games haven't fallen on blind gamers.
  
  As the name could have told you, the main character is Phoenix Wright, and he's an ace defense 
 attorney. The entire game centers around defending your clients who you believe to be innocent 
 in court, as well as investigating the scene of the crime and whatnot.
  
  There's no action and this game obviously, meaning that all of the fun you're going to get out 
 of this game is trying to figure out how the crime really went down, or trying to figure out how 
 you're going to nail the prosecution's witness and squeeze the truth out of them. There's very 
 little room for skepticism on this actually being a lot of fun, and even that small amount dissapears 
 when playing the game.
  
  The controls are simple: touch the button prompts on the screen with your stylus. In an area with 
 nobody else in, there's always two options: Examine, and Move. Examine lets you, um, examine the 
 area -- which is just really a big detailed background picture. 'Move' allows you to go to another 
 area, another big background picture. When there's someone else in the area (like a witness, your 
 client, basically anyone you will need to converse with) , two additional options come up -- Talk 
 and Present. When you choose Talk you get a series of subjects to talk about, and a dialogue between 
 Wright and the subject ensues. Present is for showing the subject something in your court record 
 to them. This could go from evidence, thought-to-be-evidence, a picture to refresh their memories, 
 or just your attorney badge if you feel like being obnoxious. Many times you'll end up presenting 
 something to trigger a better reaction from the subject, and to get better information.
  
  But now that the basis is down, there's a set pace in the game that you'll follow from beginning 
 to end. In most cases, you find out basic details of the murder. Very basic. That is, your client 
 so and so killed the victim so and so, and there were witnesses saying your client did it and anything 
 else that will make your case more hopeless. Then you have to go out and investigate on your own, 
 trying to get more information for your case. You usually start off examining the crime scene or 
 trying to slide the autopsy report out of the detective's hands.
  
  Evidence goes to more evidence, and finally you'll find yourself ending the first day of investigation 
 and going to court. In here, the prosecution will typically call a witness who saw your client 
 murder the victim. You'll have to present evidence contradicting them, or simply ask them lots 
 of questions whenever they get vague to try and shake their testimony. If your client's innocent, 
 the witness is either lieing or mistaken. And if they're either of the two, something will come 
 up suggesting it. Usually.
  
  But that first day in court is never really the end of the entire case. It usually ends up with 
 Wright proving that there is another possible suspect, or something in the evidence is faulty, 
 or that something doesn't make sense and should be looked at more. Then you go on to a second day 
 of investigation, and after that, another day in court. Etc, etc. As a result, the cases are much 
 longer than they could have looked.
  
  But how is the actual game and its plot, setting aside how it all works? It's full of humor, excitement 
 and lots of brainwork. The characters can be seperated into two groups: likeable, and annoying 
 at first, but likeable in the end. The game has really funny moments, many of which I wouldn't 
 want to spoil for the reader. Its mysteries are also top-notch, putting aside the first two more 
 tutorial-like mysteries (not to say they aren't fun themselves) .
  
  When starting out, there really IS no mystery to your cases. In the first two, the introduction 
 cinema to the cases tells you exactly who did the crime, how, when, and where. The rest is just 
 proving that they did it. By the third case it shows you nothing about the murder, and in the fourth 
 and fifth its introductions are more meant for confusing you. In the fifth one, you could solve 
 the mystery and still not understand its intro.
  
  But in the later cases, your head really has to work hard to keep up with Wright. The main character 
 has his einstein moments where you tell him to present something that you had a -vague suspicion- 
 over, and he solves half the case with it. His outcomes and theories will more than not shock, 
 awe, and leave your previous theories of the murder in the dust. In other cases, usually in the 
 earlier cases, you can keep ahead of him with just quick glances away from the DS and a good 5 
 minutes of brain-storming.
  
  And in even rarer cases you'll find yourself a bit TOO far ahead of the game, to the point of frustration. 
 Not so much in the actually figuring out how the murder worked out -- but contradictions and things 
 that don't make sense. You may find an earth-shattering contradiction right off the bat, but the 
 game might not let you use that until later on... sometimes never. There are holes in witness testimonies 
 that the gamer may see and try to bring attention to, only to get penalized. This can get sort 
 of frustrating, since sometimes pure common logic will be favored in the game, while sometimes 
 that will be dropped and intuition will be favored. This all unfortunately means that periodically 
 the gamer will get caught in a situation they would much rather just guess their way out of.
  
  The instances of these bugs are thankfully rare, and usually the mysteries play out smoothly, 
 as does everything else in the game.
  
  Evalution Time:
  
  Difficulty: Just Right. The game makes it really hard for you to 'lose' (get too many penalties) , 
 but to cancel this out the game puts you in puzzling situations it may take you a while to think 
 out of.
  Time Spent Playing, to Date: 10 to 20 hours. That's how long it takes to fully beat the game. It 
 offers only minimal replay value.
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 minutes. There are no controls but using the stylus. My unborn child could 
 figure this stuff out, and I'm not pregnant. Come to think of it, I'm not a woman either.
  Classification: Surprisingly Good. This game is just solid in everything it does, and you'd be 
 surprised how long it takes to play through it. It's very addictive, too.
  
  Gameplay: 8-- The controls are the general DS stuff. It's not new, but it works well. Plus, although 
 there's no actual character movement, you never feel restrained from the interface.
  Graphics: 8-- The graphics are anime-style sprites. They're pretty stylish, and while some character's 
 bipolar sprites are random and sort of stupid (Powers, I'm looking at YOU) , they usually are pretty 
 good. Very smooth animations as well.
  Sound: 9-- The sound is really good. Even at the very end of the game, when you've heard that "You're 
 the TRUE Murderer, Biyatch!" music a thousand times, you still want to scream some random victory 
 phrase whenever you hear it. On second thought, that's probably just me.
  Value: 6-- The game is surprisingly long, but it doesn't have much replayability. Nothing wrong 
 with that, but its length is nothing phenomenal, or at least nothing higher than a 6.
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9-- This game just rocks. Smooth, stylish, exciting. Just refrain from excessively 
 yelling "Oh SNAP!" in public areas when playing.
  
  Final Score: 8.4 -- Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sootybuttercup2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney i thought it would be an interesting game. 
 Now that i have it it has fulfilled all my expectations and so much more. I can't think of a game 
 more addictive than Phoenix Wright. As soon as i got it i couldn't put it down until i beat it. 
 After i beat it i couldn't think about anything else so i decided to beat it again. Phoenix Wright 
 has a new idea and it provides a new and funny and very very fun experience. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. Anyone who has a DS should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oLiVeRvSu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I must say, from the moment I started playing I thought the game was extremely detailed and I enjoyed 
 playing it. Then I just couldn't put it down! I found myself thinking about the cases in my head, 
 and thinking about possibilities. 
  
  The game has cartoon style graphics, which work really well for a dramatic courtroom scene, and 
 are enough to keep you engaged for hours!
  
  The sound is amazing. Simply great, and adds a great atmosphere to the game.
  
  The value of 
 the game is good, overall, however once you've finished the stories, there's not much more you 
 can do but replay the content. However, it's hard to say how an effective multiplayer system could 
 have been implemented.
  
  The gameplay is time-consuming, but it does not get boring, even after hours and hours on end. 
 
  
  It's a definite must have for Nintendo DS owners. A great DS title! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnyboy33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is just plain fun. There's no denying that the game is different. 
 In fact, it's the strangest premise for a game I've ever seen, well next to Geometry Wars. The 
 game offers an amazing innovative experience as a defense attorney, and the Nintendo DS's capabilities 
 make it all the better. The fact that you can actually yell "Objection" into your game system and 
 get a response blows my mind. You'll go through 5 incredible cases, in which you will investigate 
 the scene of the crime, and other related places. This game is currently my favorite of the ones 
 I own, and is a must own for any Nintendo DS owner. Kudos Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingythekirby
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I received this game for Christmas, hoping it would live up to what Gamespot said about it. To 
 my surprise, it did even better. This is quite possibly the best game to date, with minor, if any 
 flaws. 
  
  Let's begin with the story: You're Phoenix Wright, a brand new defense attorney who works with 
 Mia Fey, a famous defense attorney. In your first case, you must defend your grade school friend, 
 Larry Butz, in a case where he was accused of murdering his girlfriend. You have to present evidence 
 (In which Phoenix yells, "Objection!" where you may yell into the mike) , press the witness, and 
 prove your client is innocent. When you win that case, you advance to the second, where I will 
 not spoil what happens, but a new prosecuting attorney enters the courtroom- Miles Edgeworth, who 
 proves to be a worthy rival. Anyhow, let's start reviewing the game by the separate sections:
 
  
  Gameplay receives an 8/10. I would've given it a 10, but sadly, one factor gets in the way: difficulty. 
 Some moments will require you to present evidence that almost have NO relevance to the case, causing 
 you to reload your game over and over when you lose. This leads to the next problem. In order to 
 save, you have to suspend gameplay, so you have to reload your game each time. Other than that, 
 it uses good use of the stylus and microphone. It's also very suspenseful!
  
  The graphics receive a perfect 10. Though not perfect, the 2D graphics are very nice, with only 
 a slight lack of animation. From spiky-haired Phoenix to fancy-dressed Edgeworth, the characters 
 are very detailed and drawn to their personality, as well as the backgrounds. Also, in the fifth 
 case, there is a very cool cinematic where a guy attacks another guy.
  
  Sound receives a perfect score. As far as sounds go, this game captures it perfectly. There's some 
 voice acting, mainly for when people yell "Objection!", and the effects, such as the judge's gavel, 
 wit well with the situation. The music also seems to fit in at the right moments, from suspenseful 
 to sad.
  
  Value gets an 8. This game lasted quite a while for me, and was honestly worth every penny. It 
 may not be a game you'd play again once you'd finished it, but hey, if you run out, pass it on 
 to a friend, Just about anyone can enjoy this game!
  
  My overall score would be a ten if not for the minor technicalities I mentioned earlier. This is 
 a fine mystery-adventure game for all the growing attorneys out there. So, why are you still reading 
 this? Go out and buy or rent the game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman_eddie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. it lets you play as a lawyer who has to come over many odds to find the truth 
 and his client innocent. when i first heard about this game, my question was "is the going to be 
 fun?", well, rest assured, it is. My first impression of this game was, "wow, the unbelivable amount 
 reading", (cause its text based) , but it works, you can stop the game in mid play to save how awesome 
 is that, plus for court trials, you can press or object to the witness account at any time during 
 the trial, now thats cool. this game isnt worth buying a ds, but if you have one already, get this 
 game cause you will have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Most people think that being an attorney is boring; imagine playing a game about being one...
 
  Well, I can tell you, and also many other players out there, that this game plain out rocks.
 
  Here's a quick overview; you solve cases by cross-examining witnesse's testimonals and investigate 
 crime scenes and evidence. Pretty neat huh? Well yeah; it's very linear and there's pretty much 
 no replay value, but you'll love it. It can take you from 20 to 40 hours, depending on how fast 
 and how much you read, and you'll love every second of it.
  It's a shame that this game is hard to find now, but if you see it, don't think twice; buy it. 
 Any objections? No? Thought so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  In Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, you are a young attorney that goes around and solves cases. It 
 is great overall game and worth your money.
  
  Gameplay: The courtroom scenes are great and actually make you think. Finding evidence is fun and 
 there is a wide variety of characters.
  Using the touch screen to help you with the cases is fun.
  
  Graphics: Great for the DS, compared 
 to others (cough, cough King Kong DS cough, cough)
  
  Sound: Great music for every situation and character.
  
  Value: Ace Attorney is a long game 
 which is worth your money. Playing it is an enjoyable way to pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Capcom wants to teach us about Japanese lawyers. According to the house that Captain Commando built, 
 we can come to understand a few things about the lawyers we'd find milling about Akihabara district, 
 and the legal system in which they operate:
  
  - Defense attorneys have spiky hair.
  - Defense attorneys loudly scream, "Take that!" when meeting their opponents' challenge to present 
 conclusive evidence.
  - The jury is absolutely nowhere to be found.
  - You can lie and leave out details when testifying, and for a good while the judge simply asks 
 you to "revise" your statements.
  - The judge's decisions are influenced by the jubbulent mammary glands of female witnesses who 
 seem to be doused, almost criminally so, in pink. (These mammary glands are so powerful that I 
 had to make up the word "jubbulent" to describe how "jubbly" they are. Boing boing, objection overruled!)
 
  
  You can learn these facts! and many more! by taking Capcom's Japanese Lawyerese 101! ... known more 
 affectionately as Gyakuten Saiban, and more appropriately to us wacky Americans as Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney.
  
  Let's get the obvious and important concept out of the way first. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 is NOT a lawyer sim. It is NOT Law and Order: Small Claims Court Investigator Bonanza Dairy Supreme 
 DS. In fact, in this game, it'd be less of a surprise to see Johnny Cochran visit us from beyond 
 the grave and use his infamous "Chewbacca is a Wookiee from Endor" argument than it would be to 
 see the judge actually do something about testimony rife with perjury.
  
  No, that doesn't mean that Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney plays like a South Park episode, in case 
 you were wondering that. What it does mean is that Capcom chucks legal realism out the window to 
 provide you with a wholly entertaining, charming and humorous videogame experience that happens 
 to be grounded in the legal world. Anyone that manages to do this with a game that basically only 
 has you tapping on dialog-tree choices, pixel hunting and finding the right item in your inventory 
 (or Court Record) to expose a witness' lie must be commended.
  
  So Capcom, I commend you.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is hilariously fun in that quirky 
 Japanese way, but not so much due to the gameplay mechanics. In fact, the mechanics might even 
 seem mundane on paper. For the most part, it resembles a traditional adventure game. But there 
 are no on-screen avatars to move with the d-pad; even if there were, there are no maps for these 
 avatars to traverse. Almost everything is done by tapping an option on the screen. The game is 
 split into two main parts - investigation and trial. During investigation, you're tapping on one 
 of several location menu choices to investigate, tapping on topics to ask people you run into, 
 and pixel-hunting on static backgrounds for clues and then tapping Examine to examine said clues. 
 During trial, you're tapping on items in the Court Record (that's Japanese Capcomese Legalese for 
 "inventory") and then tapping "Present", tapping on "Press" to get a witness to elaborate, or tapping 
 on yet more dialog-tree choices. Oh, sure, Capcom lets you hit Y and yell into the mic, "Hold it!" 
 when pressing or "Objection!" when presenting evidence. It still doesn't fully mask the fact that 
 the entire game is based on you tappity-tapping like Savion Glover.
  
  Even the bigger-picture gameplay structure becomes repetitive, nevermind the incessant stylus tapping. 
 You pixel hunt on static screens, find clues, present certain clues to people to get them to talk. 
 Then in court, you press witness testimony because you can't find contradictions. You might get 
 some new info - read, lies - that reveal objectionable content. Then you find the piece of evidence 
 that contradicts the objectionable content, and present it. Again, it all sounds mundane. It sounds 
 monotonous. It's really not.
  
  Like any great traditional adventure game, the reasons behind the "repetitive" actions and the 
 thinking that it takes to give your actions meaning are what drive this here Lawyer Game. Why do 
 you bother examining the victim's watch? Because the battery in the watch died as a result of the 
 victim raising his arm in self defense, when the murder weapon broke it. Which tells us the time 
 in which the attack took place. Which tells us that the witness was lying when he said the murder 
 took place at 4:20PM. So then we present the watch, Phoenix screams, "Objection!", grins with his 
 arms akimbo, and the witness is shaken up. We're then able press his revised testimony to reveal 
 more lies, deceit, and tomfoolery.
  
  This doesn't happen in the game, of course; this ain't no Walkthrough in Disguise after all. But 
 it just illustrates, very simply and perhaps crudely, the thought process behind playing this game. 
 Every clue, every piece of evidence, every bit of testimony holds a clue to the truth behind the 
 cases you take on. You may end up staring at one of these three things for minutes on end before 
 realizing how to connect the dots. Or, you may find out right away what a horrible liar the witness 
 is because you looked over the contradictory evidence a few minutes prior. The lies get more complicated, 
 the testimony gets more specific, and it takes you more and more effort to find holes. The reasons 
 change. The personalities become harder to break. You're doing the same thing over and over again, 
 but the cases are different, the deduction process becomes tougher, and the cases become longer 
 and more entertaining to live through. On Action Planet, it's ingenious level and enemy design 
 that helps ease the experience of holding down on the Fire button forever (you go buy Ikaruga now! 
 Hayaku!) . Whatever we'd equate good level and enemy design to in Lawyer Game But NOT Lawyer Sim 
 Planet, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney's got it.
  
  It could be all bunk. You might have seen it as a mundane-playing game, and no amount of ingenious 
 thinking on your part would save the fact that all you do is tap and object. You've already got 
 it drilled into your head that it's the same thing, with nothing to spice it up. Capcom's presentation, 
 then, swoops in to save the day with this one. It's not often that I consider that presentation 
 is supremely important in games. However, this game is one of those whose presentation is nailed 
 so perfectly that you wonder how the game could succeed without it.
  
  What we have here is the odd mix of great American localization with decidedly Japanese graphical 
 charm. Where oh where do we begin? While I'm typing words, let's go with the dialog localization. 
 I admit - I ran into one or two "your-instead-of-you're" errors here and there. Pish posh. Not 
 a big deal. Pay more attention to the random, stupid-but-funny banter between the attorneys or 
 the other NPCs. When the prosecutor objects to Phoenix's objection solely because he "finds it 
 objectionable," when your protagonist is called all manners of nicknames from Phoenix Wrong to 
 Phoenix Left, or when even something as childish someone mistaking Phoenix's friend Larry Butz's 
 name for "Harry Butz", you can't help but giggle. When you encounter the fanboyish anime cartoon 
 director who literally speaks ENTIRELY in "1337" speak, you'll let out a quick burst of laughter 
 when Phoenix's assistant responds to, "That r0x0rs!" with, "Hey Phoenix, what's a Rock-sore?"
 
  
  Then you mix that in with the game's audiovisual presentation, and you try to decide if this is 
 game has been Americanized, or if this is still Japanese, or if it's a little of both. The last 
 one is accurate; it truly is both. Where the dialog is much appreciated by Western audiences, the 
 sound effects and the visuals simply shout, "SHONEN JUMP!" The visuals consist mainly of static 
 backdrops which range from colorful and sharp to somewhat fuzzy and dithered, and big, screen-filling, 
 beautiful character graphics that follow the "paper doll" motif. Each character has a few frames 
 of animations for choice actions and different frames for emotional expression. What really gets 
 the whole Japanese thing going is how characters react to one another visually and how they're 
 presented in certain situations.
  
  Take, for example, the lunchlady carrying a bag of box lunches when you meet her - complete with 
 an animation that has her handing you one of those tasty obento. When she is called as a witness, 
 she's still handing out lunches - to the judge, no less. Or the bellboy carrying a tea-set when 
 you find him in the hotel. And in court? "That tea set looks rather heavy, so let's get started 
 with the testimony," says the judge. WHY would you carry a tea set on the stand? Because that's 
 what Japanese bellboys in Japanese courtrooms do, of course. Classic stuff.
  
  Better yet are the reactions that happen when you show a knock-out piece of evidence, or when the 
 prosecutor has you cornered with nowhere to go. Picture this hypothetical exchange. The prosecutor 
 snaps his fingers, and a sound like clashing samurai swords is heard. He then asks the witness 
 to answer a question with an answer that'll undoubtedly ruin your chances. The witness does so, 
 and the screen quickly pans to Phoenix, complete with motion blur. You hear the sound of a sword 
 slicing into flesh as Phoenix literally rears back with agony written all over his face. The screen 
 pans to the prosecutor, again with motion blur, and he bows. Panning back to Phoenix, he thinks, 
 "I've got to find evidence to counter his lies." You find it in the inventory, and when you present 
 it, "OBJECTION!" appears in a huge jagged-edge word bubble on the screen. You tell them how this 
 relates, the screen pans quickly to the witness who's stunned, then to the judge who's now wide-eyed 
 and intrigued, then to the prosecutor who himself is now reeling back in pain to the sound of sword 
 skewering flesh.
  
  What is this, a fighting game? Sure seems like it, with combat sound effects and the ultraquick-paced 
 focus shifting from person to person. Even the cross-examination begins with a Street Fighter-esque 
 "Versus" screen that shows a picture of you versus the prosecutor. Trial sequences in Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney truly resemble battles rather than dry speech; the Finger Point, Table Slam and Arms 
 Akimbo are your special moves, and Objectioning with relevant evidence is your level 3 super.
 
  
  The music is no slouch here, either, providing fast paced and tense sounding tunes when things 
 get heated in the court. During testimony, before you actually take serious action, the music is 
 less fast paced and less tense - but still has that little anticipatory edge that makes you kind 
 of lean in and read the testimony closely. The tunes themselves aren't remarkable, and half of 
 it sounds like it comes out of a Gameboy Color, but they're used to great effect in the courtroom. 
 It's less satisfying out of the courtroom, where the tunes might as well be little ditties - in 
 fact that's all they are. They neither add nor detract to the experience outside of court, save 
 for making things a little less boring.
  
  With the great presentation otherwise, however, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney hardly needs ditties 
 to make the game entertaining. The entire concept is wrapped up nicely in cases that start out 
 as really mind-boggling mysteries with satisfying conclusions, characters who are either endearing, 
 laughable caricatures, or both. All of this is presented in five chapters, each one longer than 
 the last, and the game surprisingly ends up weighing in with a lengthy first-run playtime. Depending 
 on your reading speed, my rough estimate might be anywhere between ten and fifteen hours of game, 
 which is nice for a DS game of the traditional adventure mold. Those familiar with the four chapters 
 of the Gameboy Advance original - it's a remake, after all - will be tickled to find a very long, 
 final fifth chapter added solely for the DS version. Better yet, new gameplay mechanics such as 
 finger printing, uncovering bloodstains and examining evidence more closely by rotating certain 
 pieces make their way into the chapter. It's just a shame that these only come into play for the 
 last few hours of the game.
  
  We've made it through this text without a single, annoyingly bad legal pun. I owe Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney that much. It's got laughs. It's got satisfying closure. It's got great thinking-man's 
 gameplay bolstered by a decidedly anime presentation. It's even got the jubbulent pink-clad witness. 
 Whatever you think of traditional adventure games, whatever you thought of "that lawyer game" when 
 you first heard about it - play this game. What's supposed to be slow and plodding ends up being 
 quite a thrill ride. It'll definitely be a cult classic, but here's hoping that it'll be a bona 
 fide widespread hit.
  
  [This review was originally written for and published in TRIGAMES. NET by MrCHUPON.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardocracy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  GENERAL INFO
  I normally don't write reviews, but this game impressed me so much that I'll cry if the sequels 
 (which exist on GBA in Japan) don't make it to the US. I know the game did not sell well and hence 
 I've labelled it "underappreciated". Hopefully this review will convnice some people that this 
 game is worth buying.
  
  In the game you play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney, and you take on a variety of 
 murder cases. In the game you look for clues, interview witnesses, and defend your client in court. 
 There are five cases in total, each one becoming progressively more complicated and involved. While 
 the first case can be solved in about 30 minutes, the last one can last well over 7 hours depending 
 on how carefully you play and how much conversation you listen to. In total the game should last 
 the average gamer about 20 hours or so.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 8/10
  The gameplay is separated into two modes. The first mode is a classic point-and-click adventure 
 game, where you look for clues and interview witnesses as you try to solve your current case. The 
 second mode is something of a criminal court simulation, and doesn't fall neatly into any genre. 
 The court mode involves listening to witness testimony and trying to find contradictions, using 
 clues and information that you gathered in the adventure stage of the game. 
  
  While the fundamental gameplay is not as exciting as more popular genres such as FPS or RTS, the 
 great story, likeable characters, and immersive sounds and graphics keep the gamer playing. It 
 will appeal especially to fans of traditional adventure games or fans of shows like Law & Order 
 or CSI, although I think everyone who likes mysteries would be appreciate this game.
  
  I give the gameplay 8/10 because the game is a little on the easy side. The game never insults 
 your intelligence by telling you what to do, and it's not exactly easy to see where the case is 
 going, but it's usually easy to guess what you're supposed to do, even if you don't know why you 
 need to do it.
  
  GRAPHICS - 9/10
  9/10 because although the anime-inspired graphics are by no means technically advanced, they serve 
 the gameplay and atmosphere perfectly. The characters are well-drawn, detailed, and interesting. 
 The guys are cute and the girls are hot. What more is there to ask, right?
  
  SOUND - 10/10
  This game would not be the same without the sound. The music varies from soothing 
 to intense depending on the situation, and really helps build up the atmosphere, especially during 
 trial situations. The music really adds to the excitement of playing the game.
  
  VALUE - 7/10
  I give value a 7/10 because the game is great and will last at least 15-20 hours. 
 It is definitely worth your $30. However, there is little to no replayability. It's still fun to 
 play again just to absorb the atmosphere, but there is no challenge the second time around.
  
  TILT - 10/10
  Of course this game gets 10/10 for tilt. It induced me to write this review 
 didn't it? This game is also great to show your non-gamer friends. My girlfriend who usually hates 
 it when I play games got addicted to Phoenix Wright. So addicted that she started ignoring ME when 
 she was playing... (usually it's the other way around) . All in all, very impressive I have to say.
 
  
  CONCLUSIONS
  Rarely does a game impress me this much that I want to write a review about it. I really hope that 
 Capcom releases the sequels in the US, so encourage Capcom by buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortichai
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney puts you in the shoes of a fresh defense lawyer ready to get his feet 
 wet. You play as Phoenix Wright, of course, and you run through a series of court cases where all 
 of your clients appear incredibly guilty, until you prove them innocent.
  
  The first court case lets acts as great tutorial for the gamer to comprehend all the things that 
 the game has to offer: evidence is key, pressing is always a good idea and "listening"/reading 
 carefully to all the details in a witness's testimony.
  
  The court cases, though dealing with the same type of incident (someone's murdered) each play out 
 different due to the different suspects, testimonies and evidence. The characters are witty, innovative 
 and quite humorous at times. The comments during a conversation will always manage to either put 
 a smile on your face or have you rolling on the floor laughing. Some characters appear more than 
 once, but for good reason. Some will constantly assist you during your investigations. Each character 
 has an interesting back-story and you learn to appreciate the well written script.
  
  Investigating crime scenes is a great way to include the stylus, especially in the last court case 
 of the game. Make sure to look at every detail and remember that there is always something. Evidence 
 is always important, even if it looks insignificant. When you get the opportunity to raise an objection 
 or present evidence to find contradictions in a witness's testimony, you better present the right 
 evidence or else you will be penalized by losing an exclamation mark. You have five exclamation 
 marks during each section of a court case. If you lose all five, you lose the trial and your client 
 is automatically seen as guilty. If you present the right evidence, you not only get to continue 
 the game, but get to feel good about yourself knowing how brilliant you are. Don't worry if you 
 do present the wrong evidence that seems so right to you. The story is pretty linear though we 
 can see so many contradictions. It really didn't give you any alternatives to the evidence that 
 could be presented for the same reason. Don't beat yourself up over it, just try again.
  
  For a judge, he's completely oblivious to everything unless you literally spell everything out 
 for him. Here's a hint, when presenting evidence and the music stays the same, you're wrong, sadly. 
 But once there's a break in the music while Phoenix yells objection, you're doing fine. You do 
 have the option of using the microphone to yell, "Objection!", "Take that!" or "Hold it!" You don't 
 really have to say the words if you don't want to, you could just yell almost anything you please, 
 as long as the mic picks it up, or you could just press the button without yelling anything. You're 
 choice.
  
  Though this game cannot be taken seriously if you want to become a lawyer, it is a great buy and 
 I highly recommend it for anyone who wants to know of a great DS game that lasts over 20 hours. 
 A word to the wise, buy this game as soon as you can. It's becoming very rare and scarce to find, 
 so if you see it and you don't own it, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games of 2005. re4 then this. this game is like a lawer simulation 
 game but not quite. its a hybrid of a sim and a stratagy. a perfect mix which was perfectly executed. 
 the plot of the game is very grabbing and youll be paying attencion to everything small detail. 
 the graphics are pretty good. its like an anime show on the ds (i can only relate it to the show 
 "case closed") it uses the touch screen, mic, and d-pad and has great controlls. in the end i have 
 to say that this is a must buy game if u have a ds and it will be a long and invigorating game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinker3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The game "Pheonix Wright: Ace Attorney" (Capcom) was released on October 12, 2005 (or Oct. 11, 
 both work) to pretty good review. This game was given many awards at E3 (including best of E3 which 
 is boasted on the back cover) for good reason. This game manages to utilize all of the Nintendo 
 DS's unique features. Including, but not limited to, the microphone (which uses your voice to yell 
 objection and to blow away dust while searching for prints) , the touch screen (to navigate menus, 
 examine evidence, and spray luminol) , the 3D capabilites (for cut-scenes and examining evidence) , 
 and the graphic cabalities to further show the cartoon, unique, style in which the game is played 
 out. Now, let me get out of the public view of things and into my own personal views.
  P. W. is an amazing game. Not many times can I name a game that manages to keep my attention so 
 long that I manage to finish it within the week that I got it. Also, not many text games (as it 
 is heavily text driven) manage to bring me back. Come to think of it, not many text games let me 
 finish them! This game though managed to keep me guessing and guessing to the end. I was surprised 
 at the end when it gave me a fifth level (as I had no previous information of this mysterious fifth 
 level) which helped keep the game going. When I reached the credits of the game (after the fourth 
 level) was convinced and relieved that I had finally beaten it. When it showed me the fifth level 
 I was confused and happy. Happy that I could continue this game further. I haven't been able to 
 say that in a long time either! The touch screen actually feels very smooth and helpful. I tried 
 using only buttons for a while, but it becomes so much easier as well as satisfying to use the 
 touch screen. This is very strange to say as the DS can't boast the fact that the touch screen 
 is preferred mode of play very often. Buyer beware; you will need to read all of what the people 
 in this game say. One tiny phrase you may have missed may leave you guessing for hours. I happened 
 to click the forward button a little too fast and I was completely lost. This game may not be for 
 everyone because, let's face it, not everybody likes reading, not everybody likes attorneys. Please 
 find a friend with the game, or rent it. Just to make sure it's for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deatheagle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:16 am PT
Review:  Here it is. Another DS game that shows the world what the unit is capable in terms of gameplay. 
 It makes use of the Microphone (not only for voice recognition capabilities) , and the stylus.
 
  The game itself has great graphics and animations for the characters. Great voices and music and 
 a great storyline but there is little replayability once you finish it.
  I was really impressed with this game and I couldn't just put it down once I started playing. 
 
  The game is broken down in 5 chapters and in each of them you will learn something new (some new 
 method) of uncovering evidence, pressing witnesses, etc. (read the great Gamespot review for all 
 the details) .
  
  My only gripe, the game could have been better ... a lot better.
  If you would have applied the last and final chapter gameplay to the whole chapters (since the 
 beginning) the game would have been harder and possibly even more satisfying and enjoyable.
  Still it's a great little game for a great little system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc9991
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Calling Pheonix Wright a great game is a large understatement. This game is incredibly advanced. 
 The game forces the player to think through every detail of the witness' testimony, seperating 
 fact from fiction, with the help of evidence. This game is very challenging when only a single 
 word or phrase of a testimony may be false. This game is definitely not for those who do not want 
 to think their way through a game. It provides a guilty pleasure as you scream "HOLD IT!" and "OBJECTION!" 
 into the microphone. Though the facial expressions do seem overly animated, this game does not 
 dissapoint in the value department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louislegros
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game has all you could ever want in game with this nature of game play, the first case is 
 sorta handed over to you and is pretty easy, but it does a good job with out making it feel like 
 your having your hand held and helps teach you the a lot of what you are going to need to hours 
 to master.
  
  Alright lets get down to the game, Phoenix Wright is a new Defence attorney fresh off the bar and 
 is working with his mentor mia fey in his first case involving the murder of, well I can let you 
 figure that out your self (Want to know the truth, this is the one victim I forgot :p, no wait 
 I just remembered, it has to do with your buddy larry butz who you are defending) . But you will 
 be put through a trial where you have to squeeze the truth out of a victim by pressing them on 
 their statements or pointing out contradiction with your evidence (for example, a witness may say 
 a murder happened at a certain time, but the autopsy report may say other words, this is a contradction!) . 
 As the cases go on they get much harder and your knowledge of the stories of the character become 
 more clear and they are quite interesting and range from learning why "worthy" became a prosecutor, 
 to some stolen lunch money.
  
  Like Gamespot said in their review you couldn't ask more in terms of the gameplay it provides and 
 it lacks replayability. But it does what it wants to do pretty much perfectly and when you finish 
 it you will be screaming for a sequel and realize what the Japanese have been enjoying for years.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are alright (I think they may have been ported from the gba, but in the 
 5th and final story you get some more detailed stuff as well as some touch screen investigation) 
 But they arn't what makes this game worth the money, it is just plain fun and the hours you will 
 spend figuring out how the person was killed should be enjoyed by everyone! SO GO GET THIS GAME 
 NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is a lawyer game. okay i know what your thinking "WTF? a Lawyer game???" 
 but it's actually cool.
  
  Your Phoenix Wright. (well in the game anyways.) it's like a murder mystery game. you have to solve 
 these cases (i like to call them mysteries but whatever floats your boat.) and these cases are 
 hard like really hard. (if you've seen Case Closed it's like those kind of mysteries)
  
  Phoenix Wright is a rookie lawyer and just barely got out of law school. you'll either help your 
 friends out of being arrested or your self.
  
  sometimes the game can get so hard you'll end up guessing and see what Phoenix says.
  
  in 
 all it's still a fun game you can yell stuff out or just push a button i like to yell into it though 
 it just make it more fun.
  
  People who like soving mysteries or watching the Anime Case Closed your enjoy this. i give Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney a 9.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenOfThunder
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  OK, maybe I can't, but if the rumors that Capcom is pulling Phoenix Wright off of American shelves 
 is true, then you have to go out and get this game NOW.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a defense attorney, and he has to do defense attorney things. This may sound 
 boring, but it is probably one of the most fun, innovative, and downright funny titles in a long 
 time. Japan is lucky they have four Phoenix Wrights. Now we don't even have one.
  
  Using you killer attorney skills, you must analyze evidence and present it in court to prove the 
 accused innocent. You'll go up against your rival, the prosectutor Edgeworth, as well as his mentor 
 von Karma. They will do anything to get the accused to be declared guilty, even if it means planting 
 evidence. 
  
  Once you complete a case, you'll feel so enormously satisfied that you may get up and do a little 
 jig. Hearing Phoenix shout "OBJECTION!" can get you pumped, and you wish that you could yell it 
 at the witness instead. And you can. The DS mic makes screaming OBJECTION while in a public resturaunt 
 at a large handheld advice possible.
  
  Overall, this game is a must have for DS owner, especially because it's getting pulled. Even if 
 you don't have a taste for it, you should buy one and put it aside to sell on ebay when it becomes 
 super rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenspirit116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  A port of the japanese game Gyakuten Saiban from the GBA modified especially for the DS. You play 
 the role of a newly-minted defense attorney straight out of law school, Phoenix Wright.
  
  Phoenix is charged with defending his client in 5 different cases against already solid testimonies. 
 It's up to you to find the flaws in those testimonies and prove your clients innocence!
  
  The game is a simple point and click text based adventure and manages to use the DS's touch screen 
 well. you can examine crime scenes and other places for evidence to use in your upcoming trials 
 and question others for information.
  
  While you are required to make choices, the game is extremely forgiving and will give you all evidence 
 needed in order to win the trial, but it's up to you to find the right time to use it.
  
  During trials, you must use evidence and clues given to you by others to find the flaws in an given 
 testimony.
  
  The story is well written and the games mix will of drama and humor will keep you enthralled with 
 the game. The only problem this game has is the lack of replayability. Trials are easily solved 
 after the first play through and the game loses much of it's excitement and flair after completing 
 it.
  
  All in all this game is a must buy for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, is one of the most enthralling, and cleverly made adventure games 
 I've played this generation. This is one game that I've highly anticipated since I saw it's debut 
 at E3 05 and let me tell you, it was well worth the wait.
  
  Ok, I'm not gonna get too much into the game's plot, as that is basically the game's biggest stregnth. 
 What you do, is play new to the law, attorney Phoenix Wright, and solve a bunch of cases, do investigations, 
 and read lots and lots of text. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Ok, the gameplay of this adventure game is pretty basic. You'll get a case, then you have to search 
 for clues, go to court, and try to prove you/your defendants innocence. The game has a well written 
 story, and each character you meet feels very lively thanks to the superbly written dialouge. None 
 of this cheesy stuff in most games today, the dialouge here is very clever.
  Now, there's more to it than that. The game makes some very nice use of the DS's touch screen. 
 But the biggest enjoyment of this game, is the use of th mic. During court, you hear the case, 
 and witnesses testimonies. After they do their testimonies, you may begin the cross examination. 
 This is where you may press your opponent, find fault with their testimonies, and reveal to the 
 court what a lieing scum they are. Now when using the mic, you can yell into it, things like "Objection" 
 or "Take that!" and "Hold it!". This cleve use of the mic, really makes you feel like you are there 
 in the court. It may seem strange to some, but I think many may enjoy this feature, more than they 
 think. 
  Now there is more use to the mic, like during investigations where you dust for fingerprints. Also 
 the DS's touch screen gets plenty of good use too. All in all, the game makes clever use of the 
 DS's features, and it feels so natural doing so too. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Now thankfully the graphics in the game are bright, and well animated. The manga style looks well, 
 and each character animates well to their emotions of what they say. This helps the game from being 
 boring, and it certainly does an excellent job at what it does. Giving the characters life.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is another great thing about this game. The music in the game fits like 
 a boot, with ambience of the game. If the case is going well, and you're getting the witness to 
 reveal his/her true colors, you see them trembling. So the music actually picks up pace, keeping 
 you with the feel of the game. If something unexplainable, or awry happens, the game reachs the 
 very low feeling, and everything just fits nicely. The only little problem I can think of, is I 
 kind of would like to see the "beeps" change for the characters. It's not monotonous, or will it 
 get on your nerves. However I wished it was more like Golden Suns "bleeps" where it differed depending 
 on the character and their size. 
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall, the game is well made. The music and graphics bring a lot of emotion into the game, making 
 it a very interactive experience. The clever use of the DS's features are well implimented here, 
 and do not feel like a gimmick. The game is very lengthy, and the only problem with it, is that 
 when it's over, it's over. The game at times will guide you to the right path, however, sometimes 
 taking a bit from the experience. Overall, it's an enjoyable game, that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popwarskater89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  being the only lawyer that ive played and heard of Phoenix wright is a great game, and is definitely 
 a must buy for any ds owner that want some great cases that just immerse in to a point where you 
 cant put the ds down. The games visuals are great ,the game play could have been funner i can see 
 why people would think the game is kinda boring but i enjoyed it. looking at this game as a whole 
 brings somthing to mind if this game was a bit longer i think it would be a masterpeice in its 
 own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:46 am PT
Review:  This has simply got to be one of the best games ever made for the DS. I wasnt to sure about buying 
 it but i figured heck i love crime shows so why not give this game a chance... and just let me 
 tell you i don't regret buying it for one moment.. I love it, I get to gather clues and yell at 
 the screen and everything. From what i've heard and read this game won't be around much longer 
 in the stores so if i was you i would try and find this game and buy it right away.. simply because 
 it is the best game ever. This is truely a must have for all true crime drama lovers.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippery209
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by the game's outer shell. It doesn't matter that you're an attorney in this game, 
 it is still a ton of fun; arguably the best game on the DS to date.
  
  You assume the role of Phoenix Wright, a young defense attorney, who must prove his clients innocent 
 through a series of increasingly difficult court cases, all of them murders. The game relies heavily 
 on text, which I don't mind at all. As a result, the only way you could possibly have a distaste 
 for this game is if you have a huge distaste for text adventures. 
  
  Another large part of the game is the gripping story. Each of the game's five cases can be called 
 a story of its own, although some elements from early cases may pop up again in later ones. The 
 story kept me hooked; I continued to play one night until 2:30 AM while I was rather cold in bed. 
 That's just how much the story gripped me.
  
  When you grade Ace Attorney on its graphics, you need to take into consideration the type of game 
 that it is. Text adventures are not known for extravagant graphics, but Phoenix Wright's two-dimensional 
 artwork works extremely well for the game. There are some three-dimensional graphics, but this 
 is only later in the game to closely examine evidence. The sound is also well-done; all the tunes 
 seem to be in their proper places, and they set the mood of the game.
  
  Again, the gameplay is largely based on story and text. When examining crime scenes, you can use 
 a point-and-click interface to take a closer look at things, and you can yell commands into the 
 DS's microphone such as "Objection!", "Hold it!", and "Take that!" while in court. The game responds 
 to these commands and the day in court progresses. 
  
  The game's length is a concern to some, but replay value was my primary concern. You'll get plenty 
 of play time from this game - 20 to 30 hours if you don't use a strategy guide - but once you beat 
 it, there is virtually nothing to go back to, and that is the only thing I can think of that is 
 "bad" about this game.
  
  To sum up, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an enjoyable gaming experience that leaves you wanting 
 more. It's almost like a really good book; you can't put it down, but once it's done, you feel 
 bittersweet because you don't want it to end. We can only hope that Capcom will continue to localize 
 other games in the Gyakuten Saiban game series that is so popular in Japan (Gyakuten Saiban being 
 the series that Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is from) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooforme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney puts you in the shoes of, well, Phoenix Wright... but he's more of 
 a rookie when you start out... as in... his first case.
  
  Gameplay: Being drowned by text may sound boring, but is covered up by the excellent humor in this 
 game. Characters each have their own, enjoyable personality which really makes you interested in 
 what these characters say and do.
  
  Graphics: Smooth anime-style graphics make all of the crime scenes and courtrooms look nice, though 
 more animations than the simple four or five that they have would have been great, it's hardly 
 something to complain about.
  
  Sound: There isn't all that much sound, since this is mostly text based and you'll often be hearing 
 the *beep beep beep* of the text scrolling along. The MIDI music in the game isn't all it could 
 have been, as you either love it or hate it. The music, at times, can get quite annoying, especially 
 during testimonies, when you'll be thinking the most. Just turn the sound down there.
  
  Value: This game is great and worth buying. The story of all 5 cases makes you wanting even more 
 when the game ends. Five cases doesn't sound long enough? Don't worry, this game has about 20 hours 
 of gameplay (for me at least) .
  
  Replayability: Though once you pass the game, and you may not want to play it again, it doesn't 
 change the fact that this game can be ENJOYED again.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is an excellent choice for a new DS game if you're looking for one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeAF24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is so hard to put into words, but here goes.
  
  Phoenix Wright is a lawyer, and you must defend clients through out the course of the game. Like 
 the GS reviewer has already stated, this game is a very text driven game, so be prepared for a 
 lot of reading. Although the text is heavy, you will typically be too immersed into the story to 
 even notice. 
  
  The games setting is in more then just the courtroom. You will have to investigate the crime scene 
 using the touch screen, interrogate witnesses, as well as travel from place to place, but once 
 in the court room is where the game shines. You will have to find contradictions between witness 
 testimony, and the evidence you found to find your client innocent. Also, there is nothing like 
 yelling "objection!" into the microphone once you hear a lie slip from a witness' mouth.
  
  Overall this game is a must play for any DS owner, although it is probably only good the first 
 time through. Perhaps you can find a friends copy, or pick it up used at your local video game 
 store. Try it today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: procne
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  Not much of a fan of Japanese animation but this one hits the spot! It's a fun, on-your-own-pace 
 type of game to play. If you like to solve crimes and kicking the witnesses a$$ with "objections!" 
 and "hold it!" - you'll be playing this in no time. It has a lot of text but it's in those text 
 that you will need to figure out contradictions. The characters in the game are quite funny and 
 true to their characters which carried the game very well. There are 5 stories you will be playing 
 in and it gets harder and longer with each story. Try this game for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Game Description - (1 player) As a rookie defense lawyer you will take on five different cases 
 against varying odds and scheming prosecutors. Prepare to experience both dramatic and comical 
 events like no other.
  
  Gamplay (7) - the gameplay is what killed my experience with the game overall. After you play through 
 the first few chapters you start to realize that everything is incredibly linear and that even 
 if you would like to explore a certain situation or issue with a witness's testimony you are unable 
 to do so. Instead you must give the game what it wants by either supplying the right evidence at 
 the right time or pressing the witness at different points of their testimony. What can make it 
 frustrating is when you spot a contradiction in the witness's testimony but you are not able to 
 show it to the court because the game simply can't understand why you are showing this evidence 
 because you are not following the "game's" pre-set path so the game will tell you no that is not 
 a contradiction and then later you see Phoenix explain exactly what you were thinking of a long 
 time ago. The game forces you to get the characters in the game to figure things rather than allowing 
 you to figure them out. To some extent this may make you feel like you're more on the outside looking 
 in rather than really taking part in the trial. It's not all bad though, when you do get things 
 to work and you present the right evidence and can be quite rewarding. Unfortunately the witness 
 gets way to many chances to change their testimony which is inaccurate in that if you lie in court 
 once then you are done because you have officially ruined your creditibility. Eventually you will 
 get them to a point where they simply can't squeeze their way out but sometimes it feels like the 
 witness gets a lot more breaks than they deserve. The investigative work that takes place before 
 the trial can be enjoyable but is very text heavy so be prepared.
  
  Graphics (9) - A lot of detailed pictures are used to make this game a visually impressive game. 
 The characters all have plenty of gestures and facial expressions to make you feel like you are 
 listening to a real person. The backgrounds are all nice pictures as well. Nothing ground breaking 
 but it gets the job done.
  
  Sound (9) - The music gets recycled quite a bit from chapter to chapter but it serves its purpose. 
 The best part of the audio is hearing the different characters when they say "Objection!" That's 
 worth a 9 to me.
  
  Value (8) - You get 5 chapters which doesn't sound like much but many of the chapters are made 
 up of 2 or 3 days of investigations and trials where you will continue to break apart witness testimonies 
 to prove your client's innocense (you are a defense attorney) . Unfortunately since the game is 
 quite linear there may not be much to look forward in later play-throughs.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9) - What makes this game memorable is its charm. All the characters seem very 
 sincere and have their own unique personalities and it provides the basis for an enjoyable experience 
 that wouldn't be the same any other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goddess_Redline
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  So much has been said about this game already, nya. But sales indicate otherwise, nya. If you're 
 at all interested in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, consider yourself a better gamer than most, 
 nya. PWAA puts you in control of Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney (which contradicts the 
 title, but deal with it, nya) as he takes down criminals, nya. To do so, you'll need to gather 
 information, collect evidence, and reveal the contradictions in a lying witness' testimony, nya. 
 Justice seriously has never been so fun, nya.
  
  The gameplay is basically a point-and-click adventure, nya. You read a whole lot of text and use 
 the right options at the right time, nya. It's a lot funner than it sounds, nya. What the game 
 lacks in required skill, it more than makes up with sheer fun, nya. Being a text-heavy game, Capcom 
 has made certain that it's as enjoyable as possible, nya. With fun, quirky characters and hilarious 
 dialogue and body expressions, and yet also genuinely moving plot, the game will have you hooked, 
 nya. The characters are all well-drawn and have a wide range of expressions, nya. It especially 
 adds to the effect of certain scenes, nya. And it's really quite rewarding to be able to see a 
 guilty person sweating like the end of the world is coming, nya.
  
  I could go on and on about how the characters really add to the game nya, but I'd rather talk about 
 the MOOD, nya. The music especially adds to the mood, nya. Every BGM is appropriate for the event, 
 nya. Especially in court, there's one track with a fast beat that basically tells you "you've got 
 a good thing going, now roll with it!" It's damn near inspirational, nya. During the sad parts 
 it can be downright moving, nya. Thankfully there are also funny moments in between so you don't 
 get too depressed, nya. This is about having FUN, nya. As such, you mustn't under any circumstance 
 resort to using a walkthrough for this game, nya. I swear, the feeling you get when you pin down 
 a witness in his/her lie and subsequently pwn the witness AND the prosecutor has to be one of the 
 GREATEST feelings you can have when playing a game, nya. The sheer boost to your self-esteem knowing 
 that you figured it out all by yourself is like a natural high, nya. In the later episodes, you'll 
 constantly be on the "losing" side, fighting the current upstream (add a few more cliches here, 
 nya) . And just when you think you've turned things around, PLOT TWIST, nya! There are some seriously 
 shocking events in this game, nya. IMO, it just makes things all the more enjoyable, nya.
  
  Wow, that was quite a rant, huh, nya? If you've gotten this far, I think nothing else needs 
 to be said, nya. This is a MUST-HAVE title if you have a DS, nya. I myself bought a DS solely for 
 this game, and I don't regret it a single bit, nya. 
  
  If you've gotten this far, it proves you have the will power to read a review filled with the word 
 "nya." Kudos, nya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serephim2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game it feels more like playing an interactive movie. I dont mean this in a 
 bad way. You are Pheonix Wright, a defense attorney. You and your side kick maya have to go around 
 solving crimes and then presenting your evidence in court at the right time. The thing I like most 
 about this game is that is makes you feel smart. You will most likely crack the case right when 
 pheonix does. The court proceedings have two styles of play. One is a witness testimony. In this 
 you have to find holes in solid statements by either pressing the witness or presenting evidence 
 that contradicts the witnesses statements. By finding trivial conttradictions you can get witnesses 
 to stray from their pre-prepared testimony. Eventually they will let something slip and you can 
 catch them off gaurd. The second style is when pheonix has figured out the case and presenting 
 it to the judge. You are expected to have figured out the case and you are tested by being forced 
 to prevent evidence or pointing out certain parts of a piece of evidence that are contradictory. 
 You also cant just guess your way through it. If you screw up five times it's back to the start 
 of the chapter. 
  The story is told through stills and text. It may seem primitive but it works amazingly well, because 
 each character has their own idiosyncrisies that will make you laugh and keep you entertained throughout 
 the story. 
  The sound is the best part of the game. The music consists of only a few tracks, but they are extremely 
 catchy, and you will find yourself humming along with certain parts of the game. The music is tagged 
 to certain parts. For instance one track will play when Pheonix has a revelation, or a certain 
 track will play when the crime event is reconstructed in the court. The sound effects are great, 
 the characters dont speak unless they say something like "OBJECTION". The cooles thing about the 
 game is you can use the DS microphone to say "Objection!" or "HOLD IT!!!". 
  The game is short but you'll love it all. The game consists of five cases each broken down into 
 bite-sized chapters. Throughout the cases you will encounter new characters as well as ones from 
 previous chapters. The long running characters are incredibly deep and lovable. You will feel like 
 you know them everytime they make you laugh. 
  I loved this game and I hope everyone can get a chance to. I would consider renting befor buying 
 because it is on the short side. Even if you cant rent hand helds you should consider buying. It's 
 worth the money. You owe it to yourself to play through this game if you like adventure games or 
 anime like Case Closed. Even if you don't this one is definitely worth checking out. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hagismunch95
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  If you own a DS this one of those games you just have to get. It is five levels long. (Pretty short) 
 It has a corny dialouge but its gameplay is terrific. From investigating crime scenes to interrogating 
 witnesses you get to do the whole job of an average attorney. Although you are restricted to go 
 through devious talking it pays to pay attention to every sentence. They leave behind valueble 
 clues and references. The boring talking i think is meant to catch you off guard so you miss something. 
 The music is great and the scenes in court have you on the edge of youor seat. Then a new story 
 will come up and you will have to crack the new one. Overall it is a well rounded game. I would 
 like to see more games and improvements on this type of game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Zeta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay -
  
  In the Courtroom: You listen to witness testimonies, and cross-examine them. You can press them 
 for more info, or when you find a contradiction, object. Both of which can be done by yelling into 
 the microphone. 
  
  Outside the Courtroom: Travel around, gather and examine evidence, talk to witnesses, advance the 
 story.
  
  Sound - Catchy music and sounds that simulate a samurai battle in a courtroom. Swords unsheathing, 
 attacks, etc.
  
  Overall - 9.4/10.0
  
  Truly a unique game. The characters are likeable, save for the murderers that is, and the game 
 has plenty of humor. There's even some movie references, like from "A Few Good Men". DS owners 
 owe it to themselves to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for two hours i finally said to myself, what the heck am I doing? This 
 game is way too much text and not enough exitement. It is sort of interesting for the first hour 
 but after the second trial I found it was all just too linear and me just plucking away at the 
 A button waiting for some dumb cutscene to tell me i did something right. The graphics aren't all 
 the great being that they are like those out of a commic book but i have no really bad thing to 
 say about them. It would have been nicer if the game used a bit more of the DS touch screen which 
 might have at lease made the game more interesting than it already is. The game is just to linear 
 and a waste of your time. Id go pick up a coppy of castlevania for at least that game has some 
 action involved other than the contact between your thumb and the A button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the best DS games out to date. It's reasonable that people overlook this game, 
 probably saying, Oh. How boring. A game about a lawyer. or It's not worth it. 
  
  This game was defenitley worth it. By all means necessary. It's one of those games on the DS that 
 will require you to think deeply about the situation and using your own skill to get your verdict. 
 Although there might be some inconsistencies when presenting evidence to the court, it's will come 
 to a shocker when you find that another piece of evidence was linked to it.
  
  As for actually getting to the review...
  
  The graphics are very crisp in this game. With 
 animations and everything. Also showing off different types of art works for various scenes.
  
  Gameplay is quite interesting, you will need to use the touch screen in some cases to examine 
 a crime scene, or show some contradiction in a picture. There's just alot of stuff that makes the 
 gameplay in the game quite unique.
  
  Sound is also very noticable in the game also. It will contribute to the mood of the scene when 
 it's called for. It's also fun to yell, HOLD IT!! or OBJECTION!! into the mike when you can.
  
  This is just one of the many DS games that you have to try to see what's amazing about it. 
 When you start playing it, it's hard to put down. It's like you always want to see what's going 
 to happen next, or what would happen if I presented this? There's just so many twists in the game 
 to keep you hooked.
  
  This is a DS title worth getting and despite it's replayability, it's one you won't soon let go 
 of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun title that brings me back to old school graphics and text adventure games. It's a 
 good game, but quite linear, almost impossible to lose, and though it does require some creative 
 thought, most of the mental challenges aren't going to text adult players. I enjoy the game, the 
 art style, the minimal sounds, and the cases for the most part. I enjoy the Law and Order combo 
 of detective work and law, although at times it becomes monotonous item collection and text reading. 
 Overall, this is a quality game that I enjoyed playing through, but it wasn't terribly long -- a 
 little over 10 hours. though i rarely go back to play older games that I've played through, the 
 idea of doing so if I had no new games to play isn't out of the question for many of my favorite 
 games. I can't say that same here. I rarely sell back games that I've played and enjoyed, but this 
 is likely to be an exception. I can't see ever wanting to play this again, because there is no 
 game play variation, just text reading, and puzzle solving. I don't know if you can rent DS games, 
 but if you can, this is the classical rental game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokkuman09
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Phoenix Wright is completly a new thing in the states. Your Phoenix Wright a defense 
 attorney. You gather evidence and interview people before going to court to defend your client. 
 When you are in court you have to select things to say object and all kinds of stuff. One of the 
 cool features about Phoenix Wright is the ability to yell OBJECTION!! Into the DS mcirophone and 
 trust me this is fun. Sometimes this game has serious moments but many times theres some funny 
 stuff here and there.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Phoesnix Wright are very cool. They are all drawn in Japanese anime style so the 
 game has a very cool look. On the last mission which isnt in the Japanse Version (the original 
 version was on the Game Boy Advance in Japan) has many cool features which use the DS' graphical 
 power very well.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in Phoenix Wright is great even though there isnt a lot of it. The sound effects used 
 are always good for the situation. There isnt any voice work to speak of except when you say objection 
 and you Phoenix say it. One of things I really love about this game is its great music which always 
 fits the situation at hand. After playing this I had the music that plays during the court cases 
 stuck in my head for a long time.
  
  Value:
  This is one of the few problems with Phoenix Wright. The game is longer than many out there but 
 there is no replay value which kinda stinks.
  
  Well if your a DS owner I think you should get this game ok? So the final score is 8.8 great!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator21281
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Judge: You may be seated. We're here today to judge Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. Prosecuter, you're 
 opening statement.
  Prosecuter: Yes. This game is a good game, but like everything else, it has flaws. The game simply 
 has no reason to pull you in, and no attorney ever uses the 4th amendment "No search or seizure." 
 Ms. Maya would have been proven guilty if this amendment was used-
  Defense: Objection! He's pointing out the negatives when all the positive outweigh them. One, you 
 can shout out objection, like I just did, into the microphone. The game has nice graphics that 
 resemble anime and has some good music and nice soundbits. It's an adventure game that gets you 
 thinking. 
  Judge: Hmmm. I see. My final verdict -------------Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatmeworry21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney captures all the essence of fantasy courtroom drama. The quirky characters, 
 the roller coaster of emotions, everything seems to find its own little niche in the game. You 
 play the character of Phoenix Wright, a young, exuberant attorney fresh out of law school. Throughout 
 the game, youll become familiar with the process of investigation, questioning, cross-examination, 
 and most importantly, proving your clients innocence. Unrealistic as they may be, the proceedings 
 do a great job on taking you through the ups and downs of a case.
  
  When you move past the first case, youre introduced to the process of investigating the crime. 
 You often times start with questioning your client, attempting to get a base understanding of their 
 innocence, and where to look to find more answers. At times, this process can bear fruit, at other 
 times; you get less than a shred of information. Your job is to take this info, and build a case 
 on it, from the ground up. Now, it would be so easy to make this a boring, uneventful process that 
 you have to do in order to get to the trial, (although moving around from place to place can 
 seem a little too linear) . Fortunately, the developers knew better. The investigations also serve 
 as a major device for moving the plot along. You may receive important background information, 
 or critical events could occur right before your eyes! This is what makes the investigations such 
 a fundamental part of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. With all the confidence (or lack of confidence) 
 you may have at the end of the investigation, you can count on all that changing once you set foot 
 in the courtroom.
  
  The courtroom proceedings are the bread and butter of the game. Once you hear that gavel smack, 
 you know it is the real deal. The courtroom kicks the storyline into third gear, as you uncover 
 lies in the testimonies of witnesses, which in turn expose truths about what really happened. You 
 are asked to cross-examine the witnesses that the prosecuting attorney sends to the stand. The 
 cross-examination process is fairly simple: you may go through the witnesses testimony as many 
 times as you want, and press them on some points, and objecting as well. Pressing the ambiguities 
 (and flat-out lies) of the witnesses testimony will (hopefully) enlighten you upon the points 
 on which to object. Now, objecting is a whole different game. You must have hard evidence in order 
 to sustain an objection against the testimony. There is no doubt that if you have no clear evidence, 
 you will be penalized (you lose one of five exclamation points, lose all five, and its game 
 over) . Notice I said clear evidence, not obvious. In order to get these objections right, you may 
 have to give serious thought upon the situation, examining the evidence to the minutest details, 
 never excluding one facet of proof. Do this and youll emerge victorious. And again, it is almost 
 guaranteed that the way you view the case at the end of a court session will be radically different 
 from your views at the beginning.
  
  The one large complaint about the gameplay is that you cant lose. This is true. However, I believe 
 that one who truly appreciates video games will attempt to make the right decisions, rather than 
 using the process of elimination by default. I must say, the decisions can get quite difficult, 
 and personally, I dont mind that theres a system to catch you before you fall.
  
  Lastly, the graphics and the sound of the game are very fitting. The cartoon style characters and 
 settings dont especially press the limits of the DS, but it works fantastically for the type of 
 game Phoenix Wright is. As for the sound, there is no voice acting, except for objection! and 
 other such exclamations. The music is able to convey an atmosphere of importance about the case, 
 which is very significant. The sounds become much more fast-paced and exciting when Phoenix gets 
 on a roll. Overall, the graphics and sound are icing on the cake for a more than satisfying adventure.
 
  
  Should you have a Nintendo DS, and should you have any interest in the somewhat of a revival 
 of adventure games it has spawned, then Phoenix Wright is definitely worth a look. Even if you 
 think adventure games are boring, I have a good feeling this game will leave you on the edge of 
 your seat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEFR333AK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING! I love this game! This is perfect becasue i ALREADY wanted to be a laywer, and now i DEFINITLY 
 want to be a defence attorny! Amazing game, great graphics, a few inconstincties with them on how 
 when they testify and then move, and then it goes behind them and it looks like they didnt move, 
 but other than that great graphics. I cant get enough of Payne yelling "Objection!" or when you 
 really get someone and the music is all "Dun-Dun-Dun-NAAAAAAAAAA naaaaaaaaaaa, nuh-nuh nahhhhhhhhh 
 nuhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, nuhhhhhh..." (like when Edgeworth tells you the chinese parabel) This has SOME 
 replay value as i want to see what the other answer do and other things, but other than that not 
 much. I love yelling into the mic and although the first case is very short, the last case is hard 
 and long. I figured if i played this on the Saterday i got it, Sunday after that, Tuesday, Friday, 
 and again on Saterday i would have it beat in a week. Two and a half weeks later i just finished 
 it, and not without some help from my friend and the FAQ. AMAZING game it really is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner211
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is easily my favorite game on the DS. Who dosent love those murder mystery things, and they 
 finally made a game like one. The game got editors choice at E3, (even says that on the back of 
 the box) , but not only does it deliver some of the best the DS can offer, It's nice and long, and 
 keeps you up all night playing and finding out who did it? It's definetly the best DS title availible 
 now, so if you just got a DS and need a game, then you really need to check out Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  Finally a game with a great game play for the DS.
  In phoenix wright you find your self play as a lawer / detective in a well designed mysterious 
 crime plots. I found out that the game play here is great, good mysteries, good court side stories, 
 you can manage your court strategies and even investigate the crime scenes. The game design is 
 good, its not a linear game as i though before buying this one, there are a lot of paths you can 
 go through until you find what you want. The presentation is also great, and the control management 
 is easy to learn and use.
  
  The graphics section is good as well, although its not a 3D game and it is build on stil pictures, 
 the level of detail in them is good and their presentation is like a well designed slide show. 
 The cut scenes are also pictures, but there are build like a comic slide presentation and i think 
 they are great.
  
  The one thing that is not so good in this game is the sound, the sound is getting repetitive in 
 early stages of the game and there are almost no characters sound, i think the game would have 
 been much better if some of the dialogs were in voice and not only in text.
  
  There is one more thing about this game, its value, basically after finishing the game you will 
 not return to it... i don't think that after completing all the chapters and knowing all the crime 
 solutions i will try to play them over again....
  
  Besides that this is a great game with a great game play, and if you are in crime solving then 
 you should pick this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King9999
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Gyakuten Saiban is a court-battle adventure series for the Game Boy Advance which only Japanese 
 gamers were given the privilege to enjoy. Having received none of these games in North America, 
 Capcom saw potential in the Nintendo DS and how Gyakuten Saiban could work with it; they decided 
 to take a chance by releasing the first game in the series to the North American audience and renaming 
 it Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (PW hereafter) . Simply put, this is a game that MUST be played.
 
  
  PW stars the titular character, an American defense lawyer who is fresh off the bar. Youll take 
 him through five cases: four from the GBA version, and a brand-new DS-exclusive case that lasts 
 nearly as long as the other four cases combined. In PW, you play the role as both detective and 
 attorney; gameplay consists of investigating crime scenes and using careful observation to find 
 evidence, which will then be used in court to prove your defendants innocence by finding contradictions 
 in witness testimonies. What sets PW apart from a typical episode of Law & Order is humour, and 
 lots of it. PW is hilarious from start to finish, thanks in part to spot-on writing. Capcom is 
 not usually known for having well-written games (Resident Evil fans can attest to that claim) , 
 but PW is rife with quotable dialogueand great dialogue is part of what makes an adventure game 
 fun. The games characters are also great. Most of them are instantly charming and personable (including 
 the Judge, who is this reviewers personal favourite) , and the expressions they portray when theyre 
 on the witness stand are priceless. You get such a feeling of satisfaction when you put someone 
 in his/her place and he/she reacts (in true Capcom fashion) in exaggerated ways. The accompanying 
 sound effects and screen shaking make it seem like the witness took a hitall thats missing 
 is the life gauge.
  
  The controls in PW are intuitive thanks to the stylus and touch screen, but it seems natural that 
 adventure games work really well on the DS. Every action can be performed with the stylus, so theres 
 no need to ever use the buttons save for suspending the case in progress. The DS microphone can 
 be used to press the witness or to raise objections, but still, the stylus has you covered. Besides, 
 it would be wise to not use the mic while youre out in public.
  
  From an audiovisual standpoint, PW shines. The character sprites are nice and large, although the 
 animations are limited in number. Basically, the animations are used where they count (such as 
 in the characters facial expressions) , but this tactic works great. PW also uses some simple 3D 
 graphics that look good, though that Blue Badger is creepy to look at in motion (youll see) .
 
  
  Phoenix Wright has a few problems. Resuming a suspended game does not delete the saved file, which 
 allows players to cheat their way through each case by resetting the game after making a bad 
 choice. Its already hard enough to lose a case, since you can only lose during court battles, 
 and even then youll usually be directed towards the right solutions. During the investigations, 
 you cant progress until youve found all the evidence you can acquire. In other words, its impossible 
 to miss evidence; therefore, youll always have everything you need for the upcoming trial. That, 
 too, detracts from the challenge. Lastly, once youve beaten the game, theres little reason to 
 replay it, unless you want to extract every single piece of dialogue from the game (which actually 
 isnt a bad idea since the writing is so good) . A great idea for a possible sequel would be to 
 add some sort of multiplayer court battle; one player would be the defense attorney, the other 
 player would be the prosecutor, and the objective would be for one player to guess the correct 
 verdict (the other player would know the answer) by providing evidence and raising objections at 
 the right times. Its a sketchy idea at best, but a well thought-out multiplayer mode would greatly 
 increase a future games longevity.
  
  Phoenix Wright is not a game that any DS owner should overlook, simply because the game is entirely 
 entertaining. Adventures games of this quality do not come around often, so it would be wise to 
 snatch it up before its too late. Besides, purchasing the game could mean that the remainder of 
 the Gyakuten Saiban series makes their way to North America, and even better, the series may get 
 a fourth installment with the aforementioned multiplayer mode. If you want more adventure games, 
 nows your chance to show Capcom you care.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercubedude64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of those games you really don't know what to expect from. But 
 I'll tell you, if you want a game with a story like no other, a truly awesome experience, this 
 is it.
  
  The beauty of this game comes not from the normal places, gameplay, graphics, etc, but from the 
 truly dramatic story that sucks you in and won't let you go. While playing this game, digging up 
 evidence, cross-examining and such, you really feel a connection to the off-the-wall characters. 
 You'll find yourself saying, "No... he couldn't have killed him" and "No! He's innocent! I have 
 to prove it!" because the characters will create in you a relationship with them as if you knew 
 them, and it yields an awesome gaming experience, the kind which I've never played before.
  
  This, and the game has more plot twists than an episode of "The Gilmore Girls". The subject 
 matter in this game will shock you, and the story will make you go "Whoa! There's no way!". The 
 constant shift will keep you on your toes, and you'll never want to put it down, you'll always 
 want to see what happens next.
  
  This game is truly great. If not only from the reasons I gave, also a great courtroom experience 
 anyone with a DS and a nose for quality will find worth looking into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEdgeworth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney revolves around a rookie lawyer, who, with the help of his mentor 
 and a medium in training (not to mention a hopeless detective and many other characters) takes 
 up 5 cases and defends his client in court. Wait. Don't yawn and close the window just yet. It's 
 not as boring as it sounds. 
  
  The game is a rollercoaster of a game. The first thing I noticed about the game was the slick, 
 high quality court room scenes. The speedy pan between Phoenix and the prosecutor as they duke 
 it out with evidence and words. The whole experience feels like a battle, it certainly isn't tedious 
 and the tension is so thick at some points you could cut it with a knife. The high quality manga-style 
 characters and animations are very pleasing, and the sound effects fit in perfectly. Although one 
 certain character springs to the my mind as I type this (Officer Meekins) looks so insanely bizarre 
 and unrealistic, but this fits in with his character and the general anime feel. 
  Along with the anime look the game has an excellent sense of humour, and certain points in the 
 game make you chuckle a little, the game certainly isn't a laugh a minute story, nor is it a deathly 
 serious tale, it's a balance of both.
  The music and sound effects are top quality too. Hearing the characters yell "Objection" feels 
 great, and when the music switches to a triumphant melody when you bring out a conclusive piece 
 of evidence you can't help but feel like you achieved something.
  The characters and cases are very well developed, I found myself pounding my fists in the air when 
 victorious (or so I thought sometimes) , and cursing the Prosecutor many a time. Some of the cases 
 are a little complex, but, as with all great mystery stories, when you figure out what went on, 
 it all falls into place, which is a great feeling.
  Also, the Graphics are excellent throughout, it's obvious it's a GBA port, but the images are very 
 clear and pleasing to the eye. In the 5th "Nintendo DS only" case, I was impressed by the graphics 
 shown in a CCTV video you get to watch, most of the scenes you see in other parts of the game are 
 pictures with speech involved, it's obvious that they used the DS' capabilities in the 5th case, 
 whilst keeping the anime feel throughout.
  
  The game features 4 cases from one of the GBA Gyakuten Saiban (Comeback Court) games which was 
 Mr. Wright's Japanese debut. He's now starred in many GBA Gyakuten titles, and only now it's been 
 adapted into english. 
  There is also an additional "Nintendo DS only" case, which is the longest and quite easily the 
 most difficult. The 5th Case includes features the others didn't, such as fingerprint dusting and 
 "Luminol" testing to find traces of blood. 
  Additionally, when you're not in the courtroom, you examine murder scenes, search for clues, talk 
 to witnesses and detectives. Of course this would be unheard of in the real world, lawyers can't 
 just pick up clues from a crime scene, but it works for Phoenix Wright, it adds an extra element 
 of crime solving and you feel like you've acheived much more by finding the clues rather than being 
 handed them. Although, the game does sometimes point you in the right direction too much, but, 
 the game is still a challenge in the later cases.
  
  I recommend this game to anybody who doesn't mind reading alot of text during gameplay, and someone 
 who prefers to think about the game and the situation, rather than blast every living thing in 
 sight to smithereens, or use lightening fast reflexes. If you're not a fan of anime, you should 
 try the game anyway, the cases and actual puzzles are fantastic, the visuals just add more to it. 
 If you are a fan of anime, and puzzle/adventure games. What are you waiting for? Buy it now. 
 
  It's a highly immersive experience, it's not a game, it's more, it's an experience. An experience 
 that has a niche market, but to those people in that niche, it's brilliant. I couldn't put the 
 game down until I had solved the case I was on, and even then I wanted to progress to the next 
 and see what happened in the beginning. I recommend it to anyone with half a brain and taste for 
 mental activity, rather than using reflexes and shooting things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexln
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:10 pm PT
Review:  this is a really interesting game. its in 2D, so what? it has great character design, and good 
 background music. its challenging, but not frustrating. its easy to understand how it works, and 
 even if u r not familiar with the court system, it will tell u anything that u need to know. the 
 beginning episode would be easy (as a warm up =.=) , and then it would be a lot interesting. its 
 a really addictive game if u like to solve problems. maybe its a bit short (it has 5 episodes...) , 
 but the quality of each episode is exciting. i would say its a great game to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarklordpie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Not everyone is into this type of game, some people may not want to play as a lawyer, but Phoenix 
 Wright is not your average lawyer. Hes just starting out on his first case and its up to you 
 to guide him to victory! The gameplay is basically all dialogue, with a few touch screen additions 
 like dusting for fingerprints. Im sure that youll probably either love all this great dialogue 
 or hate it, I for one, love it, its defiantly a nice departure from all the other video game genres 
 that we see all the time. This is really where Phoenix excels, though, the stories and the characters. 
 There are no voice actors, so you have to read... a lot, but you'll get used to it and probably 
 wouldn't want it any other way. The dialogue is very witty and well written and sometimes even 
 extremely funny. All the music is fantastic too and fits the storylines perfectly. My only real 
 complaint is that its just not long enough and that theres really nothing else to find after 
 you beat it. There are five cases in all, the first is super short and basically a tutorial, but 
 the other four take over five hours to beat. Thats more than twenty hours of great gameplay. This 
 may be a good length for some, but the truth of it is, I could play a million more of these cases. 
 All of these characters are just so unforgettable and lovable. Hopefully well see more from this 
 fantastic series in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yongdaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:17 am PT
Review:  A definite must play game for a DS player. Once you're started on a case, you won't want to put 
 it down until you have found out the 'truth'. Very unique genre. Very unique game play. It is not 
 easy to game over for this game as they will lead you to the 'truth' eventually. On the other hand, 
 searching for clues may not seem as easy as they look. But once you have the needed clues, the 
 next thing to do is keep cool and think smart. You will never get wrong from there.
  
  This is first game that I have completed out of many I had played. Will definitely be buying PW2 
 if theres any! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizpig
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Let's get straight to the point; Phoenix wright: Ace attorney is one of my favourite games on the 
 Nintendo DS and one of the best games i've ever played on a portable console.
  Yes it IS a porting from a GBA version (With a fifth case) but the game was so cool some years 
 ago that's it's obviously still enjoyable today... because it's that NEW.
  If you like detectives, if you like the law, if you like misteries... this is the game for you, 
 you wil love it.
  Promised.
  
  Oh and by the way... if you are going to play (and love) this just e-mail Capcom and say them that 
 WE WANT Phoenix Wright 2 and 3 in the US as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killaboy123
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was ok but i didnt realy like the witty coments and such. I liked how it was fairly challenging 
 and pretty fun at times. But seriously nintendo what is with the 2D games we need 3D if u got a 
 good engine in a machine that why dont you put it to some good use instead of making all these 
 2D games. Most of the games for the Ds are very very fun and challenging but i want more 3D games 
 so i can tell my friends how great the Ds's graphics and hardware preformance is. So please please 
 nintendo find it in your hearts to give use nintendo fanboys good 3D games that we can brag about 
 and have a good time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  It's not often I see a game that has a solid story and character development, but this game surely 
 qualifies. At first, the game may not seem like much, but give it some time. All it takes is the 
 first episode, and you should be hooked! It's dangerous for me to pick up this game because what 
 was supposed to be a half hour gaming session turns into two hours.
  
  The graphics are simple, but get the job done. The sound is mostly just little music clips that 
 play, and the 'blippity blippity blippity' of text across the screen. Probably my favorite sound 
 effects are Phoenix shouting "objection!" and slamming his hands on the table. Again, the real 
 substance here is the story and characters, not the graphics and sound. Gameplay itself is linear. 
 Very much so. But that doesn't make the game any less enjoyable, I don't think. There are plenty 
 of puzzles to be solved, and the downtime spent talking to characters is also enjoyable. There 
 are some really funny, laugh-out-loud moments in this game, but I'm not going to spoil it!
  
  I highly recommend this game if you like adventure games. This one is top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis_phong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This remake of the Japan-only GBA Gyakuten Saiban includes some really clever diaogue and so far 
 is the second best DS game after Ouendan IMO. Yes this is a text based game but the dialogue really 
 makes you wanna keep on playing this game. You play as Phoenix Wright, a rookie defense attorney. 
 He's just such a memorable character. But its not just Phoenix Wright that makes this cast great 
 but the rest of the cast makes the game even better, with characters named Oldbag and Sal Manella 
 this game is just so cleverly written. The translation is pretty much perfect. The law in this 
 game I have no clue how the law system works but it works well for the game.
  
  Overall this game has made me want some more of Phoenix Wright whether it be a remake of 2 and 
 3 or another sequel. I just need more Phoenix Wright!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koomaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  
  Phoenix Wright proves that Adventure Games are alive (*check status*) and kicking (*kick reviewer*) 
 in this investigative lawyer game for the Nintendo DS.
  
  You assume the role of the titular character Phoenix Wright as he partakes in his first trials 
 as a defense attorney. The game succeeds in making Phoenix a likeable character and in getting 
 you to care about his successes and failures. Throughout the game you'll be privy to his private 
 thoughts, and become amused at his idiosyncratic face faults and rises as he becomes worried or 
 elated.
  
  The characters and the plot of Phoenix Wright hit all the right spots in you that get you addicted 
 to each individual case that's going on. The good part is that you can spend just a few minutes 
 going over evidence, or in a trial, or you can spend hours taking on a whole case that you've become 
 immersed in. The game is akin to reading an interactive book, where your actions move the story 
 and characters along.
  
  The Graphics, Sound and Characters are all over the top. You'll be infinitely amused by people's 
 appearance, name, and personality. Along with this, the background music is pretty catchy as well, 
 and in court, hearing Phoenix yell out "Hold It", "Take That" or "Objection" draws you into the 
 action. All this goes a long way into how much you'll enjoy the game. 
  
  The game is broken up into the actual trials and then investigative work. When not in trial, Phoenix 
 Wright and his sidekick Maya will traverse crime scenes and other important locales in order to 
 unearth clues that will help Phoenix win his latest case. You'll interview witnesses, examine crime 
 scenes, piece together clues, and in the final chapter even explore a few CSI type forensic tools. 
 As your case goes on you'll experience twists and turns and these clues are vital to your success 
 in defending the case.
  
  Phoenix Wright is not as hard a game as it seems however. It's a Lawyer Lite type of game. The 
 game will not progress to trial if you don't get all the info and clues you need during the investigative 
 part. However don't think this is easy either. Sometimes it's fairly obvious where to look and 
 who to talk to and when, but as the game goes on things become more obtuse, when it will take some 
 head scratching to figure out what exactly there is left for you to uncover.
  
  The trial on the otherhand is where you could potentially get a Game Over (GUILTY Verdict) screen. 
 Like the investigation, sometimes it's obvious what evidence you have to present, while sometimes 
 it will take a while to figure out how to find the hole in their story. You can unlimitely press 
 witnesses in their statments without negative recourse against Phoenix. However if you present 
 a piece of evidence at the wrong time, the Judge becomes upset and will only give you 5 mistakes 
 before he declares a Guilty Verdict because of your incompetance.
  
  However if you want to take the easy way out, the game allows you to save your progress at any 
 point, so you could simply save before presenting evidence, and if you flub it, just restart and 
 present again. All this goes to take a lot of challenge away from the game; however, the most interesting 
 aspect to Phoenix Wright isn't in winning the cases, it's all about the adventure in getting to 
 the Not Guilty Verdict that you'll enjoy.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney proves that Adventure Games are getting back in the spotlight, and 
 they are better than ever. The supurb mix of Phoenix Wright's storytelling, characters, and presentation 
 make this an experience for the DS that you can't miss out on. Case Closed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaTaClAsMiC76
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is one of those games has taken a boring n tiring career to a very 
 exciting n dramatic level. i gotta admit, it amazed me for i never thought capcom would think of 
 risking their money on developing such a game. but their thought of takin such a risk turned out 
 wonderful. the story is about a rookie attorney, Phoenix Wright, n he is just starting his first 
 real case. a murder case. at first u will see that Phoenix is really nervous before n during his 
 first trial, but if u play ur cards rite, such as contradicting the witnesses' testimony during 
 ur cross-examination with the right evidence, Phoenix will eventually become more confident n will 
 take the trail in his hand. the point of the game is to find the contradictions in the witnesses' 
 testimony n, during the cross-examination (that's when u start questioning the witness) , u point 
 out the lies n prove them with the evidence u have collected during or outside the trial. when 
 playing the game, u will realize that as u continue takin on new cases n trials, it will get tougher, 
 for the witness n prosecutor will give u a harder time in proving an innocent verdict on ur defendant. 
 the witnesses later on will give near perfect testimonies that might even take forever sometimes 
 to contradict n the prosecutor will even contradict ur objections n provide yet another hard obstacle 
 in ur path to getting an innocent verdict. so this game is very great n challenging. its a total 
 time killer, once u play it, u never get off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_rick3715
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to say that I have been ADDICTED to this game. It has a REALLY good story and 
 it is a nice change from running around shooting things, like pretty much any game that comes out 
 nowadays. 
  
  In the game you play an attorney, Phoenix Wright, who is fresh out of law school and onto his first 
 trial where you are defending your friend Larry Butz, who is charged with murder, and this being 
 your first case you are very nervous and even froget who the victum is even though you had just 
 looked at is a second earlier (but they do this so you can learn how to use your inventory to check 
 on important people and your evidence that you have gathered) . 
  
  Phoenix is a very uncanny character with very witty remarks and some lame jokes (ala Adam West's 
 Batman.) A busty lady named Mia Fey is your superior and mentor (she gives you tips as to what 
 you are looking for) . Mia's little sister, named Maya, is your assistant and she is a medium in 
 training. And then of course, there is your rival, Miles Edgeworth, he became a prosecutor at a 
 young age and does anything to get a guilty judgment for the defendant wether they did it or not. 
 
  
  The game is mostly a textbased adventure but there are some point-and-click parts where you go 
 and find evidence and question defendants and witnesses and such. 
  
  The game's grapics are 2d and the character designs are done really well in an anime/manga stlye 
 that is really cool, as a bonus when you talk to someone their picture atually changes with their 
 emotions (I know it's not that interesting but it works really well) . 
  
  There aren't really any voices other than the "Objection" and "Take That" voices, other than that 
 it is all up to your imagination as to how they sound. 
  
  The trials are fun and captivating in the sense that you start to really like (or dislike) some 
 of the characters you are examining, and the judge is on the whole "guilty until proven innocent 
 rule". 
  
  The courtroom scenes are basically the witness giving you his testamony and then you cross-examine 
 them and find flaws in their story, sometimes this is really difficult which I find interesting 
 cause I like a challenge in my games. 
  
  The story is broken up into episodes, which each has their own case except for one or two two-part 
 episodes. Each episode has you defending another client who you presume is innocent and try and 
 prove them innocent. 
  
  Well now that i've told you the good let's get to the bad, which really isn't much, First off sometimes 
 the judge seems like an idiot, you present some evidence that is rock solid and if the prosecution 
 has some counter evidence he right of the bat believes the prosecutor unless you have more evidence. 
 
  
  Secondly is it is a bit linear in that you have a set path and there really arent anyother way 
 to get to the end of the game other than the set path, which makes the replayabilty factor kinda 
 low. 
  
  And finally, they try and add some innovation by letting you hit the "Y" button and saying "Hold 
 It" into the microphone, which sounds good on paper but it is really just a gimmick and it is too 
 picky as too what you are saying, expecially when you can just tap the screen and get the job gone 
 quicker. I wish they could have done more with this feature but it isn't that big of a deal. 
 
  
  In all the game is fun, innovative, and very quirky with some laugh out loud moments. Rarely is 
 there a game in which the story outshines the gameplay but this is one case, I hope they plan on 
 bringing more of these stateside cause I had a blast. If you have a DS get this game, and if you 
 don't now is the best time to get one with all of these great games coming out. 
  
  I give Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney a 8.7 out of 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect when I first read about Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. "A lawyer sim... 
 That's kinda cool, but how do you play something like that?" My mother was an undefeated divorce 
 attorney, so what I knew about the law was "confusing latin terms that mean other confusing latin 
 terms and lots of litigation - YAY!" However, when I read more about it and saw clips, I became 
 drawn to it. It beckoned me. Eventually, it got to the point where I HAD to play this game if only 
 just to say I played it. Once it came out and I threw that baby into my DS, I fell in love with 
 this game. The difficulty is just right - you gotta read the reports, check the evidence, and make 
 sure you're confident enough to not slip up when it's time to cross-examine testimonies to ensure 
 the innocent go free and justice is served! Hot anime chicks, flamboyant purple hair, EXCELLENT 
 use of the touch screen. Plus, it's really fun to yell "Objection!" at your DS when you gotta lay 
 a legal smackdown on some fools. I gave the graphics and sound 9s because, while the game looks 
 and sounds perfect, it's nothing to write home about. The tilt is a 10 here because - I mean, think 
 about it... It's a LAWYER sim. It goes great with your surgeon sim, Trauma Center. With that and 
 this in your DS carrying case, you have about 8 years worth of schooling in the plam of your hand. 
 It's not gonna make you Cochran, but it's a blast to play and you might learn some nifty stuff 
 about the law without boring "socratic method" lectures. Get this game today, right now, this minute. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thwalker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  P. W. is about as much a law simulator as Mario Bros was a plumbing simulator. If you know anything 
 at all about litigation, you'll realize that there is little realism to the cases. However, that's 
 not a problem; you wouldn't complain about Mario Kart not being as realistic as Gran Turismo. This 
 is meant to be a fun experience loosely based on a concept with which most people at have at least 
 some peripheral familiarity, and as it doesn't even take *ITSELF* seriously (it has characters 
 named April May, Redd White, Will Powers, Jack Hammer, etc.) , it succeeds on a grand scale.
  
  The game is basically broken up into two types of play  out of court detective work and in-court 
 trial proceedings. For the out of court detective work, there are plenty of imaginative story elements 
 to enjoy. You get to examine the scene of the crime for evidence that the police may have missed 
 (or sometimes before the police to ensure that evidence actually makes it to court without a bunch 
 of lies to explain its presence) . Not all of the gathering is evidence, however, as the in-game 
 characters can give you a lot of hints as to what will be necessary to show to prove your client's 
 innocence. And yes, it's always proving innocence because your client is always innocent (you hope) 
 and you are always the defense attorney. Moreover, the prosecutors are ruthless and will do whatever 
 it takes to get a guilty verdict.
  
  The trial proceedings are where the meat of the work is done to defend your client, and the name 
 of the game is impeachment  the act of proving that a person has lied under oath  when you have 
 the opportunity to cross-examine. Incredulously, witnesses that are impeached simply revise their 
 lies (at the indulgence and sometimes admonition of the judge) , at which point you try to impeach 
 them again until they are too rattled to continue. Even with this impeach-revise-impeach cycle, 
 the process never seems to get old. To the witnesses' credits, they do get better at lying the 
 more you impeach them, which makes it that much more difficult to proceed.
  
  That being said, this game precedes linearly. There isn't really a chance of you doing too much 
 wrong except perhaps presenting the wrong piece of evidence at the wrong time. If you do so, you'll 
 have that mistake noted, and five such mistakes will cause you to lose your case. You can save 
 before "testing the waters," though, so don't expect the difficulty of this game to serve as incentive 
 to play. The fun is being along for the ride, the experience of watching an interesting drama with 
 colorful characters unfold. And sadly, I can see very little replay value for a game of this type, 
 but to its credit, the game appears to be quite lengthy.
  
  P. W.'s sound also does not disappoint. The music is classic thowback SNES-quality video game music 
 that could have been used in any game in the late nineties but does an especially good job of matching 
 the mood of the various scenes. The conversations and court battles are also littered with action 
 game sounds like punches and sword slices and clangs which comically punctuate the ongoing arguments. 
 The more you play, however, the less comical these sound effects seem. Phoenix Wright does a fantastic 
 job of catching the anime feel early on, and after only a few hours of playing, you'd actually 
 be surprised if you didn't hear a sword blow landing after impeaching a witness.
  
  The law has never been this much fun, indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nes4life13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  If this game does not get the most original design of the year award in whatever ceremony's it's 
 held in, I would simply be speechless. I have always wondered what it was like to be an attorney 
 at law, I am even thinking about taking law, I know this game stretches the way it really is like, 
 but it has taught me a lot of things, I am in debate class, the tournaments bear a stricking resemblence 
 to a court case. Anyway, law is an intrest of mine, and man this game feels like it was made for 
 me. It doesn't take itself too seriously, there are a lot of jokes put in to the game (it would 
 be dull if they didn't.) And there are cases that are loosely based on history, for example wiretapping 
 at the Gatewater Hotel, anybody who has a 6th grade education of history would know what instance 
 in history this was based on.
  On to what makes this game near perfect, the depth of the charicters, it is amazing how much time 
 & work they put in to the reactions of the charicters, you can tell how they feel on many levels, 
 they might stutter, or have an inconfident look on their face, possibly the best part of the game 
 is stopping somebody right on their tracks, and seeing the opponent's reaction, you can so easily 
 whipe that evil little grin off of the REAL enemy's face. Anyway this game is a beautiful orchestra 
 of graphics, drama, puzzles, music and many other elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-IGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney is the first game in the Gyaktan Saiban series to appear on US shores, 
 and it is absolutely flawless. It does some hand=holding, which I like, because it doesn't leave 
 you hanging if you get stuck.. It does, however, challenge you to think about the story from all 
 angles. For instance, in the first episode, you are trying to defend Larry Butz, an old friend 
 of Phoenix's who has been accused of murdering his ex-girlfriend. The prosecution's witness challenges 
 you to prove an allegation against him, and you are forced to choose a piece of evidence supporting 
 your claims. This is where the game truly shines. It is simple, addictive, and surprisingly educational. 
 I now know what it is like to be a lawyer, and I'm more interested in it than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while, a Japanese game gets translated, takes the scene by storm, and makes people wonder 
 why it didnt happen earlier. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney has the potential to become such a game. 
 Originally released only in Japan, Gyakuten Saiban (loosely translated as reversal judgment) 
 is a popular legal simulation game for the GBA that turns you into a defense attorney. The series 
 has already spanned three installments in Japan, with one more being slated for release for the 
 Nintendo DS next year. Before that happens, however, Capcom released Gyakuten Saiban: Yomigaeru 
 Gyakuten in September to pave the way for the titles transition from the GBA to the DS. The game 
 included a fully translated English version, which is eventually released in the US as Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney (PWAA) .
  
  So, what really is PWAA? Well, its basically a point-and-click adventure game that is set in a 
 legal background. As rookie lawyer Phoenix Wright, youll take on five cases in this game, which 
 includes four from the first Gyakuten Saiban game, and a brand new case that was created with the 
 features of the DS In mind. The game takes place primarily in two platforms  investigation and 
 court proceedings. In the earlier scenario, you go from place to place, talking to people and examining 
 crime scenes to gather evidence that may be important in proving your clients innocence. The game 
 is rather forgiving, as it automatically includes all evidence that will somehow have some bearings 
 on the case, so youll never really to wonder whats useful and whats not. This essentially leaves 
 you with the task of finding out why theyre important, which is a nice focus.
  
  During court proceedings, youll come against prosecutors whore eager to convince the judge that 
 your client is guilty. Youll also get to cross-examine witnesses related to the cases, which is 
 where the fun really begins. Almost every testimony you come across in this game has some weakness 
 or two, which you can exploit to turn the tide in your favor. You can do so by either pressing 
 the witness for clarification, or objecting to the testimony by presenting contradictory evidence 
 found in your court records. While this may sound easy, finding the exact evidence to present could 
 still be a tricky task if you dont follow the case closely. Of course, being good at solving puzzles 
 of this nature helps a great deal, but the cases are all designed with an acceptable, though linear, 
 logic that even those whore not exactly quick-witted can guess the killer if they only exercise 
 some diligence and commonsense.
  
  Because the clues are all in place for you, its also possible to cheat by simply presenting everything 
 youve if no form of restriction is set. To prevent this possible abuse, the game has a penalty 
 system that reduces your life if you present a wrong objection. Present wrongly for five times, 
 and youll be greeted with the game over screen. While this may sound harsh, it actually encourages 
 players to spend time thinking through the cases, which in turn leads to a more satisfying gaming 
 experience. 
  
  The controls of the game are also pretty simple. Even though therere quite a lot to do, every 
 action can be performed by clicking the respective buttons on the touch screen with your stylus. 
 The game does make use of the DS voice recognition ability, so its possible for you to shout 
 Objection! into the mic to present evidence. However, the voice recognition is never forced upon 
 you, so when you get tired of talking to a machine, you can always revert to your stylus.
  
  Also, while the first four cases of this game are ported from its GBA counterpart, the fifth 
 case was designed specifically with the DS in mind. This brand new case fully utilizes the DS 
 innovative features. Youll get to rotate and zoom-in on evidence to examine them more thoroughly. 
 Youll also get to join pieces of broken evidence together. You can even set powder on your screen, 
 and then blow it away to gather fingerprints. All these features make the game a really involving 
 experience.
  
  Graphically, PWAA uses an anime style to portray the various quirky characters. The style should 
 appeal to most people, even though they tend to appear too repetitive as the game progresses. Still, 
 as the game is so heavily text-driven, youll tend to be forgiving when Phoenix Wright points his 
 finger out again (for the umpteenth time) as he tells the judge that the witness testimony is 
 faulty. The audios of the game are also heavily anime-inspired. The music blends in with the action 
 really well, and its quite obvious that the developers actually tried to create different background 
 music that are unique to the different characters. Again, this complemented the game greatly. 
 
  
  All in all, PWAA is a game that Id recommend to all DS owners, even those whore not exactly interested 
 in murder mysteries. The game is a little too linear for players who tend to think ahead of time, 
 but its still a great adventure for those who want to try something different. Its not everyday 
 that you become a lawyer, and Im pretty sure that after you relieve your role as Phoenix Wright, 
 youll be itching to take on the bad guys in the sequel again. If you only have budget for one 
 game this month, consider this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameloverx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  What I thought about this game is that it's so damn cool and then I got the game due to my allowance. 
 And then in five minutes my dear gamer is that once you play it you can't get enough of him. Sure 
 the game is much unlike the DS games you play, but it would be cool in real life you could see a 
 real life version of Phoenix in a courtroom and you were the wittness of that murder you would 
 tell him that the muderer killed him or her with a glass bottle and fled off the apartment and 
 then with blood on the floor when you.... Sorry went off topic there is but trust me you'll like 
 this game beacause of the suspence, the action, and the storyline or if you're lookking for a challenge. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
