-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/phoenixwrightaceattorney2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wonderful characters.
 Cases and storylines are very interesting, especially the last one.
 Music is fantastic.
 Gameplay is very satisfying when you get on a roll during a court case.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not only does it not have any new touch-screen features, it's missing several from the first game.
 Game is very linear and relies too heavily on finding or doing one small thing to trigger the next event.
 Plays almost exactly the same as the previous game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.8, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,326 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jan 16, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Justice for All is a good, lengthy adventure with great character-driven storylines, but it fails 
 to build upon the promising groundwork laid by the first game. 

  Though it only made its first appearance in North America last year, Phoenix Wright (or Gyakuten 
 Saiban) has been a popular series for the Game Boy Advance in Japan for quite some time. The first 
 game released outside of Japan, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney had all four of the cases found on 
 the Japanese GBA game plus a Nintendo DS-exclusive case that made more extensive use of the handheld's 
 touch screen and improved graphical capabilities. Thanks to an engrossing story, endearing characters, 
 and engaging gameplay, the game was a surprise hit. Now the second game, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 Justice for All, has been released, and like its predecessor, the story is top-notch and the characters 
 are great. But the game fails to live up to the original in several ways. None of the cool DS-exclusive 
 features introduced in the final case of the previous game are here, and far too often the game 
 attempts to create intrigue and suspense with the same types of twists and turns from the original. 
 Justice for All is still a very good game, but it's hard not to feel as if it's a step backward 
 for the series.  

          Some people have secrets that they just don't want to share. You'll need to break these 
 locks with evidence and well-thought-out questions.     

  Justice for All is a story-driven adventure in which, once again, you play the role of Phoenix 
 Wright, a defense attorney renowned for his belief in his clients' innocence, as well as his ability 
 to translate that belief into a verdict of "not guilty." And, once again, you'll be exclusively 
 defending people accused of murder. After you're presented with the facts and take the case, it's 
 up to you to visit different locations to look for clues and interview witnesses. When you've gathered 
 all the information you can find, it's off to court, where you'll have to pull out all the stops 
 to prove your client innocent. As they were in the first game, the cases are fascinating; there's 
 rarely a dull moment. In fact, the pacing is slightly better here. Over the course of the game's 
 four cases, you'll defend a policewoman accused of killing another officer; help an old friend 
 who's in a tight spot; get to the bottom of a murder in which the perpetrator levitated from the 
 crime scene; and even question your own moral fiber in the harrowing final case.  

  What made the first game great, and what's without a doubt this game's biggest strength, is the 
 characters, many of whom return from the first game. It really does feel as if you're catching 
 up with old friends the first time you see Maya and Mia Fey, the Judge, Detective Gumshoe, Lotta 
 Hart, Will Powers, and even crusty Ms. Oldbag. You'll also find out what Miles Edgeworth has been 
 doing, and you'll even take on Von Karma in court. You certainly get more from this game if you 
 played the first one, but the game generally does a decent job of providing enough backstory that 
 you'll understand what's going on with the returning characters. But it's not all about the returning 
 folks; many of the new people you meet along the way prove to be just as endearing as those from 
 the first game. There are the zany performers from the Berry Big Circus, the "director" nut job 
 at the Hotti Clinic, and little Pearl, who is about as cute and adorable as a video game character 
 can get.  

  As you did in the first game, you use the touch screen to examine profiles, view evidence, press 
 witnesses for more information, and, of course, raise objections so that you may present evidence. 
 You can really get into character by yelling "Objection!" into the DS's microphone. However, you 
 can't object anytime you want to; you need to be prepared to back up your statement. You lose health 
 when you're unable to substantiate a claim, and when you run out of health you'll have to start 
 from the last save point. The big new feature in Justice for All is the "psyche-lock," where you'll 
 literally see chains and locks appear over a person when they have a secret that they don't want 
 to share. To break these locks and reveal the truth you'll need to collect evidence and then confront 
 them with said evidence until they break down and spill the beans. The psyche-locks are an interesting 
 addition to the mix, but as the sole "big" new feature, they're underwhelming.  

  Quite a few issues have carried over from the first game. First, the game is extremely linear. 
 There aren't many wrong paths you can take, and there's only one possible ending and culprit for 
 each case (with one minor exception) . You always know that if you screw up, the game will give 
 you another chance -- or you can simply load your previous save. When you're in court trying to prove 
 a point, the connection between a question and a person or item is occasionally so incredibly vague, 
 you'll often have to resort to guessing as to what response is appropriate. Should you guess wrong, 
 you can take your punishment from the judge and try to play fair, but that could involve starting 
 the same case over multiple times, so it's easier to save and restart often. It would also be nice 
 to deal with crimes other than murder and for some of the cases to perhaps be a little shorter. 
 You can finish the first one in an hour or two, but the last case will probably run you about eight 
 hours. Long, memorable cases are all well and good, but these cases are drawn out the same way, 
 time after time. Witnesses will repeatedly lie while on the stand yet never have their testimony 
 stricken from the record, prosecutors manhandle the judge when things aren't going their way, and 
 really, is anyone falling for the false finishes where the Judge says, "Well, I think I've seen 
 enough to render a verdict," 10 minutes into a case?  

  Justice for All may be text driven, but that doesn't mean the visuals aren't important. The character 
 designs are outstanding, and the game uses a bright, colorful palette to make them attractive. 
 Characters will move their mouths as they talk and are generally stationary, though each person 
 has a host of animations that allow them to react (mostly) realistically to what's happening. The 
 people you encounter will react with rage when accused of something, cry or show fear when things 
 are looking grim, and celebrate when the case is over. Unfortunately, it feels as if the developer 
 cut some corners on the presentation this time around. Many returning characters have the exact 
 same animation that they did in the first game -- they're even wearing the same clothes. Many of 
 the locations from the original game are recycled and are completely unchanged, too. The courtroom 
 is the same, as is the detention center, Phoenix's office, and a few other locations.  

          Many familiar faces are back for more fun.     

  Other than hollering "Hold it!" and 
 "Objection!," there's no speech to be found, which is OK because despite a handful of errors, the 
 localization of the text is outstanding. It's impressive that Capcom was able to translate such 
 a text-heavy game so smoothly and even toss in nuggets from  Top Gun ,  Finding Forrester , and 
  The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air . There's hardly any speech, but there sure is plenty of music, which 
 is uniformly outstanding and used masterfully to not only convey characters' personalities, but 
 also to create suspense, sorrow, and excitement throughout the story. You'll hear a few familiar 
 themes from the original, but most of the music is new.  

  Justice for All is an entertaining, lengthy adventure with great storylines and memorable characters, 
 but in the end, it's a bit disappointing when you consider how fantastic the original was. The 
 cool DS-exclusive features introduced at the tail end of the first game are missing, the plot twists 
 are often predictable, and the game is still extremely linear. Fans of the original game will certainly 
 enjoy the sequel, but even they will probably feel somewhat let down. If you've never played a 
 Phoenix Wright game before, the first game is clearly the better of the two, so you'll want to 
 start there before picking up Justice for All.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dafoose
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who knows the name "Phoenix Wright" is instantly reminded of the game's storyline and gameplay. 
 You'll start talking about it and make jokes all the while. While the game is short in some aspects, 
 it is also challenge. It's adaption to the DS with microphone is especially awesome, expanding 
 the pleasure of shouting objections whilst sitting on a bus next to a drunkard.
  
  Among other detective and courtroom games, Phoenix Wright has me hooked. I love the story line 
 and the adaptation of the characters. Mr. Wright is fantastic character with wit. 
  I especially enjoyed this second enstallment. more challenges and a different game play setup awaited, 
 and taking on the cleverest of crooks reminded me when to shout objections, and when to pass on 
 a trap for an overuling.
  One can't help but shout boldly with Phoenix on his quest to become a successful defense Attorney 
 in the Game, with the help of his faithful assistant medium, Maya Fey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luxord1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Justice for All builds upon the success of the first game and the story picks up 
 where the last one left off, while it offers players a challenge and an array of new cases to tackle 
 as well as Bright and ecentric characters to liven up the game this like all Pheonix wright games 
 suffer from a lack of Replay content, still it is wirth a playthrough, and the story is highly 
 addictive. people who have not played Pheonix wright 1 or don't don't like mysteries or mysteries 
 that make fun of themselves propably wouldn't enojoy this game it probably takes about 10-20 hours 
 to beat, and I don't have alot of problems with this game except the replay value i mentioned earlier, 
 other then that the only things that bothered me were some stupid things that came over in the 
 translation, for instance they chaged the word "jesus" to "Geebus" and they refered to an obvious 
 wine bottle asa juice bottle" I mean come on the game is rated "T" you don't need to do things 
 like that it just sticks out like a sore thumb, but overall it was a good experiance.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toro_Nev
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the second game in one of my all time favourite series; Phoenix Wright! The game continues 
 on from the first game, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. It is the continuation of the life of Defense 
 Attorney Phoenix Wright. 
  
  Throughout the course of the game, you get assigned a different case for each case. Each case has 
 a different character whom you must help get a 'Not Guilty' verdict. The storyline for each case 
 is different, and they have many unsuspecting twists around each corner!!! The downfall to this 
 game is that it lacks 1 case, because the previous game had 5 cases, while this one has 4. I would 
 have really liked another case in this game.
  
  The graphics are the same as always. Some of the graphics are really reused, such as the images 
 inside the court as well as Phoenix Wright's office. There are some new areas that look really 
 detailed and creative.
  
  The music is still as good as ever! There aren't really any reused tunes from the first game, except 
 for the main theme song which is remixed to sound better. The music is really made for the purpose 
 of emphasis on emotion in specific parts.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the previous Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney game because the mission 
 of the game is simple; help solve your clients cases to move on in the game until you finish all 
 of the four cases.
  
  The difficulty is Just Right. If you played the previous Phoenix Wright game, you would be familiar 
 with the game as soon as you pick it up. Also, if this is your first Phoenix Wright game, the first 
 case really teaches you how the game goes, so you wont feel confused once you start playing. 
 
  
  Overall, I would give this game a 9/10 rating. I would recommend you try out the first Phoenix 
 Wright game first, so that if you like the story and gameplay, you can continue on in this sequel.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review! ~ I hope my review was helpful and OK to read (this is my fourth 
 review)
  
  -Nev
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshleyKat
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Alright so here I am playing my second Phoenix Wright game, Justice for all. Firstly, I must state 
 that I played for about 4 hours every night till I managed to FINALLY finish it. The last case 
 got me.
  
  At first, the cases honestly didn't surprise me at all. I guessed the murder; the motive, the loops 
 and ends. But for some reason, the last case was extremely hard. I actually had to refer to a guide 
 once in this last case. A little more on the last case is that the verdict and everything seems 
 a lot different from the previous three... But interesting nonetheless. It's what pushed the score 
 up to an 8.
  
  This game lacked all special features of the last case in "Ace Attorney" and the characters weren't 
 as appealing; specially that Ini girl... her speech was tedious. I wanted to just switch of my 
 DS. Good lord. Von Karma was probably the only interesting new character to appear. I enjoyed specially 
 when she cried. Wow. Amazing. Shelly De Killer wasn't a bad character either. Edgeworth is still 
 as lovable as ever... I also have see Gumshoe is a different way. So let's sum it all up. Great 
 last case, first three rather boring... murder gets old... Linear, quite hard to figure out some 
 of the testimonies-much harder than the first I admit. Funny how you get stuck without showing 
 a specific object to a specific person. Get it if you're a huge fan of this series; get the first 
 one if its you're first time playing.
  
  -Side note: Zimbabwe?! WTF. Play the game and you'll see at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topperdoggle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  I might as well get to the conclusion now, as it's not a difficult one to reach. The bottom line 
 is that And Justice For All is more of the same. The gameplay mechanics are the same, the aesthetics 
 are the same, and the objectives are the same. Whether you take issue with this is a personal matter.
 
  
  Personally I don't mind too much, as I buy games second-hand, but at the same time, I don't see 
 any practical reason why the cases here couldn't have been included in the first game. I'm sure 
 the cartridges have enough capacity.
  
  It's purely a commercial decision, and Phoenix Wright is not the only series to suffer from this, 
 but it does annoy me somewhat, like selling a TV series on DVD in more than one box. In an ideal 
 world, these cases should have been in the first game, or this sequel should have offered more 
 than lip-service towards innovation.
  
  Philosophical discussions aside, this is supposed to be a review of the actual game. The good news 
 is that like its predecessor, this game is immersive, addictive, thought-provoking, fun, and emotional.
 
  
  Yes, there are a couple of issues. The font size should be smaller, meaning less button-presses 
 to continue, but of course most games are guilty of this. What are we all, short-sighted? I'd rather 
 be squinting than suffering from RSI.
  
  Also, It's annoying when you present evidence that could easily have had a meaning and the game 
 penalises you because it's not exactly what the linear plot requires.
  
  Despite that limitation, the format continues to provide fun and annoying characters in equal measure, 
 good laughs, clever scenarios, and a real rush of adrenalin and sense of achievement during the 
 exciting parts. There was only one instance in the entire game when I thought the correct path 
 was a bit unfair.
  
  There are minor tweaks to gameplay. You can now present a character profile to a character as well 
 as evidence that you collect. Plus there's the Psyche Lock system, which involves presenting items 
 to characters to get them to open up, rather like a witness cross-examination off the witness stand.
 
  
  Like its predecessor, it tends just slightly towards being an interactive book more than a /proper/ 
 game, but when the story is so compelling, it's easy to let that go over your head.
  
  It's not as if it's the only game you can buy, and indeed I wouldn't want every game to be like 
 this, but the fact is, once it got into my DS, it didn't leave until it was finished.
  
  I played it when I should have been sleeping, working, while I was brushing my teeth, you get the 
 picture. I don't have a lot of time for games these days, so that says a lot about the "just one 
 more go"-ness.
  
  In conclusion, in isolation, a great game, but as part of the series, the developer's laziness 
 can't be ignored, and for that, I docked it half a point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It's a text-based game, so if you don't like text-based games, than stay away from this 
 game, I can have fun with text-based games, but if you can't than stay away from this game, although 
 it's like reading a book, when you get to the interesting parts, you always want to finish the 
 case.
  
  8/10
  
  Graphics: Good graphics, it's good, and there is really much to say about it.
  
  9/10
  
 
  Story: You play as an Attorney, and you have different cases, and very case has a different story 
 and every story is always good and interesting.
  
  One of the major problems of this game is the difficulty curve, the first time I played throw I 
 was going to go nuts, I had to use Gamefaqs to beat it, it was so hard, but still it isn't really 
 that hard if you actually use your mind, so yes, this is a good game, do I reccomend it? yes I 
 reccomend, but only to the people who are used to text-based adventures and don't get bored reading, 
 I have never tried the other games in the series, but if they all have the same gameplay with different 
 cases, than all of them are worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo890
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is actually the first Phoenix Wright game I played and at the time it was extremely fun. Then 
 I got the original and looking back at Justice For All I was not impressed anymore. Overall it 
 is the same game with a few differences one being the new psyche lock system which I found to be 
 annoying to do because you would loss all your power because you didn't that you didn't have the 
 evidence. The story was still the best part as in the first but the cases don't connect like in 
 the third. Also the reason of death does get monotonous because it is a lot of the same stuff. 
 To make sense of the series you need to play this game. The characters weren't as endearing and 
 the ones they brought back were extremely annoying. By far the best addition was the whip happy 
 Von Karma. The music is the worst in the series by far and overall not as great a game defiantly 
 a buy for big fans of the original but don't be upset if you are a little unsatisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  (First written: 12/24/07)
  In a nutshell: An addicting game with engaging characters and well-crafted cases, this courtroom 
 drama is something anyone should play though its pace is not as fast as the prosecutor's whip... 
 No really, it's a whip.
  
  The DS has been the hotspot for the conception of games that buck the trend. First Atlus gave you 
 the opportunity to play doctor, now Capcom gets you in the courtroom. No, it doesn't really share 
 the former's quality of being excessively punishing, but the cases themselves have a lot of twists 
 and turns that will definitely have you sweating but not swearing.
  
  The presentation is actually effective despite the fact that the game is presented in the old-fashioned 
 text box manner because the music aids with the expression of certain characters as well as their 
 poses and screen flashes. So if ever you gotta talk to someone for information, it will definitely 
 be full of personality, thus making them amusing to read and watch.
  
  If you don't mind looking like a fool in a public place, then you can hold the Y button and yell 
 whatever you need to shout (it will be written) like "Objection!" or "Take that!" so you can present 
 some evidence or point out a contradiction in a person's testimony. But if you're not much of a 
 fan of touch-screen and/or microphone controls, the game works as well with traditional tactility 
 (este, buttons) .
  
  The things that really shine in the game are its great characters, right down from you to the most 
 minor character, who even have a backstory of their own as well. Usually, these back stories even 
 serve as strong evidence in defending your client, but of course, you shouldn't randomly present 
 the dirt to the court, especially if the situation isn't that related to what evidence you have. 
 Which leads me to the courtroom battles themselves. They are very intense especially those between 
 the prosecutor von Karma who even holds a whip and made a career in Germany when she was just 13! 
 But the fourth and last case is a very explosive one, not to mention very lengthy. And an action 
 done in this part of the case will trigger either a good or bad ending. No, the bad ending is not 
 the part when you get a game over verdict of "Not Guilty" and restarting from where you save (which 
 is anywhere) but something that you'll have to find out for yourself.
  
  A few bad eggs exist though: one is that the game relies too much on another action to trigger 
 the next one, making it too linear, and two is that the evidence you have to present is almost 
 unrelated to a certain contradictory statement in the testimony, making you scratch your head when 
 you find out that this evidence is the one you'll have to present. So you'll probably want to occasionally 
 peek through the walkthroughs made for the game.
  
  I haven't played its predecessor, which they say was definitely better, but lawyer Phoenix Wright's 
 second outing is something you should play anyway, not only for its intense courtroom battles, 
 but also for its engaging characters and stories.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARIFFLES
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The next installment of the Phoenix Wright series brings in new characters and locations. Not forgetting 
 that some of the characters from the previous game will be returning to help out.
  Now with four all-new cases and new investigation techniques, the game will challenge the player 
 to the extent that you will punch the nearest person to you if a penalty comes your way. Is this 
 a good thing? Well it depends. This is going to keep you thinking about what you did wrong and 
 let's you know what failure tastes like. Due to this, the game is mostly based on trail and error 
 to make progress in the game. 
  All the new cases take place in new locations and have very interesting scenarios and story-lines 
 to keep you entertained with the different personalities of each character and how the case progresses.
 
  The basic mechanics are still basically the same to the previous game except that your life bar 
 can be refilled by breaking 'psyche-locks' which are a new feature in investigating your witnesses. 
 The inclusion of being able to present character profiles as evidence during a trail makes deciding 
 what evidence you should use more complex and requires logic and not to over think things to make 
 the 'wright' choice! (see what i did there?)
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All, is a worthy sequel to the previous game introducing 
 new sequences, characters and investigation techniques. All the charm and humor still appear in 
 this game and is a must-buy for any Phoenix Wright fan, no matter how foolishly foolish they may 
 be. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Alright, continuing on into the Phoenix Wright series, I'm going to review the next in line: Phoenix 
 Wright Ace Attorney: Justice for all
  
  This game is the second and series with a few improvements here and there. Since it's a remake 
 of a Game Boy Advanced game, it's understandable that they couldn't be pressed for to many extra 
 features, so in a way it's kind of a let down to the first game since it's minus one case, yup 
 that's a total of four, but they're still lengthy and crazy as ever. 
  
  The first case does a good job reintroducing the player or any new comers to the game, the game 
 easily stands on its own, but the series seems to go better as a whole as there's many recognizable 
 characters brought from the first one and some mentions from the first game as well. 
  
  In this game we're introduced to the Psyche-Lock feature, which brings more interaction and thinking 
 to the investigations rather than point and click and guess which way you should go and who to 
 talk to. It's a nice new feature, but at times it's rather difficult and hard to guess which pieces 
 of evidence to show the person to break their lock. However, Phoenix usually hints at when you 
 can go break a lock finally. You cannot save during these instances, so it's advisable to do so 
 before hand. It's pretty gratifying when you break the locks and most times you're rewarded with 
 helpful information and a chunk of the penalty bar is restored. Most times I found myself avoiding 
 the Psyche-Lock challenge until I exhausted all other options than took a swing at it.
  
  The game retains its charm from the previous game, and even has an alternative ending; however, 
 the bad ending's effect is squandered by its glaring grammatical error, making it difficult to 
 take seriously. The good ending is much more lengthy and rewarding to watch, with it's all around 
 good feel it's a good way to wrap up and make you feel tingly inside. Never missing a beat, the 
 Pheonix Wright series continues to prove that it has strong characters that can be easily expanded 
 upon and intresting to read through with. It's hard to find three dimensional characters within 
 a game, or ones that maintain intrest for long, but this one does it, and well it does. We're also 
 introduced to a new a colorful supporting cast of characters that are just as impressive as always.
 
  
  What was surprising in the game you actually had to some how prove one of your clients guilty, 
 which takes the wind out of Phoenix's perfect streak, but also makes him more human at the same 
 time. This last case really made it for me, really wearing Phoenix's heart on a sleeve.
  
  So kicking it to the masses,
  
  The concept remains the same and still enticing as ever, the 
 game keeps me in suspended excitement for each installment there is to be and keeps me busy.
  
  Graphics: There's hardly any improvement here, new sprites but just about the same set up, 
 I had been hoping for new Sprites for the original cast but had only received recycled sprites. 
 Some new environments to look at here, but for the most part, some of the same ones come up that 
 I've grown a bit bored to look at. Still, it works for the game and doesn't distract attentions 
 to it, in fact, that's a bit of a bad thing. 
  
  Sound: The music sounds the same, and none of it's too memorable. 
  
  Playability: The controls 
 are the same and easy to progress through the game with.
  
  Entertainment: The storyline is still exciting as ever and more lovable characters are added on.
 
  
  Replay: There's little replay value in this game, except maybe getting the alternative ending, 
 which you can do simply by saving before the critical point that decides which one you'll get. 
 I bought this game, and the money was well spent since I enjoy the series thoroughly, however, 
 for a more casual gamer, it might be best to barrow this one as well. 
  
  All and all: Even with the lack of a fifth case, the game still proves to have heft and brawn to 
 compete with the rest, it stands well on it's own as a individual and is worthy of it's place in 
 the series, however, I must gripe at the translators for their slip up on the bad ending once more: 
 What the crud? It never happen? Okay, whatever. And just because I'm a fan, I must say, what's 
 with the lack of Edgeworth action?
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Sure, you can get stymied by the game not accepting a certain piece of evidence that you know would 
 work in a real courtroom. Sure, the dialogue can be cheesy. But hey, I love this series. This is 
 the type of game I would never play on any other system, but it's perfect for the DS. It gets your 
 marbles rolling, trying to figure out the angle you should be coming from, what could have possibly 
 happened. That's what I love about this game, it makes you think about the case, the evidence, 
 the people, try to put it all together (in bed, with the lights off and your wife's asleep and 
 it's just you and your stylus. :) I did miss the cool features from the last case of the first 
 Phoenix Wright, but hey, I'd rather have some Wright, that none, that'd just be wrong. I would 
 love to see this genre expanded a bit more, something like Deathnote and Phoenix Wright in one 
 game would be off the chain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Many gamers, myself included, were left dumbfounded with the release of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. 
 Reading has been a hobby for my entire life, as have been video games; what better way to combine 
 them with an incredible, exciting, text-based game? Phoenix Wright fit the bill, and enthralled 
 gamers with its intriguing plot, point-and-click game play, and cast of unforgettable characters.
 
  
  What more could I have asked for than a sequel? Justice for All retains many of the qualities of 
 the original Ace Attorney that made it so lovable, while at the same time implementing great new 
 cases and a few unique game play mechanics. Like the original Ace Attorney, you take on the role 
 of defense lawyer Phoenix Wright. The game offers four cases, each longer, crazier, and more exciting 
 than the previous. As you work through the game, you've got to take up your client's case and prove 
 them innocent in a court of law.
  
  The basic game play mechanic in Justice for All is nearly identical to that of the original Ace 
 Attorney. The game is essentially divided up into two parts: investigating crime scenes, and actually 
 going to court. The investigation aspect of the game will be familiar to anybody who's ever played 
 a point-and-click computer game. You move around from area to area, inspecting your surroundings 
 and finding clues. You will also have the opportunity to question people involved with the case, 
 by asking them questions and presenting them with key pieces of evidence.
  
  The big problem with this aspect of the game is that the investigative process is very linear -- 
 and as a result, it suffers from the problems that such games often contain. The worst part is 
 that this part of the game is far too linear. There is a very specific "formula" for exactly what 
 you need to do and in what order you need to do it. If you stray from this predetermined path, 
 you'll very quickly get stuck and have no idea what you're supposed to do next. Under certain circumstances, 
 I suppose this would be fine, but the issue is that there are a few times when the next course 
 of action just isn't logical. In these situations, you're really reduced to just walking randomly 
 around and arbitrarily presenting items to people, and hoping that it triggers something. Needless 
 to say, this can get immeasurably annoying.
  
  That's not to say that the entire investigative process is boring or annoying, though. In fact, 
 for the most part, this part of the game is fun and especially rewarding when you figure something 
 out. It also implements a new game play mechanic that wasn't present in the original Ace Attorney: 
 they're called Psyche Locks. Based off the idea that everybody has something to hide, there's an 
 item in the game that allows you to see locks on a person's soul, encasing their innermost secrets. 
 You should be able to guess, by now, that those secrets hugely impact the outcome of the court 
 case, and so you need to do your best to unlock those secrets. How? Well, you'll be led through 
 a stream-of-conscious theory, and you've essentially got to provide proof to back up the statements. 
 With each decisive statement you prove, a lock shatters. Some secrets are more important than others, 
 and as a result, the amount of locks varies greatly from person to person.
  
  The courtroom parts of the game do a great job of balancing any slightly annoying aspects of the 
 investigation aspect of the title. These scenes play out in a straightforward way, but they're 
 still immensely exciting. The prosecution will bring witnesses to the stand who hope to prove your 
 client guilty. You, as the defense attorney, must debunk any accusations (most of which are completely 
 false, by the way) made against your client. Once a witness has testified, you have the opportunity 
 to cross-examine him or her. You can press statements they made, in an attempt to gain more information 
 about what they said or reveal a deep-rooted flaw. And if you see a contradiction, you must object 
 to a statement and present a piece of evidence that proves your objection. It's incredibly exciting 
 when you finally crack a tough witness, and the feeling of satisfaction is huge when you present 
 a piece of evidence to take advantage of the slightest of contradictions.
  
  While it is a lot of fun, even the courtroom scenes of Justice for All suffer from a few problems. 
 First off is the fact that it can sometimes be annoying that even once you've clearly proven your 
 client guilty, you're not yet off the hook. Instead, you've actually got to identify the guilty 
 party and then prove that he or she is the perpetrator of the crime! Needless to say, this can 
 get really frustrating, especially when you're client is innocent beyond a shadow of a doubt, yet 
 you're forced to continue. Another problem is that the presentation of evidence is sometimes a 
 bit flawed. For example, you may be able to figure out exactly what happened. Yet, you might not 
 have the correct evidence to present, or it may be difficult to figure out exactly when to present 
 the piece of evidence that proves your point. Still, though, these flaws are pretty minor, and 
 don't detract hugely from the overall gaming experience.
  
  The cases in the game (four in total) rival those of the original Ace Attorney. Unfortunately, 
 Justice for All does sport one less case than the first game, which detracts significantly from 
 the time you'll put into this game. Still, though, the cases are equally epic, and the last one 
 in particular will have you on the edge of your seat until the very end, with an unprecedented 
 and utterly shocking plot twist. One unfortunate issue is that there's no real arcing plot. In 
 the first game, each of the cases were vaguely connected, and that connection was finally brought 
 to light in the final turnabout. Sadly, though, no such feature is present in Justice for All. 
 Instead, each case is completely independent and unrelated to the other three cases. They're still 
 very fun and very well-written, with some phenomenal new characters, but it would have been even 
 better had their been some sort of huge story arc.
  
  The graphics are a bit of a set-back in Justice for All, solely because they're recycled images 
 from the first game. Character renders are identical, and the animations are all the same, with 
 the exception of a few new additions. It's a pity that improvements haven't been made, but it's 
 also important to realize that the graphics aren't an incredibly important aspect of this game. 
 And while they suffer a bit in terms of originality, they don't really hurt the game, aside from 
 occasionally reminding you that you've already played a game very similar to this.
  
  The music, on the other hand, is fantastic. While it's not quite as good as the original's, it's 
 still very well-done and does a wonderful job of truly immersing you in this wacky world of Phoenix 
 Wright's. The tunes are catchy and cheerful (for the most part) , and are genuinely fun to listen 
 to. How many games have music that you can say that about? And in addition, each character's theme 
 is brilliant in portraying what that character is really like. It's a feat that doesn't come around 
 very often, and the team behind the music for this game deserves a huge pat on the back for a job 
 very well done.
  
  One of the biggest problems of this game is, interestingly, often one of it's most overlooked aspects. 
 You see, the game is disappointingly easy. Admittedly, the type of difficulty in this game certainly 
 isn't typical for most video games. You'll be challenged not by tough boss battles or difficult 
 strategic fights, but rather by thinking through convoluted stories filled with inaccuracies and 
 lies. And yes, a lot of the game is actually quite difficult. However, this difficulty is completely 
 compromised by the save feature. See, you can save anywhere in the game. Anywhere. So, simply saving 
 every few minuets ensures that you'll never once take a single strike (you have a maximum of five 
 strikes -- a strike is received when you make an incorrect objection or fail to procure important 
 evidence at a crucial moment) . While it's sad to see this game's difficulty go completely down 
 the game, it's also a blessing of sorts. If the save feature wasn't the way it was, I can only 
 imagine how incredibly frustrating it would be to have to play the same case over and over again 
 just to get past one tough part.
  
  Justice for All offers a decently long gaming experience, though it's not as long as its predecessor. 
 If you've got some idea what you're doing, you can probably get through the game in 12 hours or 
 less. The cases start out quite short and easy, but the last two, in particular, are tough and 
 take quite a while to beat. If you're new to Phoenix Wright games, though, you'll likely spend 
 a good bit longer with this game, just because it'll take a while to figure out exactly how to 
 really be "good" at Ace Attorney.
  
  Overall, Justice for All is a very solid text-based adventure for the Nintendo DS. The different 
 cases are excellent, and the writing is phenomenal. The characters are excellently done, and they're 
 well-complemented by the game's fantastic music. The graphics could have done with a facelift, 
 but it doesn't really negatively affect the game that much. In fact, the only reason that Justice 
 for All isn't a perfect (or near-perfect) game is just that it doesn't do much to improve upon 
 from the original. It essentially takes what was great about the first Ace Attorney, add one significant 
 feature (Psyche Locks) , and call it a new game. It's a great title, and if you loved the first 
 one, then Justice for All is definitely a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  While not mandatory, it is highly recommended that the original Ace Attorney is completed prior 
 to starting Justice for All. Justice finds the return of our investigative hero Phoenix Wright 
 to the courtroom. While still a good game in it's own right, it feels to almost be a minor step 
 backwards. The cases are still just as good and intriguing as the original Ace Attorney, unfortunately, 
 that is where the similarities to the first game end. Justice does introduce a few new characters, 
 including Maya's cousin Pearl and Pearl's mother Morgan, who are introduced in a case in which 
 Maya is accused of murder while trying to channel a spirit, and Franziska von Karma, daughter of 
 legendary prosecutor Manfred von Karma who (spoiler alert ... I told you to play the original Ace 
 Attorney first ...) unsuccessfully attempted to frame Miles Edgeworth for a murder in a case linked 
 to the DL-6 Incident, only to have the truth come out that Manfred was the real murderer in that 
 case. Franziska, a 14-year old prodigy of an attorney in Germany, has made her way to the courtroom 
 with the sole purpose of embarrassing Wright in court. The game also features the return of a character 
 who has a bit of a surprise in store for Wright in the courtroom, but what fun would it be if I 
 ruined it for you?
  
  As mentioned, I felt this game to be a bit of a step backwards While the gameplay delivers the 
 same intensity of the cases of the original, the DS-specific functions testing for blood and fingerprints 
 previously introduced have not returned. After the bit of bad-mouthing, one positive that can be 
 said is the introduction of a new feature called the "Psyche Lock." During the investigation phase, 
 some witnesses have secrets in their hearts that are protected by Psyche Locks that can be seen 
 using the Magatama, a gift given to you by your assistant Mya Fey. In order to break the Psyche 
 Locks and get the fell truth, pieces of evidence must be presented to the individual to contradict 
 the lies they come up with to protect their secret. While the sound and music is of the same quality, 
 the graphics, while still pretty to look at, simply feel recycled and the value of the game is 
 undermined by the fact that only the four cases were included. While this might still be a nice 
 package, it feels short-changed because Ace Attorney had an additional case. While still wanting 
 to review the game in it's own right, I felt that the comparison's made in this review were necessary 
 because the game felt shortchanged in more ways than one. Overall, this is still a welcome addition 
 to the Phoenix Wright series and an absolute can't-miss if you enjoyed the first one.
  
  Overall: 7.7
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This is another excellent courtroom drama, bringing back many of the characters from the first 
 game was a refreshing treat, and the game was overall an excellent play, with brilliantly woven 
 storylines and shocking cases. An extremely satisfying game I believe it was underappreciated because 
 people thought they were going to change everything from the first game in a radical new direction. 
 But you can't improve upon perfection so there are only minor difference between this and the first 
 Wright. The cases are just as satisfying as the first and possibly even more shocking. If you enjoyed 
 the first Ace Attorney game and are looking for more cases and fun, this couldn't be recommended 
 more. The only minor disapointment in this game is that they didn't keep the fingerprint dusting 
 and "scientific" examination elements from the bonus chapter of the first Ace Attorney. However, 
 once you get into the cases you will hardly even notice and you will fully appreciate Capcom's 
 excellent work in making a sequel worthy of the "Ace Attorney" title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanN003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Just a note: My score would actually more be like 8.7. But you know that can''t happen.  _ 
  Anyway, I had high hopes starting this game, because I fell in love with the first game. Don't 
 get me wrong, this game is good, it just fell to my personal expectations. Now I'm gonna break 
 the game down.
  Graphics -
  This game mostly used the same graphics from the other game, in other words recyled them. The graphics 
 from the last game were beautiful, so the fact that they recyled them didn't bother me much.
  Music/Sounds -
  This game had ok music. Once again some was recylced from the last game, but 
 there was also some new. Overall just ok, I usually don't pay much attention to the music.
  Gameplay -
  The same gameplay from the first Phoenix Wright came back, with a twist, the "Phyche 
 Lock". When someone is lieing a phyche lock appears and you have to open it by presenting evidence/profiles 
 to get the truth out of them. It definitly brings more intrest to the investigation segment.
  Characters -
  This is one thing that this series is famous for, it's memorable, great, characters. 
 How could you forget someone like Maya, Gumshoe or even Oldbag from the first game? Not to spoil 
 anything, but they both return, making this game truly what it is.
  Closing Statements -
  One thing this game could have benifited from was 5 shorter cases rather than 4 long ones ('specially 
 the last one) . Overall a good experience, just like the first, maybe a little too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  PWAA: JFA is an interesting game because it wasn't one I was super hyped for or even planned on 
 buying at the time that I did, yet it ended up being one of the best games I've played... ever! 
 I'd always planned on giving the series a shot, then one day I was at this random used games store 
 and saw it for cheap, so I decided to pick it up. Man am I glad I did!
  
  The game is, simply put, brilliant. It is brilliant in every way possible. It's just such a unique 
 concept that I'd never before seen in a game. I mean, who could have thought that a lawyer simulator 
 would turn out to be one of the best games I've played in the last year? The game is flawless in 
 just about every way possible.
  
  I think the major attraction to the game is just how rich the dialogue is. Clearly the localization 
 team has outdone themselves with this one. The game is serious when it needs to be and downright 
 hilarious at all other times. Whether it's the Fresh Prince of Bel Air references or the wacky 
 and perverted hospital patient who kept me laughing the entire time he was on the screen, the game 
 is just booming full of insanity.
  
  The core gameplay involves alot of reading and investigating. You could almost say that the game 
 is only 50% lawyer simulator and 50% detective work, because you'll do alot of investigating and 
 searching for clues at the scene of the crime. You'll later use these clues to search try to prove 
 your client innocent, trying to decide which pieces of evidence to present. It's really, REALLY 
 well done.
  
  Now, the game boasts 4 cases, but don't let this number discourage you. When I first read that, 
 I thought "well how long could each case be, maybe an hour or two? That doesn't seem like a very 
 long game..." but oh was I wrong. While the first case serves as a tutorial and only lasts a while, 
 the 2nd and 3rd case each last a good solid 5-7 hours each. The final case, which is also by far 
 the best case and represents some of the greatest gaming I've experienced in my lifetime, took 
 me a wopping 10 hours to complete. Add that all up, and you're looking at a game that will easily 
 take you 20-30 hours to complete. While there's not a whole lot of replay value, the fact that 
 it's a long and beefy adventure more than makes up for it.
  
  Another thing that really deserves mentioning is the storyline. Now, this game continues directly 
 off of the first game. While I had never played the first game (and recommend you do play them 
 in order) , the story was still able to move me deeply. Each case has its own storyline, which each 
 have some crazy twists and turns (especially the final case) , there's also an overall storyline 
 relating to the lawyers in general, and it really is fascinating just how deep it gets. For the 
 last case (and yes, I talk about the last case alot, because it was just so ridiculously amazing) 
 I actually shed tears of happiness and shock at some parts, it's really awesome.
  
  So whether you buy it for the storyline, or buy it for gameplay, or buy it for both, one thing 
 is for certain - you MUST buy this game. In fact, I recommend the entire Phoenix Wright series 
 (I will be picking up the 1st and 3rd shortly) . It is not only one of the most innovative new concepts 
 that I've experienced in recent years, but quite frankly, it's one of the best games available 
 for the DS or handhelds in general. You simply owe it to yourself to give Phoenix Wright a shot. 
 This is one game that you cannot miss out on. By far one of the best games I've ever played.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenheart234
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Justice for all isn't the kind of game I would ever have expected to enjoy playing 
 and yet, from the moment I started the first trial, I was hooked. Make no mistake, all you do in 
 this game is scroll through a lot of text and point out contradictions between witness testimony 
 and evidence. This would usually turn me off the whole game, but the story in this game grabs you 
 very quickly and keeps you hooked untill the end. Most of the new characters are great, especially 
 the new prosecutor, Franziska Von Karma ( The name should ring a bell to fans of the first game) , 
 who doesn't shy away from whipping Phoenix, witnesses and even the Judge. The on-screen animation 
 is nothing special but it still does an appropriate job of conveying the emotions of the characters.
 
  
  The music and sound effects are another part of what makes this game such an enjoyable experience. 
 The music is especially good during the parts of the game when you are in court, as it constantly 
 changes to reflect what's happening. The sound effects are equally great and diverse. Exemples 
 range from veteran prosecutor Payne's high pitched 'Objection!' to hearing the sound of a whip 
 being used on various people ( Usually Phoenix) .
  
  If anything could have used more work in this game, it would have to be the gameplay. Although 
 some of the cases are quite complicated, the game is made rediculously easy by allowing you to 
 suspend the case. While this feature is good to have, the suspended data doesn't erase itself when 
 play is resume, rendring your life bar completly useless as you can save, try out all sorts of 
 evidence and just shut shut off the DS and restart from that last save. 
  
  That being said, this game is still very fun to play and anyone who enjoys a good story would do 
 well to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The answer is, sadly, no. This game disappoints, it has less levels (four instead of five) ., there 
 are few new characters (and the ones that are new are gratingly irritating , not funny) and much 
 of the interactivity has gone regarding the touch screen.
  To put it a better way, Phoenix Wright JFA falls short of previous expectations, if this was the 
 first in the series it would not be too bad. But some features are lost and the gameplay is the 
 same. Playing the game is irritating and long-winded, with so many tenuous links in the structure 
 that a lot of the game falls to guesswork. 
  In the first game I liked the first, second and fifth levels the most., here I only like the first, 
 the first game I played through three times! This one I've played through once. The game is not 
 bad, just disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Attorney Series (Gyakuten Saiban) you get to play as a young defense attorney who primary 
 job is to find contradictions in the prosecution's witnesses and expose them. The game starts off 
 with basically a tutorial case where Phoenix loses his memory and is given directions by a fan 
 of his who is also the defendant. Even if you never played the first which you really should, the 
 game offers brief recaps and bios of the people you know.
  
  Characters like Maya, Mia, Gumshoe and others return in this episode of Phoenix Wright. Along with 
 a new cast the game continues the working formula Episode 1 had.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the first and that is good, nothing new is really needed. With the 
 addition of using profiles as evidence and the new psyche-lock system, these additions add to the 
 game, sure none of the fingerprinting or other features on the bonus stage of Episode 1 returns 
 but if it had it, it just wont make sense.
  
  **Spoiler from Phoenix Wright 1**
  It wont make sense because Phoenix has no idea how to use those features, reason he did it was 
 because Emma was with him to guide him through it.
  **End Spoiler**
  
  The formula where you go investigating to gather evidence for your case is still here following 
 that you start the trial using information you gathered during the investigation to solve it. The 
 flaw here is the Suspend Game Save system being abused to use for a second chance, third, fourth, 
 fifth, etc... you get the point.
  
  You can say objection into the mic to present evidence or hold it to press the witness if you feel 
 like you want to get into the game.
  
  Phoenix Wright has remixed it original score and it works well, music from the first was kept and 
 fits into each theme. The Steel Samurai theme (Phoenix's Ringtone...) , lotta harts theme returns, 
 courtroom actions have new music (remixed score from first) .
  
  Graphics are mostly reused but I dont really care because I like them none the less, Mia returns 
 in some Smaller clothing (sexy) . Court looks the same, the judge is the idiot he always is. The 
 Objection!!! figure pointing returns, the Slamming of his table returns all look as good as ever.
 
  
  Overall Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney: Justice for all, keeps the working formula the first one 
 has and adds to it. This game is a One timer because it is too linear like any book since this 
 game is basically an interactive book. Need a activity to fill in that hour on the bus phoenix 
 wright delivers.
  
  
  Presentation: 9/10 - The use of both screens works for the game, new cases will give you ha challenge 
 if you dont abuse the save system.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - Keeps the same formula as the first with some minor adjustments and it works well.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10 - The Reuse of Art is understandable but misses some of the 3d work in the bonus 
 stage of the first (Miikens attacking the other guy tape) , character design of new characters is 
 nice.
  
  Sounds: 9/10 - Music has been remix for courtroom action and I like it, the good music from the 
 first also returns.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 7/10 - Only good for one run, has multiple endings.
  
  Overall (not average) : 
 8.5/10 - basically the same as the first with new cases and characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  Justice For All is the second game in the Phoenix Wright series. Not unlike a text adventure, this 
 Nintendo DS series has players to use the stylus to navigate Phoenix Wright through investigations 
 and courtroom dealings in order to bring the story to a (hopefully) happy ending. Many of the characters 
 from the first game make return appearances as well as new characters are introduced.
  
  This time, Phoenix Wright and associates become entangled in four cases. The first case is largely 
 an introduction that is geared in such a way that even first-time players can feel comfortable 
 here. The remaining three cases are considerably longer and involve investigation sequences. Perhaps 
 what really makes the series work is the stories, and there's many interesting twists and turns 
 that happen as the cases are unraveled.
  
  This game innovates in a few ways from the first game:
  
  First, through the introduction of 
 psy-locks, which are basically just a way Phoenix Wright learns to magically determine people he 
 speaks to during his investigations are lying. Once enough evidence is uncovered, these locks can 
 be removed, getting the real story out of the person. Second, you can now present people as evidence. 
 Third, there's a persistent health bar that persists through the entire chapter. It depletes when 
 you make a bad guesses in court or make missteps in removing psy-locks and replenishes when you 
 have completely removed the psy-locks from somebody. Predictably, an empty health bar is game over, 
 and that results in you having to repeat the chapter from the last major point.
  
  My lead critique from the first game remains in tact: It's sometimes hard to guess which piece 
 of evidence needs to be presented. I'm not saying the game is too hard, I'm saying that sometimes 
 you want to say something by presenting evidence and several pieces of evidence could work to say 
 it but the game expects one. Fortunately, the game's overall charm is enough to overlook this.
 
  
  When I say this is not quite as good as the first game, I'm mostly referring to the last case from 
 the first game. That one had all sorts of neat touch features and even a rendered 3D sequence video 
 at one point. I wish all the cases in Justice For All were like that, but instead they're like 
 the second to fourth case in the first game with the little innovations I mentioned a couple paragraphs 
 ago. It feels like a step backwards, technically. Fortunately, the overall game is still good enough 
 to be a worthy enough Phoenix Wright sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  If you are the type to enjoy story puzzle games, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney - Justice for All 
 might be what youre looking for.
  Like the first one it has a good balance of detective work and presenting all the evidence in the 
 court to make you point. The game started off great with the good character art and each story 
 (case) having a semi-depth to it. Though there are only four cases in the game each cases are pretty 
 long. My biggest problem of this game was that there are situations that you know whats going 
 on or what happened but the game doesnt let you present the evidence simply because story isnt 
 written that way. What Im trying to say is that the story is VERY linier. Sometime I needed to 
 press on the 3rd testimony and then press on the 1st testimony to make the suspect talk. By the 
 time I reached the last case it was pretty much the same as the first three cases only longer and 
 the only motivation I had to finish the game was because I came this far so might as well tough 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Where: Gamespot
  When: 7:40 P. M
  
  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice For All. Is this game a waste of time or a great hit? I will 
 try to give you every source of eviden to find out the real decision. The game starts with a dream 
 that Phoenix is having. A judge is at the court and tells him that he can not let him keep his 
 title of attorney anymore. Phoenix wakes up to a phone call. Apparently his phone rang. Next you 
 see a guy holding a fire extinguisher and says i finally found it... after that the screen goes 
 black and phoenix is hit in the head by the guy. Phoenix wakes up and doesnt remember who he is... This 
 is apparently to help you out with the controls of the game. The game really did a good job with 
 this well doone introduction. You find your defendant is a a police woman who is accuse of killing 
 her lover a police man. Its your job to prove her not guilty even though you know nothing of this 
 case! This is just a case that introduces you to the controls, but for a practice case it is really 
 a turn of events one! Make your way to the end and discover a really weird ending. So question 
 now is Guilty or Not Guilty this is for you to answer.
  
  Gameplay: This game is really all text bases and you can literally play this whole game with only 
 the touch screen!, but then again you can also use the buttons to play. The game really makes us 
 of the ds's touchscreen and microphone. The game allows your press Y and call out commands like 
 objection! and hold it which really makes you feel like your in the game! Overall the game is very 
 well driven and the stories are really worthwhile.
  Graphics: The Games graphics are not excellent, but they are what you can expect from a DS. Sounds: 
 The Games sounds might sound simple, but they are really catchy and always go with the current 
 mood of the game. the song changes each time you make a breakthrough in a case which sends you 
 in a rush and makes you go more through the game.
  Overall?: Great game and worth your time and money. I reccomend buying this game and find out what 
 Mr. Phoenix Wright is into this time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: much_denial
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll keep it short, since I already see a few mixed reactions from all the reviews. This 
 Phoenix Wright is a direct port from one of the Gyakuten Saiban games, and as such, does not exploit 
 the DS's full capabilities like the last one. I kinda hoped Phoenix would shout HOLD IT! at the 
 end of the credits like in Ace Attorney, but alas, he didn't. So it's a lot shorter, big deal.
 
  
  But that's not the main thing I'm disappointed in. It's the story. It's not engaging as the first 
 one. Every turnabout you get involves the murder just framing someone by revolving around a costume 
 of some sort. It gets pretty old quick. And the characters are just too cartoony for me ... The 
 whole circus thing turned me off, and I don't like the new prosecutor. It has this new psyche lock 
 thing involving the Fey's spiritual magic, which I felt was pretty redundant. I also have to say 
 the cases turn out to be too predictable. What really happened during each turnabout in the first 
 game was unpredictable and kept yourself asking questions. Unfortunately, I can't say the same 
 for this game.
  
  The music is great, I won't deny that, but it doesn't suit the game as well as its predecessor. 
 There's no more tension in the music. You don't feel the excitement as well as when you corner 
 a suspect and shout TAKE THAT like in Ace Attorney. I can't explain it but the music feels chrismast-sy 
 and soft instead of the usual DUN DUN DUNNNN . You might think I'm just getting bored with the 
 series, that's not true. I heard that the next one is the best, and I'm looking forward to it.
 
  
  So, if you're a fan of Gyakuten Saiban, get it. It's good but not great. If you're not much of 
 a fan, just stick with the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is back with some characters from the last game. (Some you may not want to see again, 
 and some that are missing that you wish were back in the game.) Most will agree, the first Phoenix 
 Wright was better due to being longer and having more features. I'm with them on this as well. 
 
  
  SOUND: The game returns with good music like before. The music also has a more serious tone like 
 it has a soap opera vibe to it. Which I thought was a good move. The story can get pretty grim 
 at times. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Nothing much has changed. You'll see a lot of the same animations from the last game 
 /w a few add ons. Art work is still great. I especially like the backgrounds. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Awesome like before. The new psyche-locke feature is pretty cool. It adds more playtime. 
 The story is engaging (some of the best written material you''ll find in any video game.) , characters 
 are memorable, and you won't want to put this game down because you're going to be trying to figure 
 out ways to contradict a witnesses' testimony while the game is off. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: It's a must buy for those who've enjoyed the first Phoenix Wright. It's a good game 
 for newcomers as well who are looking for something different. If you haven't played the first 
 Phoenix Wright, don't worry, you won't be confused the story in this game. I suggest playing the 
 first one though. It'll explain the history behind a lot of the characters... also it's better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Attorney series named Gyakuten Saiban in Japan is a hit; the games sell well and are fairly 
 popular. However outside of Japan this is not so true. Here in the states I know almost no one 
 who plays this series. The game has a small cult following but nothing more. Thankfully though 
 this does not stop the wonderful series to see the light of day overseas and our hands. This game 
 is the second of a trilogy that chronicles the court cases handled by Defense Attorney Phoenix 
 Wright and his few friends in the world.
  
  The game picks up one year after the events of the first game but throws us right into the action 
 from the get go. Phoenix has a nightmare then is awoken suddenly to see a mysterious cell phone 
 in his hands. Shortly thereafter he is knocked out cold and awakens moments later with a classic 
 case of amnesia. He finds himself having to win a trial without knowing a single thing about the 
 case at hand.
  
  Something to note about Justice For All is the new accomplished story. While the first game focused 
 mainly on building character's personality and back stories JFA does this and more. The second 
 case pits you against the new game's antagonist Franziska Von Karma the young daughter of Monfred 
 Von Karma the antagonist of the first game. She has left a promising career in Germany; whip in 
 hand, to face off against Phoenix for personal reasons. These reasons are slowly revealed as the 
 game progresses and are really unexpected. All of the previous main characters return for even 
 more thrilling cases that have you on the edge of your seat and touch you emotionally. The game 
 also features somewhat of a cliffhanger ending which prepares you for the third title. It is very 
 nice to see the series develop an over-arcing story in the mini-stories told through each case.
 
  
  The game is still told through the many text sequences. All the sprites return from the previous 
 title and still look crisp and clean. New locations are in the game per case and many old ones 
 make their comeback such as Phoenix's office and the detention center. Unlike the first game though 
 JFA does not have an extra case as the first games extra case was a separate game all its own in 
 Japan. This leads to a smaller yet still wonderful soundtrack that sets the tone of the game, and 
 no interesting cel-shaded scenes.
  
  Gameplay is still the same as the original, you look for clues to use in court then use these to 
 prove your client's innocence. JFA does however try to incorporate much more variety in the courtroom 
 and it pays off. There is much more visual evidence such as pictures and objects that you must 
 thoroughly view and find flaws in along with many different multiple choice questions that can 
 branch into different options which can be added to a witness' testimony. The game also tunes the 
 health bar for the new psyche-lock system. You no longer have a few exclamation points but rather 
 an actual hp bar. This makes for more interesting court penalties as you can now be one shot and 
 different errors result in different damage done to you.
  
  The biggest change in terms of gameplay is the new psyche-lock system which adds the fun of testimonies 
 to the investigative parts of gameplay. After obtaining what is called the Megatama, Phoenix can 
 use a magically energy to see when he is being lied to. However, that is its limit, depending on 
 how strong the person feels of their lie will determine a set number of locks to appear around 
 said person. These locks are broken by presenting evidence and answering questions they ask. Some 
 of these are relatively short but some are very long and can not be completed without obtaining 
 more evidence. Each time you answer wrong or present the wrong evidence Phoenix loses a small amount 
 of hp, however instead of dying when losing the last bit of your health you are just forced to 
 stop and must start all over on the lie. For each lie you break (all of which you are required 
 to break) you get healed for half of your hp bar, which on most occasions readies you for the next 
 day of court.
  
  Justice For All is an amazing sequel to the first game, most of the slow pacing has been reworked 
 and there is now a main story to follow from game to game. The clever writing and excellent translation 
 makes the long text adventure accessible for anyone with a decent grasp on the English language. 
 Thankfully enough new content has been added to keep gameplay fresh and enjoyable for the games 
 rather lengthy time. It will take anywhere from 15 to 20 hours to complete which is a noticeable 
 jump from the last game that seemed to end far too early. Hands down Justice For All is one of 
 the best games ever to be written to a cartridge and is part of one of the best gaming trilogies 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Declaration of review of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney  Justice for All, available for the gaming 
 system Nintendo DS and DS Lite. Following article 102 of the Fragland lawbook of September 1995, 
 b|0-0|n is entitled to judge, if authority is recognised by publisher Nintendo.
  
  Seen the delivery of the game March 27 2007 we declare the following notes as honest, deep and 
 based on multiple sessions of starting up the console and entering the game world.
  
  Seeing that in the game you need to take on the role of a lawyer who always defends and helps his 
 clients and you need to get a not guilty , you'll have to explore several interesting locations 
 and questions all kinds of fascinating characters. Especially these latter, including several known 
 ones from the previous episode, appear to be one of the strong points of the game and the biggest 
 reason to get dragged into the storyline.
  
  During the game you'll have to solve four big cases including collecting and analysing information 
 which you can then use in court where you also have to give the right info of comment to the judge 
 at the right time. The touch-screen is an excellent means for that; on the top screen you get to 
 see what's going on while at the bottom you can look pictures in detail, check out profiles of 
 witnesses or accomplices, or just study all sorts of evidence.
  
  You'll need to use your brains, especially when shouting Objection in your DS-microphone as since 
 when not supporting this with evidence you'll loose a piece of your life meter. Once this gets 
 depleted you'll have lost the case and can start over from a save-game (you can save just about 
 everywhere) . To be a good lawyer you'll therefore not only have to study everything with care but 
 also have a sense of when the moment comes to make things known or push witnesses to the limit 
 until the crack and tell the truth.
  
  The cases are quite linear and know only one solution so bringing out the goods can become quite 
 frustrating. Even if you know what's wrong, you'll have to discover by trial and error when it's 
 the right time to bring forth your evidence. Lots of saving and loading is the message and this 
 is quite sad.
  
  During your career you'll have to read and point with the stylus a lot and the graphics are quite 
 good for that. The surroundings are quite nice and the characters are brought on the screen excellently. 
 Especially people that love manga-style cartoons will be able to appreciate the style and won't 
 be able to resist laughing when emotions are brought forth in that typical Japanese style. In combination 
 with well worked-out characters this is one of the game's strongest points.
  
  There's no speech but musically you get a couple of good tunes and environment sounds which make 
 for a very atmospheric whole that quickly immerses you.
  
  For those reasons, Fragland judges that;
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney  Justice For All 
 is a fun, immersive and well-filled adventure that at times reminds of the old PC adventures, combined 
 with nicely created characters and a couple of excellent storylines. Gamers that have followed 
 the previous case will experience some d&eacute; j&agrave;-vu moments but newcomers can expect more 
 of the same refreshing court cases with a sent of Japanese charm. If the reader were to choose 
 between the first game in the series of this sequel then this court suggests to opt for the first 
 episode.
  
  Case closed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game is actually a sequel of the game Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. In Justice for All, you 
 control a defense attorney named Phoenix Wright , a rookie.
  This game has very good music while you are playing the game. The song changes when the situation 
 change. Example, when you found a crack in the witness testimony the BGM will change into a fast-beat 
 music.
  Although Justice for All only have 4 cases instead of 5 cases in the previous game there are still 
 other features. One of them is a new gameplay which is the Physce-Lock, it works when you ask a 
 person a question and if that person is lying there will be locks with chains around the persons 
 body. You would have to use some evidence to unlock those locks and finally the person would let 
 out their secret. In this game, you still can shout Objection , Hold It and more like the previous 
 game.
  There is also some humor added to the game like Detective Gumshoe whom doesnt understand some 
 stuff and replies weirdly and not to mention the blur judge.
  One of the negative things about this game is new events can only happen if you trigger it (like 
 examining something.. and even if you examine something that you think has something to do with 
 the case, nothing new will happen if it isnt the object you are suppose to examine which will 
 have to make you guess and follow your instinct.)
  A very good game, teaches phrases used in the court! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finaaalf9
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i was sure PHEONIX WRIGHT JUSTICE FOR ALL was gonna be if not better something in comparison to 
 the first in the series, but it appears i was in another dimension or something or maybe i just 
 imagined i thought that ? no no i did really i did, so i obtained a copy not taking in what i read 
 of what gamespot had said you know like down grading whatever you may call it, but im ashamed to 
 say i fooled myself on this one i dont know whether or not it has anything to do with that i bought 
 an AMERICAN copy or what its is the same game whatever is it not i hope so anyway lmao,
  sorry gamespot for not taking your word really i am but i must know for myself sometimes. im not 
 wanting to totally kill this JUSTICE FOR ALL as i believe it has some substance in which i do look 
 for in a game the humour is good in this game abit more across the line than the first in the series 
 but both are equally funny in such away you have to lol it sometimes hurts you know the kind, the 
 psyche-lock's part of the game is a nice new way to solve things in the game but it can also be 
 a bad new way as it tells you too much about the story you are yet to play through some of the 
 music really makes this game good and the characters make it shine too but that is also to be said 
 about the first PHOENIX WRIGHT.
  now something that bothers me in this game is the fact i noticed a few words in this game did not 
 seem to be spelled proper and not that they where hard words but even so if they where they should 
 be spelled correctly.
  another thing is in court it was nothing compared to the first PHOENIX WRIGHT game as to me it 
 seemed more like idle banter or playground mocking whatever you wish its as if that classroom court 
 case really got to phoenix wright but his first 5 cases seemed un-harmed by this or maybe that 
 bang on the head really made him dumb.
  something that bothers me the most of all though is we want length in a game yes i agree to agree 
 with this but to make something of length is also to make something beautiful last i mean to say 
 that if PHOENIX WRIGHT JUSTICE FOR ALL was even close to PHOENIX WRIGHT ACE ATTORNEY and made to 
 last abit longer it would be beautiful, but as it has language that i stopped speaking when i wasnt 
 even in high school, cases that share the same sort of ideas as the first title, and too that it 
 wasnt i couldnt the put the game down but i wanted to put it down alot and i did it just went on 
 and on it was like when my mum used to say why i must keep my room tidy when i was a kid repeating 
 some stuff you heard thousands of times for all the goodie two shoes who never had that lmao.
 
  sadly i cant give this game what i wanted to give it ,
  glad i got this cheaper than retail.
  sorry gamespot for my un-trust 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawyer_Mac
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game if you are into law or like a good keeping you on your toes story. It 
 constantely changes from a good moment from you starting to win the case then you in a hard to 
 get out of spot. The game has much to do like explore various locations, attend a court, discover 
 hidden evidence or clues to help you win the case. This one is way different from the first game. 
 Harder cases, insane witnesses, and a crazy prosecutor with a whip! The story line is well put 
 and the game play is great too. Get to enjoy the fact of playing as a defence lawyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with Phoenix taking a short nap before his case in which he is defending a young 
 woman from the local precinct who was accused of murdering her boyfriend from the same police department. 
 He is woken up by a bad dream and the ring of his cellphone, but soon after an unknown assailant 
 knocks him out using a nearby fire extinguisher. When Phoenix wakes for the second time it is just 
 about time to head in to the courtroom. But there is a serious problem, he can't remember who he 
 is, let alone how to be a lawyer. Luckily inside the courtroom he gets help from some people and 
 ends up winning the case, but not before he gains most or all of his memory back. This primary 
 case serves as the tutorial stage. The gameplay is essentially the same as it was in the first 
 installment but with some changes. For starters, you will be followed by Maya Fey, your partner 
 from the previous game and often by Pearl Fey, Maya's younger but much more skilled spirit medium 
 of a cousin. Both of the Fey's channel their older cibling's spirit when Phoenix needs her help 
 the most. She goes by the name of Mia Fey and was Phoenix's old mentor. There are also two new 
 gameplay mechanics, one being a completely new one. First new mechanic is the fact that you now 
 can and must occasionally present the profiles of characters involved in the case. This doesn't 
 actually make thins too much more complicated because most of the time the game will hint whether 
 you have to present a profile or just a regular piece of evidence. The second and totally new gameplay 
 mechanic include something called Psyche-Locks which appear when you ask someone about a question 
 they have absolutely no intent on answering honestly. A varying number of locks and chains appear 
 infront of the person depending on how much they really want their secret kept. To break these 
 locks, you simply show then Maya's Magatama which is obtained about halfway through the second 
 case. Then you must present the correct piece of evidence based on what the character says, this 
 can sometimes be challenging as it is possible to present the wrong piece of evidence enough times 
 to fail, so be sure to have all the evidence necessary. Graphically, the game is pretty much identical 
 to its predecessor, with the same colourful anime style. There isn't really a whole lot of actual 
 animation in the game, but that probably is best for the games style of making you imagine exactly 
 what is going on rather than animating it out in full. The characters are all well-designed and 
 some (more from the first game) will stick in your memory for a while after. Both games sound great 
 and again are fairly identical in terms of this aspect. However, this time around there does seem 
 to be more sound effects during the court cases and a few more tunes that the last one had. There 
 is lttile replay value with this game and you probably wont want to play through it again but it 
 is a long game so that will more than make up for it.
  
  Overall Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All is an excellent game, with a fantastic storyline 
 and very unique gameplay. This game and the first game should be in any DS owner's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingsofAdamant
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Before this series came into my life, I had minimal exposure to text-based games. One of them being 
 a copy of the hentai You Like Horny Bunnies? 2 and a few installments of the Famicom Detective 
 Club, poorly translated nonetheless. But, when Phoenix Wright first appeared at E3 in 2005, I figured 
 that I'd give it a shot, detective work and compelling stories is a great combination. So, it was 
 as I expected, incredible. So, when the next in the series came out, I expected more of the same.
 
  I thought it would be impossible to improve on the stories of the first game, but the 2nd and 
 last missions were exciting and enthralling. Something about the Berry Big Circus case was slightly 
 frustrating. More than any other case, it would leave you without any clue as to what to do next. 
 So, that mission to particularly long to do, and in the end it generally didn't feel very rewarding. 
 The second case once again puts Maya on trial for a murder she supposedly committed during a spiritual 
 channeling. This was a great case, with a shocking twist, and the last mission is beyond words. 
 I was disappointed that they didn't implement the 3-dimensional evidence checking tool from the 
 last mission of the first game. It was a very promising feature.
  In retrospect, the moments that you leave you lost are indeed frustrating, but when you figure 
 out what to do you tend to forget about it. The missions are great, and with the next one coming 
 up in September, I can only bide my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Even years after its release, few games have been able to match the strange, refreshing quality 
 of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney for the Nintendo DS. In that game, you played as the titular lawyer 
 who must survey cases and use evidence to achieve favourable verdicts for his clients. Naturally, 
 a characteristic and likeable anime styling helped escalate the solid puzzle solving and deducing 
 common to the law and made Phoenix Wright one of the best DS games to date. Its sequel, Justice 
 for All, doesnt quite hit the high watermark set by the first game; this is mostly due to the 
 quality of the actual cases Phoenix will be tackling which, on the whole, just dont feel as intriguing 
 as the first games. The persistence of problems from the first game is also a little disappointing. 
 Luckily, the process of investigating cases and holding your own in the courtroom in the face of 
 crazy, anime-styled plot twists still holds up great. If youre looking for more of what you liked 
 from the first game, youll find it here; no more, and sadly a little less.
  
  Just as in the first game, youll play as Phoenix Wright, a young defence attorney who must solve 
 a series of increasingly bizarre and challenging murder cases. However, dont expect to get bogged 
 down in legal matters or anything like that; the games manual clearly tells you that the legal 
 system in Justice for All was designed especially for this game. This means youll be treated to 
 a simplified and dramatized version of what youd expect to see in the courtroom, where you can 
 constantly harass witnesses without penalty and where prosecutors can assault the judge with leather 
 whips.
  
  Oddly enough, this exaggerated anime approach to courtroom drama works well for Justice for All, 
 just as it did in the first game. After a short opening vignette that outlines the facts and stakes 
 of the case, youll begin investigating by visiting key locations, chatting with witnesses, and 
 searching for strange evidence that will help you reach a not guilty verdict. This is done mostly 
 by interacting with quirky, well-drawn and well-written characters, all of whom have plenty of 
 secrets that will help you in your case. One of the few additions to Justice for All is the Magatama, 
 a mystical device you can use to tell if people are lying. If they are, youll see a sum of psyche-locks 
 appear, and youll need the proper evidence to break these locks and have the person tell you the 
 truth. The Magatama is a neat addition, but since each character you encounter is crucial to the 
 case, it doesnt really do you many favours in terms of keeping you on track, since youll need 
 to progress in a strictly linear fashion anyway.
  
  After collecting evidence, its off to the courtroom sections, where youll listen to witness testimony, 
 look it over for flaws, then present evidence to poke holes in their account of the crime. Youll 
 mostly just be able to press witnesses on every statement they make  and sometimes youll have 
 to, since the legal connections the game makes can be way too vague or make odd leaps in logic. 
 The game occasionally tightens the leash on how reckless you can be in the courtroom, but generally 
 youre afforded lots of extra chances.
  
  Youll eventually begin making mistakes, though, and when you do, the judge will penalize you. 
 Essentially, this means a segment of a health bar will be taken away. If this bar gets to zero, 
 its game over for Phoenix, who will potentially need to replay a large chunk of the case. Sometimes, 
 a mistake is simply a misstep in your understanding of the case; however, just as often, its because 
 of the aforementioned fuzzy connections between your evidence and the case at hand. The final two 
 cases, in particular, seem particularly apt at creating obscure twists that you probably wouldnt 
 catch other than by simply throwing out evidence and taking penalties until something sticks. Because 
 of this, the final few cases can drag on for over an hour longer than they should. This was one 
 of the most egregious problems with the first game, and its rather annoying that it persists here.
 
  
  Thankfully, the development of the cases and the fascinating characters within them picks up some, 
 but not all, of the slack from the gameplay. Phoenix and his assistant, Maya, have a great chemistry 
 thats full of charm and a good number of laughs. Even the villains piece in superbly with the 
 rest of the cast, chiming in with sharp dialogue that rarely becomes too long-winded. Considering 
 this is a text-driven game, that feat is particularly impressive, despite the occasional typographical 
 errors that pop up in such great dialogue.
  
  In spite of the games shortcomings, chances are youll really enjoy the crazy, off-the-wall cases 
 Phoenix will be tackling this time, including the peculiar murder of a circus ringmaster and a 
 spirit channelling gone awry. Overall, the cases arent quite as good as they were in the first 
 game  particularly the opening case, which really drags its feet on the road to becoming interesting 
 compared with the first games cases. Luckily, the games somewhat slow start pulls through quickly, 
 and soon youll be in the thick of some genuinely intriguing and often exciting predicaments. The 
 games final case, in particular, throws the plot for a hell of a loop, tying in characters and 
 plot points from both games and really making the final hours of the game resonate with danger 
 and immediacy. Its also the most daring case, dealing with themes like attempted suicide. In all, 
 its probably the most well-designed case in either two Phoenix Wright games.
  
  Indeed, Justice for All makes good on giving you more of what you loved from the original release; 
 but it stumbles on the follow-through by being content to simply give you more instead of building 
 upon the basic evidence gathering and courtroom scenes. Aside from an extremely brief puzzle in 
 the games final case, theres no mandatory or particularly inspired touch-screen support, which 
 is disappointing. Its also a bit shorter than the first game, weighing in at four cases instead 
 of five.
  
  Phoenix Wright and all of his friends and foes still look great in Justice for All, as the game 
 uses its large, crisply drawn and vibrantly coloured sprites to expressively tell its story. Each 
 character has a good amount of key poses and unique facial movements to lend them tons of personality, 
 and they go a long way in making the cases feel immersive. The characters brand new to Justice 
 for All look just as good and fit in with the existing cast wonderfully. Audio is more or less 
 the same as it was in the first game as well, with the same memorable themes and sound effects 
 used sparingly but effectively throughout. Theres no voice acting in the game, but the characters 
 will shout with short sound clips like Objection! or Take that! Or better yet, you can use 
 the games mic support to shout those things yourself. Taken together, the audiovisuals in Justice 
 for All make a great fit for the DS, although its disappointing so many locations and characters 
 look identical to how they appeared in Phoenixs first outing.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Justice for All may not be quite as interesting or as fresh as the first game was, 
 but its by all means a solid choice for people looking for more off-the-wall investigations, complete 
 with a good story and a truly outstanding cast of characters. Unfortunately, the cases dont stand 
 out as much as they did in the first game, and this sequel does little (if anything) to address 
 the flaws of its precursor. If more Phoenix is exactly what you want, however, its hard to go 
 wrong with Justice for All. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidl3631
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright 2 is a great game where you are a lawyer who has to defend his clients to ensure 
 they get there correct verdit of NOT GUILTY! Firstly the story line is brilliant which just makes 
 you want to carry on playing and can be very addictive, there is also a great twist in the end 
 you you do the correct ending as there is an alternative ending if you dont do the right thing!
 
  
  This is very similar to the first game but this is not a bad thing as the first game was brilliant, 
 the only differance is now you have a new feature which is the pysche locks where you can tell 
 if someone is hiding the truth so you have to get the truth out of them, but they have dropped 
 the blood tracing etc from the first game which i think was a bad idea,
  
  Overall the game is still great with brillant anime and great colour with great characters and 
 a brilliant story line, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  It's fun, it's easy to learn and hard to solve, it's Phoenix Wright we're talking about of course! 
 There are 4 new cases in total, while there were 5 in the first game. All the new cases have interesting 
 story lines and characters. It's all bout getting killed by one person or some kind of revenge. 
 But PWJFA misses some features from the first DS game, such as fingerprints, blodstain searching 
 and some other things. But, the new COOL thing in JFA is the feature called ''Psyche Lock''. With 
 that, you can unlock deep dark secrets beeing hidden in them not being allowed to be shared. To 
 unlock their secrets, you've got to like in court, present evidence. This keeps the tension high 
 which made me not want to stop playing.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics haven't been improved at all, they've reused the models from the first game but all 
 the new models do indeed look more impressive than the older ones.
  
  SOUND:
  They've alson reused the sound from the first game, or how should I say, they've made remixes of 
 them. But, while you are in court, you can use the DS's microphone to yell ''OBJECTION'', ''HOLD 
 IT'' and '' TAKE THAT'' to press your witness and present evidence.
  
  While Phoenix Wright falls short in some places, it's still a wonderful game laying in the top 
 10 DS game. They're going to Release '' Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations '' 
 and ''Phoenix Wright 4'' later and I can hardly wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PelekotansDream
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a popular name. The first game to have been released in EU was a big hit and 
 unlike anything before. It was basically a lawyer-em-up. You went around, investigating cases and 
 defending your clients in the court room. This game was originally on the Game Boy Advance but 
 gained a new case when ported to the DS. One of the great features of this game was the ability 
 to shout Objection! into the mic. The characters were memorable, it was funny, bright and cute. 
 Real lovely. So what happened to the sequel? Well the big problem is the cases themselves. They 
 are not as well put together. In the first one, when you do a cross examination or trying to get 
 your point across, with patience and thinking you will realise what you should present next or 
 talk about next in the court room. This was helped by the fact that Phoenix Wright thought normally. 
 Yet in this game he always ends up thinking something far fetched. You have no idea what he is 
 thinking a lot of the times which is bad because you have no idea what you are trying to prove 
 or say in court. And the clues to help you and story are so obscure. You have to end up guessing 
 a lot of the time what you should be doing, getting it wrong, loading up the game and trying again. 
 The sound is bad also, it is just so quiet even at maximum volume and the remixed tracks are not 
 as good or memorable as the original. Also, for the curious, there is no voice acting but a few 
 sound effects here and there which do get the job done. The graphics are pretty much the same you 
 have seen from the first game, most people look the same and have the same animation and there 
 are more returning faces than new ones. It is nice to see those friends of yours again though and 
 to catch up on what has happened since the first game. The story overall is terrible, there are 
 plenty of questions that have not been answered and even a massive plot hole with the first one 
 gets created because of this game. Infact, PM me if you want details of that. The game also takes 
 this massive step backwards. See, the Phoenix Wright games are ports. They were on the Game Boy 
 Advance at first. Now when the first one became ported to the DS you got an extra case which took 
 exciting use of the DS features. In this port there is no special case and it pretty much plays 
 nearly the exact same as the GBA version. This game is just a big mess compared to the first one, 
 it is like an expansion with only 4 new cases and not much else. It can be funny and interesting 
 in places but at the same time it feels less effort was put into this one due to the fact that 
 it can be so obscure and with many unanswered questions dotted all over the place. And there is 
 also the fact you can complete the game in less than two days, just stick with the first and hope 
 the third will be as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The first Phoenix Wright game was, without a doubt, one of the most fun and exciting games I have 
 played in a long time. Although the original concept drew tons of skepticism from me for many months, 
 after playing through the game an instant sense of satisfaction was well rewarded. Phoenix Wright 
 brought something new to the table; a tongue-in-cheek look at the court system complemented by 
 insane characters, crazy scenarios, and some truly innovative forms of gameplay for the Nintendo 
 DS. While Justice For All was definitely a guilty pleasure, certain things in the game did not 
 live up to the expectations from the first game and feel a little worn out the second time through.
 
  
  Justice For All starts where the first game ended, with Phoenix heading up his own firm and Maya 
 back from her spiritual meditation training to help. Similar to the first game, Justice For All 
 is layered into four separate parts, which corresponds to the missions you will complete throughout 
 the game. Technically speaking, there are only three missions all together since the first one 
 is a rather short and uninspired tutorial of sorts. If you played the first game than expect the 
 first chapter in Justice For All to last no more than an hour tops. Disapprovingly so, the scenarios 
 in Justice For All seem really laid back and simple compared to those of the previous game. The 
 last case from the first game was probably better than any case in Justice For All. Some of them 
 may have been unusual and very well written, but they seemed to have lacked that certain flair 
 and humor the first game all but showcased. While Phoenix does indeed get around (some of the levels 
 have him visiting a spiritual training town, a circus, and a luxurious hotel) , these locations 
 pale in comparison to some of the many exquisite decors showcased in the first game.
  
  Like the previous Phoenix Wright game, getting to know everyone you meet is essential to a successful 
 victory. At the start of every chapter, something bad happens (usually a murder of sorts) and Phoenix 
 is called in to defend the person accused of committing the crime. Phoenixs pessimistic attitude 
 always allows for funny lines of how his client has no chance in the world of winning, but yet 
 he still manages to take the case and win (depending on how well you do in the proceedings) . The 
 game is heavily text-based, and most of your time will be spent asking people questions as to the 
 incident. Going through every available option and talking to every person available is always 
 key to victory, and it also allows Phoenix to get clues and evidence in an effort to help solve 
 the cases.
  
  Of course, Phoenix not only plays the role of lawyer in the game but also as Detective in which 
 case he will also search for clues to help his case. While running around talking to people, you 
 can also search any part of the locations for evidence or unusual items that might be handy for 
 future use. The more evidence you collect the easier it will be to win the cases. Once everyones 
 story has been told and the best of evidence has been collected, you are than ushered off to court 
 to try and get your client found not guilty. The only way to lose in the game is for your client 
 to be found Guilty, which happens usually when you either say the wrong things in court or present 
 the wrong evidence too many times. Like in the previous game, there is a limit to how many times 
 you can present wrong evidence before the judge calls everything off and pronounced your client 
 Guilty.
  
  However instead of a strike system used in the first game, Justice For All uses a health bar to 
 indicate when the trial is over. If you manage to keep your health above zero for the entire trial 
 than you have a good shot of never failing. While the meter does indeed work more realistically 
 than a strike system, the way it is implemented in the game falls a bit short. There are times 
 when you must answer a critical answer in court, usually pertaining to the identity of someone 
 or a key item used. These questions usually result in a massive meter drop if answered incorrectly, 
 somewhere along the lines of 50-75%. While you can fill up your bars with successful interrogations, 
 players who get small penalties throughout and than are stuck on potential game-breaking moments 
 like this might get irritated. Another new twist in Justice For All is an interesting form of questioning 
 called the Psylock. Not to be confused with the superhero, the Psylock is used on those characters 
 that are hiding deep secrets and are unwilling to spoil the beans. The essence of the Psylock is 
 to offer background on characters and events throughout the story, making players find evidence 
 to shove in the characters faces to make them speak. However, while the Psylock is crucial to 
 the gameplay is does nothing more than cause players to backtrack and search for the most meaningless 
 of clues. Some characters may have only one or two Psylocks to open, which usually encases finding 
 some letter from ones past to show to them, while others require hours of perfect detective work 
 in order to advance the story. Searching for clues to open the Psylocks can ultimately end up being 
 a tiresome affair if you dont pay constant attention to the plot and get lost easily, but otherwise 
 it is an admirable addition to the game, but one that could have used a little more months of polish.
 
  
  It is really hard to knock Justice For All for anything considering how great the original game 
 truly was. The first game has some truly innovative ideas for gameplay, including blowing, rubbing, 
 screaming, and shaking the DS to solve cases. Many of those special abilities are gone in Justice 
 For All, leaving the game feeling almost unfinished. While players can still scream objections 
 into the mic and use the stylus for a few evidence prying minigames, the rest of the game is stationed 
 to walls of text with no ounce of change in between. There might be a few DS shakes thrown in to 
 throw-off the monotony, but its still not enough to warrant the features missing from the first 
 game.
  
  Justice For All is in no way a bad game despite its gameplay flaws. The game still shares its great 
 visual grace and sounds as the original as well as gives players the chance to meet some truly 
 extraordinary characters in the most unusual of places. But even with the similarities, bad cases 
 of backtracking, a faulty meter system, and a short story leave diehard Phoenix Wright fans objecting 
 Justice For All. Fans of the series might be disappointed by the outcome but newcomers will no 
 doubt enjoy the game as one of the best on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googooww
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I felt the game was more of a bad cartoon that I had to keep pressing buttons to watch. There were 
 a few points where I got stuck, and I knew I had to hit the right button at the right time with 
 the right person, and if I didn't do that I would lose. That is never a good position for a gamer. 
 There should be more than one small way out. Also, my logic in the cases often differed from that 
 of the designer, so I would do something that made total sense, and end up dead...
  
  Some parts were very fun though, especially when the convicts started freaking out, and the game 
 in all was a good experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnack007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Justice for All is the second entry in the Gyakuten Saiban / Phoenix Wright series. 
 While it does add a few new twists to gameplay and storyline, it misses out on some of the things 
 that made Ace Attorney so great. First off, since this is a straight up port of the GBA version, 
 Justice for All lacks a bonus 5th case which made use of the DS functions more, like Ace Attorney 
 did. So that means the touch screen and the microphone are mere options now, rather than being 
 used more creatively. While some people might say this is better, I myself preferred some of the 
 creativeness used in these two additional functions when playing Ace Attorney. Instead, we get 
 Psyche Locks, which is basically like the courtroom session of the game, just outside court. This 
 is pretty cool, but from time to time you know exactly what to answer with, but the game decides 
 you're not using the right item, so it can be trial and error from time to time.
  
  Graphically, it's on par with the original, which had nice graphics. No complains here. The sound, 
 though, is generally the same sound with remixed / new music tracks. I preferred the music from 
 Ace Attorney over this, to be honest. Not bad, though.
  
  Overall, Justice for All is by all means a good game. It's just that it isn't as good as it's predecessor, 
 Ace Attorney. I still recommend trying this game at least once (especially if you like text-heavy 
 games) , but if it came down to picking between Justice for All and Ace Attorney, I'd have to go 
 with Ace Attorney on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanna87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Yeah! Wright way to go Phoenix Wright!
  
  In my opinion, it is still a great game and I believe this is one of the better games I have ever 
 played.
  The story continues after the event which happened in Ace Attorney.
  (Yeah! So go get Part 1 before starting on this one will be better!)
  
  Justice For All introducing 
 some new features as such
  Presenting Profile, instead of the usual evidence.
  Psych-lock, unlocking the secrets of peoples heart.
  
  The story and gameplay is still the 
 same and well.. I still love the humor =)
  They did put in alot of effort in their music though some were taken from the first game.
  
 
  All in all, this is the Wright game to play =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Nintendo DS-Phoenix Wright-Ace Attorney-Justice For All
  
  Review 15
  
  This is not the first game in the Phoenix Wright series. I played it first because I could not 
 find the original, but I have played the original and so the improvements category is still in 
 effect.
  
  Game Genre: Adventure
  
  Graphics
  The game has anime graphics, which makes sense because the game comes from Japan. Background graphics 
 are drawn up fairly well, reminiscent of an old text adventure game.
  
  Gameplay
  Simple Nintendo DS gameplay. The whole game is run on the touch screen, clicking the forward button 
 or presenting evidence to the court. The court record contains all the evidence and profiles that 
 you have gathered and can be used to locate contradictions in witness testimonies. There are 4 
 episodes that can be played in all, and each one is progressively longer than the next.
  
  Controls
  Everything is done on the touch screen, as I said earlier. If you dont like the touch 
 screen, however, the A button can be used to progress in the story and the L or R buttons 
 can access the court record. Also, holding the Y button at certain points in the game will allow 
 you to yell either Hold it!, Objection! or Take That! into the DSs microphone, triggering 
 Phoenixs yell.
  
  Story
  This game has an awesome story that I will not ruin. You are still Phoenix Wright, attorney at 
 law. You defend the weak, steal from the rich, give to the poor, whatever it is that attorneys 
 do. Anything else I say will take away from the story and I hate spoilers. I will stop here.
  
  Improvements?
  Wow. Get ready for this. The first improvement. you can now present peoples 
 profiles as well as evidence to the judgethe second improvementthe little evidence or profiles 
 icon in the top right corner of the screen is now smaller. The games only significant improvement 
 is the new Psyche-lock feature that allows Phoenix to see through peoples lies and uncover their 
 secrets.
  
  Durability
  The game lasts a long time because of the four court cases that you can take part in. The last 
 one, especially, took me about two weeks of playing off and on. The only bad thing is that once 
 you beat the game, you beat the game. There is nothing else to possibly do. Frustration Rate:
 
  Very low. The only time I got frustrated was when I knew how to corner the witness into a trap 
 and the game wouldnt let me because I had to progress along with it. The game uses foreshadowing 
 in every corner and in some cases, shows you (the player) who the murderer is. Because of this, 
 sometimes Phoenix is lagging behind you and it can make you a little impatient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenneil4
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is about a lawyer who has to protect his clients from being proven guilty. While the 
 game sounds simple, it is anything but. It is one of the best ideas for a ds game I have ever encountered. 
 The game blends perfect use of the ds's touch screen with crazy antics, engaging puzzle elements, 
 and an ever-changing story. You play Phoneix Wright, a defense attorney and are tasked with keeping 
 justice in the world. You do this by digging up clues to keep your clients innocent and find the 
 guilty party. However, Phoneix only handles murder cases, so almost everything you do matters. 
 That is where the health bar comes in. The health bar diminshes if you make a mistake while in 
 the court room and while investigating. The difficulty is never too hard and it makes the game 
 a pleasurable experience as you figure out what really happened in each case. However, there are 
 only 4 cases and they only last 3-4 hours each and therefore, there is little replay value. Also, 
 the game is very text-based. This could have been allieviated if the game had voice-acting, but 
 sadly it doesn't. Those are really the only knocks on an otherwise solid ds game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CynicalSophist
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first game in the series, you already know what to expect. If you haven't, what 
 are you waiting for? Come on in, there's plenty for all to enjoy! Justice for All is a sequel to 
 the first Phoenix Wright, but it is possible to play this one without having played the first. 
 (Good thing too, with how hard it can be to track down the first one.) For the uninitiated, Phoenix 
 Wright is a young, talented (and a tad hotblooded) defense attorney. The games revolve primarily 
 around him as he does everything he can to defend his client . Justice for All plays very similar 
 to the previous installment, making one new gameplay addition (while surprisingly taking some away) . 
 This one is also shorter than the first, having only four cases to play.
  
  (Review not finished yet.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandralewis7
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 18, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  it was good especially the last one they made it a very good ending they shouldve added the 3D 
 stuff from last time and they shouldve made it longer the It's good if you understand the first 
 onethe 2nd case was worth playing becasue it left us with a good ending and the final case where 
 after the credits was great and left us to beieve that there wil be more phoenix wright including 
 some of the old and new characters agin from this game. my final relut is that it was good, coulve 
 been better but very creative ending makes me want to play it a second time like the first one. 
 yes i know im weird playing 2 times
  but the third one should be good and so should the fourth one but the fourth one wont be phoenix 
 wright it would be some new kid: (
  not looking forward to a new kid they should keep the original characters: phoenix wright, maya, 
 mia detective gumshoe, payne, edgeworth and pearl but overall it was okay but i would like to see 
 more action and twists and turns and surprising endings the last cases on all phoenix wright games 
 are always good and make you want to play more but after the credits leaves us with surprising 
 endings and makes you want to know more about the next game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatmeworry21
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Myself, being an absolute fanboy of Phoenix Wright, I must say that I wasn't really looking for 
 improvements on gameplay mechanics or innovative tools. I was looking for progress in the writing 
 and personality of the Phoenix Wright series. In this category (which is really what the game is 
 all about) PW 2 is an amazing achievement. The stories are ambitiously crazy, and all of the new 
 characters are integrated extremely well. The music, when compared to the first, is markedly better. 
 Overall, if you played the first (which you really should before picking up the sequel) and loved 
 it, then you'll wonder why Gamespot gave it a lower rating when the essentials of the Phoenix Wright 
 series (the writing, humor and characters) are so brilliantly done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norabbitnofun
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Waw, a new episode of Phoenix Wright making it outside of Japan??? Let me buy it now now now!
 
  
  For those new to Phoenix Wright series, well I really advise you to start with the first one because 
 this episode has its story heavily referring to the previous one (which is also longer and has 
 nearly all the features as this one) . For veterans, the novelty in the game-play comes essentially 
 from the addition of psychic locks, which more or less give you an opportunity to do the same as 
 (in court, evidence-based) cross-examining but during investigation phases and more at your leisure 
 time . (This comes very soon in the first case of the game.) Also you can now present portraits 
 to people in the same way as you present evidence. Last but not least, this game is really 4 cases 
 in total which is a tad shorter than the previous game, and there is no DS-special feature included 
 (contrary to the previous game) .
  But first - what is this game all about? It tells the neat story of a defense attorney whose credo 
 is that he is on Earth to prove the innocence of his clients. The story itself unfolds over chapters, 
 and each chapter sees you going between phases of investigation (trying to gather evidence that 
 can help prove your client's innocence) and phases of actual trial at the court where you have 
 to prove logic flaws in the offense attorney's statements, through the cross-examination of testimonies.
 
  Okay now the thing that does not transpire in this description is... THIS IS FUN! Yes, a great 
 deal of it, because the characters depicted are charming to the caricature (the main offense attorney 
 whips you when you find contradictions, or the judge to influence him to her views!) and there 
 is just a ton of humour here. It is told in the cartoonish-mangaish way, in the sense that faces 
 are made to show extreme expression - all of this fitting very well from my perspective.
  
  Overall, the story always takes a twist here and there, that keeps you willing for more. It happens 
 that the last case was too obvious from my perspective in terms of story, though I did have a couple 
 of surprises, but hushhhh - you will have to find this buy yourself, no spoiler!
  The thing that matters though is that characters are treated with a great deal of quality and you 
 get to really feel you are facing personalities, not any kind of NPC in an RPG.
  
  During investigation phases you move from place to place, and a place is really 1 image shown, 
 which you can examine to try and find clues. On top of this, at each location, you can meet with 
 1 character and ask questions or show objects. New! You can now also show portraits in the same 
 way as you present objects. And that's basically it - finding some clues or having some conversation 
 unlock more clues / places / conversations, until you have exhaustively had all possible mandatory 
 conversations &amp; clues for you to get to the next phase.
  
  During trial phases, the offense side will present a story incriminating your client and of course 
 you will have to defend him/her. You do this by pushing the people presenting testimony, until 
 you find a good contradiction which is backed up by evidence.
  
  Overall, I had less fun with this game than the previous one, though I still had some! Of course 
 the novelty wears out since in truth this is really the same game as before (with lots of similar 
 graphics recycled... as well as the great musics!) The introduction of portrait presentation, though 
 logical, only serves to increase the number of possibilities of presenting stuff and really does 
 not bring any additional fresh air . Psychic locks are ok but not extraordinary (you already did 
 this in court, after all.) But the tone is really really great, the execution of the game is fine 
 and I am having a hard time complaining too.
  As a conclusion, I would recommend to buy this game only if you did not get frustrated with the 
 previous one, since you get more of the same experience. I personally had enough fun with it to 
 be satisfied with my return on investment (more than with many games;) ) . And if you did not try 
 the previous one, just rush to the nearest store and DO THAT!
  I am personally not going to buy the next Phoenix Wright (Trials and Tribulations) , which is just 
 more of the same experience, but I will wait for the fore-next one (Gyakuten Saiban 4) which will 
 be made especially for the DS and might bring enough novelty.
  
  Special note to French users: the translation to Frensh is ok in that it carries through the humour 
 and tone etc but there are quite a few grammar errors. I guess most people would not care too much 
 for the errors and consider the game as still a good experience in French. (I just hope they improve 
 this in the next game though...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Although the Phoenix Wright series has been established in Japan for a good number of years as 
 Gyakuten Saiban, its still relatively new to the Western world. 2005s Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 was a hit in the US and Europe; the twisting murder plots and courtroom drama translated well from 
 East to West. Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney  Justice for All is very similar to its predecessor. 
 The plotlines are well thought out and the characters well scripted, but it suffers severely from 
 its short completion time and non-existent replay value.
  
  As Phoenix Wright, an ace defence attorney, you will engage in courtroom battles to prove your 
 clients innocence and search crime scenes for vital clues. There are several returning characters 
 in JFA which include your spirit-channelling side kick Maya, the hasty but good-hearted Detective 
 Gumshoe, and the impressionable dealer of justice that is the Judge. Although this is a sequel, 
 playing the original DS game is by no means a requirement. The cases have no reliance on the events 
 of the first game, and though some characters and cases from the original are referenced, JFA will 
 provide you with all the information you need on them.
  
  The gameplay is almost completely unchanged from the original game and its easy to pick up for 
 newcomers or veterans. Cases begin by showing you cryptic cut-scenes that portray the murder. You 
 are then introduced to your client, the one who is accused of murder, to hear their side of the 
 story. This is where the investigation phase begins. In order to build up your case and find out 
 who the real murderer is, youll be able to search crime scenes and talk to witnesses. Once youre 
 done investigating, the trial will begin.
  
  The courtroom phase is a battle between Phoenix, representing the defendant, and a prosecutor who 
 is trying to prove the defendant guilty. The main part of this phase is cross-examining witness 
 testimonies. A witness called by the prosecution will give his or her account of the murder; you 
 have to closely study this account and find contradictions between the actual murder and the testimony. 
 Testimonies are broken down sentence-by-sentence for you to analyse. You can press the witness 
 to elaborate on any given section of the testimony, or if youve spotted a clear contradiction 
 between fact and testimony, you can present a relevant piece of evidence to catch out the witness. 
 You have to really think about the cases in court because you cant go around throwing objections 
 left, right and centre. You will be penalised for incorrect objections; too many of these will 
 result in a guilty verdict for your defendant.
  
  The only notable gameplay addition to JFA is the psyche-lock feature that can be used in the 
 investigation phase. During the second case, you will gain the ability to see peoples lies. These 
 take the form of locks that surround the person you are questioning. The more locks you see, the 
 more difficult it will be to get information out of them. Answering a series of questions correctly 
 will break the locks and get you your information, but choosing the wrong answers will reduce your 
 life bar. This is shared with the life bar in the courtroom phase, and although you cant get a 
 game over by failing to break psyche-locks, it will reduce your margin of error in the courtroom.
 
  
  JFAs control scheme takes advantage of the DS touch screen and microphone functionality without 
 feeling bolted on. The bottom screen contains buttons to move to different locations and talk to 
 witnesses in the investigation phase, and to press and present evidence in the courtroom phase. 
 The game can be played entirely with the stylus or the d-pad and buttons, but a lot of fun comes 
 in yelling Objection! into the microphone. Instead of using the stylus or buttons to present 
 evidence, you can hold Y to activate the voice recognition and shout into the microphone. Although 
 its generally a lot easier to just use the touch screen, the microphone controls do add a sense 
 of fun to the game.
  
  The whole concept of Phoenix Wright is hugely dependant on original and creative case plots, and 
 JFA certainly delivers. At the beginning of a case, youll often be dumbfounded as to who the real 
 murderer is. The pacing of each case is excellent, and as you find evidence and talk to witnesses, 
 it is very satisfying to see the case unravel before your eyes. For a handheld game, JFA does a 
 fantastic job of creating an atmosphere. Witness recollections are portrayed through dramatic screen 
 shots and the effect is heightened by the tense music that plays in the background. The over-the-top 
 cases feel somewhere between a murder mystery TV program and a Japanese anime. The presentation 
 is top-notch and it really comes off well, and the fabulous script takes a lot of credit for this. 
 Youll meet a diverse group of characters which include a short-sighted student with a superiority 
 complex and a schizophrenic ventriloquist, and their scripts reflect their personalities brilliantly. 
 There is a lot of text to sift through in JFA, but a steady dose of humour makes this a lot easier. 
 The localisation team have done a fantastic job in making sure all the comedy works in English 
 and there are barely any translation problems.
  
  The art style and music in JFA is a huge contributing factor in creating tense atmospheres and 
 advancing the plot. The art style has a comic-book look to it which gives it a lot of charm, and 
 the character animations (such as Phoenixs table-slamming and finger-pointing) are simple but 
 effective. It isnt so much the quality of music but the sudden change in tunes that does a lot 
 for JFA. You might be talking to a witness with a bubbly, cheery tune playing in the background, 
 and when you discover a vital clue, it will suddenly change to a tense track, menacing even in 
 some situations. Voice acting is at a minimum, reserved for shouts of Objection! , Hold It! , and 
 Take That! .
  
  JFA may have a fantastic package of gameplay, graphics, and sound, but it has one fatal flaw: length 
 and value. Although each case can take as long as three or four hours, there are only four cases 
 in the game. You could finish the game in less than ten hours, and due to the nature of the game, 
 never play it again. Once you know who the murderer is, where to investigate and what evidence 
 to present, the anticipation and wonder is gone. It would be fair to say the Phoenix Wright series 
 is as much an interactive novel as it is a video game.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney  Justice for All is a captivating game while it lasts. Its four cases 
 are riddled with plot twists that you would never expect and characters that are so charming youll 
 grow attached to them. However, its lack of game hours is frustrating. By the time youve finished 
 the game, youll be wishing there was at least double the amount of cases. You should consider 
 carefully whether or not you want to buy a game that will last for such a short amount of time, 
 but make no mistake, the hours it does consume are full of shock, mystery, and intrigue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Phoenix wright, joe bloggs one any only chance to experience the thrills of a defence lawyer. I 
 have personaly always been a fan of new ideas and inventive gameplay and phoenix wright delivers 
 in spadefulls. Using evidence and logic, players are really challenged to save the accused client. 
 Pieceing these clues together takes a lot of brainpower and even if you know who is guilty you 
 have to show evidence. Sure it doesn't sound like the most appealing game, but the self rewards 
 you get when discoveing an inacuracy in a witnesses statement is very satisfing.
  In certain cases the player is at the scene of the crime and must talk to witnesses and collect 
 clues. This can be a little tedious but the suspence leading to the courtcase is built up nicely 
 because of this. The characters in the game are supebly outrageous and also quite humerous. The 
 japanese anime feel to the game is not my cup of tea but is very outrageous. This game is not perfect 
 by a long shot but for being completly and utterly unique it deserves plaudits. I dare say if you 
 like a good puzzle phoenix wright will not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Darklance
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Whod have thought that Phoenix Write Ace Attorney, a game about a lawyer, would be such a success? 
 We all know what Capcom do with a successful game. Milk it for all its worth. So here we have 
 Phoenix Write 2 pushed out the door not so long after the original is released. And in many ways 
 it shows. If you have played Phoenix Write Ace Attorney then you know what to expect. Gathering 
 information from the crime scene, meeting plenty of over the top characters and presenting evidence 
 and pressing witnesses in a court of law. The original game had five cases, the first four originally 
 designed for GBA and the last designed specifically for DS. The Last case therefore included 3D 
 security camera scenes and 3D items that you could examine from all angles. It comes as a shame 
 that there are only four cases (although its still quite long) and there is no 3D whatsoever and 
 there are a few moments where this could have been really well implemented. For the most part the 
 music is excellent and really sets the mood, though other times the music is out of place and downright 
 annoying. Many of the characters make a return and there are some new additions that are really 
 good and the humour also makes a return, although it isnt as funny as the original and sometimes 
 it feels its trying too hard. Although in many ways Phoenix Write 2 seems like a step backward 
 for the series there are a couple of welcome additions such as the psyche-lock and the new penalty 
 meter. Despite its flaws Phoenix Write 2 still has a lot to offer. Going to court and solving crazy 
 cases is still a lot of fun and youll get a laugh out of all the zany characters. The story and 
 cases are well planned out and as with the first game the last case is definitely the best. My 
 recommendation is play the original, if you like it you will also like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: More court action; same great interface; new psyche-lock feature is fun; fantastic writing 
 with only a few errors; great new characters.
  
  The Bad: No major differences from the first game; only four cases, none of which are DS-exclusive; 
 gameplay often involves guessing, and is sometimes unforgiving.
  
  The original Phoenix Wright was a great DS game that had a very unique premise and great writing 
 and value. Its sequel, which was a fairly long time coming considering it's just a translation 
 of a Japanese GBA game, will not disappoint fans of the original, though it really doesn't do anything 
 new.
  
  Just like the original, you're cast as Phoenix Wright, and you're expected to prove your defendant 
 not guilty of whatever heinous murder was committed. There's nothing new to the premise, but Justice 
 for All builds well upon the story of the original. In fact, it's arguably superior in story telling 
 to the first game. However, this time around there's only four cases, and none of them use the 
 unique features of the DS beyond yelling Hold It! and Objection! into the microphone. It's sad, 
 really, because the fifth case in the last game was really great, and there was over a year in 
 potential development time for this game, so it certainly could have been done.
  
  If you're hankering for more of the same kind of courtroom action of the original Phoenix Wright 
 game, you'll get your fill here. If you don't like Phoenix Wright, it goes without saying... well, 
 it goes without saying. Ha! All kidding aside, this is still a great game, if a tad unambitious. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  (SUMMARY AT THE BOTTOM) :
  
  Uh... ok. I didn't play the first game so naturally i found this something *new* and somewhat quirky.
 
  
  Yea sure i saw Lotta Hart and i was like: Hmm... is it a man? Or.... is it black or?.... Why... wha-... ah 
 forget it 
  
  ANYHOW:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Take your Stylus. Investigate very very linear investigations. Then fight a patterned court battle.
 
  
  Unfortunatly is IS linear this game. Its all by pattern... its like Contra levels with text and 
 over-the-top anime animations. You can really honestly play through this type of game once. Its 
 fun at first i imagine but then its the linear aspect which hits you after your second mission 
 is complete... you just think: Man... can i be bothered with the same process all over again? 
  
  Maybe thats just this sequel? I dont know... anyhow i have the feeling i haven't been introduced 
 right to this gaming series.
  
  In anycase the dialogue is fun and easy to understand. The anime is quite fun but the fun wears 
 off after you meet them a couple of a million times later.
  
  Honestly, if i was Phoenix Wright.. i mean... i have NO IDEA what he did to Franziska Von Karma's 
 father, however i would have just been like: Look, i'm really sorry for whatever i did or how i 
 was involved, your a great lawyer just like your father and to be honest i know why you would be 
 mad at me losing your dad n' all especially since i knew him... but your more than that to hold 
 a grudge like this, afterall that wouldn't be perfection of character would it?... anyhow... uhm... want 
 to go out for a meal with me??? 
  
  ;)
  
  Yea... sorry but the German Prosecuter was probably the only interesting character for me! Ditch 
 the boring secretary medium and get in with the German whip lady! :)
  
  Graphics:
  
  Anime, fun animations. Nothing much to comment on here.
  
  Sound:
  
  Objection! HOLD IT! 
 Cheesy music! - Its ok..... OBJECTION!!!
  
  Value:
  
  Fun game. For me since its my first time playing this sort of game... very difficult. My brain honestly 
 hurts after it ugh.
  
  I guess in some ways its something very unique however its still got that whole point and click 
 adventure feel to it which is nice to feel again! Broken Sword and all that with a new perspective.
 
  
  The unfortunate downside is the linerarity of it all. Its just too much process than actual puzzle 
 solve. Charachters are o-k, but honestly.... Franziska Von Karma isn't an evil lady... she just needs 
 to interview more people thats all!.... and.... wear less uncomfortable cloths.... and be less pixelated.... and 
 maybe get a better whip... honestly a brown orange whip....
  
  ... whoah! Sorry kind of side tracked.
  
  So to summarise:
  
  Good: Franziska Von Karma
 
  
  Bad: Brown/Orange Whip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i just completed Phoenix Wright: Justice for All. Amazing. I rate it 8.1.
  
  Since there's no review section for this game on GS:
  
  Great game, though i can criticise 
 it on many points.
  
  JFA is a lot harder than the first and is less rewarding. The first one developed the characters 
 very well, and you'd warm to them very quickly. This second outing is not like that at all. Some 
 of the characters are more forgettable; and for someone to jump into JFA without playing the first 
 one (Ace Attorney) they would likely be very disappointed.
  
  If you have played the first game, you'll like this one a lot but will still be disappointed. The 
 novel touch screen puzzling elements is almost non-existent if you compare it to the first. For 
 example, no finger dusting, no close-inspection of objects, no video playback/rewinding puzzle. 
 You could say this JFA game a step back from Ace Attorney. The first game had a wow factor with 
 these features but this second outing really lacks that.
  
  There are less missions. The cases are sub-par and only the last case is worthy in continuing where 
 the first game left off.. The lack of extra gameplay elements as mentioned before makes the cases 
 less enjoyable. The inclusion of the psyche-lock also makes the game harder, though it makes the 
 player more involved. This forces the player to pay more attention to small details which can be 
 a good thing for those looking for a challenge, but extremely bad for those are just trying to 
 enjoy the game with not too much effort. Thankfully, the psychelocks are quite easy to start off 
 with but can be very fustrating in the later cases.
  
  There are some good points, this is a PW game, so if you enjoyed the characters, the settings, 
 the case solving mysteries, you'll enjoy this game. The music is top notch, changing with the moods 
 and characters. And the last case is very exceptional, it's pretty outrageous.
  
  The first game was not too hard yet not too easy. It had a perfect balance. This game is set a 
 tad too difficult and you'll find yourself having to quick-save, guess some contradictions, switch 
 off, and load the game back up. This is especially apparent in the last case.
  
  I have to admit i did use a guide which contributed about 5% of my effort in this game. The ending 
 is very satisfying, and there are in fact 2 endings. The music, ending sequence and the outrageous 
 scenarios are very enjoyable, especially after having teared your hair out on some occasions.
 
  
  All in all, a great game, but disappointing when measured up against the first game. If you enjoyed 
 the first game, you'll enjoy this game but the difficulty is that much harder and is less rewarding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Capcom hasn't exactly had the most buddy-buddy relationship with Nintendo, considering how a number 
 of big console projects in recent years failed to ultimately satisfy both parties. These circumstances 
 almost filtered down into the handheld sect as well, with the fathers of Resident Evil and Devil 
 May Cry being very touchy about investing in the DS market. Well, in 2005, they decided to cautiously 
 give the portable a shot by having a key lawyer represent them. Ok, not literally of course, but 
 when Phoenix Wright graced America's shores for the first time, Capcom found reason to like Nintendo 
 again. Two years later, Mr. Wright has returned to tie up a couple loose ends, and hopefully serve 
 justice for all.
  
  In Phoenix's first DS bout, infamous prosecutor Manfred Von Karma provided all of his mental woes 
 in the final episode, and our poor lawyer barely skipped out intact. Unfortunately, things are 
 now much worse, as Franziska, Manfred's barely legal daughter, has decided to come from Europe 
 just to carry out her personal vendetta against Wright. It also doesn't help that she always carries 
 a lengthy whip, which Phoenix is subjected to on a number of occasions. Honestly, as harsh as she 
 is in the court room at the age of 18, you would think an appropriate and healthy intimate relationship 
 with someone would be just what she needs, as PMS is apparently her specialty.
  
  At this point, let's investigate some gameplay changes since Phoenix's American debut. The first 
 happens to be the unfortunate elimination of touch control in the light of dusting for fingerprints, 
 or any other special tools used in investigation. In addition, the ability to present character 
 'profiles' as evidence forces you to link important happenings in a case to those involved. It 
 does add a layer to the critical thinking process, but it may prove frustrating, just like when 
 knowing the exact moment to present evidence in court. Finally, Psyche-Locks are a brand new feature, 
 which function as cross-examining someone outside of court. When you encounter these, it means 
 the person has something important to hide, and you must use evidence to break each lock. Sometimes 
 it's implemented well, and sometimes it's just a pain.
  
  The real action of the game occurs in the courthouse. Phoenix and his opponent, Franziska, are 
 always at ends with each other, and the poor witnesses are caught in the crossfire. Ms. Von Karma 
 calls someone to testify, you read through it (like everything else in the game - very text heavy!) , 
 the judge interjects a comment or two, and then it's your turn to cross-examine. You can Press 
 every statement to try to extract more detail, or call Objection! as you present contradictory 
 evidence that will support your client's innocence. Players do have the option of holding Y and 
 shouting Hold It! or Objection! into the mic, but it's hardly attractive since you look like an 
 idiot doing it, and also because saying anything will work.
  
  All this may sound awfully negative, but at least Justice For All retains what was appealing in 
 AA, the colorful characters and incredible case narratives (even if progressing may make you feel 
 completely stupid) . The dialogue is borderline INSANE in some instances. For example, one of Phoenix's 
 inner monologues includes the quote, Like sands through the hourglass, so are the Days of the Circus. 
 Use your imagination if you haven't played. It's simply unfortunate that during the course of the 
 game, I spotted more than ten writing mistakes, which is rather laughable considering how simple 
 they were. Seeing we're when it should've been where makes you truly question the localization 
 team's effort. But if you ignore that like you really should, prepare to meet a number of ridiculously 
 unique people. There's someone that behaves like a total airhead, and, well, let's say a magician 
 that is CLEARLY a woman. These characters were a bit more annoying, but it's nothing you couldn't 
 handle.
  
  Moving along, one of the beauties of JFA is, well, how beautiful the game is. There is a lot of 
 evident repetition in how everything unfolds, but it's nothing that hurts the experience. All of 
 the characters, old and new, are drawn well, and they all help to inject an untouchable charm into 
 an already illustrious atmosphere. Additionally, the collection animations is simply unforgettable, 
 just like last time. Whether that includes the reactions of the characters when interacting with 
 them or seeing Franziska's whip doing the talking in court, it's simply inevitable for you to at 
 least smile. The anime style of the game suits the overall theme VERY well.
  
  However, truly the cr&egrave; me of the crop in Phoenix Wright, the audio production, is what made 
 the original shine, and the same holds for JFA. A couple themes make a comeback, which is no disappointment, 
 and a few originals help turn up the heat in the courtroom, which begs you to wonder how everyone 
 can wear all those layers. By far, a certain prosecutor's main theme is nothing short of awesome, 
 and I couldn't hear enough of it. The same quality applies to the effects department. From the 
 slamming of Phoenix's hands on his court desk to hearing the 'skewering' sound of someone knowing 
 they just got owned by his comments, this is what brings the game to life. The Phoenix Wright series 
 is meant to be beyond abnormal, and every single little sound clip you hear amplifies that. Perhaps 
 the franchise is due for some VO, but it would have to be perfect to retain the allure of the previous 
 games.
  
  With court adjourned, it isn't easy to gauge the superiority between these two installments of 
 PW. In my case, I happened to enjoy the first one just a little bit more. Reasons being, I didn't 
 feel as dumb, and what little touch control it had was satisfying. JFA capitalizes again, rejuvenating 
 what made Ace Attorney great, but unfortunately includes rather unimaginative features causing 
 you to think much, much harder, which can drop the fun factor. Of course not everyone is going 
 to feel that way, which is fine. I simply hope that Capcom soon decides to announce the North American 
 release of number three, and delivers another law-driven entertainment experience. Wow, there's 
 something gamers didn't think was possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice For All has all the best elements of text adventures, Choose-Your-Own-Adventure 
 books, crime thriller television shows and 'who-dun-it' novels, with a dash of point-and-click 
 adventure games and in my book that makes for a great gaming experience.
  
  If you are not familiar with the Phoenix Wright formula it has created a genre unto itself in which 
 the player investigates and then litigates a series of murder cases. The characters are mostly 
 charming and through just a few variations in their animations are able to express themselves surprisingly 
 well.
  
  I found that as with the first game, at times, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney could be tedious and 
 exacting in when it would allow you to present evidence, something that the developers could only 
 get around by introducing branching paths. Some of the evidence presentations, at least for me, 
 could only be worked out using a FAQ.
  
  I enjoyed this sequel as much as I did the original, but as noted while playing through the first 
 game I encountered a glitch that caused me to miss what I later found out was the most compelling 
 case in the game (for which I deducted a point for technical failure) . So since this is essentially 
 the same game I'm giving it the same score with an extra point for not breaking this time around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm a big fan of Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney and I was waiting for this sequel with high 
 anticipation. I waited... and waited... until! It was released, hurray! I immediately went down 
 to my local game shop and purchased it on the release day. I fumbled with the dreaded cello-thingy, 
 cracked the case open and pushed the game card into my humble DS. I turned it on, the loading screen 
 came up. I clicked the screen, clicked the game icon and low behold, the game loaded. My hands 
 trembled, I couldn't contain my excitement any longer and once again, Phoenix Wright is in full 
 swing solving four cases in style. Phoenix Wright is back baby!
  
  I'll skip the story part. It follows up on the events of the previous DS game and that's all I 
 say. If I spoilt the stories, you have every right to hunt me down and burn me at the stake.
  
  The game plays identical to the original. You still have to gather evidence, listen to testimonies 
 and listen out for contradictions, examine crime scenes and so on. You can still yell into the 
 microphone, either Objection or Hold It and everything is controlled with the stylus. It's very 
 easy to get into the swing of things and the game has a fair challenge. The only thing missing 
 is a DS Exclusive case that exploits the features of the DS. But I don't care, the four cases here 
 is sufficient enough. Perhaps it is a step back in terms of gameplay, but, well, I don't care! 
 The graphics would be considered to be lazy because the same sprites are used, but they're still 
 brilliant. The courtroom is exactly the same, the Wright and Co Office is still the same; but it's 
 just to build a coherent world. It's liking catching up with old pals. They still dazzle with personality 
 and warmth, great art direction all round!
  
  The music is perhaps the only thing to really change. Theres an instance of some music from the 
 original, but other than that everything is brand new. I didn't think much of the music that accompanies 
 the explanation of the crime (the original's theme was absolutely perfect) but I am willing to 
 look past that tiny thing. Still no voice actors, but this is a DS give it some credit. If you 
 can't, GO AWAY! Sound effects are crisp and though taken from the first title, eh.... FIFA does 
 it all the time, to a less effective way.
  
  The lifespan is actually shorter than the original. I managed to complete the whole game in a matter 
 of 2 days (though I did play the whole game non stop) . It's because it's missing a fifth case, 
 but it offers a fair decent challenge without being unruly. Everything is always solvable if you 
 just think about it. There's no real reason why you would want to go back to the game, but the 
 quality of the script is commendable (despite a few grammatical errors) and the stories are simply 
 divine. I'd play it again!
  
  Phoenix Wright Justice For All is a worthy follow up to the smash hit sequel. It may be shorter, 
 and it has gameplay elements missing from the original. But that doesn't stop the game from being 
 highly enjoyable. The people who will get the most of this are the fans because a lot of references 
 are made to the original. If you're new to the Phoenix Wright series, I suggest you try the original 
 first. But if you love the original, like I do (and I still play it) then this is an essential 
 purchase. Buy it, love it, complete it and tell people about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  As with the first Phoenix Wright game (Ace Attorney) , your put back in the defense of different 
 clients in other to prove their innocence. In terms of Gameplay not alot has changed, the concept 
 is stll the same, at first you may be thinking its lazy production, but the storyline in each case 
 are so rich and detailed it makes up for up the minimaln changes in gameplay.
  
  The gameplay really is addictive, following the story to each case does involve a lot of text and 
 it helps if you have played the original Ace Attorney to grasp the backgrounds of the characters 
 who have returned to the sequel. For anyone unfamilar with PW: AA, you play Phoenix Wright the rookie 
 lawyer who gradually learns the ways of the courtroom and turns the mostly impossible of cases 
 to verdicts of not guilty. in Justice for All there are 4 cases, each case is split into 2 styles 
 of playing. firstly you may have to explore the crime scenes, talk to various witnesses and gather 
 clues and evidence to be used in court. the various locations are presented with backgrounds showing 
 the scenery, using the stlyus to pick out parts of the location to examine further.
  
  As for the actual courtroom part of the game, which also happens to be my favourite part of playing, 
 you cross examine the witnesses testomines and pick out the contridictions in them either by asking 
 more questions or presenting evidence that proves them otherwise. The game does acquire a close 
 eye and thoughtful mind to get through the game. for every little mistake you make in court you 
 are penalized. instead of the 5 exclamantion marks in the original game, you now have health bar, 
 and different questions can sap different amounts of health. compared to the original, the cases 
 are slightly harder, because simply there is some guess work to be done. you can now have the ability 
 to present the character profiles as well as evidence, but this just means more to think about 
 when raising an objection.
  
  When pitted in court, the rival prosecutor will do anything to make the guilty verdict be said. 
 New character Franziska Von Karma is a good additon to the main cast as well as Pearl Fey, Maya's 
 cousin. other character from previous cases tend to appear as well. Lotta Hart and Will Powers 
 make some more appreances giving more nostaligia to the game.
  
  As for music, the soundtrack is slightly altered and compared to the origianal, it really is down 
 to personal opinion. Although I believe the music in both games is fantastic and really captures 
 the mood of the game. the little effects the game uses, like the flashy motions of the character 
 sprites also remains as strong as ever.
  
  For the record, PW: JFA is an amazing sequel that keeps the sense of the games concept but offers 
 new cases, characters and all the twists and secrets the game masterfully delievers out. All I 
 can say is that anyone who loved the original should definately play the sequel, although newcomers 
 should start with Ace Attorney and get to grips with the characters first rather than jumping into 
 the sequel and obtain half the narrative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the game may not look appealing at first sight.... I certainly didn't think so, and that 
 is why I never really bought the first game. However with all of the hype surrounding the franchise, 
 I decided to give it a try. I can truthfully say that I am glad I made that decision.
  
  Gameplay: The way this game works is you play the role of an attorney at law named Phoenix Wright. 
 As an attorney, your job is to do detective work, battle it out in the courtroom, and make witnesses 
 look like simpletons. I should probably make one thing clear though, this is a text heavy game 
 and is more about thinking than actually pressing buttons or exploring, or anything of the sort 
 really. However, by involving so much thought, the game is much more immersive than your typical 
 game.
  During cases, the story of course will be introduced by a cutscene, and then you will begin your 
 investigation for preparation of your client's trial. To gather evidence, you will have to trigger 
 events by doing certain things, such as going to the right area, or showing a vital piece of evidence 
 to a character to get some info out of them. At some points, the person you are having a conversation 
 with may be seen in several psyche-locks, which are seen through the handy magatama item. To unlock 
 these locks, you need to show several correct pieces of evidence to the person, and if you fail, 
 the meter at the top of your screen will start to reduce. A similar type of thing happens in the 
 courtroom, if you present the wrong evidence, you are penalized by the judge. Of course, in the 
 courtroom is where things heat up.... between twists in the storylines, screaming Objection! into 
 the microphone, and getting whipped by prosecutor Von Karma in the courtroom (don't ask, just play 
 the game and find out) . It truly is an adrenaline rush to play through the trials in the game... 
 and it is extremely satsifying when you win your case. Along your side is your assistant, Mia, 
 whom is a Spirit channeler /assistant at law. She is only one of the many characters in the game 
 though. The text is very well written, and the characters all have unique personalities. Also, 
 some of the characters from the first Phoenix Wright will make a return.
  There really isn't all that much I can say bad about this game... the game is long, but isn't painfully 
 long to the point where you are bored, and the gameplay can get a little either too difficult or 
 just kind of repetitive (all depending on how you look at it) , but otherwise everything is simply 
 amazing. I wouldn't say the gameplay is something everyone will like, you really need to have an 
 appreciation for a good storyline and a unique style of gameplay. This truly is one of the most 
 innovative games I have ever played though, and hopefully you will have the same reaction to the 
 game.
  
  Graphics: The character models are detailed, as are the environments. Everything looks great on 
 the bright Nintendo DS screens, although it would be nice if more animations were in the game instead 
 of just pictures. Also, they could have added a few more facial expressions to some of the characters. 
 All in all though, the game looks great, and mostly everything is well animated.
  
  Sound: The sound that is here is great, it would just be nice if there was more of it. They seemed 
 to reuse the same music over and over again, to the point where it was repetitive. However, some 
 of the sound effects, such as the sound effect of the whip, sound great and are nice touches. Not 
 the best sound to be seen in video games, but still good enough to not spoil the great gameplay. 
 The music is intense at points too, which is great when in the courtroom.
  
  Value: There is a lengthy story that should keep you busy for awhile. There are around four different 
 cases that you can complete, which three out of the four are very lengthy and engaging. The only 
 complaint is the lack of replayability, however the long stories alone should be enough to keep 
 you satisfied with the game.
  
  In conclusion, this game is perhaps one of the most innovative games to be seen on the DS yet, 
 and is something that shouldn't be missed by anyone. Ignore the initial unappealing impression 
 of the game, and see the game for what it really is: An immersive piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -InsrtNameHere-
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequal to Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (DS) . This game has a few flaws in it, 
 but overall it is still really good.
  Graphics: The graphics are the same as in the orrigional, with a few more sprite animations. It 
 is lacking the 3D animation like in the first, but has alot of nice drawings. 6/10
  Sound: The sound is good. At first, it seems as if the music from the first is way better, but 
 then you get used to it and start liking it. But the 'Ping' is sort of distorted. 7/10
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. The thing it does great is the interrogations. They occure out-of-court, 
 and are alot of fun in my oppinion. And the court disputes are just as good as the first. But the 
 real problem here, is that its just to... vague. It is really hard to pick out the contradictions, 
 unlike the first. And it isn't as enguaging as the first. The witnesses arent as fun to watch as 
 the first.
  Value: This game is worth the $30 that you have to pay. It is very lengthy and enguaging.
  Overall, 
 this game is good. It is definitally worth it if you bought the first. But if you haven't, buy 
 the orrigional first. 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is back, and taking names as he's sending criminals to jail in the sequel to his 
 original hit courtroom drama. Everything that made the first game brilliant is back, but at the 
 same time, everything that made the first game frustrating is still there as well.
  I won't delve into the story, as with the first game, it needs to be experienced to fully realize 
 it's greatness. I will say that the dialog is very well written, and offers puns upon puns of itself 
 and many pop-culture references. The characters are as hilarious and overblown as ever, and this 
 definitely alone makes the game worth playing.
  The basic gameplay of the first Phoenix Wright is unchanged. You question, cross examine and pester 
 witnesses until you can find their contradictions and bend their story to your will. It's still 
 original and fun, but all the frustration of not being able to skip text once you fail is still 
 left. The only new technique added is a psyche-lock that appears during investigations when witnesses 
 are with holding information. It acts exactly like the courtroom proceedings though, and honestly 
 adds nothing to the overall game.
  The graphics and audio are mostly unchanged from the last game. This isn't bad, as Phoenix Wright 
 had a very definitive style, and I've always been a fan of text driven gameplay, so the lack of 
 voice acting is fine. We still get OBJECTION! and the ability to shout it if need be, as well as 
 some new tunes to freshen up the whole deal. They are pretty much midi based, but they sound great 
 none the less, and truly add to the atmosphere.
  While Phoenix Wright really does nothing better or worse in this sequel, it's still a worthy follow 
 up, and definitely worth your time if you're a fan of the series. The game is also tailored to 
 newbies, so they should pick up this adventure as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimjiminat0r
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  The verdict is in, and there isnt a shadow of a doubt: Phoenix Wright has officially made his 
 entrance into the North American gaming scene. Last year, early bird gamers who snapped up the 
 very rare Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney were treated to one of the most developed and intriguing 
 handheld games to date as they stumbled their way through Phoenixs courtroom dramas. This year, 
 Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice for All has been widely distributed across North American 
 based on its predecessors success, and by and large, this is a good thing. However, stumbling 
 through the adventure wont be so light-hearted and endearing as it was last time.
  
  Justice for All gets off to a hazy start in every way. The games opening case is a lack luster 
 endeavor that serves to re-introduce the characters from the last game to new players. The games 
 introductory cutscene has Phoenix, the protagonist defense lawyer, getting clonked on the head 
 with a fire extinguisher which, naturally, induces amnesia and leaves Phoenix unable to so much 
 as remember his very unique name. The amnesia card is used as an out for having to re-teach and 
 explain everything that the first game covered, and having played the original Phoenix Wright, 
 I cant say that I appreciated it. Fine, Im aware that the second iteration is the first largely 
 distributed English version of Phoenix Wright and fresh players need to know the score, learn who 
 everyone is, and how to win a case, etc. but to a seasoned Phoenix veteran such as myself, the 
 case came off as a waste. This in itself wouldnt be an issue if it werent for the fact that there 
 are only four cases in the game, and the first one is a flimsy reminder mission. Not a roaring 
 start by any means.
  
  To compound my frustration, the developers chose to largely ignore the character development made 
 in the first game. Friends that you got off the hook for murder last time around? They dont seem 
 to remember or care. The detective who helped you solve every case, and whose hide you saved in 
 the end? Still doesnt trust you, and acts as though hes never met you. Your rival, Miles Edgeworth, 
 the world renowned prosecutor, whose fathers murder you solved? Thinks youre impudent and incapable. 
 It felt as though the strong opening chapter that was the original Phoenix Wright had been cast 
 aside and I had wasted my time playing it. Putting those logic gaps in the rear view mirror, Id 
 like to discuss the drive of Phoenix Wright: the trials. The game is divvied up into four murder 
 trials, and each time youll be representing the defendant who, as usual in the Phoenix universe, 
 is unwaveringly innocent yet happens to have a mountain of evidence against them. It then becomes 
 your personal mission as the  to get the defendant off the chopping 
 block. To do this, youll have to scour the crime scene, interview witnesses and key players and 
 generally have a sharp wit and a keen eye. The whole process of tracking down the real culprit 
 can be pretty exhilarating when youre on a roll, mowing down the prosecutions allegations with 
 evidence you racked up by being snoopy at the scene. Youll be whipping out documents, witness 
 profiles and clues found at the murder scene to reveal contradictions in the oppositions case, 
 and to prove the innocence of your client. There have been some changes made to the evidence gathering 
 process since the last time around. Phoenix will sometimes run up against what is called a Psyche-Lock, 
 which tells you that whoever has this lock is keeping a secret. In order to find out what their 
 secret is, youll have to present the right evidence to break the lock. The exercises are often 
 confusing and out of place, as youll find yourself choosing random pieces of evidence based on 
 vague hints from the person youre interviewing. It would have been much more seamless had the 
 developers simply chosen to integrate these secrets into the branching dialogue already used in 
 the game. There are already scenarios written in that prompt for the presentation of evidence that 
 arent Psyche-Locks, so why break the immersion to have an animation occur where chains cover the 
 character and the music takes a very paranormal tone? Its an odd design choice, if there ever 
 was one, but the locks still get the job done in the end.
  
  Unfortunately, this Phoenix doesnt seem to have been treated with even half the care of its earlier 
 incarnation. The new characters are difficult to sympathize with as they have evolved from ridiculous 
 but lovable to just flat out annoying. In one case, the entire cast of the mission is made of circus 
 performers, and not a single on of them is a character worth carrying over into the next game. 
 For instance, the clown, who never ceases to laugh, stretches out the gameplay time by what Im 
 sure is at least an hour with his mid-sentence giggles.
  
  The animation in the game is still strong as ever, having two dimensional representations of characters 
 and locals serve to tell the story. The hand drawn art is highly expressive, and each character 
 sports dozens of animations. They developers even have a sense of humor about these 2D cutouts 
 in that one character wears glasses, but often breaks them, and yet she will continually produce 
 another pair from her jacket so that her standard animation remains the same throughout the game. 
 Its good to see developers poke fun at their limitations. But, to cut to the chase, its very 
 obvious that Justice for All will go down in the books as just another addition in the series. 
 It suffers from a sever case of sequel syndrome. I can recommend it to those who felt taken in 
 by the first Phoenix Wright, as I was, because there is still some things to enjoy, but dont expect 
 to relive the original. For those new to the series, I will tell you that if you can get your mitts 
 on a copy of the first Phoenix, by all means do so. If not, play this one to support the franchise 
 and keep your fingers crossed for Phoenix Wright 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3r02007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The adventure genre and Nintendo DS got a real kick in the teeth in 2005, with the release of Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney. It was an instant smash, and became highly coveted by DS owners alike. Now, 
 Capcom graced us with a sequel, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney  Justice for All. Phoenix Wright 
 is back on the case, and we couldnt be happier.
  
  The story takes place several months after the events of the first game. Phoenix, a little older 
 and a little wiser, now must tackle four new highly bizarre cases, with equally bizarre characters 
 and plots. Using his mind and heart, Phoenix must fight to prove his clients innocence, and find 
 the true villain. This will be no simple task, for the games puzzles will stump many. New to the 
 game is the Psych-Lock system, where you must use evidence to break down mental defenses, in order 
 to find the truth. Also new is the Health Bar. In the previous game, you simply had five strikes, 
 than game over in the courtroom. Now, the health bar will play a key role into using the Psych-Lock 
 and monitoring the Judges patience. The health bar does work well in the courtroom, in that there 
 are more moments of tension in the possibility of losing the case instantly. This newly added sense 
 of tension makes the game even more exciting than the original title. If that isnt enough, theres 
 a new prosecutor is in town. Franziska von Karma will be your biggest foe in the courtroom. With 
 her sharp whip and tongue, shell challenge your theories and evidence so that she can claim victory.
 
  
  And then theres the storyline. Story plays a huge part in the gameplay, in that its the very 
 driving force behind the game. I wont spoil anything, but the storyline is far more complex and 
 grandiose than the first game. There will be many shocking twists in turns that it can sometimes 
 be confusing as to what happened. Still, the story is excellently told, and youll defiantly want 
 to see what happens next. The characters are very colorful and well animated, and they have plenty 
 of fascinating quirks. The script is excellently written, and really makes up for have little voice 
 acting. Character driven plots are a rarity in todays modern gaming world, and its nice to see 
 that the adventure spirit is alive and well in Justice for All. The graphics are a little simple, 
 and the characters themselves have few poses, but the anime presentation is still excellent. The 
 sound effects are also well done, with some very catchy music and memorable voice acting.
  
  There are a few letdowns, however. The experience can be frustrating, since the game sometimes 
 gives you very little to go on, and you can end up stuck. With such a linier plot, you sometimes 
 have to follow the games rules to proceed, and take away the feeling of you driving the story, 
 instead of the other ay around. Lastly, the game is much shorter. The experience is over all too 
 quickly, and its low replay value doesnt help much. One can almost say you can feel a little ripped 
 off.
  
  But, you wont. Despite the length, the experience is very satisfying, because the characters are 
 fantastic, the gameplay is puzzling, and its still a case worth solving. Fans of the original 
 or gamers who want to remember the fine days of adventure gaming will love Justice for All. No 
 objections here.
  
  Pros: Great presentation, excellent plot, still fun to shout Objection! into the microphone.
 
  Cons: Didnt expand much from the original game, short, sometimes hard to tell what to do next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Justice For All, the second entry in the popular Phoenix Wright series, continues the rookie attorney's 
 adventures in the same satisfying manner as its excellent predecessor. As it is virtually identical 
 in both gameplay and graphics, what really makes this a worthy purchase for adventure game connoisseurs 
 are the exciting new cases and fantastic plot twists the game serves up, along with a healthy dose 
 of character development and even a dash of poignancy. Justice For All takes us to Maya's home 
 village, follows up on the exciting Steel Samurai mystery of the first game, and finally presents 
 our hero with an exciting moral conundrum, in a case that has Phoenix re-examining his professional 
 choices, and what it means to be a lawyer.
  
  The small gameplay modifications, namely being able to present profiles as well as evidence, having 
 a continuous health bar throughout an entire case, and the addition of the psyche-locks , serve 
 to make the game quite a bit more complex and challenging this time around. Still, the difficulty 
 level remains moderate, with very common-sense puzzles, and only marginal pixel hunting, which 
 never gets too frustrating.
  
  Even without the bonus case of the first Phoenix Wright, Justice For All remains a lengthy adventure. 
 Though you'll rarely get stuck, it will take you quite a bit longer to complete than many traditional 
 PC adventures. There are some long dialogue trees and testimonies to wade through, though, so if 
 your idea of a great adventure game is something like Safecracker or Uru, Phoenix Wright may not 
 be for you.
  
  Personally, I can't wait for Phoenix Wright part three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Interesting and mysterious cases. Quirky dialogue. The Judge is much more likable.
  
  THE BAD: Practically a direct port of the GBA title with no extras or compelling DS functionality. 
 Recycled graphics and sounds.
  
  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All delivers an intriguing story with a lot of enjoyable 
 legal nonsense.
  
  GAMEPLAY is good. Once again, Phoenix Wright must the find evidence and contradictions to defend 
 his clients. The mechanics are virtually the same as the first installment -- minus a lot of the 
 Nintendo DS exclusive features. Phoenix will still be searching areas for clues and questioning 
 witnesses, but a lot of neat things like rotating items, viewing videotapes, and spraying chemicals 
 for traces of blood or fingerprints are all gone. About the only thing different is the new Psyche 
 Lock system, however, at the heart of Justice for All is a smart story that will keep you in the 
 dark until the very end.
  
  GRAPHICS are decent. All in all the game looks the same as the original. The nicely drawn anime 
 style characters still retain all thier charm and they animate well on top of still background 
 images. Unfortunately, there is no 3D whatsoever.
  
  SOUND is great. Even though it isn't anything new, it's still upbeat and refreshing. The score 
 changes depending on what's going on, giving an exciting adventure, but It would have been nice 
 if more voice samples were given (besides Objection, Hold it, and Take that!) .
  
  Value is excellent. Justice for All will take anywhere from 25-30 hours to complete. The first 
 case does a good job explaining the mechanics and the later cases will certainly take awhile to 
 complete. Since it's very linear, there will be times where the player won't know what to do next.
 
  
  OVERALL Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All is a solid port of a great game. Although 
 it is disappointing it didn't get all the special treatment as the original, that doesn't stop 
 it from being a very enjoyable DS title. Justice for All is easily recommendable to any fans of 
 the series, but new comers should definitely play the first before hand, to get the whole experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yugor1000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  The first time you yell OBJECTION! , your hooked. This game draws you in with it great story, and 
 makes you think you way through every case.
  
  The gameplay, while it involves alot of reading, and can be slow during the investigations, really 
 picks up during trials, and make sit so you can't put your DS down until it's batteries die.
  
  The characters are all well done, and play their roles like seasoned actors. They deliver line 
 after line of great dialogue, d and the new additions to the series are really nice. ( Please don't 
 whip me von Karma.... please........)
  
  The anime style graphics fit nicely, and allow much of the humor in the story to come through.
 
  
  The games onyl real drawback is that after you beat all the cases, it doesn't have much replay 
 value.
  
  A great addition to any DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  While the style and content of the game are very enjoyable, the length of the segments (especially 
 for a portable game) inhibits one from enjoying this game to its fullest. If you are unlucky enough 
 to misuse a few pieces of evidence you are left having to replay a large portion of the game, unless 
 you choose to save periodically just in case of that very matter. There also often seem to be many 
 pieces of evidence which could be useful for certain pieces of the cases.. but of course you have 
 to choose the right piece at the right time, which can be difficult if your brain isn't in tune 
 to the developers' ideas. The sequel also presumes that you have played the original at points, 
 and you would miss out on some of the storyline if you haven't played the original. I chose a learning 
 curve of 30 to 60 minutes just because the game takes a little while to get going.. (understandably 
 because they want to give you plot points and some character development)
  
  Overall, it's a fantastic idea, well made, and the text isn't tooo lame.. but I do find that the 
 sound of the text coming on as well as the background music itself to be quite grating and I often 
 play with the sound completely off because of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTM360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The Phoenix Wright series has been a long running video game series for the Game Boy Advance in 
 Japan for several years (known as Gyakuten Saiban) and only recently made its appearance stateside. 
 Originally released for the Game Boy Advance on October 11, 2001 the series would start over and 
 be remade and released on October 11, 2005 for the Nintendo DS. This time the game would appear 
 in Japan and for the first time in the United States. The game met highly unexpected sales forcing 
 creator Capcom to re-release the game to meet the high demand. Due to the high demand of the first, 
 Capcom remade the second (again, Gyakuten Saiban 2) for the Nintendo DS and released it in the 
 United States, known as, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice for All.
  
  Justice for All continues the story of the hero Phoenix Wright, a young attorney who has just 
 completed a long year of tough cases. You find out at the very beginning of the game that Phoenix 
 has made quite a name for himself from all his victories (Phoenix Wright one) , and has decided 
 to take a year off. As a year has gone by, he had never wanted to take a new case, but a young 
 lady by the name of Maggey Byrde, a police officer accused of murder seeking Phoenixs help. One 
 of the original games biggest strengths was that it had fantastic characters involved, with a 
 very well developed back-story, and gave each character life. You almost felt like you knew them. 
 Justice for All brings back virtually every character from the original (with the exception of 
 those who are in jail) and introduces many new characters as well. Pearls is the biggest new addition 
 to the cast of the game. Pearls is the youngest sister of Fey-family (Mia, Maya, and other new 
 relatives are introduced) , she, like the rest of her family is a spirit-medium who throughout the 
 game will communicate to the dead. The game play of Justice for All hasnt changed much at all 
 from the first. One of the biggest promises to the original game was the last case, which used 
 the DS features very well (lots of use of the microphone, expanded use of the touch screen) . Unfortunately, 
 the final case of the first game was brand new, and as Justice for All is a straight-remake of 
 Gyakuten Saiban 2, none of these expanded features are in this version. The game still has the 
 ability to use the touch screen to present/sort evidence, examine areas, and other slight use. 
 The microphone also allows the player to yell Objection! or Hold it! in the heat of courtroom 
 debate. Its just unfortunate that given the promises of the last case in the original, none of 
 the expanded features carried over. One new feature is the Psyche-Locks. The young Pearls gives 
 Phoenix an item that allows him to see peoples hearts to find out of they are lying. Once a character 
 is lying to Phoenix during his investigations, several locks appear, and depending on how many 
 locks appear is how unwilling that person is to tell you their secrets. To open their Psyche-Lock 
 a conversation begins between Phoenix and the character and the game play becomes similar to that 
 of the courtroom battles. The person you are speaking to, will ask you to prove why they could 
 by lying, what reason they have to be lying, and things of that nature. Prove you see behind their 
 lies and you will hear the truth.
  
  For those who played the first, the courtroom itself is the exact same, everything right down to 
 The Judge. The prosecution is now Fanziska Von Karma (Miles Edgeworth has disappeared at the beginning 
 of the game) , a 14 year old prosecutor from Germany looking to take you down. Court battles still 
 take place with a character giving their testimony and Phoenix cross-examining the witnesses and 
 exposing their lies to the court. Just like the in the original the game takes incredible amounts 
 of thought and attention to detail to make the right decisions and in several cases the game is 
 quite absurd in its reasoning behinds things. It is quite likely youll be using an internet guide 
 to get out of some tough situations as early as the second case. Artistically speaking the game 
 still carries over its very Anime cartoon style. The game contains all the slight animations 
 from the first, screen distortion, and facial expressions are really all that changes in the game. 
 As the game is very very text/plot heavy, so graphics just arent too focused on. Also what doesnt 
 save this games visuals is the fact that again, this is a remake of a Game Boy Advance game, and 
 the visuals certainly do not change. The only noticeable difference between the Game Boy Advance 
 game and the DS remake, is the colors are much more vibrant and noticeable; its just a shame to 
 not see something more added. But the game sticks to a very identifiable art-style and its very 
 hard to fault it for that. The same applies to the games music, the originally Phoenix Wright 
 had a fantastic soundtrack, that was very fitting to the mood of the game and all of it was rather 
 catchy. A lot of the same music returns, but some of the new music, especially during court, just 
 isnt as good as the first. Its a near sigh of relief when the game begins using the music from 
 the first.
  
  Overall Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice for All, is more of the same. As clich&eacute; as 
 it is, its entirely true. Fans of the original mustve enjoyed the text heavy, character-driven, 
 plot-twist infested storylines, and those same fans are going to enjoy those same attributes in 
 the sequel. Some unfortunate qualities to the game are the lack of new touch screen features, and 
 that some of the new characters are completely uninteresting. The game, however, does do many things 
 Wright, the game has a fantastic storyline, it is quite lengthy, for the most part the characters 
 are as loveable as ever, and the court cases themselves are extremely enjoyable, especially when 
 the prosecution and defense begin spouting off Objection! s left and right. If you have never 
 played the first and are looking to start here, go back and find the original, with such a text 
 based game, its a prerequisite to play the first, but Justice for All is a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timbydude
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The first Phoenix Wright game was a masterpiece and is still my favorite DS game yet released (though 
 Diddy Kong Racing might soon steal that spot) . Anyway, the sequel to this game, though not as good 
 as the original, is still definitely worth buying and playing through.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is a basic point-and-click adventure divided up into two parts: court and investigation. 
 Court is easily the more preferable of the two since this is really where all the action happens. 
 Investigation, while interesting, is a rather tedious diversion in itself. Luckily, these sequences 
 usually don't last too long and you'll be back in court in no time. Both sequences are extremely 
 linear; except for one minor exception in the last case, there is only one path to follow. Those 
 who only like nonstop action, though, shouldn't bother; it's simply not made for those people. 
 There is about a novel's worth of text (literally) , and most of it is vital to be able to play 
 the game, so you can't just skip it. If you get bored easily by reading text, don't even try this 
 game; you'll hate it. As I said before, though, this game is extremely fun (mainly in court) . Each 
 case has a very in-depth storyline, and they all pack some sort of huge plot twist right at the 
 end. In terms of which cases are best...4&gt;2&gt;3&gt;1 in my opinion. It's surprisingly fun to 
 uncover all the hidden secrets of the case and expose them with proof in court. There are a couple 
 minor flaws in the gameplay, though. First of all, it's extremely linear. While I tend to enjoy 
 linear games more than non-linear games, it gets to the point where literally the linearity starts 
 to hurt the game's logic. For example, giving a very minor spoiler, there is one section in which 
 you have to show that the reason for a criminal's murder of a police officer was that he saw the 
 officer's uniform. If you try submitting the photo of the crime, which CLEARLY shows the officer's 
 uniform and hat, you will still be penalized. There are a few plot holes, as well, but none of 
 them affect the cases too much. The second flaw is simply the length of the last case. It's clear 
 that Case 4 was intended to be the best, and it is. However, it took me upwards of 8 hours to finish 
 the case; almost half of the time I spent playing the game. The developers knew that this was the 
 best case, but tried WAY too hard to draw it out in the end. In the second portion of the court 
 case, you already know exactly what happened, so there are no new plot twists. I won't spoil it, 
 but they manipulated the storyline such that the actual objective of this part is to drag the trial 
 out as long as possible. Mixed with the storyline, it's fun; for a couple minutes. Unfortunately, 
 the game's climax takes about 2 hours to go through. Eventually, you'll even go through testimony 
 which you already disproved. With about one and a half hours left, the game lost its fun because 
 of this segment. The developers were clearly just grasping to make the game take a little longer, 
 and it shows. Seriously, I think the characters say the phrase We need more time. at least 20 times. 
 There are so many Oh no, we lost. Wait, it's not over yet!!! sequences that I didn't even think 
 anything of it when I actually finished it; I was expecting another boring problem to come up. 
 The dialogue becomes uninteresting which is a shame because this portion really had the potential 
 to be the most memorable; instead, I remember it as the part I most disliked simply because the 
 developers didn't know where to end the case. Finally, it would have been nice to see a unique 
 DS-related case like in the first game. There is no such case here, and really the only unique 
 DS feature that makes a difference is the ability to yell Objection! , Hold it! , and Take that! 
 . This gets old after about 5 times doing this, and you'll eventually just hit a button to make 
 an objection.
  
  Pros: - (Usually) fun court sessions
  -Incredibly crafted storylines
  -Great characters, who develop over time
  
  Cons:
  -Very tedious investigation sections
 
  -Linearity hurts the plot's logic
  -Last case should be two hours shorter since it gets boring by the end.
  -Less DS features than 
 the first game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  GRAPHICS: Not much to say here; the graphics are extremely good for a Game Boy Advance game (this 
 is basically a port of a Japanese GBA game) . However, it would have been nice if they'd maybe added 
 3-D graphics, like they had in the last case, but again, this is basically a straight port. The 
 DS isn't even close to being pushed graphically here, but they are still pretty good graphics for 
 a GBA game.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  
  SOUND: The music is great, but there's not any speech other that Phoenix's 3 phrases (listed above) , 
 and everybody else's Objection! . Sometimes the voices don't match though; Payne sounds like a 
 scared witch and von Karma, born and raised in Germany, sounds like a normal American woman, which 
 doesn't make much sense. Other than these phrases, everything else is all text. Back to the music, 
 though, they really do a good job of using the music to match the mood; revealing the killer is 
 one thing, but doing it with some cool upbeat music is another.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  VALUE: It lasted me about 15+ hours, which is extremely good for a handheld game. However, there's 
 not much reason to come back; the real fun of the game is uncovering the storyline, and that's 
 pretty hard to do the second time around.
  
  VALUE: 7/10
  
  CONCLUSION: Phoenix Wright 2 is definitely worth a buy; it's not as good as the original, but still 
 enjoyable. Where I would rate my overall experience with Phoenix Wright 1 as a 9.3 about, this 
 game gets a slightly lower score. I give it an 8 for my tilt, which means...
  
  FINAL SCORE: 7.7/10
  
  Rent or Buy?
  RENT, if there is no time limit to the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeiterStar58
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  first off, if you haven't played the first one, don't even bother playing this until you have beaten 
 it.
  
  first, you start off that you have amnesia. ok, game cliche out of the way, you need to know one 
 thing for this case. you can present people's profiles.
  after that the cases become more and more exciting. even though all of them are homicides. this 
 game has no replay value whatsoever, so play it, and save it and sell it on ebay when the prices 
 go up. all in all this review sucks, i know. but after a while it will become hard.
  
  oh yeah, the new 'life' bar is totally gay the ! marks were a better sign of life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz-azar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I loved phoenix wright 1 but i thought phoenix wright 2 was a little bit to short but i still tried 
 to enjoy it to the fullest extent a person can enjoy a video game however they coudlve improved 
 the story line. It wasn't very hard to learn (i played phoenix wright 1 lol) plus learning how 
 to show evidence and yelling objection over and over and over again till u find a mistake isnt 
 so hard and the price was ok. I loved the gameplay espescially the new mortal lock capabilities! 
 I'd still have to say that you should rent it to see if u like it but if you can't rent it its 
 still a very good game!
  ~Farazazar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis_phong
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright returns with another remake with new features, cases, characters and the same old 
 witty humor.
  
  Gameplay: Its essentially the same game but with a few new features. The big new feature is the 
 Psyche-Locks. The Psyche-Locks are used for the gameplay as a way too unlock the characters secrets 
 there hiding but when they first show, the game requires you to come back later due to lack of 
 evidence. Also the game now allows you to present profiles during cases and Psyche-Locks so the 
 added difficulty is there. The mic functionality is still present. Its disappointing that there 
 is extra DS exclusive case but the new story and characters are interesting enough that another 
 case is not needed.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is fantastic. At first it took a while to get used to but the tunes 
 are well done. A few themes have returned from the first game but for the most part the music is 
 new.
  
  Overall the game is a solid enough sequel to warrant a purchase and is getting me excited for the 
 port of the third game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  If you have a DS, you have probably heard of the Phoenix Wright series or now, Ace Attorney. In 
 this second bout, the game has four cases, one less than the original and plays much the same,
 
  
  Assuming you have played the first, the game is much like the first. Some of you may also know 
 that this game is a port from Japan except this time there is no exclusive new case as there was 
 for the first game. This is unfortunate because there is no essential use of the stylus.
  
  The music is somewhat different in some areas but Gumshoe's theme is the same and some of the others 
 are as well. Though the music is still spot on and moody overall, I believed the first game had 
 better and more memorable music.
  
  The game itself has you talking to witnesses and collecting evidence to use in court. At first, 
 the game seems to be odd because the court system seems to have many logical flaws on how it works. 
 Sometimes, when you're presenting evidence, the game will only allow one piece of evidence for 
 you to advance though the evidence you present could also be used.
  
  The game is too linear except for one last part of the game and it suffers because of that. Also 
 because of this, there is little to no replay value. I wished the game had downloadable content 
 or more cases. In less than fifteen to twenty hours, you'll be done and have no reason to go back. 
 Some of the graphics are alright but most are bland. Some of the old backgrounds were recycled 
 from the first game. This is understandable but sometimes, you would hope that something new would 
 be added but this is basically a direct port from the GBA version with the English translation.
 
  
  In the end, the game is enjoyable but is worse than the original because there are no improvements. 
 The game has great writing and the characters seem to come alive while being memorable. If you 
 have yet to play a Phoenix Wright game, I'd recommend the first one. It costs less and has more 
 cases and is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AryaSvitkona
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Justice for All was a solid game, which was definitely on par with 
 its prequel. The one thing that I really noticed in the game is the linear quality to it. It may 
 be that I've just gotten smarter since I got my hands on the first one, but in the first one the 
 contradictions were easier to find, they were very, very obvious, and when I did find them, I could 
 present the right piece of evidence. In this one, however, I found several contradictions that 
 the game decided to ignore. That's the main reason I found myself hating the life bar. I'd find 
 all these contradictions that nobody else seemed to see but me, meaning I'd get to a vital area 
 and have one shot at it. This caused me to get the guilty verdict more than once in case three. 
 I personally prefer the exclamation point way of measuring life as seen in the last one, especially 
 since if you aren't careful now, the judge will freak out on you and take half of your life. Another 
 area that caused me massive amounts of frustration was in case four. If you make the wrong choice 
 when given the chance at one of the points, the judge actually manages to figure out what happened, 
 and when you finish what he's saying, he gets angry and awards you a double penalty (one for missing 
 the question, and another for 'stealing his thunder') . The game itself was enjoyable other than 
 those two bad parts, and I really hope that Capcom decides to port both the third and fourth games. 
 You can bet I'll have my five dollars down the day I find out that they're porting (and the release 
 date) . If you enjoyed the first one, you'll definitely enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzorro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Well for those of you who don't know Phoenix Wright 2 Justice for All is a sequel to Phoenix Wright 
 Attorney at Law. And while the 2 games are very much the same; I can't help but feel the 2 fell 
 a little short on my expectations list.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much tap tap tap so don't expect much. You do have the option of yelling into 
 the microphone hold it and objection but since I play at night I can't go around screaming.
  
  Graphics have an overall nice look they're anime inspired and each character seems to have 
 their own individual flare I would of like some more animation instead of what we saw from the 
 original but hey it could of been worse.
  
  Sound is the same as before tracks will sound different from the first one but overall some are 
 the same or based on the originals and just modified. The game does do a good job of switching 
 melodies to fit the mood so props to the localization team.
  
  However where the localization team really shines is the translation of the text which is on par 
 with the original if not a little worse (couldn't stand Van Karma's foolish talk) . It doesn't build 
 on the original title it really only spreads it around and the game is over all easier and shorter 
 but still a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Adventure gaming lives on through Justice For All. In true Capcom fashion, Justice For All is a 
 sequel with not much change to the core gameplay that was laid out from the original. That's not 
 necessarily a bad thing at all however, Justice For All continues the courtroom drama with great 
 writing, intriguing stories and memorable characters that all come together to create a solid game.
 
  
  The game can be essentially broken down into two gameplay modes: investigation and trial. During 
 investigation, you gather evidence and talk to witnesses and detectives to make a solid case for 
 your defendant. The trial portion involves ripping testimonies into shreds so you can hopefully 
 prove to the court that youre defendant is not guilty. Its more of the same and that includes 
 some of the flaws from the original.
  
  Its still extremely linear and the last minute HOLD IT! and OBJECTION! come off as a bit predictable 
 this time around. Also, there are four cases in all and theres no DS exclusive case that takes 
 advantage of its capabilities. Its disappointing and in this case, Justice For All takes a few 
 steps backwards.
  
  The excellent writing remains intact however. Justice For All succeeds in weaving a compelling, 
 and often times funny yarn. The writing basically holds this game up because in essence, youre 
 just reading while tapping through textbox after textbox. The characters and plots are brilliantly 
 over the top and all this is credited to the localization team. From the ventriloquist with a puppet 
 that seems to have a mind of its own and to the clown with his god awful jokes, the localization 
 team deserves a huge pat on the back.
  
  Justice For All changes a couple things this time around, specifically the new health bar. Instead 
 of the five exclamation points system that was used in the original, the damage you take is directly 
 proportional to whats at stake. For example, if the court asks you to present a crucial piece 
 of evidence at a crucial point in the trial, theres a chance of losing over half of your health 
 if you screw up. On the other hand, if you present something during a relatively tame testimony, 
 youll lose only a sliver of health. Lose all your health and you die. The new health bar is 
 a sensible and welcomed change to the series. The only way to regain health is to break psyche-locks. 
 Psyche-locks are literally locks that appear over a characters screen if they have a secret theyd 
 rather not tell you about. The only way to break these locks is to present evidence to them thatll 
 make them spill under pressure. Its a minor but interesting addition to the game but unfortunately, 
 psyche-locks only appear outside of the courtroom.
  
  The game is visually pleasing with some great art and detailed characters. Their animations are 
 great and their emotions are well done. However, a lot of the areas have been reused from the original 
 game. This is also true for the characters. The characters that come back from the original look 
 exactly the same and have exactly the same animations in Justice For All. Its odd considering 
 Justice For All takes place in a year after the events from the original. In the audio department, 
 theres a healthy mix of remixes, reused tunes and new music. The new music isnt as catchy or 
 memorable as the tunes from the original but whats here is solid. Theres no voice acting whatsoever 
 except for the usual OBJECTION!, HOLD IT and TAKE THAT! that you can trigger in the courtroom 
 by yelling one of those phrases into your mic or you by just tapping the command if you have no 
 soul.
  
  Theres no real replay value but thats really more of an inherent issue with the genre itself, 
 not the actual game. Youre still looking at a 12-15 hour game here and some of the cases take 
 over 5 hours to complete. You might also feel the need to revisit some of your favorite cases just 
 because theyre that good. And again, the exclusion of an DS exclusive case is sorely missed.
 
  
  Overall, Justice For All is a great sequel. It takes a few steps backwards in some ways but it 
 still succeeds in telling some great stories with interesting characters and scenarios. If you 
 didnt find the original all that fun, dont expect the sequel to change your mind. Justice For 
 All plays it safe and gives fans exactly what they want: more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Justice For All is another enjoyable game to play. This is great as 
 the first one, the cases in this games seems more longer in the beginning. I have fun playing with 
 Phoenix wright games, now you playing Phoenix Wright once again trying to solve cases for people 
 who were blame for the crime they did not do. The graphics are the same as the first, some of the 
 worlds are misspelled, the voices are the same. The new characters are great and the old characters 
 are funny as well. This game is very funny but long, but still enjoy this game. This has improve 
 little bit, more now you are more in depth as an lawyer trying to help others. The secret lock 
 feature is pretty good, when someone is lying you can you the new feature to unlock the lies the 
 person is holding. Few things has changed and the game is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercubedude64
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  To be brief, Justice for All is almost the same game as the original Phoenix Wright, but with different 
 cases and plots. But that is a big positive because the original was totally awesome. I've encountered 
 the same immersive gameplay as I did one year ago, playing this game and being simply unable to 
 put it down. The cases are so enthralling you can't bring yourself to stop without knowing just 
 a little more, advancing ever so little... you keep doing this until you realize you just spent 
 two and a half hour playing the game only to have your questions answered with more questions. 
 And those questions need solving... better play for another hour just to be safe. Other big draws 
 are the characters, old favorites return and new characters are great fun to interact with. The 
 music has been redone, including a remixed version of the climax score from the first game (epic) . 
 The localization is awesome with a capital A , with references to American pop culture, and many 
 small one-liners, making the game even more charming. If you liked the first Phoenix Wright, buy 
 this game. If you own a DS, buy this game. If you don't have a DS. You suck. If miss the adventure 
 games of old, buy this game. This game is great, and any self respecting gamer would pick this 
 one up. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll love every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alis_Landale
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Justice for All is obviously centered around the stories of its cases and the characters of the 
 game just as Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney was. You can now present people's profiles as well as 
 evidence allowing for a somewhat deeper present/object system. Instead of exclamation marks, you 
 have a health bar; this allows some penalties to be worth more or less than others.
  
  Playing the first game is not a requirement for playing this one, but it helps to understand some 
 things such as references to old cases and knowledge of the characters. The new psyche lock system 
 is fairly straightforward, you can sometimes get people to tell you things they're hiding or lying 
 about by presenting evidence or profiles in a dialog with them. Wrong accusations will damage your 
 health bar; it will however refill quite a bit upon a successful unlocking. 
  
  This game is easily worth getting if you're a fan of the first. If you haven't played the first, 
 it's a rather unique game and depending on your tastes you may or may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexandriaZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2001 Capcom made a game for the Gameboy Advance with a novel idea. You play a rookie attorney 
 in a future court system and find contradictions in arguments. In Japan at first the game didnt 
 sell that well, word of mouth due to its extremely addictive nature eventually moved around 223,000 
 copies. In 2002, one year after the release they created the sequel to it, the game improved on 
 it with stuff like Psyche Locks and a Health Bar that added intensity to the game. It also paid 
 off being the highest selling game in the franchise getting close to 320,000 copies. The third 
 game was released in 2004 and was known as the grand finale of the series, it was noted for its 
 amazing soundtrack by Noriyuki Iwadare and for the amazing and dark storyline that outdoes the 
 first two games. People who imported it clamored for a USA release. Capcom paid attention to the 
 American importers and ported the game to the DS with an extra case that tied together the first 
 and second game. It was release with little fanfare, only selling 20,000 copies from its release 
 date in October 2005 to January 2006. The game sold terribly and the future of the franchise was 
 pretty much dead, it was confirmed even more so because of the exclusive cell phone release of 
 the second and third game for the Western Markets. Like Japan, word started spreading around and 
 the game started selling like wildfire going through multiple prints. The franchise now has a very 
 healthy and fervent fanbase in the American Market. Thanks to that we know get Ace Attorney: Justice 
 for All, the sequel to Phoenix Wright.
  
  First off most of you should be asking, why is it Ace Attorney instead of Phoenix Wright? I would 
 point to the obvious answer which is the new logo for the franchise. Phoenix Wright is now a much 
 smaller text and Ace Attorney is more prominent. It seems that it also gives leeway for the franchise 
 because we know that the fourth game is confirmed for the USA release with the English trailer 
 for TGS, and it has a new lead character. It also gives us the very likely possibility that we 
 may get the fourth game before the third game in the USA.
  
  Ace Attorney: Justice for All is a port of Gyakuten Saiban 2 from the GBA. It has a very similar 
 treatment as Case 1-4 from the original game. That means it has a enhanced soundtrack, maybe some 
 redrawn sprites, and added voice and touch screen to move the game forward. Lets examine the game 
 in full detail, first we will focus on the games sole weak point Sound, specifically the games 
 sound effects and soundtrack.
  
  The games sound effects are unusually bad. It is like they took the DS samples and screwed them 
 up. They have a strange distortion when they reach the higher notes of the sound sample. For example, 
 when the shocked *ting* sound is made, it seems of a much poorer quality than the original DS release. 
 The soundtrack is well known to be the weakest one in the series. I already noted that the greatest 
 one is easily the third games amazing soundtrack with the first gaming pretty far behind. The 
 one that was the weakest and is the weakest is the second game. The cross examination music is 
 boring, but the games soundtrack has some bright spots. The Objection music is very well done 
 but lacks the intensity of the first game and the Cornered music is very well done also. The problem 
 is that it is a couple of steps down from the original GBA soundtrack when moved to the DS. There 
 are also a couple of amazing pieces of Music that really stick out. Both of them are in the fourth 
 case while one is introduced in the second case. The first one that is amazing in my mind is the 
 Psyche Lock theme. It has a dash of intrigue and it adds a lot to the atmosphere in the game. The 
 second amazing piece of music is called in the Midst 2002 and it is the theme for the Nickel 
 Samurai, Mr. Engarde and Ms. Andrews. I said it before, it is absolutely my favorite theme in the 
 game it is brilliant melodically and it one of the few absolutely genius pieces of music that is 
 brand new in the game. The last is called The Great Revival for those of you know played Phoenix 
 Wright you can pretty much assume just who this theme is for. It is grand and amazingly well done 
 and fits the revival theme extremely well. Lets move on to the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay of the game is much stronger than the last game due to Psyche Locks. On the adventure 
 portions when you interview people, sometime they may have secrets. What you do is present evidence 
 that shows proof that you may know about the circumstances of the secret they are hiding. Sometimes 
 you may have 1 psyche lock, sometimes you may have 5 psyche locks and the more psyche locks means 
 the more secrets that you have to uncover before you confront them. With psyche locks, presenting 
 the wrong evidence will get portion of the bar down. A bigger portion will be taken off if you 
 screw up near the end of unlocking the psyche locks (for example, if you unlocked 4 of them and 
 have one more to go, you will literally have half your life bar on the line) . After successfully 
 unlocking it you get your health back. I stressed in my preview that the game is much harder than 
 the previous one. That is because your health bar gets punished much more frequently. In cross 
 examinations it still takes 5 pieces of wrong evidence to get a game over. Yet, you can get punished 
 in many ways. If you made a wrong accusation you may get 1/10th of the bar taken away while another 
 wrong accusation may take half of your bar. On top of that you may get your bar down even more 
 because you are badgering the witness What makes it worse is that the court system has multiple 
 parts, which means that you as the player will have to deal with your life bar no matter the state 
 because it doesnt get recharged until you unlock a Psyche Lock. I would stress this importance 
 because the final day of the 4th case has 3 parts and it is insanely hard to go through it unscathed 
 until the grand finale. If you screw up on the first part the second part will just be much harder. 
 Now lets look at the meat of the game, the actual gaming experience.
  
  The game is about as long as the first game with all 5 cases. That is because it has multiple parts 
 for investigation. As expected, many of our favorites make cameos for the entire game. What is 
 even funnier is that Phoenix himself pokes fun of it. For example, throughout the game you meet 
 Detective Gumshoe as the investigator. Phoenix makes the observation, Why is it we meet the same 
 detective in each case, it is like there is only one detective on the police force. The script 
 and localization are absolutely brilliant. The script is filled with sarcasm and wit the entire 
 court case. Each character has personality up the wazoo. For example, Franziska likes using the 
 word fool redundantly. She will say many times, sometimes a foolish fool with foolish ideas will 
 fool around with foolish evidence or something to that effect. Pearl is adorable and incredibly 
 cute, as an 8 year old she exhibits lots of intelligence but she is also na&iuml; ve to the world 
 around her. She would ask stuff like what is a Tra-in? There are LOTS of spelling and grammar 
 errors but the average joe wont know nor will they care. The script is extremely strong like the 
 previous game, you cant help but know what will happen but because of the amazing writing you 
 still continually get shocked and surprised at each turn. It even throws a curveball in case 4 
 that changes the entire dynamic of Phoenix Wright. Lets just say that Case 4 really is the greatest 
 case ever made in Phoenix Wright. It literally stomps all over all the cases I have played from 
 the first two games. It was absolutely intense and you just cant help but play it until the end. 
 Which leads me to another interesting addition to Phoenix Wright, there are multiple endings for 
 case 4. There is a good ending where there are all smiles and good times, and there is a bad ending. 
 The ending happens depending on the two pieces of evidence you present at the most crucial time. 
 That also leads to another point I have to make. The story is much darker in this game then the 
 first game. The settings, themes, and everything makes the game much darker. Personally I like 
 it because I felt that Phoenix Wright 1 sometimes never took itself that seriously even in the 
 most dramatic cases. With Phoenix Wright 2 (or should I say Ace Attorney 2) the game is funny when 
 it needs to and dramatic when it needs to.
  
  The game is incredibly addicting and as I predicted the best experience I have played this year. 
 The first game is one of my favorite games of all times, guess what this game is now also one of 
 my favorites games of all time. I had very high expectations for the sequel and every single expectation 
 I had has beem smashed throughly and completely. I don't know how they did it but even with all 
 the hype I had for the game they managed to surpass it in every single possible way. Hopefully 
 the game sells incredibly well so that we will get the third and the fourth game of the Ace Attorney 
 franchise. I know that the USA version will likely sport minor improvements (hopefully spelling 
 and grammar) but I maybe will do a second review to see how it aged when looking back. As far as 
 I can tell this game is as fresh and as rewarding as ever while ramping up the difficulty quite 
 a bit. I still highly recommend this for all DS owners and especially those who loved the first 
 game. I will warn you, many of you will have to consult FAQs for help because sometimes the game 
 may get really hard really fast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
