-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/phoenixwrightaceattorneytrialsandtribulations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Music is, once again, outstanding.
 Great characters have a lot of depth to them.
 Most of the cases are quite interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely no new gameplay mechanics.
 It gets tiring to see the same people involved in similar crimes from previous games.
 Most of the artwork is recycled from the other two games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 732 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Adventure
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trials and Tribulations is yet another enjoyable Phoenix Wright game -- just don't expect anything 
 new. 

  The Phoenix Wright series has been an unlikely success story in North America. The games have been 
 able to overcome slow pacing, as well as lack of innovation, thanks to likeable characters, engaging 
 storylines, and great music. The same holds true for the third game in the series Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations. It does absolutely nothing new with the established formula, 
 but fans of the series will be just fine with that because it has all the gameplay and characters 
 they've come to expect from a Phoenix Wright game.  

           Prosecutor Godot is one of the best new characters in the game.      

  Like the previous 
 Phoenix Wright games, Trials and Tribulations places you in the role of a young attorney named 
 Phoenix Wright. But this time, you'll play as a few different people, not just Mr. Wright. A few 
 of the game's five cases take place several years before the present day, so you'll get to see 
 an awkward college-aged Phoenix find out about his deceased mentor Mia Fey's past and catch up 
 with a few old friends. Returning characters are both a strength and a weakness for the game. Certain 
 people like Maya or the adorable Pearl are always so dynamic and likeable that they add to the 
 experience, even if their situations change little from game to game. But with other characters, 
 it feels like the developer just got lazy. There's a character from the last game that's on trial 
  again  for murder and Larry Butz is still a moron that appears in just about every case. That's 
 not to say there aren't any new characters; it's just that with the exception of Prosecutor Godot 
 and young Ms. Hawthorne, many of them aren't very well developed or are downright annoying.  

 
  Like the first two Phoenix Wright games, the writing in Trials and Tribulations is top-notch. 
 The dialogue is well written and natural with humorous pop culture references sprinkled in by writers 
 who have a knack for keeping things from getting too serious. Not many games can get away with 
 nods to Alanis Morissette, Bob Marley, The Rock, and even  Mister Rogers' Neighborhood  in the 
 middle of a murder investigation.  

  Even though Phoenix Wright is a defense lawyer, you'll spend much of your time out in the field 
 talking to witnesses, examining crime scenes for clues, and then presenting those clues to witnesses 
 to learn more about the case. But not everyone wants to cooperate. Some people have deep, dark 
 secrets that they don't want to share. These secrets are protected by psyche-locks, which can only 
 be broken when you've accumulated enough evidence. They were an interesting way of mixing up the 
 gameplay in the last game, but they don't feel as fresh the second time around.  

  Courtroom proceedings are unchanged as well. Witnesses will testify, and the defense must find 
 contradictions in their testimonies. This can be done by pressing for more information during cross-examination. 
 When a contradiction is found, you can yell "objection!" into the DS, or if you don't feel like 
 making a spectacle of yourself in public, you can just tap the screen and then present evidence 
 or character profiles that back up your objection. You'll want to be sure that you have some evidence 
 when you object or the judge will penalize you for your mistake. If you make too many mistakes, 
 you'll be doing a large part of the case over, but you can avoid this by saving often and reloading 
 your save file when you mess up. The ability to save then restart at any time is both a blessing 
 and a curse. On one hand, it renders the penalty system completely pointless, but on the other 
 hand, it makes the game less frustrating because once again there are times where you just don't 
 know what evidence to present. Thus, the only way to figure it out is through trial and error. 

  It's the developer's unwillingness to change this established formula that holds the third game 
 back a bit. You'll still have times where you can't advance the story because you failed to present 
 some random object to some random person. None of the DS-specific features, such as the cool 3D 
 evidence or fingerprint identification introduced in the bonus case in the first game, were added 
 to this one. This is a shame because there were certainly plenty of times where it would have fit 
 in nicely. But none of these problems ruin the game because it's still long and enjoyable.  

  And it's a nice looking one too. The animation and artwork of the returning characters have been 
 recycled to the point that even Al Gore thinks Capcom got carried away, but they still look good, 
 as do the new characters. Even with just a few frames of animation, the game can instantly convey 
 a person's mood. The new backgrounds are also nicely done, fitting right in with all the backgrounds 
 and areas that are back for a third time. Seriously, isn't the guard in the detention center tired 
 of standing at that door?!  

  The music in Trials and Tribulations is fantastic. This is one area where Capcom's incessant recycling 
 of assets doesn't hurt the game -- each person's theme song fits him or her to a T. Just a few bars 
 into Maya's happy-go-lucky theme and you'll know just what kind of person she is in the game. Equally 
 fitting is the intense music that plays when the stakes are highest at crucial points of the trial. 

           Let's just say Capcom's art department wasn't terribly busy creating new art for the third 
 game.      

  With the next game in the series set to focus on a whole new cast of characters, Phoenix Wright: 
 Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations brings this three-game story arc to a satisfying conclusion. 
 It's just a shame that Capcom didn't do more to spice up a formula that feels a tad bit stale here. 
 If you've played and loved the first two Phoenix Wright games -- flaws and all -- you'll be plenty 
 happy with Trials and Tribulations. It's a good game. Case Closed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Demoncannon
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Trails and Tribulations has you switching back and forth from student and mentor. Take the stage 
 as both legendary Phoenix Wright and his mentor Mai Fey as you battle through 5 new cases that 
 travel back and forth through time from how it all began for Mai Fey and Phoenix Wright. With more 
 colorful characters such as Godot and returning favorites like Maya Fey, Pearls, Miles Edgeworth 
 plus many more and of course cheesy humor that will have you giggling for a while. This game bases 
 around the past of Phoenix Wright and links with the previous games from the series, so its best 
 to play through the series from the very beginning. It has its tedious moments where you will get 
 stuck and lost with what you need to do but all in all its still a brilliant game. The soundtrack 
 has evolved again as the series evolves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topperdoggle
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  What a saga. As I type this, the end credits are rolling, making me chuckle one last time, and 
 reminding me of the journey that the game has taken me down. In fact, I wrote the first sentence 
 with the trilogy in mind, but there's enough just in this installment to call it a saga by itself.
 
  
  Having played the first two games in the series, I was looking forward to this one. It started 
 slowly despite some unusual twists - perhaps because I was expecting too much, and perhaps because 
 I had just split up with my girlfriend. Perhaps I was disappointed at the similarities, but more 
 on that later.
  
  However, like a fine wine, it grows on you. The various plot twists and turns combined to make 
 another PW game that I had to take everywhere. It was very long going, and as usual, the last case 
 was an epic in itself. I can't see how other reviewers finished it in 10-20 hours - although I 
 didn't log my time, I must have spent at least 25-30 hours on it. (I do refuse to use walkthroughs 
 except in exceptional circumstances - I did twice in this game.)
  
  The game offers more quirky characters to "interact" with, ranging from cool to annoying, to somewhat 
 unsettling. It develops old favourites, funny lively dialogue, and above all, that great feeling 
 of making progress and seeing the next part of the plot unfold.
  
  I docked AJFA half a mark for lack of innovation, and I see no reason not to do the same here. 
 Apart from improved music, the development is pretty lazy, with the same flaws as the previous 
 two games.
  
  Part of this is graphical, as even a little tarting up would have been nice. The exact same court 
 graphics, menu graphics etc? Come on, they could have done better. But the gameplay niggles grate 
 more - for example, why aren't there options for font size and automatic text scrolling?
  
  Each frame has enough text for an adult to read in a split-second and it's pointlessly RSI-inducing. 
 Dialogue can be sped up on a second viewing, but why only on the second? Not everyone playing this 
 is a child, Capcom. In such a text-heavy game, it makes no sense to make the task of reading text 
 such a slog.
  
  There is also the ongoing issue of knowing what is going on, but the game not knowing what is meant 
 when an item is presented. Although frustrating, I don't really see how they can get around this 
 for this type of game, and it didn't make me stop playing.
  
  As with AJFA, the typos in the English translation are unforgivable. I know there's a lot of text 
 in the game, but if I can spot them, why can't the entire translation team? Perhaps Capcom should 
 employ me to proof-read.
  
  It's hard to say much more without spoilers, but let's just say that if you have played and enjoyed 
 the first two installments, you should really be playing this. Not because it offers anything new, 
 but because you wouldn't read just two-thirds of a good book.
  
  In conclusion, the saga has offered great drama and fun, and even though I didn't shed a tear during 
 the end credits, there were moments on the way when I was moved. It was only then that I realised 
 how well I "knew" the characters, which is no mean feat for a bunch of 0s and 1s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms_nintendo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I've played all three of the Phoenix Wright games, and Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney, and I can 
 probably say that Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations is my favourite in the series.
  
  Gamespot's rating of this game, in my opinion, was much lower than it really deserved. Yes, the 
 gameplay is exactly the same as the previous two games. But it never needed to be changed.
  
  Trials and Tribulations makes many major advancements on the storyline, for one thing. A host 
 of new witnesses, and a brand new prosecutor join the courtroom in this game. As well, the cases 
 jump between the past and present -- but they are all related, and center around the same people 
 and initial incident. Some may find it annoying and repetitive, but I believed it to be a very 
 effective narrative device, especially combined with all the surprising plot twists thrown in.
 
  
  Being a student of law, I can understand how people might be frustrated with the court system of 
 this game, and how it... well, doesn't make much sense. To be honest, what draws me to this game 
 is just the mystery-solving aspect, and I think that's why this series is so captivating. It's 
 virtually impossible to predict the outcome of some of the more intricate cases in this game, until 
 you've made significant progress, and collected significant evidence first. You always need to 
 be paying attention, especially to the most minute of details.
  
  If you've been looking for a game series involving strategy, logic, and a decent length to top 
 it all off, look no further than Phoenix Wright. And in that series, be sure to play Trials and 
 Tribulations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokirikid12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  For anyone that doesn't know, the Ace Attorney games are a series of video games based off a defense 
 attorney named Phoenix Wright. Now that thats outta the way, lets get this straight. These game 
 are absolutley amazing. No. Seriously. They make you wonder why these games arent uber popular. 
 For anyone that hasn't played the first two Phoenix Wright games, I highly reccommend that you 
 pick those up first before playing this one because
  A. They are also amazing
  B. Somethings might be a little confusing and you'll probably feel like you missed something
 
  That being said, this game is BY FAR the best game in the series. Not to mention it has the best 
 female villain not only in any video game, but any book, movie, story, etc. Well, at least in my 
 opinion...... Anywho I will say that these games can be slow-paced and are not for people that 
 need none stop action in order to pay attention. Nonetheless, if you enjoy engaging stories, memorable 
 characters, and shocking plot twists, you will fall in love with the series as a whole, but especially 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Out-Of-Ammo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Being the 3rd game in the Phoenix Wright Series, you probably expected this game to be better than 
 the 1st and 2nd games. But you would have never expected that it would be this much better!!! Taking 
 place after Phoenix Wright: Justice For All, you still play as the awesome (and spiky haired) lawyer, 
 Phoenix Wright. You also get to play 2 cases as his deceased mentor, Mia Fey. The cases are difficult 
 and fun and are also suspenseful and surprising at times. Also, even though I have no idea why, 
 getting on a role in court or finding a contradiction in a witness's testimony is VERY satisfying. 
 The Graphics are great and very colorful and creative. The Sound is some of the greatest I've ever 
 heard in a video game. From Maya's Happy-Go-Lucky theme to the music you hear during a case, every 
 character has their own theme and fits their personality PERFECTLY!!! Over all, Phoenix Wright: 
 Trials and Tribulations is a game that you HAVE to have. GET IT NOW!!!
  -Out Of Ammo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toro_Nev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the third and final game in one of my all time favourite series; Phoenix Wright! The game 
 continues on from the first game, Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. It is the second continuation of 
 the game on the life of Defense Attorney Phoenix Wright.
  
  Throughout the course of the game, you get assigned a different case for each case. Each case has 
 a different character whom you must help get a 'Not Guilty' verdict. The storyline for each case 
 is different, and they have many unsuspecting twists around each corner!!!!
  
  The graphics are the same as always. There are a few images reused from the previous two games. 
 Also, there are tons of old characters which you see from the previous two games.
  
  The music is still catchy and addicting. The music is a bit different this time around, because 
 depending on what is happening in the game, the music changes into something that fits the scene 
 and mood perfectly.
  
  The gameplay is the same as in the previous Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney games because the mission 
 of the game is simple; help solve your clients cases to move on in the game until you finish all 
 of the four cases.
  
  The difficulty is Just Right. If you played the previous Phoenix Wright games, you would be familiar 
 with the game as soon as you pick it up. Also, if this is your first Phoenix Wright game, the first 
 case really teaches you how the game goes, so you wont feel confused once you start playing.
  
  Overall, I would give this game a 9.5/10 rating. I would recommend you try out the previous 
 Phoenix Wright games first, so that if you like the story and gameplay, you can continue on in 
 this sequel.
  
  Thanks for reading my review! ~ I hope my review was helpful and OK to read (this is my sixth review)
 
  
  -Nev
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  There is one franchise that has me captivated on the NDS this generation and that is Phoenix Wright. 
 Granted, the games were originally on the GBA, but the additions made possible by the NDS make 
 the games worth playing all over again. What was it that kept me hooked on the series? I think 
 it's all down to the characters' development and personalities, the quality of the script, the 
 unique gameplay mechanics and above all, the humour. First, i'll say that the second Phoenix Wright 
 was a slight disappointment after the stellar first game - mostly stemming from my expectations 
 that it will continue and expand on evidence manipulation and mini-puzzles rather than the quirk 
 that was the psychelock. With this in mind, my expectations for Trials and Tribulations (3rd in 
 the series) were somewhat held down. Does it warrant my worries though? Actually, no...
  
  While the game takes place after the second game, it does flashback to before the first game when 
 Mia Fey was still alive - a perfect opportunity to tell more about her past in respect to the Fey 
 heritage. Actually, the entire game revolves around the Fey family; the chapters answer questions 
 regarding the Fey traditions, family bonds, the spirit channeling powers while also pulling in 
 a mysterious prosecutor who turns out to be so relevant to the livelihoods of the main characters. 
 If you're new to the Phoenix Wright franchise, then this isn't really the best place to start. 
 The game can be played by new players but the bulk of the enjoyment comes from the humour and development 
 of the beloved characters from start to finish. For those who've played the previous games, the 
 game almost looks identical to the previous games. While animation is excellent, a lot of it is 
 recycled. The exceptions come about with new characters, each with their own movements and music 
 themes. The familiar music and sound effects are also heavily recycled, although they do do a great 
 job - you have to be wearing earphones to appreciate the audio. As always, you can shout into the 
 microphone for raising objections or pressing the witnesses - if you can brave the outburst in 
 front of others. So if the gameplay is exactly the same and that even a lot of the animations and 
 sounds are recycled, what is it that makes this game a stand-out title? While the game still does 
 not feature those small puzzles I liked from the first game, the script is just so good to the 
 point that it makes those small details forgivable. Trials and Tribulations tie up the loose ends 
 from both the first and second game and enriches the history of some familiar characters. In this 
 respect, the game oozes fan-service of the best kind - you even control Miles Edgeworth (both friend 
 and adversary in the first game) at one point. The other negative to point out is that sometimes 
 it's not entirely obvious when to present evidence while fully knowing the contradictions behind 
 it - the game can be picky and this sort of ups the difficulty. To say it in other words, you do 
 know the contradiction in the testimony but you might eventually resort to a guide to progress 
 because it was that specific part of the testimony with that specific evidence.
  
  After completing the game and reflecting on my experience, I'd have to say that the creation of 
 the series is masterful. People argue whether video games are not just mere entertainment, that 
 they are not mere toys and that they are also an art form. My personal opinion on the matter is 
 that videogames are a business, yet it can bring forth entertainment AND art to the player. Are 
 videogames at the same level as movies? No, in fact, I think it's higher - or at least, have the 
 potential to be much higher. A movie may impact a viewer emotionally through a story but the movie 
 will still be limited by the natural disconnect of viewer and footage. A videogame can tell the 
 exact same story through the exact same footage - the difference however, is that the viewer can 
 be affected in a much more substantial way due to interaction. Simply due to interaction, a story/experience 
 is capable of changing in a way that will grow the bond between videogame and player. What has 
 this to do with Phoenix Wright? Well, I mentioned that videogames have the 'potential' to be on 
 a higher plane than movies; Phoenix Wright achieves that level of storytelling at least as good 
 as movies and novels, and it does so with so much enthusiasm through the animations of the characters. 
 If someone were to compare scripts between the mediums, Phoenix Wright or Ace Attorney is a fitting 
 profile to use. The series stands out in my mind simply for achieving that level in this still-growing 
 industry. Well, enough about that, lets finish up this review - To sum up Trials and Tribulations, 
 this is almost on par in being as good as the first game. This is a must buy for fans of the series, 
 and although new players can get into it starting from this game, I highly recommend them not to. 
 The nature of how you connect with the characters like a good novel lends itself to be best experienced 
 from beginning to end - like the beginning to end of Phoenix Wright's career as an attorney at 
 law. Fittingly put, this 3rd game in the series is actually a sort of finale because the next game 
 from Capcom is called Apollo Justice, the name of the new protagonist in a much younger generation. 
 I'm not sad about it that much because this 3rd outing was scripted so well, the sense of closure 
 was there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stancel_Spencer
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The 4th installment of the Phoenix Wright series brings a new an interesting storyline. As always, 
 eccentric characters and humor abound. The cases are interesting, and captivating, twists and turns 
 as always that deliver.
  
  The DS's features are absent, except for a one-time use of a metal detector. Given that previous 
 games had DS features, the lack of it is probably the biggest drawback.
  
  The game can be too difficult and hard to figure out in places, leaving one stuck and with no choice 
 but to cheat online looking at a guide. Others may have found it easier but I couldn't. I don't 
 think I ever cheated so much on a game.
  
  Ardent fans of the series will likely be moderately satisfied. Gamers not familiar with it will 
 likely not think of it so highly. I would still recommend the entire Phoenix Wright series as well 
 as Apollo Justice to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Phoenix Wright in the series. The music's about as catchy as the first game, and 
 the plot and characters are awesome. My personal favorite characters out of any game that I have 
 ever played are both in this game. Dahlia and Iris. (You'll have to play the game to find out why.) 
 
  
  In this game there are 5 cases like the first game, and all of them are fantastic. Even the first 
 tutorial case will blow your mind. And then it'll be blown twice over in case 4... and then again 
 in case 5. And then again once you have played 1,4 and 5 and you decide to play 1 again. The game 
 has a pretty tough difficulty, which I guess could turn some people off, but you can just use the 
 online tutorials which you probably will end up doing at least a little.
  
  I can't really get into the details much, because if you hear about it it'll ruin the game for 
 you. I'd strongly advice you to get this game... and all the others too, but especially this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Third time isn't always the charm, and this applies to Trials and Tribulations which is basically 
 a rehash of the mechanics from the 2nd game Justice For All and is devoid of the really nice bonus 
 tools that were found in the last case of the first Phoenix Wright. I mean, by this time they could've 
 put them here!
  
  Anyway, you start off as, oh! Mia Fey, Phoenix Wright's mentor! This case actually involves a college 
 era Phoenix Wright, and why is he wearing a pink sweater? Well, you'll have to find out. So the 
 only thing I'm gonna say about this is that it involves a really complex new character that will 
 literally haunt the next few cases!
  
  You go through the paces of the tutorials as well, making this game accessible even if you haven't 
 played the first 2, and the backstories of the existing characters are summarized, so not that 
 much need to worry, although there are times when you have to play the first 2 to get something 
 that's meant to be funny.
  
  Anyway, it's the same gameplay as the first and second where you'll only point and click through 
 several options such as "Talk" for selecting a topic to talk about to someone, "Present" for presenting 
 evidence to a person, "Move" to go to another location, and "Examine" which is for examining the 
 location for clues, in its investigation phase, and in the courtroom stage: the "Press", which 
 you can do for getting more information from a witness' statement during a cross-examination, and 
 "Present" which is for presenting evidence that contradicts the testimony. Present the wrong evidence, 
 and a green bar will be depleted, much like an energy bar in fighting games.
  
  You will also encounter the "Psyche-locks", a feature first introduced in Justice For All. They 
 appear if a character is hiding something from you, and it's due to the green jade charm called 
 Magatama. You present this Magatama and you should be able to present sufficient evidence that 
 will make a person spill the beans.
  
  It was a nice refreshing change of gameplay in its predecessor, but it's not now. The elements 
 in this game are totally recycled -- even the cons of the past two games are recycled as well! The 
 game still only follows one story and one story alone, so it's linear. Choices to be made are mostly 
 not different from one another except in one time during one cross-examination, and if you want 
 to proceed to another part of the game, you have to do one thing first before it gets initiated. 
 So sometimes, you get stumped looking for what to do, presenting every little piece of evidence 
 to every person and check whether a new topic has unlocked. It's almost always like this, and it's 
 pretty much confusing for the novice player.
  
  The save system is still the same: you can save anywhere, and once again, it puts the penalty system 
 to the back-burner. I mean, you can always save before making a choice or presenting a piece of 
 evidence when you're not sure, so if you lose and get a Guilty verdict for your client instead, 
 you can go back to where you left off, literally. Still, this is, once again, a portable game so 
 the save system is more of a blessing than a real curse.
  
  But what saves this game from being really boring is, once again, the engaging characters. Yeah, 
 there are some really annoying new characters that appear (RON IS THE EPITOME OF ANNOYING!) and 
 some returning characters that get pinned for the same crime again (MAGGIE?! I'm defending you 
 again?!) and for most of the cases, Larry Butz just has to testify (and he is, by the way, the 
 first client of Wright in the first installment) in his wishy-washy, annoying way! Of course, me 
 complaining about them is also attesting to the fact that even with only 3 or 4 frames of animation 
 in a character, they can convey much emotion, and that they have their own individual personalities 
 which is further made to stand out due to their own respective "theme songs" that play in the background 
 when you converse with them. The writing is very much great as well, and there are more pop-culture 
 references than ever!
  
  Moving on, the sound and artwork, even though mostly recycled, still do the job, and heck, Pearl 
 is one of the most adorable characters ever! And here's another quirky character: the new prosecutor 
 Godot. He is key to many cases, and the last case is simply very explosive! He's a coffee-addict, 
 to be sure, but he has a very interesting past, and he is just a really interesting character, 
 and a good reason to get the game.
  
  Overall, the game feels like Justice For All all over again, but the only thing difference is the 
 inclusion of Godot and "that girl". Actually, this is more of a game for the fans, but it's still 
 accessible for newbies who don't know the whole picture. The writing is still nice and funny, the 
 music still nice, and the gameplay still good even if it's recycled. I mean, they could've at least 
 put a new game mechanic in this one, but speaking as a fan, I still find this game really nice, 
 and still a worthy recommendation. Heck, the finishing blow of this game is pretty satisfying and 
 not too over-the-top, and that's because it's simply that way in real life as well. You win a case, 
 you eventually get another.
  
  But if you haven't bought the first one yet, buy that one first, then play through the second and 
 eventually the third.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_bri9htside
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  It first starts off with a nice case that runs smoothly along while it brings you back to when 
 Mia Fey was alive. Ironically, the one and only Phoenix Wright is the defendant. You follow along 
 as you Press statements to reveal new information, and possibly new evidence as well. This evidence 
 can then be Presented at given times where you want to isolate contradictions and prove the prosecution 
 wrong to uncover lies within testimonies. But the real problems emerge throoughout the gameplay.
 
  
  If you played the any of the previous Phoenix Wrights, you will know that you must explore crime 
 scenes and other areas in order to talk to witnesses, coworkers (like Maya Fey) , and other aquaintances 
 (like Detective Gumshoe) , outside of the courtroom. You will also find evidence to further help 
 you defend your clients. You can also use this evidence outside of court against people to reveal 
 their secrets they might be hiding. These are known as Psyche-Locks. Psyche-locks will appear on 
 people you meet throughout the game, and it is up to you to unlock them by presenting evidence 
 on their contradictory statements. One major problem is, presenting the right evidence at the right 
 time, half the time being one big guessing game. It seems as though Capcom has not learned their 
 lesson from "Justice For All". Sure this is a port from the Gayakuten Saiban series on the GBA, 
 Capcom should have adressed these reoccuring problems. Nevertheless, Phoenix Wright Trials and 
 Tribulations is still a game where you can still enjoy its original qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed the Phoenix Wright series since its inception, and to me it's the perfect fit for 
 the DS. I can't see it working on any other system due to the dated graphics and generally slow 
 pace of the game. It's like reading a mystery and getting to make decisions along the way as you 
 try to figure out what's really going on based on the evidence you uncover. It's ok funny yeah, 
 but it's not the humor that hooks me, it's actually having to think about how things happened and 
 seeing if I can put 2 and 2 together to come up with a solution. When I got stuck it was usually 
 because I'd overlooked something that was fairly obvious. In some of the previous games some of 
 the choices you had to select were fairly obscure. The case with the lottery ticket and the poisoned 
 computer programmer was probably my favorite. The last case is good too, a little contrived, trying 
 to throw the whole kitchen sink in there I think. Worth getting if you enjoyed the first two and 
 worth a try if you haven't tried the series yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  The title is so suitable for the content of the game, in more ways than one. The first case puts 
 you in the shoes of Mia Fey, giving some insight to the background of Phoenix's mentor, which in 
 whole has much importance to the greater of the game. This is another tutorial case, and by now 
 us oldbies expect it, while it still gives tips to the new comers to the series. The case is somewhat 
 longer than the other tutorial cases and is a great start to the five case long game.
  
  Surprisingly we move from murder for a moment to theft during one of the cases, trying to prove 
 the client innocent, however the case soon evolves into a murder case per usual, still the first 
 half was refreshing from the usual 'who dun it'. Just a little more exploring into other territories 
 and I think Capcom can come up with different base criteria to a case and pull off a good one. 
 If not, it'd make a nice tutorial case.
  
  In the other games, we see that each case stands well on it's own, with little relation, if any, 
 to the other cases within the game, while three main cases in this game have a lot to do with another, 
 demanding that the player keep in mind important details to further their progress and understanding 
 of the why and how about things. It's not nesisarily a bad thing, it actually adds to the story 
 as a whole, but it makes the other cases feel like foder to make the game longer, still, the main 
 storyline case is strong and has many twists to it that entangles every character in some form. 
 
  
  The Psyche-Lock system has been carried over and is still as annoying/rewarding as ever, seems 
 like there's more to figure out this round and there are more hints to when it'd be suitable to 
 break them. Besides that, there's really no added features or aspects which is quite the disappointment. 
 Still, I must say even for this short coming, being able to play Mia and Edgeworth in game is fun 
 and entertaining. Reading their character specific reactions and opinions are often humorous and 
 a refreshing point of view. 
  
  We're introduced to another Prosecutor by the name of Godot, it's pretty much blaringly obvious 
 who he is in one of Mia's cases, but I won't say. He's not as objectionable as the previous P. A.'s 
 we've seen before, which is somewhat of a relief, however when he does have an objection, you're 
 in trouble. Still, he's a worthy opponent and has a fun coffee addiction that he can't help but 
 throw across the court room in Phoenix's direction. (Best sprite ever) 
  
  So kicking it to the masses,
  
  Concept is the same as always, and hey, it works, but could 
 do with some spiffed up features to complement it.
  
  Graphics: For the returning cast, there are barely if any for some, new sprites, this was a bit 
 of a disappointment, but didn't bother me to much. There are new locations and some familiar that 
 have been visited in many times before. The courtroom is beginning to look duller and duller. 
 
  
  Sound: Seems they changed up some of the music and gave Phoenix a ring tone for his cell. It's 
 nice but since it feels similar to the previous games it doesn't really stick out. 
  
  Playability: Smooth control flow as ever.
  
  Entertainment: The story wraps together nicely, 
 but there are points which I feel there are plot holes in. The cases are well thought out and take 
 unexpected turns most as usual, however, these unexpected turns for old comers are what we expect 
 now. Usually the murderer is right in the courtroom for the most part. They use some of their old 
 tricks from previous games, which beg for a little variety in figuring things out. 
  
  Replay: There's no alternative ending this time around, which is sad, but maybe they were so embarrassed 
 by their last round screw up that they did away with it. Either way, the game is fun enough to 
 play through once, and maybe a replay through some of the select cases that had to do with the 
 last one just to get the story better, but other than that, barrow this one too. 
  
  All and all: The third and last game going by the name of Phoenix Wright wrapped up pretty nicely, 
 had it'd drama, had it's laughs; I felt involved with this game as I do when I'm reading a story; 
 I felt sorry for the villains and justification in breaking the law, just a little. It'll be hard 
 to say good bye to my favorite pointy haired Defense Lawyer, and his quirky cute sidekicks Maya 
 and Pearl; still, I'm sure we'll see them all in upcoming games. So this is not really the end, 
 it's just leading up to, Apollo Justice. 
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright has been around for a while now, and his latest addition into the series feels like 
 the most fresh and original title yet. With the fanbase of the series slowly growing steadier, 
 Capcom was determined to put out all the stops this time and make Trials and Tribulations the best 
 Phoenix Wright game yet. Although there are some minor annoyances, I can safely say that they have 
 succeeded.
  
  Trials and Tribulations focus more on the history of Phoenix Wright and how he became a popular 
 lawyer. Even in this game, Phoenix is much more recognized by the community and gets busier every 
 day due to the amount of cases he now takes on. As with all Phoenix Wright games, the first trial 
 is a tutorial of sorts which introduces players to either a back-story to a certain character, 
 or events that will lead up to the eventful final case. You will learn much more detailed information 
 of all the characters this time around, and since Trials and Tribulations is the series coup de 
 grace, expect to finally finish off any plot holes or gaps left blank by the past games.
  
  From the start of the game you will immediately run into old friends and foes alike. Your faithful 
 partner, Maya Fey, makes a dubious return in high fashion as she constantly makes brain head remarks 
 through every case. Detective Gumshoe is back as well, offering many moments of sleuthing antics 
 that would get any sane and normal investigator sacked on day one. Pearls and Mia Fey, Edgeworth, 
 Larry Butz, an everyone from past games who isn't locked up or dead returns to the foray as well, 
 offering one of the most dynamic and explosive casts in the series.
  
  But what makes the cast of characters so appealing are the new crafty ones prominently featured 
 in Trials and Tribulations. Unique characters such as a 300 pound ex-con who speaks with a girly 
 French accent and runs a restaurant to an angry mobster who looks like a tiger that is namedel 
 Tigre. But originality aside, the one character that stands out above the rest is a man named Godot. 
 Nothing is known about Godot when he makes his appearance, yet from the start he constantly harasses 
 Phoenix and makes an unwilling goal to him as well, that he will personally crush and destroy him. 
 Godot makes many appearances throughout the game, and as you commence through the proceedings you 
 will ultimately find out just what his intentions really are, and who he really turns out to be.
 
  
  As with all games, the dialogue in the game is exceptional. Since the entire game is spoken through 
 chat boxes, the wording of the game has to be intricate, yet fun to read at the same time. Capcom 
 has done a tremendous job with the localization and has given life to fictional characters. Besides 
 the hilarious characters and names, what makes the dialogue so pleasing is how witty some of it 
 could be. References to current affairs, computer lingo (with phrases such as w00t! and pwned) , 
 sexual entendres and more make every chat engaging and hilarious to read. 
  
  If you haven't played any of the previous games than you might feel lost during this once considering 
 all of the constant flashbacks and references to past characters and events. In any case, the game 
 plays out like the previous titles, with a short clip showing the crime in question and than you, 
 Phoenix Wright, getting the call to defend a client and gather up information in order to support 
 your case. The formula hasn't changed much, but it's still a brilliantly executed style. 
  
  As you visit the different locations gathering up information, you will constantly have to 
 search the surroundings for clues. Using the stylus, you can click and point on any part of a particular 
 level and than begin searching. Once you find an important item it gets catalogued in your case 
 journal to be used during the trial or as leverage when questioning someone. Some items might purposely 
 be given to you for story scenarios, but others require you to actually spend time looking around 
 for something out of the ordinary, which is always quite fun to engage. 
  
  Psychelocks were introduced back in Justice for All, and while they felt rushed and repetitive, 
 offered a nice break from the pace of the game. Trials and Tribulations fixes the problems with 
 psychelocks by given players a much more enhanced incentive on doing investigations and gathering 
 clues. Psychelocks are supposed to represent a person's hidden secrets locked away inside their 
 minds, and once you break the locks you are free to hear their secret. While many of the psychelocks 
 in the game revolve around backtracking for items you need in order to scare someone out of talking, 
 some new psychelocks now force you to talk to other people for information. The repetitiveness 
 is still intact, but at least there are some changes to the formula.
  
  The visuals and sound are almost identical to the previous titles, albeit some minor music and 
 sound changes regarding new areas and characters. You can still hear all of the characters chime 
 in their own "Objection!" phrases with clarity and precision, as well as see Phoenix point his 
 gaping finger at the opposition as better as before. Some new visual effects allow the game to 
 have a more artistic feel, with backdrops that are more detailed, allowing for more attempts at 
 searching for clues, and animations that have evolved over the years. 
  
  Trials and Tribulations is a great entry into the Phoenix Wright series and one that all fans should 
 play. Newcomers might not appreciate the constant foreshadowing and flashback effects of the game, 
 but the original story and detective elements are key enough to hook any new fans to the game. 
 While the psychelocks still force you to backtrack and some story elements feel shady, the dialogue 
 is as witty as ever and the game, ultimately, is fun to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations does everything right that it has done in the previous 
 two Phoenix Wright games. However, it doesn't do anything new. The game still features Phoenix 
 Wright, everyone's favorite defense attorney, and the return of some of the wacky characters to 
 bring you another series of cases and the conclusion to the ongoing mystery of Misty Fey and the 
 master of the Kurrain Channeling Technique. In addition to wrapping of the Fey story, the game 
 also introduces Prosecutor Godot, a very mysterious prosecutor who somehow seems to know Phoenix. 
 While these continuing storylines do a lot to add to the experience, Trials and Tribulations really 
 does expand on the feeling that Justice for All (the second game in the series) left with me: that 
 it was the same game getting recycled. While the sound still does a very nice job at helping to 
 create atmosphere, the graphics all seem to be copied and pasted and the gameplay is still the 
 same point-and-click that has taken us through two games already. Now, I understand that the entire 
 trilogy was originally made for the GameBoy Advance and that it is, by nature, a point-and-click 
 game, but I don't think that excuses the lack of innovation and effort shown.
  
  Please don't get me wrong: in its own right, Trials and Tribulations is a very good game and a 
 score in the sevens out of a possible ten is nothing to be ashamed of. However, I feel that, with 
 a little more work (i. e. gameplay elements, new or improved graphics, more cases, bonus content, 
 etc.) , Trials and Tribulations could be a great game instead of just a good one. The fourth installment 
 in the series is being developed from the ground up specifically for the DS. This should keep the 
 series from getting stale, which it is, unfortunately, starting to do. Overall, Trials is a game 
 that should not be missed by any fan of the great Phoenix Wright. If you're just looking to get 
 into this fantasy courtroom series, I highly advise you to play the games in their intended order, 
 as getting into the ongoing stroyline should increase your enjoyment of this game all the more.
 
  
  Overall: 7.6
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  When Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney hit shelves back in 2005, nobody could have predicted the success 
 that the point-and-click adventure series starring a rookie defense attorney would meet in North 
 America. I've been on board since day one of the series, and I've lovingly followed Phoenix through 
 his progression of games. Now, the series starring Phoenix has drawn to a close with the third 
 game in the series, Trials and Tribulations. And while it can't match the first game in terms of 
 net quality, just because of the fact that Trials and Tribulations is third time around for a game 
 play mechanic that some say is getting old, it's still a really awesome game and arguably the most 
 epic and satisfying in the series. 
  
  If, for some reason, you've not already played at least one of the Phoenix Wright games (and you 
 should play them all before picking up Trials and Tribulations, by the way) , let me quickly explain 
 how the game plays out. As with the past games, it's divided up into two main sections: investigation 
 and trial. During the investigation, you'll travel around various different locales, all with a 
 relationship to the crime committed, and there gather clues, question witnesses, and attempt to 
 build a case to defend your client. This aspect of the game is where the real point-and-click action 
 comes into play -- one of the biggest actions at your command is "Examine", which lets you use 
 the DS touch screen to point out things that might be clues in each area. However, the biggest 
 problem with this half of the game, and one that has not gone unnoticed by many gamers and reviewers, 
 is that it's way too linear. You've got to trigger certain events to progress, and often doing 
 so relies on presenting a relatively obscure piece of evidence to a random person. 
  
  The court scenes, however, is where the game really gets rolling and is, at least to me, the more 
 fun part of the game. The set-up is simple: the prosecution will call witnesses to the stand, who 
 will then testify regarding what they saw at the crime scene. But there's a basic premise that 
 you've got to keep in mind when playing Phoenix Wright: everybody lies. Everybody. The witness 
 on the stand, for one reason or another, will always lie, and therefore (obviously) obstruct your 
 attempt to find the truth. The solution? Prove them for liars (sometimes it's accidental, I might 
 add) by presenting evidence that contradicts a specific statement of their testimony. It's really 
 satisfying to finally blow open a whole in a witness's testimony, and it can get quite difficult 
 as witnesses get craftier and more subtle and the court record (where all your evidence is stored) 
 grows to several pages. 
  
  Also, I'd like to point out before I get any further that Trials and Tribulations is significantly 
 more difficult than any other Ace Attorney game to date. The first and second games, while fun, 
 were pretty easy (at least until the end of the game) . Trials and Tribulations, however, is noticeably 
 more difficult even from the very first case. I'm not one to complain, because I really appreciate 
 that we're no longer being given obvious hints as to what the "answer" is to disproving a certain 
 witness's testimony. And for this reason, along with others, it's important to know that this is 
 not a good place to jump onto the Phoenix Wright bandwagon. The learning curve is less gentle than 
 in past games, and there are far too many references to past games to really enjoy this title without 
 knowing what happened in the original Ace Attorney and Justice for All. 
  
  The thing is, Trials and Tribulations, along with the rest of the Ace Attorney games, is one of 
 the rare titles out there where the game play is not the central aspect of the game; instead, the 
 entire experience revolves around the plot and the game's fantastic writing. The game features 
 5 cases, two of which feature Mia (Phoenix's mentor) as a novice DA, and the remaining three starring 
 Phoenix. One really awesome subtlety regarding the first game was that the later cases where very 
 much related to each other, a feature that wasn't present in the second game. But it's back in 
 Trials and Tribulations, and now all the cases, minus the second really, are intricately connected 
 and essentially tell one long story drawn out over 11 years and several different characters. 
 
  
  Speaking of which, the many people that you'll encounter in Trials and Tribulations are fantastically 
 written and really come to life thanks to the monumental work Capcom's development team bestowed 
 upon the game. The translation is fantastic and there are some really hilarious pop culture references 
 there for people to pick up on (some are downright obvious, such as "This is SPARDAA!) . There are 
 a lot of familiar faces, like Gumshoe, Maya, Pearls, and several others that I won't say for fear 
 of spoiling some of the later cases. The characters come to life and as a result really bring the 
 game to life, as the translation staff seems to have a great knack for writing that is both realistic 
 but at the same time downright hilarious. 
  
  As you may have guessed if you've played the first two Ace Attorney titles, the graphics and sound 
 (for the most part) have been recycled. The visuals, anyway, are identical to what we've seen in 
 past games -- don't forget that this is, after all, a GBA title ported to the DS. Sprites are ripped 
 directly from past games, and each character has the same set of animations that are used over 
 and over again depending on the situation. The music, on the other hand, doesn't really suffer 
 from being reused, as it's absolutely awesome. There's some new content but most of it is from 
 past games (for example, character's themes) . It's a rare game that really takes advantage of music 
 to do something with it and make the game better, but Trials and Tribulations does just that -- 
 in particular, each character's theme does a surprisingly good job of developing that character, 
 or at least giving you a huge heads-up as to what he or she is like. 
  
  Psyche Locks are also back from Justice for All, and they are a game play mechanic that have actually 
 grown on me. Based off the idea that everybody has something to hide, Phoenix posses an item that 
 allows him to see when somebody is telling a lie -- it shows them in chains with varying numbers 
 of locks holding them in place. To find out the truth, you'll have to break the locks by presenting 
 specific evidence that answers a prompt given to you by the game. For example, if you're trying 
 to figure out what so and so was doing on the night of the crime, you may be prompted: "I think 
 this person has something to do with what you were doing" and you'll have to present the correct 
 person. Once you shatter all the locks by presenting evidence and essentially coming to the conclusion 
 yourself, your interogee will finally spill the beans. 
  
  There's no real new content, but what it has Trials and Tribulations does very well. If you're 
 a fan of past games, like myself, purchasing this game is a no-brainer. The plot is probably the 
 best in the series, and while the novelty has been long lost, there's no denying that the game 
 play mechanic is still fun, addicting, and more challenging than ever. The last case, in particular, 
 is absolutely incredible and wraps up a ton of loose ends that are thrown around throughout the 
 entire game. It's a satisfying conclusion to an awesome trilogy starring one of my favorite video 
 game characters ever. And while it may not be perfect, it sure is a heck of a lot of fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Hungry for some story and text adventure? Here's your game son!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Nothing special, it looks exactly as JFA and shouldn't be surpries that they've recycled the older 
 ones either! The new characters are interesting as usual.
  In other words, nothing new!
  
  SOUND:
  Superb, I gotta admit with some people that it's good that they recycled the music. 
 For being GBA quality it still stands out. The new soundtrack has their own personality like in 
 case 3 in the french restaurant! It's GOOD!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  They've added nothing new, it's just like Justice For All, apart from that there are new cases. 
 But lets make this short: You are a lawyer named Phoenix Wright, an attorney at law who is suppose 
 to fight for his clients and get them of the hook.
  You investigate and look for evidence. When you're in court, you're suppose to present evidence 
 and save the day. The new feature that showed up in JFA is still in Trials and Tribulations.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing the game, I was thrilled. The characters were well written, the story flowed 
 smoothly, and the clues were creative and interesting. Then, I got to the meat of the game, the 
 trials and cross examination. All of the sudden, the story broke down after that. Sadly made scenes 
 and inadequate evidence filled the court, and the game started to get very confusing. Some perfect 
 evidence that seemed very reasonable would not get accepted. The makers did a poor job organizing 
 the game. The makers put the same line in the first speech examination of the witness as they did 
 in the last speech of the witness, so technically the evidence should work both times... but it 
 does not. Not sure when to present correct evidence, the game quickly became guessing and checking. 
 Sadly, the last case was the only true great case, and even that got frustrating over time. Overall, 
 its a sad way to end the reign of Phoenix Wright, but I hope Apollo is all that is it cracked up 
 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanN003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to get right down to business. This is easily the best games in the series. The characters 
 from the previous two are back again, with plenty of new ones. This game also has the best case, 
 in my opinion, case 1/4/5 (Not to spoil anything, but they kind of go along...) . The old judge 
 is back, along with a new prosecuter, and of course Paine. Two preveous characters make, well, 
 somewhat camoes in the fith case, one not to be forgoten. There is one huge downfall in this game, 
 no new, well anything. The second game had the "Physc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is very "meh" indeed with a sprikle of "darn" and extra sugar, not really the best combination 
 for your morning coffee or for a videogame. 
  
  First up is the Story.
  
  The story is amazing, very original and just leaves you speachless, there really is nothing else 
 I can say about this other than the fact that it is very good.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is okay but, not that great, it can get very boring during a very difficult trial, 
 if it wasn't for the colorful cast of charecters to lighten things up, I don't know where this 
 game would be. Investigations are also boring, pretty much just the same rinse and repeat process, 
 investigate, go to court repeat. So very "meh" indeed.
  
  Sound: 
  
  The music is very good, always changing with the mood of the game. Although it could have been 
 better if you could actually hear a more voiced charecters. 
  
  Replayability: 
  
  What replayability, there is no replayability, go away! 
  
  Yea so rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phopanda112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations is the third game in a series of courtroom based point 
 and click adventures where you make use of the touch screen and microphone to battle it out in 
 court. You play Phoenix Wright, with main side characters Maya and Pearls Fey. (spiritual channelers, 
 also part-time comic relief) The cast of characters adds a lot to the game. All of the quirky defendants 
 and witnesses you meet in between and inside of court all have a different style that makes the 
 game completely unique. While this game can be over relatively fast if you speed-run it, it's totally 
 immersive, so you won't want to miss out on any of the incredible dialogue. This is the perfect 
 game to play in bite-sized pieces because of the save system. You can save at any point in the 
 game by pressing start. While you can save, then use trial error to present evidence, it saves 
 your butt in some cases, and you'll be thankful for it in the end. And then there are the cases. 
 The cases have some good plot twists and unforgettable scenes. And as usual, in every PW game, 
 the last case is extremely long, but equally epic. Once you get to the last case, you can't put 
 it down.
  
  If you give it enough time, this game will suck you in, and have you waiting for its sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Having just finished the third satisfying installment of the Ace Attorney series it is strange 
 to remember a time when a cult-following of gamers were writing petitions and otherwise begging 
 Capcom to bring the Gyakuten Saiban series to the west. Even when Capcom did release the initial 
 title they did so in limited quantity, either not confident in the ability of the franchise to 
 translate to western audiences, or out of slight embarrassment that they were releasing the formerly 
 Game Boy Advance series on the Nintendo DS. The Japanese publisher soon realized the popularity 
 of what up until now has been a staple of TV Drama but not console gaming -- criminal investigation 
 and court room drama -- is just as popular in the west as it is in Japan.
  
  Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations, hereafter referred to as PWAATAT (for both 
 comic and abbreviate purposes) , is the final act for Phoenix Wright in the Ace Attorney trilogy. 
 The series will continue on with a much needed new set of characters. I guess that like Dick Gephardt, 
 the unsuccessful Democratic presidential candidate of 2004, the writers of Phoenix Wright believe 
 that "we are all connected" albeit in a tangled and confusing chain of deceit and murder since 
 almost all of the cast of the first two titles return in PWAATAT. Through a series of five cases 
 that intertwine their stories in an incredible (and somewhat enjoyable) mess of crimes and coincidence 
 we learn that almost every single character has something to do with each other. 
  
  The Ace Attorney series, for the uninitiated, is basically a graphic novel with interaction. You 
 control an attorney who both investigates crime scenes and presents evidence and cross examines 
 witnesses. Choose-Your-Own-Adventure meets Click and Point Adventure gaming if you will. 
  
  While PWAATAT is certainly the best of the three games released to date, this formula is starting 
 to wear a little thin with some of the logical leaps of evidence being demanded going beyond a 
 first, second and sometimes third guess as to what you are supposed to present next. Since the 
 game does not progress until you have triggered all the events this sometimes results in a "charades" 
 type interaction with your virtual witness, "Okay, so I've presented the umbrella, the haddock, 
 the newspaper and the shard of glass, how about THIS (produces a cat) ". *Note items substituted 
 to avoid spoilers.
  
  Like the second game in the series PWAATAT makes limited use of the DS, presenting what is mostly 
 what appears to be a direct port of the GBA version (unlike the first which did have some DS-centric 
 features) . The graphics are great, how the artists are able to express so much character out of 
 just a few frames of animation continues to astound. The 16-bit style music is also as charming 
 as ever.
  
  The original appeal of the series has never been better represented in a western release as it 
 has with this third iteration a game that will be enjoyed by Ace Attorney enthusiasts and newcomers 
 alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Phoenix wright 3 is a mixture of Phoenix's memories of Mia Fey's first two trials, and the present 
 cases. In every Phoenix Wright game there is an new option in comparison to the previous game. 
 The first game was the actual "game" in itself. In "Justice for all" (the second game in the series) 
 it was the Psyche-Locks which appeared every time a character lied to you, and you had to break 
 them with evidence. This game's new option is the fact that during the game, you control various 
 characters: Phoenix Wright, Mia Fey and another Character which I shall not spoil. To play this 
 game, you don't need to play the previous ones, since has flashbacks of the other games, but it 
 does help. We encounter nearly all the primary characters from the first two games (Detective Gumshoe, 
 Maya, Pearls, Mia, Larry, etcetera...) as well as other new characters, all as funny and interesting 
 as the old ones.
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The Gameplay is the same as the previous games: Move, Talk, Examine and Present (evidence) . It 
 has the two parts of gameplay: The clue searching part and the actual trial.
  
  8/10
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Anime style drawings represent expresions such as Anger, happiness, sadness 
 and doubt, as well as Phoenix's famous finger pointing animation. Many of the drawings are quite 
 funny or quite annoying. The backgrounds are very well drawn with a lot of detail.
  
  8/10
  
  
  
  SOUND:
  
  There's a musical theme for every character and the typical "Hold 
 it!" "Objection" and "Take that!" from many of the characters.
  
  The music really fits and the themes describe their characters completely.
  
  9/10
  
  
 
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  
  Since I played the first game, I knew it was the best DS game out there. Then, the second game 
 came out and I loved it, too. And finally this game comes out, and, even though it's not the best 
 one of the three, it still has the famous twists and turns and old characters you thought you wouldn't 
 see, come back, and when you think you've got the case figured out, it completely surprises you 
 and that is what makes this game a "Must Have".
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  People play a lot of bad games for the stories. 
  
  I'm mostly talking JRPGs, but there are other cases. For instance, I found myself playing Rule 
 of Rose far longer than I should of because I was hooked. However, once in a while, we'll actually 
 get a good game with a good story, and Phoenix Wright is one of those games. 
  
  .............
  
  I take that back. Phoenix Wright is a decent game with a FANTASTIC story. 
 In fact, you will be hard pressed to find a more engaging interactive narrative anywhere. The first 
 two PW games were solid, and the stories were very good, but the writers blew those two games away 
 with this iteration in the series. 
  
  Ok. You play as Phoenix Wright, Ace Attorney. Its your third year as an attorney and things are 
 already heating up. There's a new prosecutor in town by the name of Godot who claims to have risen 
 from hell to do battle with you. You're are constantly reminded about an old girlfriend who tried 
 to kill you. Oh, and you try to cross a burning bridge to save a friend and end up falling forty 
 feet into a raging river. There are more twists and turns than a child's scribble, but none of 
 it is too far fetched that it doesn't make sense, and all of it is compelling stuff. There were 
 times I was shocked, rolling on the floor laughing, and even close to tears throughout this handheld 
 adventure, and never once did it feel forced or awkward. You'll also get to play as Mia Fey, Phoenix's 
 mentor, in flashback scenes that lead up to the final case. (which is flat out AWESOME by the way)
 
  
  The gameplay isn't anything new or special, but its the best thing for this type of game. For each 
 of the five cases, you'll investigate crime scenes, talk to witnesses, collect evidence, and then 
 do battle in the courtroom. The latter of these consists of hearing testimony, cross examining 
 witnesses, and pointing out contradictions to find the truth and ultimately find your client not 
 guilty. All of this is done with a simple button layout. (You can use the stylus if you want, but 
 there really isn't a point) The first case only takes about half an hour to go through, but the 
 rest of them can take you upwards of five or six, meaning this is a lot of content for you to enjoy. 
 
  
  Graphics and animations are mostly recycled from the first two games, except for the new locales 
 and characters of course, but that's no biggie. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. (Although there 
 was one case where *SPOILER* Edgeworth was defending and Franziska was prosecuting. She whipped 
 everyone but him, and the only reason I could think of was that they were too lazy to create an 
 animation for him get whipped*SPOILER*) 
  
  Sound effects and music are still top notch and go a long way to add to whatever emotion the game 
 is going for. The crack of Von Karma's whip on Detective Gumshoe still brings laughs, while the 
 sound of Phoenix's hands slamming on his desk bring up the tension a notch or two. And nothing 
 beats OBJECTION!
  
  The only real chink in this game's armor comes from the lack of replayabilty. Even though the story 
 is great, you wouldn't want to have to go through all the motions again once you already know how 
 its going to end. Plus, you'll know all the pieces of evidence to present and all the questions 
 to ask, so any challenge the game has will be nil. Even still, its fun and engaging while it lasts. 
 
  
  If you're the kind of person that loves a game with a good story, then you need Phoenix Wright, 
 because video game stories just don't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReStLesslayer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I personally loved the first PW game only it had one major flaw and don`t get me wrong because 
 it`s the only one in the game. It`s the text scrolling man I hate it it`s long and your eyes get 
 tired after a couple of hours playing.
  And with hope I`ve bought PW 3... and yes it has the text scrolling YAY I said to myself. though 
 I play this game without pain in the ass because it`s as breath taking as the first ones. Nice 
 looking textures nice music ( though if you`re stuck I recommend putting some real music on because 
 it`s gets kinda repetive after a while) and of course cool cases.
  The game plays the same like all previous games I will explain it to everybody whom hasn`t played 
 it yet an dis new to the sereies.
  you have episodes you play there`s a total of about 5 episodes and it takes like 2 to 3 hours ( 
 without help) to play throuh one episode.
  In a episode you get an case through any sort of situations it`s ussually a funny one. than you 
 collect evidence and question witnesses afterwards you go to the court and prove that the prosecuters 
 are wrong.
  I think that this should be the last game in the series because it`s all the same and it has that 
 feeling sometimes you just think hey I was here last game YAY.
  Come on guys at capcom we want new and better games please !!
  With this statement I end my review 
 if your new and want to try it out buy the first one or the second one if you like it you can buy 
 the third one you can`t go wrong with PW for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenheart234
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Ace Attorney Trials and Tribulations is the third game in the series and the last one to have Phoenix 
 Wright as the main character ( The next one features a guy called Apollo Justice) . How does this 
 third installement measure up to the previous games in the series? 
  
  For starters, it would be appropriate to say that the gameplay hasn't changed a bit since Justice 
 for all. As a matter of fact, the only notable change between this game and the others in the series 
 is that you get to play as several attorneys this time around. The game's first trial even has 
 you playing as Mia Fey, Phoenix's now dead mentor. Unfortunateley, the fact that the gameplay remains 
 entireley unchanged means that the annoying saving flaw that renders the game impossibly easy is 
 still here. 
  
  The graphics also remain largely unchanged. Old locations are the same as always ( That detention 
 guard must be getting cramps by now) and new ones look great. The new characters are well animated 
 and some of the old characters have new animations, but a lot of it is recycled from old games. 
 Not that this is a bad thing, mind you, but it would have been nice to see more new stuff.
  
  The music for this game feels like the best so far in the series, and it is almost always appropriate. 
 It does an excellent job of setting the mood and changes to reflect what's happening in the story. 
 The sound effects are, with a few exceptions, the same as in the previous games and that's not 
 really a problem since they almost all soud great.
  
  Where this game really shines, however , is the story. The Ace Attorney series is known to give 
 gamers excellently written plots, and with the exception of the third case ( that one drove me 
 nuts) , is solid gold. I don't want to spoil anything, but the last case took me nearly 9 HOURS 
 to complete on my first try, and it was arguably the best case to appear in the series up untill 
 now. The old characters are almost all back, and while some of the new characters come of as weak 
 ( the chef in trial #3 is the first video game character to ever make me cringe everytime he opens 
 his mouth) , Prosecutor Godot, a coffe addict with a mysterious past, is my favorite character so 
 far in the series and as far as bad guys go, Dahlia Hawthorne makes people like Sephiroth look 
 like saints. Okay, let's not go that far. She is however the most twisted and evil character to 
 ever grace the ace attorney series.
  
  Adventure game fans will get the most out of TaT, but anyone who likes a well-writen story and 
 don't mind scrolling through a LOT of text will enjoy this fine conclusion of this chapter of the 
 Ace Attorney series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  For starters, if anyone is expecting this game to be groundbreaking or to introduce all new mechanics 
 and concepts will be sorely disappointed. But what made the previous two Phoenix Wright games so 
 enjoyable is fully retained in this game while shedding some light in the story department about 
 our lovable spiky-haired protagonist.
  
  The game has five cases. As this is basically a port of the Game Boy Advance game Gyakuten Saiban 
 3, there isn't any real new use of the stylus or three dimensional clues as in the bonus case of 
 the first Phoenix Wright game. This is somewhat disappointing when you think about it and it was 
 probably a low point from the second game as well, which suffered from the same distinction. 
 
  
  Of the five cases, you will play not as one attorney, but actually three. Two of them will have 
 you play in the past and give you a lot of information of how Phoenix and Mia Fey first met. The 
 story of all the cases all revolve around murder except one of them has theft before the murder. 
 
  
  It would have been great to have some varying types of cases but the game is still strong enough 
 that at most, it's a minor blip if a blip at all. One thing the game is still strong on is the 
 use of characters from past games. If this is the first Phoenix Wright game you played, it won't 
 hamper your play with these returning characters but you have to wonder how unlucky some of these 
 guys are since they keep coming back to you in court. Wherever you go, these guys bring so much 
 bad luck it's odd. 
  
  Some of these characters are great. Mia and Maya fey liven up the game and Pearl definitely is 
 a likeable character while the very poor, (fiscally) Dick Gumshoe just cries out pity but you can't 
 help but wish better for the guy.
  
  That's what makes the game so strong. It isn't the psyche-lock mechanic they introduced last game 
 where you present evidence to break people's secrets or the ability to survey crime scenes for 
 evidence. I believe the stories and the characters are so memorable and authentic, you can not 
 help but root for them and you want them to succeed. You want to simply solve the crime to figure 
 out if the bad guy gets what they should get and if the good people can finally put a mystery to 
 rest.
  
  The graphics are very colourful and it's clear what everything is. All the characters are lively 
 and it's just great when they get frustrated when you're talking to them and when you're in court.
 
  
  Sounds are still exactly the same but that is still awesome. From hearing objection to the music, 
 it's hard to rival this game but the music is what makes this stand out. The first two games are 
 great music and the third game passes the test as well. The music cues up with great suspension 
 when it should and is light and happy when it must. Everything works well together.
  
  In the end, this game doesn't do anything new. You could even look at it like it's an expansion 
 pack with five new missions. No new mechanics. Nothing stellar that really uses the DS' features 
 but still, it's a great game and I encourage anyone to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  There was "Phoenix Wright : Ace Attorney" at 2005 and "Justice for All" at 2006 and this year there 
 is last seris "Trials and Tribulations". As the last series this is the game you will know the 
 past when Mia Fey was defense. At first case you will play as Mia Fey to get "Not Guilty" for her 
 client Phoenix Wright and this is the time you will meet the new character which you will meet 
 again in other case.
  
  Gameplay is still same as before and nothing new... well that was what i was expecting. The point 
 is you play for to unlock the truth and see amazing turnabout. In Korea we call this game "Turnabout 
 Court" means you see something you never expected. Also you will see a familar faces: cute Maya 
 and Pearl, 100% trusty man Gumshoe, Phoenix's forever friend and rival Edgeworth, feel the fear 
 of whip Von Karma and more including one person from Phoenix Wright 2 last episode who changed 
 360 degrees in Trials and Tribulations.
  
  Graphic is still same as ever. But this is still best graphic because all characters movement, 
 talking, and more.
  
  Sound is the best of the west because you will hear plenty of Objection!, Hold It!, and Take that!. 
 These voice are quite strong. Also we can't forget the music. The music plays at the right time 
 and stops at the right time which supports the mood of game. 
  
  Value is great because this only cost for 29.99. 
  
  Phoenix Wright 3 is must play if you love 
 Phoenix Wright series. Be sure play to end... well of course you will, anyway be sure say good 
 bye to Phoenix Wright and his friends at end and ready to play the new series "Ace Attorney: Apollo 
 Justice" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I always liked The Phoenix Wright games, but this one is the best game that has come out so far. 
 As usual, Phoenix Wright is the protagonist, but Mia Fey and even EDGEWORTH can play as defense 
 attorneys in this game. The game features a new prosecutor named "Godot". He plays an important 
 role in the game and knows Mia Fey for some reason. (I'll let you find out on your own) The game 
 doesn't feature anything new but its still enjoyable. The music is really entertaining and sets 
 a new bar in the game. The cleverness in the game is really cool, and the conversations are really 
 interesting. Seeing as this is the last game featuring Phoenix Wright as the protagonist and the 
 next game featuring new defense attorney Apollo Justice, Its a fitting end to the trilogy of Phoenix 
 Wright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboboklashaur
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I was dreading the day that I would wake up and realize, "Oh, I'm about to beat the game," because 
 I didn't want it to be over. Now that it's over, and I'm left to ponder the game's ending, and 
 look forward to Apollo Justice's first venture on the DS, I'm fairly pleased.
  
  The story was very good, but honestly not the best out of the three games. It's very surprising 
 the way most of the things go, but if you're like me and think ahead in games like this, then you 
 won't be surprised by the outcome. The first two games surprised me, and I had a better experience 
 playing those ones, but that's definitely not to say that this isn't a good game.
  
  Again, we're left out of DS specific controls, other than the ability to yell objection whenever 
 you want, but I've never used it unless I had to, so that felt pretty pointless. I was hoping they'd 
 put a DS specific trial like they did on the first one, but no luck this time either. It's still 
 a wonderful game though, so if you liked the ones before, you'll enjoy this one too, I'm sure of 
 it. Don't get your expectations too high, and you'll make it out of this one with a comforting 
 and sort of sad experience altogether in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright is a text adventure at heart. Perhaps the main appeal to this series is a combination 
 of likable characters and the top-notch writing that keeps you at the edge of your seat with its 
 unexpected twists, surprising humor, and thrilling drama. The graphics and sound, both well executed 
 but not technically exceptional, are just there to support the story.
  
  Like the second game, this third game in the series is designed so that you can still pick this 
 up if you've never played a Phoenix Wright game before. However, a working knowledge of the characters 
 and back story from the previous two games makes the experience richer.
  
  In this third installment, there are five cases. The first case is confined completely to the courtroom 
 and provides a basic tutorial. Surprisingly (as no other Phoenix Wright game does this) a later 
 case is completely in the courtroom as well. The remaining three cases have investigation sequences 
 in between the court sequences.
  
  In the courtroom, your goal is to find contradictions in the witnesses' testimony through pressing 
 them for more information and presenting conflicting evidence. During investigations, you have 
 essentially four commands: Move (to another scene) , Examine (the scene you're at with the stylus) , 
 Talk (to somebody at the scene) , or Present (evidence to somebody at he scene) . As with the second 
 game, there are "Psi-Locks" on subjects that people do not want to reveal, and there's a separate 
 sequence tied to unlocking these.
  
  The main difficulty comes from presenting the right evidence at the right time. There's a health 
 bar that takes a hit whenever you present the wrong evidence in court or when removing psi-locks. 
 The health bar can only be restored by successfully removing all the psi-locks from someone. Presenting 
 the right evidence can be difficult at times because it may seem like more than one piece of evidence 
 is appropriate, and that remains the main weakness of the game: It's hard for the developers to 
 anticipate every argument the player wants to make. Fortunately, this does not happen too often. 
 Having your health-bar deplete, losing the game, just means repeating the story from your last 
 save.
  
  For someone who has played them all, Trials and Tribulations comes off as being more of the second 
 game. There's still not the advanced features that were in the "bonus case" of the first game, 
 and that's a shame, because they were brilliant. However, if you enjoyed Justice For All, you should 
 enjoy this game because Trials and Tribulations is slightly better, specifically because it seems 
 a little longer and it does progress the overreaching story nicely. I enjoyed this game and eagerly 
 look forward to the next Phoenix Wright game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic_dragon
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright 3: Trials and Tribulations, goes back to Phoenix's and Mia's past to explain their 
 career path of defence attorney. This game is good, with a revamped soundtrack and interesting 
 characters, and fans of PW (like myself) will enjoy it, but it does leave something to be desired.
 
  
  Graphics: Same old, same old as the saying goes. The character models are all recycled from the 
 previous 2 games, and there are some new backgrounds, but nothing spectacular. If you didn't know, 
 all 3 games are GBA advance ports, which does explain the basic graphics, so it can be forgiven. 
 That said, the character animations still raise a laugh, especially watching Phoenix get outwitted 
 or bullied.
  
  Gameplay: Nothing at all new, the only difference is in the last case where you use a metal detector 
 for one scene to find metal objects with your stylus, apart from that, nothing new at all (Ace 
 Attorney's Final stage proved that this could be done, however, so I was surprised to see no innovative 
 gameplay) . Its still the same as always, explore, collect, talk, and pick apart testimonies in 
 the courtroom. The formula works relatively well, though its getting a bit jaded now, especially 
 when you have to nitpick people in the cross-examinations (like what weather it was etc.) Its starting 
 to get a bit repetitive. 
  
  Soundtrack: This is where this title makes up for other elements: the soundtrack is updated, with 
 the courtroom music being more ominous, character themes being more appropriate, and the exciting 
 rush of finding the truth in each case demonstrated excellently by an epic score. 
  
  Conclusion:
  Overall, this is not a bad Phoenix Wright game, and is the second best of the series 
 (no.1 being the best) , as you get to use different characters like Mia and... well, I dont want 
 to spoil it for you. Just to say that the new characters are awesome (except the ones in case 2, 
 they are just plain annoying) and many are genuinely hilarious. Case 5 is overall the best as it 
 ties everything up. If you like the series buy it, if you don't I'd recommend you start from scratch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Spot-Bot-1
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  This game is boring I would be playing it and its just boring
  I give it a 2.0 that is all ... case dismissed!
  
  But here is some information on the game 
 in case you want to check it out yourself
  
  Players star as a defense attorney, who must prove a seemingly guilty client's innocence no matter 
 how dire the circumstances may seem. Phoenix will face the toughest prosecutor yet as the mysterious 
 hard-boiled "Godot" will try to take him down at any cost. Players must collect evidence, survey 
 crime scenes, weed through inconsistent testimonies, and overcome corrupt agendas to ensure that 
 justice prevails. With the return of the popular "psyche-lock" interrogation tool, players will 
 have to overcome even more intense courtroom standoffs in order to close the case.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pik-ku
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  This third game is very much alike the second one. With the psyche-lock and etc. As usual, as the 
 game advance the story will get more complicated, more people that we could talk to, and more places 
 that could be visited.
  In the first case. We played as Mia Fey, the tutor of Phoenix Wright (Naruhoudo Ryuuichi) who have 
 to solve the murder case of Phoenix's rival in University. The defendant in this case is Phoenix 
 himself when he was still an art college student while studying law at the same time.
  In this third installment there will be many new characters such as Godot, a newbie prosecutor 
 that replaced Edgeworth, a coffee addict for sure, Luke Atmey, an Ace Detective (Or so he claims) , 
 and etc.
  The music is the only minus point of this game. The arrangements are good, but the quality of the 
 sound is definitely like the GBA version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Holy smokes, the Phoenix Wright trilogy goes out with a deafeningly entertaining and satisfying 
 explosion on a scale so massive that it'd take four nuclear bombs to convey the scope and power 
 of the trilogy's conclusion. This is what Phoenix Wright fans have been waiting for, a game that 
 would tie key moments from the past games and work in all the key characters into its final arc. 
 This is the best Ace Attorney installment yet, and it ends in a way that's completely satisfying 
 and heartbreaking because Wright's trials and tribulations (clever) have come to an end.
  
  On a purely gameplay level, absolutely nothing has changed. You still go around picking up clues, 
 talking to witnesses and detectives to ready a solid case for your defendant. Psyche-locks -- mental 
 locks that appear when a person has something to hide -- first introduced in Justice For All, haven't 
 changed at all. The same can be said for the trial portions of the game. Other than the slight 
 changes introduced in Justice For All, you still cross-examine witnesses, present evidence, and 
 try to generally net a "Not Guilty" verdict. There's nothing new here, and the way the game flows 
 borders on formulaic. The pattern of CSI detective work, psyche-lock breaking, and the courtroom 
 proceedings with the "dramatic" "HOLD IT!" from a surprise witness become incredibly predictable. 
 Nothing has evolved as far as gameplay goes. That's expected, but still disappointing nonetheless.
 
  
  That's fine, though. This is an adventure game after all, and with all adventure games, we're here 
 for the story and characters. And in that regard, Trials and Tribulations hones this aspect into 
 a fine, dangerous point. The game shifts from past to present constantly, and by the end of it, 
 it connects events from even the first Ace Attorney. This makes the third outing and the series 
 as a whole much more cohesive. The cases in Trials are some of the best the series has to offer, 
 as the game puts you in some unique situations and the new characters involved in each case prove 
 to be very memorable. Ron DeLite's shy and feminine demeanor is strange, but appealing and Armstrong 
 presents his sexual orientation in a way that's just straight up disturbing.
  
  Past characters return with evolved personalities that make it all the more painful because we'll 
 probably never see them again. Godot, the new prosecutor, is indisputably the best character in 
 the series, and provides the funniest, most dramatic and emotional lines in the entire game. The 
 writing holds this thing together once again, and just like a lot of things about Trials, the writing 
 here is the best yet. The game has loads of funny and dramatic lines, with a happy balance between 
 the two. And the not-so-subtle innuendo during the credits will let your imagination run wild. 
 
  
  What makes all of this even more entertaining is that the game is much more logical this time around. 
 The leaps and sometimes total abandon of logic from Justice For All are noticeably and refreshingly 
 absent here, and the game hints at contradictions much more. This results in better flow and pace, 
 and nearly zero bouts of pure trial-and-error. And by the time you hit case 5... oh boy, you're 
 in for the ride of your life.
  
  If you're played the previous two games, that is. Trials has to bear the burden of getting new 
 players up to speed all the while trying to tie up the entire series. The game lets Wright provide 
 an aside for key characters from the first two games. While that does provide enough info for the 
 newbie, it bogs down some cases, especially the second one when Wright constantly takes a breather 
 to explain who that hippie-looking girl is. Fortunately, these flashblacks disappear by the time 
 you hit case 3, which puts things in high gear until it tops off by the end of the game. Capcom's 
 efforts to get newbies up to speed is a commendable effort, but maybe a quick questionnaire asking 
 if you've played the previous installments would've let veterans skip these annoying bits of catch-up.
 
  
  The music has also hit a high not seen since the first Ace Attorney. All the new tunes are sinfully 
 catchy; these are shower humming-worthy tunes. As good as the new music is, there's not enough 
 of it. The ratio of past tunes to new is unfortunately high, and many tracks are reused and placed 
 in different situations. For example, the pre-court music from Justice For All makes its way into 
 the actual courtroom proceedings in Trials. It just seems lazy. The only reused and slightly remixed 
 piece that's exempt from criticism is placed at the near end of the last trial. It's a big surprise, 
 and it only emphasizes how awesome case 5 is.
  
  Visually, the new backgrounds are detailed and visually appealing, but most of the characters from 
 the past games haven't changed their attire at all. Capcom used same sprites, same animations and 
 same everything. It's not something that's not much of a bother, but new animations would've greatly 
 added to these old standbys. The new characters on the other hand, are pretty creative and humorous 
 to just look at. The senile old man's cherry nose, DeLite's springy hair and so on are funny. They 
 all have a defining physical characteristic, which makes them hard to forget. While it's a shame 
 the old visual content hasn't been touched up on, there's for more than enough new that it's still 
 a vibrant and fun game to look to at.
  
  With 5 cases, the game lasts around 15-20 hours, which is quite long by any standard. There's not 
 much of an incentive to go back to them, other than wanting to play certain cases again. Trials 
 and Tribulations provides a fitting conclusion to the trilogy, tying up loose ends, connecting 
 past characters, events and memories. Capcom's known to spit out sequels at a furious rate, but 
 with Phoenix Wright, their milking is justified. Wright's story needed three games to convey the 
 scope of his adventures, and the payoff is huge. As the trilogy ends, you're left wanting for more, 
 but you realize this is indeed the best way to the end -- at the zenith of the series. With a little 
 too much old, but enough of the new (and the new is fantastic) , Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations 
 is one of the best DS games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  I've already reviewed Phoenix Wright Justice for all and everything is about the same. The Last 
 of the Phoenix Wright Saga, and it doesn't disappoint at all. You start the game off playing as 
 Mia Fey (damn is she hot :p) going up against the Rookie Killer Winston Payne (with hair) defending 
 Phoenix Wright in a murder trial with the help of Marvin Grossberg, Mia's Mentor, this case is 
 used as a tutorial.
  
  Nothing is added in this Phoenix Wright game but new characters/remixed themes/new prosecutor.
 
  
  In this episode you go up against a mysterious prosecutor by the name of Godot that seems to hold 
 a grudge on phoenix.
  
  Since not much is changed the review shouldn't either:
  
  Presentation: 9/10 - The use of both screens works for the game, new cases will give you a challenge 
 if you dont abuse the save system.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - Keeps the same formula as the others
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10 - The Reuse of Art 
 is understandable
  
  Sounds: 9/10 - Music has been remix for courtroom action and I like it, the good music from the 
 others also returns.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 7/10 - Only good for one run
  
  Overall (not average) : 8.5/10 - basically the same as the others with new cases and characters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicodae
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  Considering the game was originally for GBA, I think the graphics are pretty good. They aren't 
 anything amazing, but I like them. It's all 2D with static environments but animated characters. 
 Because of the nature of the game you don't really need more than that. Review sites complain about 
 recycled art from the other games but it's really not an issue. The only things recycled are characters 
 and places that show up from the past games. Why would they redo those? There are plenty of brand 
 new characters and places so I'm not complaining. There are also new outfits for old characters 
 in certain parts of the story.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  It's simple, but addictive. Honestly there's nothing new here, but there was no need to change 
 the formula. You have the days in court where you cross-examine witnesses and present evidence, 
 and then you have investigation days where you talk to people and search for clues. There are also 
 the Psyche-locks from the second game. You do get to play as lawyers other than Phoenix, which 
 is cool, but the gameplay remains the same.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Other than the story, the music is the best thing about this game. I think it's amazing. In most 
 games I barely notice the music or I might notice one particular song during a boss battle or something, 
 but in all three Phoenix Wright games every single song is wonderful. I suppose it kind of takes 
 over for the limited graphics. The music really helps set the mood and the themes for individual 
 characters really fit them. The only thing is that they change the objection song in each game 
 and I think the first one is the best. They do play a remix of it at one point in this game though, 
 which made me happy.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  The story and the characters are the best part of this game to me. After playing all three games 
 you feel like you really know these people. DO NOT play this game if you have not beaten the first 
 two. This is the last game in the Phoenix Wright trilogy. This game is tying up all the story points 
 from the previous games and makes many references to cases from those games. The game doesn't give 
 you your time, but I'm guessing the game is about 15-20 hours long. There are five cases and the 
 last case was the longest and I think it took me about 6-7 hours. I highly recommend these games 
 to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say this is most defiantly a sequel. They do sum up the storylines of the last 
 games, but so much so that it becomes an annoyance and so little so that you can't truly grasp 
 the story without having played the past games.
  
  STORY:
  The world of Phoenix Wright for me has been one of a rather deep, fun, and engaging story. This 
 game is no different in both a good and a bad way. This is the last game of the series and it couldn't 
 have ended at a better time because everything is starting to grow old and familiar. Characters 
 sometimes repeat where they shouldn't have to as well. For example, in case 3 you defend Maggy 
 Byrde. This character is a complete recycle of last game's character, she was never of very much 
 depth, not a very interesting character, and the game definitely could have made a more interesting 
 defendant in that seat.
  
  None the less, the game features a good amount of completely new and interesting characters, and 
 if you're wondering, I actually do count Ron DeLite amongst the interesting ones. The flashbacks 
 to Maya Fey's cases are great for filling in the last of the loose holes in the story and prosecutor 
 Godot is a character you'll follow the story of closely, if not a little cheesy at first.
  
  (Graphics has been cut due to irrelevance to the game, the art is just as good as it ever was)
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This game, once again, feels all too familiar. However, where it feels the same, something is just 
 plain wrong on the testimony side of things. Where I once found contradictions pretty lenient, 
 they're now whipping you into position until you present the exact evidence at the exact spot. 
 In extreme fear of this systematic change, I found myself saving, atevery other testimony. Now 
 there MIGHT be a small explanation for that, I was playing the Japanese version my friend got that 
 has a pretty accurate translation built into it... I will edit this review once I buy the American 
 version of the game, but I do not expect half the errors I saw were just translation typos.
  
  However, everything, once again, comes together ata great ending, and there is something SLIGHTLY 
 new, the playing as other attorneys in this game. But overall, this game left me begging for Apollo 
 Justice, the new Ace Attorney game that features a LOT of the great features seen in the bonus 
 case 5 of PW1. The game is also fairly long as well, for a text based game at least.
  
  SOUND:
  The one flaw I find in the music this time around is the OBJECTION! music. Where game 
 1 had a fast paced beat that raised hairs on the mear start up of it and game 2 featured a samesty|e 
 but totally new music. This game features a slow toned down version of game 1's objection music. 
 I just don't feel it when I yell objection into that microphone during this game for that reason.
 
  
  But none the less, the music grows on you and certain musics, mainly the testimony music, was a 
 huge improvement from last game. (not to say last game was bad at all)
  
  Who wants this game?
  The fans of phoenix wright 1 and 2, the people following this storyline, 
 wanting to know the climactic conclusion to this epic adventure. It's just too bad for me it didn't 
 quite live up to it's predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Phoenix Wright on the 26th, and all I can say is: EPIC. This was my first Phoenix Wright 
 game ever, and the game does a great job informing you of what's happened in the past two games, 
 it's really simple. Of course, if I ever have a question, I can simply use Wikipedia. Moving on, 
 you play as Defense Attorney, Phoenix Wright. A young lawyer who's well skilled and believes in 
 justice for all. The goal in the game is to walk around, collect evidence, ask witnesses and anyone 
 for that matter, for clues, then go to court and defend your client. In court, you will be up against 
 the prosecutor, who is usually Godot. Godot is an interesting character... He wears a strange mask 
 that looks like something Cyclops would wear, and he's ADDICTED to coffee. He chugs the stuff down 
 like a beast, but he's still very smart, and a very good prosecutor. Anyways... The witness on stand 
 will give a testimony, then you must do a cross examination. A cross examination is when you press 
 info. from the suspect or witness, and then try to contradict them on something they have said 
 by showing evidence. To do this, you must open your Court Record and choose the evidence you want 
 to use, and either press Present on the touch screen, or of course, shout OBJECTION! into the DS 
 microphone (Personally I prefer this method, hehe) . An example is, if someone said, I don't even 
 know how to work a computer! , you may have to find something in the court record that proves he 
 knows very well how to use a computer. Once you contradict them, you move on, and on, and on, until 
 the case is over, and you find the true criminal. But if you try to contradict someone and show 
 the wrong piece of evidence, you are penalised , which means you lose points in court. Lose all 
 your points and you have to start over. So save frequently... Right now, I'm on Case 2 (Part 2) , 
 but it would seem most cases are murders, judging by all the flashbacks of murder scenes they once 
 investigated. The writers for this game are FANTASTIC. There are some hilarious moments, and it's 
 just clever overall, these guys deserve an award! The graphics... They're 2D sprites... I don't really 
 count that. 3D would look terrible on Phoenix Wright games.
  
  When you're investigating and gathering clues and evidence, some witnesses will have a deep secret 
 that want to hide, and you will have to break a Psyche Lock . Basically, you go one on one with 
 them in what is basically a cross examination, except it's not in court, and it's just you and 
 the witness. If the witness said, I have never touched that sword... Do you have evidence I did? 
 , then you would need to pull out proof she or he had indeed touched the sword. If you do, the 
 Psyche Lock will break, and they'll confess to whatever they were hiding. It's really interesting 
 and unique. If you're wondering, What the crap? This dun make no sense :| , fear not, there IS 
 an explanation! Your partner, Maya (19 year old Female) , is a spirit medium! She has powers... with 
 spirits... So you can use some of her power to help you. Those locks are psychological, if you couldnt 
 tell.
  
  In court, those cross examinations can be really tricky. You might have to do the ol' trial and 
 error until you move on, or you might just be a cheater and use GameFAQs. You'll be scratching 
 your head a lot, it's defiantly confusing sometimes and very hard. If you're a moron, maybe you 
 won't be very good at this game.
  
  To sum it all up, Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations is a incredibly fun game that'll have 
 most people hooked. If you love crime stories and puzzles, you'll love this game. I'm giving it 
 a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamba219
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the best game of 2007. It trumps every other conceivable attempt at storytelling 
 a game has ever come out with, period. Each case is riveting in its own right, but when coupled 
 with each other and spread out over this remarkable trilogy, something very special is created.
 
  
  Where to begin? No single game has hooked me this solidly since... well... Phoenix Wright: Justice 
 for All, back in January. Before that, this title went to Final Fantasy IX, and before that... Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney. There is something unique and indescribable about this brilliant series of 
 games, and this, while being its greatest strength, makes it a very difficult game series to review.
 
  
  But before I begin describing the game to those who have no idea who or what Phoenix Wright is 
 exactly, let me briefly address those who may have played one of these games before or at least 
 has a good idea of what to expect, yet may not know whether or not this game can live up to the 
 first game (as the second one, while good, certainly did not) . Cast all fears aside: this game 
 is the real deal. It neatly wraps up every conceivable story-arch from the past two games, delves 
 further into the past of Phoenix and several other characters, and essentially performs the same 
 purpose as Halo 3 did to its series by totally wrapping everything up. The difference here, however, 
 is that, while many still view Halo 3 as inferior to Halo 1 despite its plot revelations, Phoenix 
 Wright 3 is superior in just about every way: on average, the individual cases are better, Godot 
 is a very interesting character who really spices up the courtroom scenes, and the tediousness 
 of the investigation sequences is nearly nonexistent.
  
  Now for you newbies: Phoenix Wright is less a game, and more a game/movie/book hybrid. There are 
 distinct elements of each of these three mediums to be found here. So, essentially, don't go into 
 the game expecting a ton of solid gameplay, because you won't get it. The gameplay in this game 
 is mostly founded upon statements characters give you, and evidence you find or are given. Essentially, 
 you are being placed smack in the middle of an Agatha Christie mystery, and you need to defend 
 your client. If you don't like to read, I wouldn't recommend this game, either, as it is possibly 
 the most heavily text-driven game I've ever played. However, the writing is incredibly good and 
 absolutely the best localization of a game I have ever seen. While still getting the point across, 
 the translation team has managed to fit in numerous pop culture references as well as slang that 
 helps maintain the illusion that these characters are almost like real people despite their comical 
 dress or some such thing.
  
  There are two areas of basic gameplay in this game: trials, and investigations. Trials are nonstop 
 fun, and can build up suspense quickly, and stump you with contradictions. Investigations are slightly 
 more stagnant, but are vastly improved in this game what with the decline in 'examined evidence' 
 and an increase of psyche-locks (read the GS review for info on those) . If you are wondering whether 
 or not to buy this game and forego the others, I would highly recommend getting and beating the 
 other two games in the series first. Playing this game first is akin to watching Return of the 
 Jedi or Return of the King first: it expects a great deal of prior knowledge from you, and the 
 only real way to obtain that knowledge is to experience the first two games. Constant references 
 are made, and certain story elements of cases within this game will not be as important to you 
 without this knowledge. Plus, the other two are great games on their own merit.
  
  The primary reason for Gamespot's low scoring as I can see it is that it didn't really 'change' 
 anything from the last game. This is accurate, but changing the fundamental gameplay mechanics 
 of a game that has already proven to entertain using its current mechanics is (to me) a bad idea 
 in the first place, so I can't hold this against the game. The main point of the game, I say again, 
 isn't gameplay, so adding something new to that would just overcomplicate things. Second, they 
 criticized the linearity to the game. This is once again true, however, the game was meant to be 
 a mystery game, and as such I don't really see how they could do a lot to de-linearize it. The 
 fact that the game is linear does drastically decrease its replay value, however, and this fact, 
 coupled with some lingering tedium in the investigation stages, is the only thing holding me back 
 from granting Phoenix Wright: Trials and Tribulations a perfect 10.0 on the Mamba219 rating scale.
 
  
  This is the last game in the Phoenix Wright saga, and it was great while it lasted. Despite the 
 lack of replay value, this game is an amazing way to spend 16 or so hours of your life. I can't 
 wait to see what the new guy, Apollo Justice, has in store for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandralewis7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  well to me this game was amazing and i loved it. the story line was amazing and it actually touched 
 me. i dont think that ever in this world would a game like this really touch me. the music was 
 facinating and i realy recommend using earphone when you play becasue it has this good feeling 
 and you understand more clarly of the game.
  i enjoyed this game but some questions i have are what happened to iris and phoenix? did they get 
 together or anything? the only probelm i have with this game is that it didnt really tel us anything 
 in the end like what happened to phoenix, maya etc. but i heard they were gonna make a trial in 
 appolo for phoenix and show his past!
  anyways i wished they would make the game longer becasue i swear you just wanna play more with 
 phoenix. this game was AMAZING ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kai5o4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Out of the series, this one stands out as the best. The turnabouts are on a different level than 
 the other games. This is also the last of the Phoenix Wright series. They are starting some Justice 
 series now that features Wright. The music in this game is the greatest. As with all the Phoenix 
 games, the music really brings the game out and really adds to the music. This game features new 
 tracks, some good few alright. I encourage using earphones while playing this game so you can really 
 enjoy this game. If you missed out the first two games, they reference to the previous games but 
 don't give you extensive information. You will still be left wondering what really happened in 
 the last games but don't really get answers. The last trial in this game is just freaky. Unlike 
 many other turnabouts, you can't really guess who the murderer is and the things the murderer does 
 just freak me out sometimes. A must play.
  
  The only problem I have with all Phoenix Wright games is the length. Yes, it is too short and always 
 leave me want more. ALOT MORE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkan19
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played the other games of Phoenix Wright, seems to be not boring, The images may be 
 recycled from the other versions but thats the interesting part of the game cause keeps its scents 
 in the story not in the pictures, of course the pictures o sprites are important for the visual 
 part, but the game has a good depth, anyway this game is very cool and i don't have any excuse 
 for this title.
  
  This is the Kind of games that creates logic in the people who play, and is very important for 
 those that studies laws to be lawyer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  I have been in a long love for the Gyakuten Saiban series, or in more common terms, the Ace Attorney 
 series. That's why I always waited for its next sequels. Knowing that this is the end of the line 
 for Phoenix Wright, I feel really sad. Well, I haven't tried for Apollo Justice yet, yes, so I 
 still can't deliver my verdict (whoa!) whether that game can repeat the success of its predecessor 
 or not.
  However, the amity I made with Phoenix Wright shall not be rusted by time. After the most boring 
 game in the series -- Trials &amp; Tribulations -- Capcom delivers a dazzling epilogue (and also some 
 prologues) to the gamers. Pne thing I can't stand is about the storyline. It's so... simply... 
 touching. Really, I mean it. I can't stand it should end know! OBJECTION for Capcom! They should 
 have released the explanation of Mr. Wright's life after the Hazakura Temple case! He should have 
 married with somebody (either Iris or Maya) ! I'll give a perfect score of 10 for the storyline 
 of this game.
  About the graphics and gameplay, well, I can't say much. It's just really, seriously pretty same 
 with the other games in the trilogy. Especially the gameplay. However, the professionalism of storyline 
 fogged out the lack of new mechanism so that we still can enjoy the game utterly.
  No one can defy the esthetic of music of Trials &amp; Tribulations. I agree 800% with GameSpot 
 about the excellent music.
  In short, Trials &amp; Tribulations is an extraordinarily designed masterpiece epilogue for the 
 trilogy prepared by Capcom. I give perfect 10 score. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
