-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Picross DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/picrossds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of puzzles to solve.
 Hectic online action provides a lasting challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Zooming in on puzzles can be hard to deal with.
 Music can get repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 573 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Jupiter Multimedia
Genre: Logic Puzzle
Date: Jul 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Picross DS is a high-quality collection of logic puzzles at a terrific bargain price. 

  Picross, short for picture crossword, is a puzzle not entirely unlike Sudoku, in that it forces 
 you to use logic to deduce the particulars of the puzzle. But rather than focusing solely on numbers, 
 Picross has you using numbers to determine which boxes in a grid get punched out to eventually 
 form a picture or a pattern. With a ton of puzzles to keep veterans busy and a helpful tutorial 
 mode to get new players up to speed, Picross DS is the sort of game that will keep you staring 
 at your Nintendo DS long into the night.  

           You may know these puzzles as nonograms, griddlers, or paint by number. Regardless of 
 the name, the horrific addiction is still the same.      

  The grids vary in size, starting with very simple 5x5 grids. Numbers mark each row and column, 
 and they tell you how many blocks, in a row, are part of the puzzle. So in the starting small grid, 
 seeing a "5" next to a row or column would mean that each block needs to be punched. Seeing a "3" 
 means only three, and seeing something like "1 3" would mean that there's one block, followed by 
 one or more blank spaces, then three more connected blocks. By seeing how the numbers form up and 
 deducing which spots must absolutely be punched for the hints to make sense, you eventually work 
 your way around the grid and complete the puzzle. Those small grids get larger as you play, eventually 
 leading you to huge 25x20 grids. The game's normal mode runs on a timer, giving you 60 minutes 
 to complete each puzzle. That's usually more than enough time, but as you make mistakes, penalty 
 minutes are packed onto your time. There's also a free mode, which runs without a time limit, but 
 it also doesn't let you know when you've made a mistake, only when you've completed the entire 
 puzzle. These, as you might expect, get tricky fast.  

  The game's a natural fit for the DS touch-screen controls, but unfortunately they start to become 
 very cumbersome as the grid size increases. You'll eventually have to deal with zooming in and 
 out to better see parts of the larger grids, which isn't ideal. For the later, larger puzzles, 
 playing with the control pad and buttons might actually be faster.  

  In addition to playing the single-player mode, you can go in and create your own puzzles, which 
 can be sent to other players locally. There's also an online mode where you can download additional 
 puzzles (though none are available as of this writing) , and a head-to-head mode where two players 
 try to solve two 10x10 grids. The fastest player wins, and if you can't finish two 10x10 puzzles 
 in two or three minutes, chances are you're going to lose. It takes what can be a very casual puzzle 
 experience and makes it totally hectic, and also a great deal of fun. There aren't any leaderboards, 
 but your own personal win/loss record is kept, and you earn different ranks as you play. Locally, 
 you can play with up to five players using only one cart. You can also send demo puzzles to other 
 nearby players without a copy of the game.  

  By offering a ton of puzzles to play alone and the constant challenge of online play, Picross DS 
 is a long-lasting puzzle game and an awesome value at $19.99. If you're already a fan of logic 
 puzzles like Sudoku, this might just be your next brain-teasing habit.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mitu123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Picross DS is a puzzle game that is the second Picross game to be released by Nintendo in Europe 
 and North America after Mario's Picross suffered a commercial failure in regions outside Japan, 
 where many Picross games have been released for several Nintendo consoles. Like other Picross games, 
 it presents the player with a series of nonogram logic puzzles to solve. Gameplay follows traditional 
 Picross rules, where players use logic to mark each square as full or empty, eventually revealing 
 an unknown picture. And once you dive into, it can be hard to stop playing. Since there are many 
 modes to choose from, it can last you a while to try them out.
  
  
  
  The concept is about as mathematical as Sudoku is, which is to say that it's not very. Using the 
 clues given at each row and column, you've got to determine which blocks are active in the grid. 
 The clues given are how many "groups" are active: if a row says "1, 3" it means that the particular 
 row has one square, then a group of three squares, with at least one inactive square between the 
 groupings. If it's a 5x5 grid, it's pretty easy to know that, using this example, the first, third, 
 fourth and fifth square in that row are active to the puzzle, but if it's a larger grid you'll 
 have to do a bit more hunting to figure out where the active ones are. Solve the puzzle and you'll 
 reveal the picture to win.
  
  
  
  In addition to Normal and Easy modes, there's Free mode, the player is not informed of mistakes, 
 and the puzzles are generally more difficult to complete. To offset this, a Try it Out mode is 
 available in which an overlay can be constructed to test various solutions. When finished with 
 this mode, the player can delete it or apply the overlay. The Free mode minigames are the same as 
 in Normal Mode but are generally more difficult. My Picross contains Original and Classic puzzles. 
 Original puzzles are those that are created by the player or downloaded from friends in local or 
 online wireless modes. Original puzzles can be classified as Normal or Free mode, and are given 
 an automatically generated one to four star rating based on the puzzle's difficulty as assessed 
 by the game. When these puzzles are played, the music selections are the same as in the regular 
 Normal and Free modes depending on how the Original puzzle is classified. 
  
  
  
  Daily Picross contains up to five challenges, all on a 77 board with Normal mode rules. Mistakes 
 in this mode incur a five-second penalty. Once a challenge is completed, the game time is recorded, 
 graphed and assigned a letter grade, with A being an average time under 30 seconds. When other 
 modes are unlocked, the grades are averaged together to obtain an overall grade, with five A grades 
 resulting in the highest overall grade of S. The 5 challenges are:
  
  
  Nonstop Time Attack mode is initially available, which is a fast-paced series of five puzzles in 
 rapid succession. 
  
  No X Marks mode is identical to Nonstop Time Attack, but the X mark, which is used to mark squares 
 that the player thinks cannot contain a filled mark, cannot be used. This mode is available after 
 playing Daily Picross for three (not necessarily consecutive) days. 
  
  
  
  Error Search mode shows the player five partially completed puzzles, with some squares needing 
 a fill and some of the filled squares erroneously filled. On the top screen, the player is shown 
 how many squares must be filled and how many erroneous squares need to be cleared before the puzzle 
 is complete. If a filled square is cleared that should not be, no penalty is incurred, but if a 
 square is filled that should not be, it incurs a time penalty similar to the Nonstop Time Attack 
 mode. This mode is available after playing Daily Picross for seven days. 
  
  
  
  Memory mode gives the player one puzzle to solve. For 20 seconds, the numerical clues on the edges 
 of the grid are shown. After these disappear, the player is free to complete the puzzle. After 
 various time intervals, one clue in one row or column is revealed until all of them are shown or 
 the puzzle is complete. This mode is available after playing Daily Picross for twelve days. 
  
  
  
  
  Secret mode is similar to Nonstop Time Attack in that a 77 grid must be completed 
 and time penalties are possible; however, three of the numerical clues are replaced with an X mark. 
 Three numbers are placed on the top screen; one of each of these are the true clue, and must be 
 determined by the player by filling out the rest of the puzzle. Only one puzzle needs to be completed 
 to finish this challenge. This mode is available after playing Daily Picross for twenty days.
 
  
  
  
  For Normal and Free Modes, you can select music to listen to while playing. The three types of 
 music available in Normal mode are jazz, reggae and bossa nova. The three types of music available 
 in Free Mode are rock, house and ambient. While that's nice, the music needs more variety since 
 it gets repetitive after a while. You can turn it off thankfully.
  
  
  
  On top of this, players can create their own drawings and turn them into Picross puzzles, and then 
 trade them all locally or online. While there's more than enough to do alone, they went the extra 
 mile of including online multiplayer. It's a simple race against the other person to see who can 
 finish the puzzle first - any mistakes penalizes the player by deactivating his puzzle for five 
 secondsand that could be an eternity against a veteran Picross player. This mode can be played 
 locally or over the internet. Locally, you only need one copy of the game to play it. The benefits 
 of a graphically minimal game design.
  
  
  
  The amount of modes to do, easy to get into and addictive gameplay will keep you coming back for 
 more. It's a dream for those who like puzzle games and has a Nintendo DS. Be sure to add this to 
 your collection since it'll be hard to put it down once you start playing. And with it only being 
 20 bucks, that's a steal.
  
  
  
  Final score: 9.0/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadycole
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like puzzle games, Picross DS is definitely worth picking up (if you can find it!) . You 
 use logic to 'fill in the blanks' on a puzzle grid where the borders of the grid tell you how many 
 'blanks' need to be filled in, but not which ones. The puzzle grids range from minuscule to enormous, 
 and the difficulty level goes up accordingly with each stage of puzzles. The goal is to fill in 
 the correct 'blank spaces' to ultimately form a picture, and there is only one solution for each 
 puzzle.
  
  There are several different modes, including one that tells you if you've made a mistake (and one 
 that doesn't) , also there is a daily 'training' mode that keeps track of your times with specific 
 challenges. There is also an online 'battle' mode where you can hook up with a friend (using a 
 friend code) or a stranger (without a code) for small puzzle size battles to see who can finish 
 first. There is also an online 'community' mode where you can trade puzzles that you made with 
 friends, or download (for free!!) extra puzzles that Nintendo publishes every few months.
  
  This games sells for $20 brand new and is definitely worth the buy if you come across it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game - it's almost the perfect logic game, that will hook you 
 up for long hours.
  
  Game-play is a very interesting, yet simple one. I think the easiest way to explain it is as follows: 
 imagine a Minesweeper in which you have info about position of 'mines' from the very beginning. 
 The trick, however, is that you only know how many 'mines' are placed together for each row and 
 column. On the top of that, the mine field (after solving the game) will reveal itself as a picture 
 of something (may it be cow, TV or a sunrise) .
  
  If you happen to clear all puzzles, you can always download new ones, create your own, and play 
 with friends (and not only) in great Wi-Fi battles.
  
  Maybe I should write this at the top, so you wouldn't be forced to read all my review, but here 
 it goes: Buy it. Play it. Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crosoverdrible
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Picross DS consists of tasking the player to solve picture crossword puzzles. The player must use 
 the numbers at the beginning of each column and row to solve the puzzle. The numbers tell the player 
 how many squares are filled in in that row or column, with separate numbers depicting separate 
 blocks of colored in squares. 5 2, for example, tells the player that in that row there are first 
 5 colored-in blocks in a row, then one or more spaces, and then 2 more colored-in blocks. The challenge 
 lies in figuring out the number of blank spaces between each succession of colored-in blocks and 
 the sides of the puzzle. Puzzle difficulty increases as the game goes on. The game also offers 
 multiplayer in the form of competitive, time-based puzzle solving and a create your own puzzle 
 mode. The primary reason for the game being rated a 7.5 is that although it is a good value for 
 a DS game at only $20, these puzzles are available for free in other places. Those with an iPod 
 Touch or iPhone may know of PuzzleManiak, which offers numerous puzzles for free, and of course 
 various places on the internet offer puzzles free of charge. In short, if you're looking for a 
 more in-depth, competitive, highly-on-the-go way to complete picross puzzles, Picross DS is the 
 way to go. But if you're just looking for some puzzles to solve in your free time, there are ways 
 to do so without spending any money at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcv1221
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of this kind of puzzle for a long time so I was excited to see a game dedicated 
 to them. The bottom line is that its not for everyone but if you're a fan of puzzles and picross 
 puzzles especially you'll love it. It offers a ton of puzzles of varying difficulty and a couple 
 of mini games just for fun. 
  
  However, I do have a few complaints. The largest the puzzles go (so far for me anyway as I haven't 
 even unlocked all of them) is a 15x15 grid. Compared to the larger puzzles I've done on paper this 
 is pretty small. Also, the screen size is an issue and the only way to deal with that is to have 
 you zoom in on the 15x15 puzzles. Its a little annoying, especially at first, but it was a problem 
 that the developers had to deal with and this seems to be the best way.
  
  All told its a pretty simple game, but the more difficult puzzles will take time and really push 
 you to solve in some cases. Some puzzle games are really short. Even Brain Age is very limited 
 in the number of mini games. Picross has a ton of puzzles that will keep you occupied for a long 
 time. I'm really looking forward to unlocking and completing my remaining puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belladonna14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  ok... so this was one game i was uber skeptical of getting, but i am SOOOOOOOOOO glad i invested 
 the meir 20 bucks to get this MASTERPIECE of a game. first off.. FOR ANYONE who has played soduko, 
 or is a fan of any type of puzzle game in that nature, this is sure enough a MUST MUST MUUUUSSTT 
 have... this game willl chalange your brain, and make you LOVE every moment of it. the gameplay 
 is simple, fill in the squares to reviel a picture of an animal, object, fish, plant ex ex ex ex................ sounds 
 way simple and odd eh? NO NO... once you get how to play it and understand how these puzzles work.. it 
 will be your addiction for a LONGGG while*since there are OVER 300 puzzles in this game plus the 
 daily pictocross chalenges*.......... the learning curve is pretty short, it may take you about 
 20 minuts to reallllllly get how the game works, but after that you will just learn more and more 
 to master the entire concept of it. just waite till you get to free mode!!*wow*. anywho this game 
 is HIGHLY recomended for any puzzle fan and for a ds player looking for a game that will keep them 
 up late at night, trying to figure out.. WERE does that square go... to make it compleate.. A MUST 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Picross DS is a very inventive puzzle game that comes from combining the strategy of Sudoku and 
 MineSweeper. The puzzles start out as a certain size grid (anywhere from 10 x 10 to 20 x 25) and, 
 using the numbers on at the side of each row and top of each column, the player strategizes whether 
 to darken in a box or leave it empty, resulting in a picture that looks like a crossword puzzle 
 (picture + crossword + DS = Picross DS) .
  
  The game plays very smoothly and the controls work perfectly for the DS. There are three levels 
 of difficulty: Easy, Normal, and "Free Mode." The only difference between the easy and normal modes 
 is the size of the grid (and thus, complexity of the picture) that you have to solve. For each 
 grid that you fill in that is incorrect, a 2-minute penalty is added. If any puzzle takes you longer 
 than an hour to complete (to include penalty time) , you will receive a "time over." While the puzzle 
 will still count as "completed," you will not get to see the short animation that otherwise would 
 come with solving the puzzle. In Free Mode, there are no penalties. However, the game also allows 
 you to fill in incorrect squares without alerting you to mistakes. In some cases, this can actually 
 make the lower level Free Mode puzzles more difficult than the mid range Normal Mode puzzles. The 
 game does compensate for this with a "Try It Out" Mode, which can be activated at any time in Free 
 Mode and allows you to try any combination in the puzzle grid that you so choose with the option 
 to just see if it will work out or to actually apply it to the puzzle. (Note: After solving a puzzle 
 in this mode, make sure to apply the overlay or else the puzzle will not complete, whether or not 
 you have it correct in Try It Out Mode or not -- that one fooled me, I'm shamed to say, a few times.) 
 Easy Mode only has 15 puzzles, but it's more of an introductory level than anything else. In both 
 Normal and Free Modes, each of the levels has 15 puzzles. Each level has a theme to it, such as 
 flowers, animals, planetary objects, or many other things. After the completion of any of the three 
 rows (of, obviously, five puzzles) in the levels, a selectable mini-challenge will appear. This 
 usually entails copying a design or "catching" fast-moving blocks within a time limit. (I found 
 the "reverse the colors of the design" challenges to be maddeningly difficult.) You initially only 
 have a few levels in each of the modes but will unlock a total of eleven levels (including a bonus 
 level) in each mode. There is also an option for making your own puzzles and the now puzzle-game 
 standard of daily exercises. These both add a little bit of value to an already puzzle-packed game.
 
  
  While the graphics and sound may be pretty standard for a DS puzzler, the gameplay offers a nice 
 bit of variety into what would seem to be a game full of doing the same puzzle over and over. As 
 mentioned above, for the type of game it is, I felt that it couldn't be any more packed full of 
 puzzly goodness. Overall, if you're looking for a puzzler on the DS, this is a can't-miss, especially 
 being a Sudoku-fanatic such as I.
  
  Overall: 8.2
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mckwek
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I always have done Japanese puzzles (as they are called) by paper and pencil before, so when I 
 spotted this game in the racks, I knew I had to have it. Being it an ideal game to pick up and 
 play for a short time, it's excellent to spend some lost time when traveling, lunch break or those 
 10 minutes before you go to bed. 
  When are you know the puzzle style, the first couple of puzzles may be a bit too easy, but when 
 you come to the 15x15 fields you are bound to get your mind cracking. 
  I played it mainly by keypad, as the fields get to big to see in one view, but that was quite relaxing 
 actually. 
  Tried the Picross Challenge only a couple of times, so I don't have a real opinion about that. 
 Also downloaded two puzzle packs, but I found those a bit too easy, not really an addition when 
 you finished all the levels.
  
  All with all, I'm waiting for Picross 2 to come out, I'm sure off all going to buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun832
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Picross is a puzzle game where you use a grid and the numbers on the outside of the grid to work 
 out where you colour in squares. When you are done it makes a pixelated picture. Picross DS is 
 what you expect from a puzzle game. Addictive and challenging.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Picross DS uses the touch screen to colour in the squares on the puzzle grid. A problem with using 
 the touch screen for this is that if you are playing this in a car and it bumps you will accidentally 
 slide the stylus across the grid causing you to draw where you don't want to and stuff up the puzzle. 
 But this can be avoided because you can change the settings so you can use the d-pad. When online 
 you can challenge a person and see who can finish 2 puzzles first or download puzzles off Nintendo 
 or a friend. In Daily Picross mode you can, each day, play 5 different modes (you have one in the 
 beginning but you unlock more as you play more) where you do a certain goal like complete 5 puzzles 
 or find mistakes as fast as you can. When you are done your results are recorded on a graph and 
 you can monitor you progress each day. When playing on 15x15 grids or larger you have to use a 
 zoom function which gets really annoying.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game is what you expect. Just a picross grid with a white background. There's 
 nothing real fansy about it.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is alright at first but gets really repetitive but there is 3 different music types and 
 you can switch it off.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  With online and over 300 different puzzles, Picross DS will keep you playing for ages.
  
  Final 
 Note:
  
  Picross DS is what you need if you want a puzzle game that doesn't involve lining up shapes.
 
  
  Scores:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 5/10
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  What came first: Brain Age or Sudoku? Here in the United States, it's difficult to tell. The Japanese 
 logic puzzle has quickly endeared itself to western audiences, entering the mainstream almost overnight 
 and appearing side-by-side with crossword puzzles in newspapers across the country. Picross is 
 an equally Japanese game that combines the best elements of both print-friendly puzzles, incorporating 
 the numerical logic of Sudoku with the creative hurdles of a crossword puzzle. Picross DS is the 
 first Picross video game to arrive on US shores in over a decade. It's hard to fault Nintendo for 
 not publishing any Picross titles since Mario's Picross for the Game Boy, however, as Picross DS' 
 tiny cartridge is brimming with so much content, including impressive online features, that it 
 just might keep you occupied for the next ten years (or more realistically: the next several weeks) . 
 With literally hundreds of picross puzzles to best, the game is a perfect match for crossword and 
 Sudoku fans alike, offering plenty to keep you busy without getting any newsprint on your fingers.
 
  
  The word "picross" is short for "picture crossword," and that's exactly what a picross puzzle is. 
 The ultimate goal of any given puzzle is to transform a simple grid into a recognizable image by 
 using a set of numerical clues to determine which cells to fill in or leave blank. Each row or 
 column has a corresponding set of numbers in its margin that dictates which cells to fill in. In 
 the example above, the top row's clue of "2 2 1" means the row has three groups of filled cells 
 each separated by at least one blank cell. The three groups consist of two cells, two cells, and 
 one cell, respectively. By figuring out the relationships between the horizontal and vertical clues, 
 you can reveal the hidden pixel image within the picross puzzle.
  
  In reality, interpreting the numerical clues is just half the fun. Because the hidden images are 
 all recognizable objects  animals, foods, spacecraft  you can often make an educated guess based 
 on the half-formed picture if you find yourself stuck on a particularly difficult puzzle. Should 
 you deduce as much as you possibly can from the clues but still end up lacking, you can ignore 
 logic entirely and let intuition take over, using the image rather than the numbers to dictate 
 your next move. In this way, Picross DS allows you to alternate between mathematical logic and 
 artistic creativity, taxing both usually mutually exclusive skillsets. The puzzles start easy enough 
 as 55 grids and expand up to 2520, and as the puzzles grow in size you'll find yourself forced 
 to make logicless leaps of instinct more and more frequently. In short, crossword fans turned off 
 by the cold, heartless logic of Sudoku and Sudoku fans bored by the purely creative nature of crossword 
 puzzles will both find something to like in Picross DS.
  
  Because Picross DS works best when the hidden image is an actual real-world object and not an abstract 
 shape, the game doesn't lend itself well to the endlessly randomized marathons that account for 
 the replayability of other handheld puzzle titles like Tetris or Meteos. Instead, the game comes 
 overflowing with a seemingly bottomless well of content. The game offers hundreds of puzzles subdivided 
 into either "normal" or "free" modes. The former allows you to make random guesses, penalizing 
 you for incorrect leaps of faith, while the latter doesn't tell you if you're right or wrong, leaving 
 you to overcome the puzzles using your wits alone. Additionally, a Brain Age-inspired daily picross 
 mode offers bite-sized picross challenges and tracks your improvement over time. While it won't 
 make you any smarter, it'll certainly make you better a picross player. Should you actually manage 
 to exhaust all the game's content, you can use the DS' Wi-Fi capabilities to download new picross 
 puzzle packs, including puzzles from Mario's Picross, completely free of charge.
  
  In fact, Picross DS offers a surprisingly robust online mode. Besides downloading puzzles directly 
 from Nintendo, you can also create and exchange custom picross puzzles with friends. The game checks 
 to ensure your puzzles are solvable. The option to download user-made puzzles from sources other 
 than Nintendo would be more than welcome, even if most of the offerings would have quickly degenerated 
 to crude pornography. As it stands, if you don't have any friends with copies of the game, you'll 
 find the puzzle editor ignored and gathering dust. There's also a multiplayer mode in which you 
 compete to solve two picross puzzles before other players. The game freezes your movements should 
 you make an incorrect guess, rewarding slow and steady puzzle solving over quick guesswork. The 
 multiplayer is unexpectedly fun and addicting, offering yet another reason to keep Picross DS in 
 your console.
  
  Picross DS isn't a flashy game by any standard. The graphics are simple by design, never having 
 to convey anything more complex than blocky pixilated shapes. The soundtrack consists of only four 
 songs, and though the game features several game modes, none of them diverge from the basic picross 
 formula. Rest assured, however, that this overt simplicity hides a great deal of depth. You'll 
 easily find yourself losing hours solving puzzles, your reward little more than a small animated 
 image and the satisfaction of completion. There's a lot of game here; Picross DS is one of the 
 most robust puzzle titles on its console. In fact, the game holds its own when measured against 
 the excellent puzzle offerings already available for the DS  Sudoku titles and crossword games 
 included  and with any luck will soon find its rightful place beside the two puzzle heavy hitters 
 in newspapers throughout the country. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getfreaky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Picross DS offers great gameplay and tons of features for anyone who can dig a good puzzler, but 
 the game's presentation isn't great. The game's graphics are good for a puzzle game, with different 
 backgrounds and grid designs for the game's various modes, and you can watch some cool pixelated 
 animations after you beat a puzzle, but a few more touches would've helped. And the game's music 
 is decent at best, with only three different tracks for main gameplay that become repetitive quickly. 
 Not only that, but there is no Random option for the game's music; you must pause the game and 
 change the music manually, which seems like lazy design work on a game that should feature more 
 music that changes automatically. This title offers the most value that $20 can buy for the Nintendo 
 DS, and is one of the finest Touch Generations titles available for the system. Pixels have never 
 been this awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kegster202
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Picross is an alirght game, i mean its got a great price, and for like 20 minutes once in a while, 
 it provides entertainment. 
  Its a pussle game, where you fill in a crossward of numbers to form a picture, thus the name picross. 
 The opening tutorial does a very good job of explaining the basics of the game, and as you progress 
 in your skill, the game shows you more advanced techiniques. 
  The presentation really is great thou, really easy to use interface, touchscreen is intuative and 
 very responsive, thou sometimes it can be a bit to pedantic. 
  The music , as gamespot mentioned gets a bit repetitive, the music is particulary bland to begin 
 with so i tend to just turn it off. Their are lots of puzzles in this game, enough to last you 
 a long time, plus the multiplayer is pretty cool, you can make you own puzzles then trade them 
 with a buddy, its kinda cool. 
  
  Overall, the puzzles i found were really easy, even the supposidly challenging ones, wasnt enogh 
 to keep my interest, so it got quite boring. But if oyu need to brush up on some math skills, then 
 picross is a good buy, even if it doesnt keep your interest for very long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS has a fairly large amount of puzzle games in its catalog. However none manage to 
 capture the simplicity and addictiveness that "Picross DS" has. It's easy to learn, but hard to 
 master and at the budget price of only twenty dollars any fan of mind-bending puzzles would do 
 themselves a favor picking it up.
  
  You may be wondering what exactly a Picross puzzle is. For those people I have an explanation of 
 what it is. In each separate puzzle you start out with an empty grid. The grids vary in size ranging 
 from 5X5, 10X10, 15X15, or even 20X20. Each grid has a certain amount of small empty squares. Above 
 each row is a number. The number tells how many squares should be filled in for each row. For example, 
 if a row has a number 2 above it somewhere in that row there will be two consecutive squares filled 
 in. 
  
  However when you move on to larger grids you will encounter multiple sets of squares in rows. There 
 are times where you may see a five then underneath that a two. When you see this it means there 
 will be five consecutive squares then one or more blanks spaces and two consecutive squares. Sections 
 like these are separated by small X marks that go right where you would normally fill in a square.
 
  
  This is what makes Picross puzzles challenging. You often have to use logic or just educated guesses 
 to progress in the puzzle. However guessing won't get you very far as wrong answers cost you time.
 
  
  The point of solving the puzzles is to uncover the picture made by the squares. Solving a puzzle 
 earns you the right to watch a short video clip explaining what the picture represents. For example, 
 if the shape is a dog it will show a picture of a dog fetching a ball. However if you fail to solve 
 the puzzle in under an hour you do not get to watch the video. Although you will usually solve 
 the puzzle in time unless you make guesses and don't really try to solve the puzzle.
  
  Picross DS doesn't the most outstanding graphics. Although it can be argued that a game of its 
 style doesn't have to look outstanding. For each of the different sets of puzzles there is a different 
 theme. Levels that are about animals have a jungle theme while levels featuring technology have 
 a sci-fi sort of look. The grids themselves change too. They vary from a grass field to a sheet 
 of bubble wrap and are all pretty unique.
  
  The game's soundtrack is decent, but annoying at times. The different sets of puzzles all have 
 different songs that go with them and they each have a sort of old school, 8-Bit style. It's a 
 nice sound but it gets annoying after a while. The sound effects are really good though. There 
 are many different sounds for when a square is filled in and the other parts of the game.
  
  As far as value goes you get way more then you pay for when buying Picross DS. There are hundreds 
 of puzzles available from the start and they are releasing even more puzzles through Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 connection. So for the twenty dollars you pay you get more picross puzzles then you could ever 
 have time to complete.
  
  Picross DS is a game that may not appeal to some people. However for the people looking for an 
 addicting puzzle game with tremendous value would be doing themselves a favor. To put it simply 
 twenty dollars for hundreds of simple, addicting puzzles is a deal too good to pass up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  For: Clever logic puzzles; Dip in and out when you like; Good value
  Against: Basic presentation; terrible music
  
  Gameplay - 8: The basic premise is to solve 
 number based logic puzzles to reveal a simple picture. The puzzle grid is marked and completed 
 using the DS stylus, which is simple and easy to do. The challenge is offered by the fiendishly 
 logical puzzle design. 
  
  Design - 8: Picross features standard puzzles, puzzles of the day and the ability to design your 
 own puzzles to share with friends.
  
  Presentation - 4: The presentation is pretty basic; just puzzle grids and basic bitmap pictures. 
 The music is very repetitive and gets quite grating after a while.
  
  Longevity - 7: There is plenty of value here: you have the ability to share your own puzzles, play 
 a series of daily challenges, in addition to completing the standard game mode.
  
  Overall: 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellimist314
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Picross is probably best described as a mixture of Sudoku and Connct-the-Dots. The game itself 
 is pretty simple: You play on either a 5X5, 10X10, 15X15, or 20X20 grid with a sequence of numbers 
 above each column and beside each row. These numbers tell you how many squares need to be filled 
 in, and you need to use logic and the process of elimination to figure it out. That's the sudoku 
 part. It may also remind you of Connect-the-Dots because the squares you fill in form neat little 
 pictures like animals, plants, and food. You can play a timed game and be notified whenever you 
 make a mistake, or play an unlimited game without any notification. Both modes are great fun, and 
 you should definitely try them both.
  
  This game is surprisingly addictive. It's got that feel that makes you constantly promise yourself 
 to play only one more before you stop, which turns into two more, then three, until finally you've 
 spent hours completing the fun puzzles. In short, this game is downright amazing. If you like to 
 pay your handheld in short bursts on the go and enjoy games like Tetris and Brain Age, then this 
 game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lieutfaber
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game will eat your brain. Well, if you like puzzle games, that is. I do, and I have played 
 it pretty much nonstop since I got it a month and a half ago. The game itself is based on one of 
 those puzzle games you'll see in magazines. You're given a grid, with numbers along the sides. 
 Your goal is to fill in the grid based on the numbers you're given. It's not as complex as it sounds, 
 but it can be very difficult once you reach the higher levels. There is a multiplayer option available, 
 but I have not used it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Picross Ds is a truly great game. The game starts you off with some very easy puzzles until you 
 have the hang of it, and then the difficulty jumps rapidly, but never unfairly. The concept behind 
 it is that you have a board that is empty and you have to fill the correct squares with blocks 
 and the correct squares with xs to complete to puzzle and earn you picture reward. In Normal Mode 
 you are told when you make a mistake, but in Free Mode you arent which can be frustrating, but 
 only adds to the challenge. There is also a great daily option, where the more days you play the 
 more games you unlock. After you complete five puzzles you are rewarded with a quick mini-game 
 that can be replayed to your satisfaction, and some of the games are quite fun. Normal Mode appears 
 to have only four levels, but as you complete puzzles more and more levels will be unlocked. Another 
 great feature is the ability to create your own puzzles, which is fun, and the option to download 
 puzzles off of the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. This adds even more length to a long game. The game 
 has great replay value, because it times you as you complete puzzles and you can always try for 
 a faster time after you have already beaten a puzzle. This is a must buy for puzzle lovers and 
 really anyone who likes a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  A gem, and a steal at $19.99. This game is very addictive. You will lose many hours in this title. 
 Puzzles are challenging yet easy, fun yet tedious at times. Overall experience is a fun game and 
 a good way to boil away time when you have nothing else to do.
  
  The touch screen is used very well, the colors are bright and vibrant off the DS screen. Hours 
 of fun to be had making your own puzzles.
  
  The drawback to this title is that there isnt an awful lot of puzzles. You would think they could 
 cram in thousands of them. Every puzzle can be done in a very short while. Thats why this game 
 is best played sparingly with lots of time in between. Lastly the zoom feature hinders the gameplay 
 and does not enhance it as you would expect.
  
  All in all a great title, easy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbiesama
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Commonly called a cross between sudoku and crossword puzzles, Picross isn't too far from that description. 
 Undoubtedly, this is one of the most addictive games I've played in recent years due in large part 
 to its overall ease of use, and rewarding gameplay. You are able to play Picross DS entirely with 
 the D-pad and face buttons but why anybody would choose to do that is beyond me. The stylus in 
 this game, much like the stylus use in other games such as the sudoku portion of Brain Age, help 
 the player to feel less like they're using a rigid game interface and more like they're filling 
 out a puzzle on paper. Obviously, the d-pad is not the most efficient way of moving a cursor around 
 a page and in this respect, the stylus lets you fill blocks in, mark other blocks with an X, or 
 scroll around the page with incredible simiplicity and ease. The puzzles are grouped into levels, 
 wherein each level contains 15 puzzles of progressive difficulty. After you complete five puzzles, 
 a minigame opens up where you'll either have to tap a certain number of moving blocks before the 
 time runs out, or recreate an image that is displayed to you, again within a time limit. The learning 
 curve is extremely user friendly as it jumps just enough at times to keep the game challenging 
 and fun, but never jumps so much that you'll get frustrated attempting to complete a puzzle. At 
 the beginning of the game you'll start out with small puzzles on 5x5 grids, but eventually you'll 
 graduate to 20x20 and 25x25 grids. This is the only instance where the control scheme stumbles 
 slightly. Because the grids are much larger, you'll need to zoom in close to click on individual 
 squares, and in doing so moving around the puzzle becomes a bit trickier. You can either zoom back 
 out and click on another area to zoom in, or you can drag the puzzle over to where you need to 
 be. Either way, is of course, not optimal, but the DS screen is only so big and it's difficult 
 to imagine a control scheme that would work better than this already does. If you like puzzle games 
 at all, this is definitely worth a purchase. If you're still on the fence, find a friend who has 
 it and download a demo, or play multiplayer with them for a taste of what you'll find. Either way, 
 it's a shame Nintendo waited so long to bring Picross over to North America. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Picross DS is by far the best puzzle game I have played on the DS. The goal of making a picture 
 by filling in squares and leaving others blank sounds juvenile and boring but, it turns out to 
 be an exciting challenge. The game starts easy enough with beginner puzzles that you could figure 
 out if you were five and are mainly just to introduce the controls. But, as you progress the challenge 
 increases at an incredible rate and you can find yourself spending over half an hour on one puzzle. 
 Also, the daily skill tracking is a quick little mini-game if you do not have a long period of 
 time to dedicate to playing. I definitely recommend this game to all fans of the DS and puzzle 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Until Picross came out on the DS a month ago, I've never heard of it. When I searched the net for 
 some advanced techniques on how to play, I discovered that Picross has actually been around since 
 the 80s. It started out in video game form as Mario's Picross on the Game Boy, but has actually 
 existed before that by what the puzzles are really called; nanograms. If you're not sure what a 
 nanogram is, it's a logic puzzle that consists of a grid with numbers to the left and to the top 
 of the grid. Using these numbers, you fill in squares across the grid's columns and rows. If you 
 filled in the required number of squares correctly, the grid becomes a picture. The best way to 
 describe a nanogram is a picture crossword, which is where the game gets its name; Pic-Cross.
 
  
  Picross is another game that plays wonderfully thanks to the DS's touch screen. You tap the stylus 
 on spaces you want to fill in as squares, and then you tap on the X icon to change your stylus 
 function to mark spaces where squares cannot go. The puzzles start out as 5x5 grids, but once they 
 become larger, you'll be given a couple of other icons that will allow you to zoom in and out, 
 and then one that will allow you to move the grid around without affecting any of the spaces. You 
 can also change the control scheme to use the d-pad and buttons, but honestly, there's no reason 
 to play the game that way when you can use the stylus.
  
  There's all sorts of modes that you can play in Picross. The main Picross mode is where the meat 
 of the game is at. It's broken down into tutorials, Easy Mode, Normal Mode (which share the same 
 rules) and Free Mode. Easy Mode has only 15 puzzles, but Normal Mode and Free Mode contain 11 levels, 
 each level consisting of 15 puzzles. Normal Mode and Free Mode differ quite a bit. Firstly, every 
 completed puzzle will treat you with an animation of the picture that puzzle represents. For both 
 Easy and Normal modes, you'll be given a time limit of an hour to finish the puzzle. If you finish 
 after time expires, you don't get the animation. You are also penalized for every wrong move you 
 make. The first mistake adds two minutes, with the second and third mistakes adding four and eight 
 minutes respectively.
  
  Free Mode doesn't have any time limit. However, these puzzles are much harder to complete, as they 
 don't inform you of any mistakes you've made. You won't know mistakes even exist until you find 
 contradictions, and they usually show up pretty late, so it pays to make sure you know the moves 
 you are making are correct. What Free Mode has that Normal Mode doesn't is Overlay. When you turn 
 on Overlay (also knowns as Try It Out Mode) , you are allowed to make temporary moves. If you're 
 unsure where to go, turn on Overlay and make your choice. If you find that there are contradictions 
 because of the path you've chosen, you can clear all your temporary moves. If everything fits, 
 then you can apply the overlay and keep going - or in the instance where you filled in all the 
 squares - solve the puzzle.
  
  What I really like about Picross is that each level has a theme to it. In Normal Mode, they are 
 all plants and animals. In Free Mode, they are all objects and people. The tiles of the grid will 
 also have graphic and sound effects to go along with the themes. For instance, Level 6 of Normal 
 Mode is insect themed, so all the tiles are leaves, and filling in squares makes the tiles disappear 
 as if they're being eaten by insects. Level 2 of Free Mode is electronics themed, and the tiles 
 are that of bubble wrap. Filling in squares causes them to pop. Perhaps my favorite level is Level 
 4 of Free Mode, which happens to be themed on musical instruments. The tiles are piano keys. When 
 you fill in a square, it turns them from white to black, and when you X out a space, it puts a 
 sharp note inside it. Each tap of the tiles are notes from Marry Had a Little Lamb, London Bridge 
 is Falling Down, and Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. If you're so inclined, you can just tap in one 
 spot over and over to play out the songs.
  
  Also, Normal and Free Mode contain different music. Normal Mode has three different generic tracks 
 of music. They are Jazz, Reggae and Bossa Nova. Free Mode contains Rock, House and Ambient. The 
 tracks are easy listening, but you'll want to change it up for yourself from time to time, as they 
 could drive you bonkers while staring at a puzzle for an hour. Other general modes of the game 
 are My Picross, which allows you to make your own puzzles and share them with friends or download 
 new puzzles via Wi-Fi ; and Daily Picross, which presents different puzzle challenges, such as 
 solving puzzles with no mistakes, and solving puzzles by correcting pre-existing errors. It is 
 a very safe bet to say that you won't find a DS game out there that contains more value than Picross. 
 The initial offering of puzzles in the main Picross mode (combining Easy, Normal and Free modes) 
 comes to 345 puzzles. Daily Picross will challenge you in different ways, while My Picross will 
 let you play user made puzzles. New puzzle packs are also being made for download soon, so really, 
 it's a never-ending game, and it's only 20 dollars. You just cannot go wrong with this game. If 
 you have a DS and have the slightest interest in puzzle games, it's a must-have title. Hell, I'd 
 even recommend people BUY a DS for this game if they don't already own one. To be quite honest, 
 I'm surprised I was actually able to tear myself away from the game long enough to write this review! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizzardi
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Picross I was not expecting too much of it. I&acute; ve played this game once, 
 on the web, but I remember not liking it.
  So, the surprise: The game was really funny!
  You know, you have to think a lot to resolve this games, but you will never get tired of it, because 
 YOU HAVE TO SE THE ANIMATED PICTURES in the end of each level (you have to complete the level in 
 less than 1 hour to see it, each error adds 8 minutes in your time) , don&acute; t ask me why.
  The game consists in finding a pixel picture by following numbers. It&acute; s hard to explain, 
 but easy to play.
  You can choose to use the square button (to fill the picture) or the cross button (to put a X in 
 a place you know is wrong) . When you get it right it starts being harder, and with detailed pictures.
 
  You can create your own pictures and send to your friends, even if they don&acute; t have the game. 
 Other good thing is the training mode , which you have to clean all the stages in the best time, 
 unlocking new modes.
  The bad things of it are the songs (you only have 4, and they&acute; re horrible, and they DON&acute; T 
 STOP!) , but you can put it in the mute option, and the touch mode. It&acute; s very hard to don&acute; t 
 press the wrong square accidentally.
  Resuming: If you like Brain Games, you will love this one. Turn the songs off, play with the directional 
 and be happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movieVF
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Picross DS is the kind of game that you will be playing for a long time. Think of Sudoku meets 
 Minesweeper, where numbers tell you where to punch holes in a grid to form a picture. Don't worry, 
 there's tutorials and the like to get you up to speed. And if you're a veteran, than you'll love 
 this game.
  
  If you've ever heard of Paint by Number (or Paint by Sudoku) , Nonograms, or Griddlers, you know 
 what Picross DS is. I'm not going to bother explaining how the game works... it would take too 
 long, I am terrible at things like that, and chances are that you've already read GameSpot's review, 
 and have a basic understanding on how it works.
  
  The normal game runs on a sixty minute timer. Now, it would probably never take you sixty minutes 
 to complete a puzzle, but believe me, they are not being generous. You see, if you make an error, 
 then you get time added on to your timer, with as much as eight minutes being put on at a time. 
 This may still seem a little on the forgiving side, but it really isn't if you aren't an experienced 
 player. There is also a free mode, where the game doesn't notify you when you make mistakes. That 
 is quite challenging.
  
  A game of this style is absolutely perfect for the Nintendo DS because of it's touch screen, however, 
 it does start to get in the way. When you are dealing with huge grids, zooming in and out, in and 
 out, accidentally poking a tile you didn't intend to and getting penalized... it can be a little 
 frustrating. Thankfully, there is another control style you can utilize that eliminates this problem 
 completely. The buttons... *gasps* make everything a lot easier. In fact, I prefer to play with 
 the buttons no matter how big the grid is.
  
  Aside from the single player mode (which, I forgot to mention, has over 300 puzzles - you won't 
 be finishing this game anytime soon) , there is a puzzle creator mode. You can create your own slick 
 puzzles to send to your friends or you can upload them via Nintendo WiFi and share them with your 
 online buddies. You can store 100 puzzles, which is madly impressive. Speaking of WiFi, you can 
 also verse other players near your region, as well as downloading classic puzzles from previous 
 installments. However, there is no puzzles to download quite yet, but there will be in September. 
 Versing other players is extremely tense as you are both madly rushing to finish two puzzles as 
 fast as you can. No leaderboards, but your stats are shown when you find an opponent, which includes 
 win/loss count, total number of wins in a row, and current number of wins in a row. You also have 
 your own ranking. Aside from online play, you can locally engage in smart Picross-related games 
 with four other friends (making this game five player) . You can also send demos in the form of 
 a puzzle that you select to your friends. Lastly, if your friend also has a copy of this game, 
 you guys can swap puzzles.
  
  Overall, the price of this game is too good to be true. They offer you tons of things to do for 
 the price of $19.99. The learning curve is tweaked to perfection, always being a fair fight against 
 your DS, and this really compels you to continue playing. With a jaw-dropping amount of puzzles 
 and an impressive online mode, this game should not be overlooked. That is, if you can overlook 
 the zooming problem (and I already provided a solution for that anyway) . Oh, I forgot to mention, 
 the music can get way way way too repetitive, so it's best if you just shut it off forever. Other 
 than that, go get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puablo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought Picross DS on a whim because of Gamespot's review and the nice $19.99 price point, and 
 I can't stress enough how great of a decision that was. It's the most addictive puzzle game in 
 years - honestly I can't even recall the last puzzle game I played that was nearly this good.
 
  
  Picross reminds me of Sudoku but much more fun. It really tests your logic skills, and is one of 
 those ultra-addictive games that keeps you up at night saying just one more puzzle . When not playing, 
 I often have images in my mind of filling the middle 7 squares of a 9 square open space, knowing 
 I need a row of 8 to complete it. The music is excellent as well and stays with you all day. Heck, 
 even creating your own Picross puzzles is a fun exercise, it's THAT good.
  
  Unfortunately there are some minor flaws with the interface that the Gamespot review barely touches 
 on. Once you get past the basic puzzles, the bulk of the game are on grids that require zooming 
 in. The interface for this is on the whole quite elegant, but can cause a number of errant clicks. 
 When zoomed in to a given tile, and you check or X out another box, the zoom moves your display 
 to that new box. That's handy sometimes, but if you're on a roll checking and X-ing out boxes left 
 and right, the screen movement can cause you to accidentally check the wrong box and get a penalty 
 (or worse, in free mode, you may screw yourself up since you don't get warnings for invalid checks) . 
 Similarly, when you try to move with some speed and click onto the zoom/move controls, you may 
 accidentally check a box when those controls are displayed directly over the Picross grid. And 
 lastly, when completing a series of numbers, sometimes the number in the horizontal or vertical 
 display either doesn't gray out when it should, or when it does gray out there is a slight delay 
 that may cause you to mess up when you're checking boxes until the series is complete.
  
  Of course, all of these problems would be resolved if I played slower and with some more precision, 
 but it seems to me that a few tweaks here and there that could improve those issues. Additionally 
 I could just play with the D-pad and buttons, but I would have liked a setting to disable the auto-scrolling. 
 But these complaints are exceedingly minor - I love this game, and as of late the DS has practically 
 become and extension of my body due to Picross. I think that is meant to be a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatzmyer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to find new and fresh ideas in video games these days, and every new release brings with 
 it comparisons to other great games. Picross can most easily be compared not to a video game but 
 to those little Suduko puzzles you find in the daily newspaper. So if you like Suduko then you 
 will like Picross DS. The goal in Picross is to complete a picture by filling in a certain number 
 of squares in each row and column in a square grid. The grids get bigger the further you get into 
 the game and therefore the puzzles get harder. The best thing the game does is show you step by 
 step how to do the puzzles first and then it increases the difficulty at a good pace once you start 
 to do them yourself. Its easy to expect yourself to be able to blow through this games content 
 pretty quickly and if all you do is play the preset puzzles through once, then you probably will. 
 The great thing about Picross DS is that it has almost endless replay value. First off, you are 
 timed on all the puzzles, so even after youve finished them once youll want to come back and 
 beat your fastest time. Then there is the Daily Picross, a sort of Brain Age type activity that 
 keeps track of how well you do every day doing certain tasks like, how fast you can complete 5 
 puzzles in a row. The best part however, is the fact that you can create your own puzzles and then 
 others can play them online. Plus you can compete online to see who can complete a puzzle faster.
 
  
  The game of course is not perfect, no game really is. The graphics are not the best on the DS, 
 and youll find yourself scratching your head, wondering what exactly the picture you just created 
 is supposed to be. It always tells you after youre done though, and then youll probably see it. 
 (Oh, that is a lion!) The music also is less than average, and most of the time you wont even 
 notice it and when you do you might just turn it off. These few things are easy to ignore when 
 youre playing an entertaining game, which is exactly what Picross DS is. If you like puzzle games 
 and youre patient enough to think a little, you cant go wrong adding this to your collection 
 for just twenty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyude77
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I would say that Picross DS is one of my favorite games for the DS and also possibly the best puzzle 
 game on the DS. Its budget price, replay value, and gameplay make it one of the best puzzlers out 
 there, if not the best, for the DS.
  
  There are two different modes: Normal and Free. Normal adds two minutes to the total time amount 
 for mistakes, but free does not. It's similar to playing sudoku on the computer against playing 
 it on paper. Normal puzzles are usually easier than free ones, at least to me.
  
  There is also a wi-fi challenge mode, which is really addictive. It provides two 10 x 10 puzzles 
 for the players to solve, and the first to solve them wins. Guessing is an option if the puzzle 
 is very hard, but you will be penalized 5 seconds if you are wrong. It is definitely worth guessing 
 on the harder puzzles. The only problem with this mode is that the matching tends to be unbalanced 
 sometimes, and the champions or advanced people tend to be much too fast. This problem can be solved, 
 however, by playing with your friends.
  
  The wi-fi challenge mode is not the only use of wi-fi, however. Nintendo will provide puzzles from 
 other, older picross games for you to download at some point. You can also download other user-created 
 puzzles if you trade friend codes with the creators. You both have to go online (not at the same 
 time) to get access to their puzzles or for them to get access to yours. The creation mode is also 
 decent. First, the final picture has to be drawn. Then, there is a transparent view that can come 
 on the screen to show which squares to fill in. The final picture will be in color, but the puzzle 
 will not. There is also no animation like there are for the built-in puzzles.
  
  Lastly, daily picross is much like the daily tests of Brain Age. There are five different types 
 of challenges to do.
  
  Overall, Picross DS is an amazing game for those that like puzzles and want something cheaper. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  This game requires some thinking though but it is actually one of the best games I have played. The 
 game is actually quite simple and the best thing is .. you don't have to guess you just have to 
 think logically.
  
  Another feature of this game is that you can make your own puzzle in 3 different sizes which are 
 10X10 , 15X15 , 20X20, let your friends download it using Nintendo WFC and also DS Wireless Communication, use 
 the puzzle as a demo for your friends who doesn't have a Picross DS game card.
  
  This game is almost everlasting because of its great varieties of puzzles in 4 different levels 
 for 3 different type of modes and you can also play with your friends using wireless DS communications 
 or people all around the globe and registered people via Nintendo WFC.
  
  Everyone who wants to get a brain cracking puzzle in a FUN way should get this awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadBoyz7WC06
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I hadn't played anthing like this game before. And once i learned how, i couldn't stop playing. 
 Once you learn it is really fun and the online play is great. There is always someone to play online. 
 There are a bunch of different game modes. The puzzles do get a bit tough as you go on, is the 
 only con. But, overall it is a great game for only $20. Once you get the basics down for this game, 
 you won't be able to stop playing. I hadn't played anthing like this game before. And once i learned 
 how, i couldn't stop playing. Once you learn it is really fun and the online play is great. There 
 is always someone to play online. There are a bunch of different game modes. The puzzles do get 
 a bit tough as you go on, is the only con. But, overall it is a great game for only $20. Once you 
 get the basics down for this game, you won't be able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Although in the world of Videogames, the trend of logic based games really kicked off with Brain 
 Age, 'Brain Teaser' games have been around for a long time. From your basic crossword and word-search 
 to the jumbles and now Sudoku, you can find these types of games everywhere you go. Picross DS 
 adds another one of those must own logic games that will challenge you with its simplistic structure 
 but intrigue you with the amount of puzzles it offers.
  
  Picross is a combination of Pictures and Crosswords. You are given a grid (eg. 10x10 of 15x15) 
 and a series of numbers for each row and column. Your job is to take the numbers they give you, 
 fill the correct amount of grids to eventually draw an image. The numbers might be something simple; 
 in a 15x15 grid, if a row has 15 beside it, then you know that all fifteen blocks will need to 
 be shaded. Other times, you'll get a couple of numbers (eg. 5 1 3 1) where you need to fill in 
 five blocks, brake for at least one, fill in one, brake for at least one, fill in 3, break for 
 at least one, fill in one and break for at at least one (or the rest of the board) . Depending on 
 the size of the board, it might be pretty simple to figure out, but the more challenging puzzles 
 will require you to work both rows and columns in intervals to figure the puzzles.
  
  The game works well to introduce you to the processes involved in the game. Similar to Sudoku in 
 Brain Age, you get penalized for incorrect answers, which hurts your time. Since you're given an 
 hour to complete each puzzle, it's better to try to eliminate blocks before touching them in certainty 
 that it is correct. Completing the puzzle in less than the hour limit, gives you a small little 
 reward with the image. If you complete it after the hour, you'll want to go back and try again 
 to get the mini prize, although, the outcome doesn't really change the game in any way.
  
  There are numerous puzzles and you can even go online and download more. Not to mention, you can 
 create your own puzzles to trade with friends.
  
  With most 'Touch Generation' DS games, this one is fun for everyone. You'll want to have your friends 
 try it out to see if they can beat your time and you, yourself will want to improve on your own 
 times. The difficulty might put some people off, but like any good game, the challenge is necessary 
 to truly enjoy games like this. Also, at 19.99 (24.99 CDN) , you really are getting more than you 
 paid for.
  
  The DS is known for it's great pick-up-and-play titles and Picross DS is just another title that 
 fits the mold well. Don't get upset if you're finding yourself stuck on certain puzzles; the end 
 result, once you've completed, is that you'll feel that you've actually accomplished something 
 and you might think that you're actually smarter than you thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KensterFox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Although they haven't been around as long, or received as much press and attention, as Su Doku 
 puzzles, nonograms are still nothing new, and not without a following. The original Picross (short 
 for Picture Crosswords) games were produced by Nintendo for the Game Boy and Super Famicom in the 
 mid-90s, only one of which was released in the United States. However, the puzzles are not unknown 
 to Americans, as they have been published in many puzzle collections, such as Conceptis Tech's 
 website as Fill-A-Pix, and in GAMES Magazine as Paint By Numbers.
  
  The puzzle involves filling certain squares in a blank grid to form a picture - you are to deduce 
 which squares to fill using the series of numbers above and to the left of the grid. Although there 
 are multi-color (harder) puzzles available on the market, this game concerns itself only with single-color 
 puzzles. The grid range in size from the ridiculously easy 5x5 grids to the 25x20 grids which pose 
 a considerable challenge, especially with the limited viewing space of the DS.
  
  The interface is mostly graceful, and for smaller puzzles (5x5 and 10x10) the intended input method 
 - the stylus - is adequate and intuitive. However, when the puzzle requires zooming in to solve, 
 although creative accommodations were made for stylus-users, I found the D-pad and buttons to be 
 the preferred solving method. Also, while the creators could have stuck with black squares in a 
 black-and-white grid, they decided to add some character - one level is themed with fruit and vegetable 
 pictures, they are solved on a grid colored like an apple skin, and selected squares are 'peeled', 
 complete with visual and sound effect. In the same manner, animal-themed puzzles have grids made 
 out of a field of grass. This extra bit of charm is entirely effective, though it can be turned 
 off. The potential for content for this game is vast, and some of it is already realized on the 
 cartridge itself - there are enough puzzles here to keep you satisfied for days. Should you ever 
 run dry, however, you can receive puzzles created by a friend over a wireless link (as well as 
 create your own and send them in the same manner, of course) or download new puzzles over Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi.
  
  Nonograms are a puzzle type that I have always greatly enjoyed, and I was eager to see if this 
 game would be a proper method of experiencing their challenge. I can already see that many a plane 
 ride and waiting room visit will be made considerably more tolerable, thanks to those tiny little 
 squares and numbers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amz310783
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game mainly because I used to buy the Hanje (formally Tsunami) puzzle books which 
 are exactly the same. So for anyone who had those books then this game is for you.
  The great thing about this game is that you can take your time over the puzzles, it doesn't rush 
 you, doesn't put pressure on you, it just lets you play, but for those who like a challenge you 
 can do daily play and try to beat your best score in a number of things or just try to beat your 
 best time on any of the puzzles.
  
  Another great thing about this game is the ability to download more puzzles, you can donload puzzles 
 from nintendo, or from your friends, so the game is never ending.
  
  I bought this game a few weeks ago, and it hasn't been out my ds since.
  
  The only problem 
 with this game its not one for young kids, its very hard to explain how to do the puzzles, but 
 once you know it seems so easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukkinPhuts
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  This game has similarities to sudoku in that every puzzle is solvable with a little forward thinking 
 &amp; logic. It is nicely presented and very easy to learn how to do the puzzles with the straightforward 
 tutorial.
  It requires using the stylus which works really well, the boxes you have to touch are a decent 
 size so you never find yourself tapping the wrong one.
  If you connect to nintendo wi-fi there you will find access to additional puzzle packs to donwload 
 which adds more play time to this already great game.
  I found once i started playing it was hard to stop and reccommend it to anyone who enjoys sudoku 
 or logic problems in general. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
