-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ping Pals
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/pingpals/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A large cache of items to collect and use to customize your avatar.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 If you own a DS, you already own this game's main functionality, in the built-in PictoChat software.
 The scant few available minigames are all terrible.
 The collectible items just aren't all that cool.
 Bare-bones presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 15, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 2.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 3.4, 725 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Way Forward
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Dec 8, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ping Pals is PictoChat with a lousy personality, and there's absolutely no reason why you should 
 waste your time with it. 

  For those of you who might not know, when you buy a Nintendo DS, PictoChat is included in the package. 
 PictoChat is a form of chat software that takes advantage of the system's wireless network capabilities 
 by letting you exchange text messages and drawn pictures with your friends. While it's not the 
 most full featured of chat programs, it certainly does its job. So why, then, would anybody want 
 to spend $30 on the same exact thing... but with a bunch of lame collectible items and bad minigames? 
 Well, that's just what THQ wants you to do with Ping Pals, its first offering for the DS. In essence, 
 Ping Pals is PictoChat with a lousy personality, and there's absolutely no reason why you should 
 waste your time with it.  

   

  When you first boot up Ping Pals, you'll have the option to create your own little chat room, or 
 you can join someone else's (provided someone else with a DS and a copy of the game is sitting 
 nearby) . In either event, you'll then find yourself with a keyboard and a drawing space that occupies 
 the touch screen. You'll also find a chat window with an avatar that represents you in the main 
 window. For pure chat purposes, you need only switch between icons that represent the drawing board 
 and keyboard to use either. Then again, for pure chat purposes, you really only need the PictoChat 
 software, because it's exactly the same thing, minus the avatar, and it's free with the system 
 to boot.  

  Ping Pals really tries to differentiate itself with its character customization and minigames, 
 neither of which is the least bit interesting. The character customization system is fairly simple. 
 You just pick from a male or female form, and then you use the game's dressing system to gussy 
 your character up in all sorts of ways by choosing different facial accessories, clothing types, 
 and hairstyles. There are also additional sounds and backgrounds available as well. You start out 
 with only a few items in your collection, but you can buy more via an in-game shop mode. However, 
 your available item cache tops out at 300, and only certain items can be purchased each day. Interestingly 
 enough, there are far more than 300 items available in Ping Pals, but because only 300 can be had 
 in each cartridge, you'll have to buy items from your friends, because their cartridges will likely 
 feature many different items that you can't get.  

  While that might seem like a neat idea, it just doesn't really work that well in Ping Pals, mostly 
 because very few items are really interesting. There's a certain degree of novelty to some of the 
 avatar accessories, but there's no sense of rarity that other games like this have brought to the 
 table, such as Animal Crossing, for example. It's just, "Oh, cool. A ninja mask and a funny hat. 
 Great."  

  And before you can even get to these assorted items, you'll have to participate in a scrambled 
 collection of minigames to earn coins. There are two single-player games as well as two multiplayer 
 ones. The single-player offerings consist of really terribly conceived guessing games that involve 
 such enthralling activities as trying to guess a number between one and 10 and playing a half-baked 
 version of Family Feud where you'll try to guess the 10 correct associative answers to such categories 
 as "scents of candles" or "things you'd see in the Navy." While some of these categories have fairly 
 obvious answers, many correct ones are next to impossible to guess. Using the Navy question as 
 an example, none of the following answers, such as "ship," "boat," "sailor," "seamen," or "naval 
 base," were on the list. Seriously, how many things does one really see in the Navy? The multiplayer 
 games aren't any better. One is an intensely lame version of the game of hot potato, which, incidentally, 
 requires more than two players. Meanwhile, one is a bad version of Pictionary, which, on top of 
 not being very much fun, is also kind of broken. For instance, it will give you a category of "special 
 events" and then ask you to draw "Transylvania." What?  

   

  Ping Pals doesn't offer much to please the eye or ear, either. Graphically, there's just not much 
 to the game. Sure, the chat software is a little slicker-looking than the standard PictoChat program, 
 but just barely. Your avatar never animates, so all you ever see is a fat static image of your 
 guy or girl just sitting there the whole time. Apart from that, there are many menu screens to 
 sift through, and not much else. The audio mostly just consists of some looping theme tracks, and 
 a few little blips play when you select various menus. It's all inoffensive stuff, but none of 
 it really sticks with you either.  

  In the end, it's impossible to rationalize Ping Pals' very existence to any satisfactory degree. 
 Why make a game just like PictoChat when PictoChat already exists on the DS itself? After playing 
 Ping Pals, you're unlikely to come up with any acceptable answers to this question, because none 
 of the extra content it provides is worth paying for. Chalk this one up to poor decision making, 
 lousy timing, or a combination of both. Just don't chalk this one up as a game you should play. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  When I bought my Nintendo DS, I think I was about 10 years old. Therefore, I didn't really have 
 the common sense of reading reviews of games before I bought them.
  After owning a DS for a very short time, only owning Super Mario 64 DS, I was eager to get hold 
 of more games. I checked back at GAME every week to see if there were any DS games going cheap 
 in a bargain bin or something. I found this game on a shelf at a "cheap cheap price" of 19.99. 
 At that age, any game 10 cheaper than most was worth buying.
  To be honest, it was actually an okay game. Basically, you have to play mini-games and type specific 
 words to gain points. The game is set out like pictochat, where you have a virtual keyboard where 
 you can type answers to a character in the game. You are given a japanese looking avatar, which 
 you can buy clothes and accessories for to look nice. You can also buy sounds, music and backgrounds 
 for the game. 
  The huge let down of this game is the fact that the only way to get the expensive items is to either
 
  
  a) spend days and days doing one mini-game
  b) type a completely stupid word like Wisenheimer or Stenogrammar to gain massive of points.
 
  
  The only way to find out these unusual words is to cheat, and search on the internet. But once 
 you have done that, there's not much game in it.
  But luckily, there is a fun little multiplayer mode where you can link up with your friends and 
 play reasonably fun games like hot potato and charades. Even better, you only need one game card, 
 so you can play with up to 15 of your DS owning friends. This way, only one person out of 15 has 
 to experience the awful single player mode. Yay!
  Without the multiplayer mode, this game would earn itself a measly 2.0, but luckily, the somewhat 
 fun multiplayer mode turns it to an average (ly crap) game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallen6
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I am totally speechless. Not because this game is great, but becuse its the worst game i have EVER 
 put my hands upon. Talking. Stupid Games. Outfits. Multiplayer.
  There is really no game if your not playing with your mates, but its still rubbish then. Beleive 
 me, stick to Picto-chat. Picto-chat comes FREE with your DS and its still better than sh***y Ping-pals. I 
 can say no more, because there is zero-content and the people who helped create this game should 
 be ashamed. Why they wanted to make this is unimaginable. If i had the chance to go bsck in time, the 
 first thing I would do would be to make sure this game was never made. So WOW. Games are meant to 
 be FUN, not BORING. Games should be playable in single and multiplayer. This game is horrible. It is 
 WRONG, WRONG, WRONG.
  
  Overall score:0, if you like this you need to GET A LIFE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crittercat303
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 2
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 8
  Value: 3
  Tilt: 2
  
  This game is basically a series of chatrooms where you talk to robots and play games. this game 
 has no substance, and there are only two games you are able to play single player. these games 
 are shallow, boring and short.
  
  This game has tried to make an attempt to appeal to manga/anime fans by making their avatars look 
 like anime characters. You can buy a large variety of clothes, accessories, hairstyles, music, 
 sound effects, etc. Although they are fun to collect, you will eventually give up, because earning 
 a large collection of money is hard and boring.
  
  They also have special items in the shop on special events, and every week you earn your 'pocket 
 money' and receive a tiny sum of money.
  
  There are so called over 1000 'hint words', and according to the word, you earn either a very small 
 bit of money (5 coins) or a huge amount (10000 coins) but unfortunately, money drains easily, because 
 the shop is hugely overpriced and after you type all the key words, you have no choice but to play 
 the stupid games included.
  
  Typing the tiny keyboard is boring, hard and takes a long time to simply type one little word. 
 The touchscreen function is very weak.
  
  The sounds are good, because you can change the music and sound affects to your choice, thanks 
 to the shop. But if you can't afford it- you're stuck with the corny, annoying jingle provided.
 
  
  This game could be improved by a wi-fi connection, enabling you to talk to people all over the 
 world, and more interesting and original games, as well as lowering the shop prices, and maybe 
 allowing people to create their own shops or design their own clothing to sell. You cannot sell 
 in this game unless you multi player with somebody who has Ping Pals.
  
  Multiplayer is just as boring, no games, and it is no fun. Basically, pictochat with games- boring, 
 pointless games.
  
  Don't buy it. I bought it for $15, but that is probably the maximum price. It is a pointless game, 
 and if this is appealing to you- trust me, pictochat is better- and free. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Ping Pals is definitely a bad game, there's no doubt about it. You basically do pointless minigames 
 which involve typing on your touch screen to get money to buy items to customize your character. 
 There's no point to this game really I can promise you that as long as you play Ping Pals, no one 
 will ever join your chat room, which is the main part of the game.
  
  The minigames in this game are just plain stupid. They have no point to them, you will make more 
 money watching the credits than the minigames, which make them useless. The minigames basically 
 involve talking to characters and for some reason, they will give you money. It is extremely boring 
 when you've talked to the same person several times.
  
  This game isn't 100% horrible though, there are a large group of items you can collect, most of 
 them boing pointless, you will come across the odd cool one. The sound isn't half bad either, I 
 know a lot of people will disagree with me on this one, but I found the main background music kinda 
 catchy, but that is the only song that you will hear through the whole game. 
  
  The only perfect thing about this game is it's charm, it definirelt get's a 10/10 for how lovable 
 the game is. The last thing that I like about this game, is that the graphics are appealing. They 
 are really nice, especially for a really early DS game.
  
  All in all, in you find this game for $5 at Gamestop, it's definitely worth getting, as you will 
 probably play this game everyday looking for new items for a month or so, but if you it's any higher 
 than that, I wouldn't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Review_King
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Ping Pals, a game in which you chat with the computer or friends, make an avatar, and play a few 
 lousy minigames. You create a profile and make an avatar for your character. You customize it buy 
 using items you put on your default avatar, in which most have to be unlocked. You unlock these 
 by earning coins by actually saying a word the computer understands, which is a very rare occurence, 
 as it almost always says it dosen't understand what your saying. Then you can spend these coins 
 on getting stuff for your avatar, or unlocking some awful minigames. Chatting with the computer 
 is absolutely no fun at all, as it almost always dosen't understand you. You can also chat with 
 up to seven friends that have a DS, who are close to you. But do you know that is? Pictochat. Despite 
 lame avatars and lousy minigames, this an failed copy of the already built-in feature pictochat, 
 which you automatically get on every Nintendo DS. And also, if you live so close by, why not just 
 walk to your friend's house, and actually talk to each other, and most likely your friend dosen't 
 have a DS, and if they do just talk to them in real-life! The only reason why you couldn't talk 
 to them in real-life is if you are physically disabled, and can't go to your friend's house, or 
 can't talk, but then why can't your friend walk to your house, or if your both physically-disabled, 
 use PictoChat! There's absolutely no quality or fun in this game, and there's no reason to buy 
 it! Leave this abysmal copy of pictochat on the shelves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdf64
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Its been some year ago when I got this, it was cheap so i got it for $20, and i regret getting 
 this game, and its not even a real game. Don't let this game fool you. You do basically nothing 
 in this game. Its a chatting game with other stuff you can collect like clothes and money and all 
 that good stuff, but theres no point in collecting. The point of this game is to chat with friends 
 who has this game, but there's no point in chatting if there's no one to even chat with or just 
 don't even have the game, so this is wasted. Theres no gameplay in it, no replay value, graphics 
 are awful, no nothing, just a waste of time and money, the devs should be ashamed of themselves 
 of even putting this game out let alone just cashing in, if you want chat, use Pictochat or get 
 a messenger, but don't get this, even if its free or a gift. Its extremely horrible and shouldnt 
 be released in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMax1316
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game sucked! First of all, when alone, you can do pretty much... nothing, except talk to people 
 (most of the time, that don't exist) , play a boring number-guessing game (and a drawing game for 
 multi-players) , buying stuff, and dress up your avatar. THAT'S ALL! Now you may be thinking That 
 can't be true... . Well, it is. Second, to chat to REAL people, you have to have a friend with 
 his/her own DS and his/her own copy of this game. Third, with another person, you have only two 
 games to play for multi-players: a drawing game and some other game (I forgot because I haven't 
 played this for so long) . Fourth, it's expensive. I got this at Best Buy for $39.99 and now I couldn't 
 return it! So, in conclusion,  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niteofthehalo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun. It is a must play for those who want something unique to play. My sis 
 and I play it all the time. It is a pick up game that you should play not all the time but at least 
 once or twice a week!!! It does not match up to the other DS games but if you do not want to spend 
 $30+ on a DS game this is the game you should get! You can pick it up at any retail store that 
 sells video games for $15 and if you are lucky $10 or less!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  like is said its basically picto chat with a few added features and a few less too, its really 
 all fun and only worth buying if you want to chat with others and have cool avatars. Their are 
 cool games on it like 10 ten where she gives you a catagory like Things you find in a closet Plural 
 and some anwsers that you type in would be shoes, sneakers, boots, coats and so on, if you get 
 all 10 within the time limit you get major points. Oh yeah points you earn can be spent on hair 
 styles, clothes, glasses, music, sound effects and all sorts of fun stuff, theirs also a few other 
 games hi-low where you guess what number between 1-10 that they guessed and solo chat with AI, 
 hot potato with others muitiplayer and a pictonary one, its really just all fun and games with 
 the ability to customize your avatar and top 10 is really fun too. its worth the buy i say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCGamer176
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Ping Pals doesn't really qualify as a game. It's pretty much Picto Chat with an avatar and different 
 colored text. You can talk to several different computer personalities; however, it's mostly just 
 yes and no. There's no goal or plot to this game whatsoever. The only thing you can really accomplish 
 is buying items to upgrade your avatar. You can get money to do this by playing minigames. There's 
 a minigame where you try to guess what number the computer player is thinking of, and depending 
 on how close you get, you'll get coins. Another game is where you're given a category, and you 
 have to think of words associated with that category. The other ones are multi player, a hot potato 
 type game, and Pictionary. One other way to get money is to type in Money Words , words associated 
 with money. You can buy hats and accessories, as well as backgrounds and background music. You 
 modify and personalize your avatar for all to see.
  
  Overall, this game has nearly nothing to offer. Customize a picture and talk to your nearby friends, 
 but at that point you may as well be conversing aloud. It isn't even online. In addition, the game 
 is a waste of the Nintendo DS's graphical capabilities. You'll get very, very little gameplay out 
 of this before you're sick of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper101010
Rating: 1.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  whatever you do don't buy this game. You will regret it if yo do.
  
  It has very little game play and all you can do is play hot and cold and dress up. The biggest 
 drawback is that it lacks online gameplay, if it had it i'd give this game a 2.
  
  The graphics arn't that bad but the only graphics in this game are the characters you buy clothe 
 for.
  
  Sounds... beep beep is about the only thing you hear and it gets annoying after a few minutes.
 
  
  I recommend you don't even rent this. Picto chat is in fact better and it's free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very complex storyline a numerous endings to unlck but it just doesn't make it 
 any better!! I was not dissappointed in this game though because I bought it based on price ! 5$ 
 yeah! Anyway the story is well done and graphics are unbeatable (not like a steak) but the gameplay 
 just messes it up and gameplay always beats story for me ( if you want a good storyline watch a 
 movie then) !! I wish they spent more time on gameplay and less on graphics and storylines! For 
 5$ everyone should have this game ! It is practically being given away!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  I though it would be good at first and kind of fun. But, then I got it and it started to get really 
 boring really fast. At first I though it was going to be like the Sims, but it wasn't. All you 
 do is buy stuff to dress your person and play bad mini games. There are a few modes that you can 
 play, but most of them need multi-player to actually even work. And the ones that are single player 
 are boring and hard. And you need money to even dress your person which is why you play the mini 
 games, but some of them cost money and if you lose you don't get your money back. And then you 
 can also talk to the computers, but they don't have anything to say. Then the game goes by real 
 time and doesn't get new items till the next day, and there are only like ten items and five or 
 six of them are always worth twenty million dollars. So my advice don't even waste your money renting 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Hardly the best experience you'll ever have on the Nintendo DS, infact it's the worst by far. I'd 
 rather play Noughts and Crosses in the dirt with my fingers rather than waste my time on this game/chat 
 program. 
  
  I was at the local mega gaming store the other day checking out the latest on the Nintendo DS, 
 this game happened to be the showcase game on display so I thought I might as well have a go - 
 keeping in mind that you're only allowed 5 minute gameplay before you have to put the console down 
 and walk away. It took my 5 minutes to figure out what the damn game was about and what to do. 
 One of the storepersons came up to me and told me that my 5 minutes of playing are up and told 
 me to move on, and with pleasure I did. I'm supposed to write a review but I guess I was just reviewing 
 my experience playing this worthless game. 
  
  Why have a chat program when there is already one built into the console and with zero cost at 
 all? It's like selling a heating fan to your neighbour in the summer - No point in having it. 
 
  
  So far, the worst piece of software produced for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 1.4
Date: May 4, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  It'shard to even call this a game, I popped it in my DS and quickly realized that I need to have 
 another DS in close range to use it. Use number one down until I get another DS in the house, and 
 even then why bother? I could just TALK to the person that is most likely in the same room as me.
 
  
  I decided to try out the mini games next. It did not come as a suprise that there was no fun to 
 be found there either. They were uninspired and not very engaging, it's hard to call this a game 
 at all.
  
  Avoid this "game" at all costs, it would have to be free to be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, Ping Pals? What is THQ trying to pull on us?
  
  Okay, the concept of Ping Pals is Instant messaging on the Nintendo DS. Gasp! But there is already 
 Pictochat!
  
  Indeed there is already Pictochat, and I suggest you stay with that.
  
  You see, Ping Pals is a terrible game. I wouldn't even call this piece of work a game. Or a piece 
 of work. Apart from lousy minigames, there is really no gameplay in here.
  
  This is also the cheapest DS game. (As you can probably guess.) It goes as low as $9.99, which 
 is $9.99 too much to pay for this game. When it was released, it sold for a $29.99! Outrageous! 
 That is like me buying a cardboard box for the price Bill Gates paid for his house, but even worse. 
 No value at all!
  
  The graphics? Nothing! Sure they may be detailed but they only thing there detailed at is at being 
 friggen annoying! Yeah that made no sense. I'm not being biased, well not trying to be but the 
 music is awful.
  
  Lets boil this review down to gameplay.... wait there is none! You IM with your friends from 20 
 max feet away from each other, and you customize avatars, etc. No wifi, no nothing. If you were 
 that close, wouldn't you just talk to your friends?
  
  Ping Pals is a "game" no one should play, or even really hear about. It is awful. Just use pictochat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm willing to give this game a 3.5, a little higher than the GS rating, only because I found it 
 for just a couple of dollars in a bargin bin -- new, in the box, complete with callophane wrapping. 
 Otherwise, this is franklay a ridiculous waste of time and money. The DS isn't very useful at the 
 moment as a communication device because you require other machines to be within range. If PP worked 
 something like MSN or AIM does, then sure, I'd scream for all to buy it. But it doesn't. The games, 
 the coin-collecting system -- they're all inane, boring, and pointless. If you see it for two bucks, 
 buy it; if you see it for 20, smile and walk away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderBlue
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  People who have no interest in wasting their time should never, ever buy this game. You don't even 
 have to read my review, as I will just describe how bad it is. If you were looking for a DS game 
 to buy, BUY ANYONE BUT THIS ONE!
  
  "Gameplay":
  This isn't even a game, it's a "communication tool". We already have one built into the DS, and 
 it's called PictoChat. PictoChat is a fun diversion for maybe ten minutes. Ping Pals is basically 
 PictoChat with a "personality" that you are, and you can buy clothes and accessories for your "person". 
 You can also play "games" where you do complicated things like guess a number between 1 and 9 and 
 "talk" to "someone", and you get money for doing those actions correctly. If I could really earn 
 $300 for guessing a number between 1 and 9, then I'd be rich. Honestly, with the range of DS wireless, 
 you'd be better off talking to that person which is probably right in front of you. Another fun 
 "feature" is that you can buy items depending on what day/time it is in real life. Not only are 
 the items pretty worthless (though I admit, there was one or two items that were OK) , you can just 
 change your DS clock to get them, changing the purpose into merely an inconvenience.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty mediocre. The title screen is pretty adequate, but your person looks like crap, 
 along with most other things. I realize that you have to shrink the graphics for a portable, but 
 then again, you don't have to make them crap. I've seen worse, but then again I've seen SO much 
 better.
  
  Sound:
  Oh god, the only sound is the background "music" (noise) and the noises when you press buttons. 
 Minimalist, barely gets the job done, and is really annoying after a while.
  
  The good things (WHAT?) :
  You can use the stylus. Um... if you take three copies of this game 
 you can sort-of make a coaster.
  
  Overall, DO NOT BUY THIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Ping Pals is a huge mistake of a game. Picto Chat is way better and cooler. In this game the only 
 additional things is that it has some very expensive music, very expensive wallpapers and also you 
 have a character that you put clothes on. I would only pay $2 for this gdamn thing. Dont waste your 
 money on this, everything in the game is sh! t. Safe your money for another cool game like Mariokart 
 or Advance Wars. Please believe me that this is a waste. If there was a contest for worst game ever, then 
 this would win the title. I wouldnt even give it a 3.3, if you are paying attention, Nintendo is getting 
 out of ideas every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warriors_Rocks
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game would be fun, but I was proved mistaken. When I went to buy this game, 
 I thought, "Oh, cool! Play games, chat, customize your avatar, sounds like my kind of game!" Nope. 
 Okay, review time! A. It says you can play games. Yeah, right, like, 4. B. It says you can chat. 
 With the same people over and over and over again. Plus, you can only say Yes, No, Sure, and Nope. 
 Oh, but you can play a "multiplayer" mode which is equally as fun as PictoChat. And C. Customize 
 your avatar. With limited supplies. And by limited, I mean LIMITED. In short, to sum up this whole 
 review, don't buy or rent or have any contact with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mj4564
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game goes beyond pointless. Wow, you talk to people who don't even care what you're saying 
 to them. Big deal. If you're absolutely bored and want to talk to someone, you should go out and 
 make some friends and talk on the phone or something. 
  
  Everything about this game is horrible. If you buy this and start playing it as soon as you get 
 home, you'll want to give it to your dog 5 minutes later. Looking at the wall is probably better 
 than this game. 
  
  Please, Please, please, please, please! Stay away from this game at all cost. Don't even take this 
 game if someone offers it to you for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, if the Nintendo DS didn't come with PictoChat, then this game will score about 8.4. 
 This is utterly pointless. The graphics are awful and bland, but the avatars somewhat bright it 
 up. The gameplay absolutly stinks - it's just a chat system, not really a game, and it isn't just 
 a update of PictoChat, like I just said. Also, I think the people you are chatting to NEEDS the 
 game. PictoChat is free. Overall thats... oh... 50 pounds. I can get two or three classics with 
 that money. Bargain.
  
  PictoChat is hard to describe, but the graphics are bland but updated by the bland PictoChat graphics 
 and the value should be avarage if somebody owns the game (but you'll find almost no-body) . Whatever 
 THQ wanted to do, they defently don't own a DS for sure. Avoid (if you have never tried PictoChat 
 - wait, all you need to do is to go in the title Nintendo DS screen and tap 'Picto Chat') like 
 the plauge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Ping Pals is a pretty cool way to talk to people while showing people your own custimized person. 
 You can choose from a boy or girl and their hair style, clothing, objects to wear, music and backround. 
 You have three mini games you can play by yourself and two games that involve two or more people 
 (single card or multi card play) . Every day the objects you can buy change. You can choose from 
 things like t-shirts to Santa clothes. If you have one or more people around you that have a DS 
 you should get this game. Otherwise, it will be pretty boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Ping-Pals.
  In concept it is a good idea. The game uses the touch screen as a keyboard. It uses the wireless 
 function for chatting without contraints. So, it should be good. 
  Well, NO it isn't. 
  The gaming industry is a ruthless play, lots of competition. So THQ make this decent game but from 
 the shadows another company comes and makes a very similar game, and then prices it lower. That 
 company is Nintendo, and they priced it at $/0.00. Yes thats right. The big wigs at ninty saw 
 it fit to release a slighlty weaker version of the game and give it to you for FREE.
  Well it isn't free, it just comes with your DS, built in. So while PP requires you to spend 30-40 
 big ones on it, Pictochat (the Nintendo equivilent) comes free with the console. 
  Another problem with PP is that it comes on a cartdridge, so you must actually slot the game in. 
 While this may sound like a rant from a slob who just "can't be bothered to put it in" I am actually 
 talking about the fact that with a PP cartdridge in you have to take out a game. 
  While Pc lets you talk for a while and then jump straight into a game PP makes you remove it from 
 the machine and put a different game in. And what if you have room to only carry one game. What 
 will you choose? (clue: not Ping-Pals)
  So what does the game actually do differently than Pc, not muh. You can have a picture of a guy 
 or gal up when you play (rubbish) , collect badges (rubbish) , unlock stuff like different backgrounds 
 (rubbish) . They only good thing about it is that it is in colour.
  Here is the killer blow, this game is only worth using if you have a mate with the game as well. 
 So the chances of you finding ANYONE with the game is unlikely. So buy it now and you can't play 
 with ANYONE because nobody bought the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyboard_
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game blows , Don't Rent , Don't buy . 
  Just listen to me here !
  If someone offer you Ping pals for 1 $ , Don't get it.
  People might even reject it , if you're 
 selling the game.
  
  The so calledGame with terrible customizations , Mini-games "
  Pictochat is wayyy.. better. 
  
  The only thing you can do is .. customize your avatar , collect 
 horrid stuff and play terrible mini-games.
  
  Take my advice , don't get this game no matter what .
  ( Unless , you like crappy games like 
 this or.. a Ds game collector)
  
  Don't rent , Don't buy. Don't even bother to look at it.
  And i got this for free.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidizo7509
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  this game can be fun, its just like picto chat only more options like styaling a character being 
 able to earn money play mini games n buying louds of awsome clothes, items etc. nothing realy moves 
 in this game so it has realy good graphic they basicly look like drawn pictures but in a video 
 game style. the mini games do get boring and so does teh game once u buy most of the kool items 
 in teh stores money can be hard to earn at times thou. controls are also extremely simple and on 
 holidays u can get speacil items and on ur birthday u can choose to buy a birthday hat for your 
 self. you can also choose text color and backround color and pictures and differnt sounds and songs 
 for typing and listening too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Ping-Pals.
  In concept it is a good idea. The game uses the touch screen as a keyboard. It uses the wireless 
 function for chatting without contraints. So, it should be good. 
  Well, NO it isn't. 
  The gaming industry is a ruthless play, lots of competition. So THQ make this decent game but from 
 the shadows another company comes and makes a very similar game, and then prices it lower. That 
 company is Nintendo, and they priced it at $/0.00. Yes thats right. The big wigs at ninty saw 
 it fit to release a slighlty weaker version of the game and give it to you for FREE.
  Well it isn't free, it just comes with your DS, built in. So while PP requires you to spend 30-40 
 big ones on it, Pictochat (the Nintendo equivilent) comes free with the console. 
  Another problem with PP is that it comes on a cartdridge, so you must actually slot the game in. 
 While this may sound like a rant from a slob who just "can't be bothered to put it in" I am actually 
 talking about the fact that with a PP cartdridge in you have to take out a game. 
  While Pc lets you talk for a while and then jump straight into a game PP makes you remove it from 
 the machine and put a different game in. And what if you have room to only carry one game. What 
 will you choose? (clue: not Ping-Pals)
  So what does the game actually do differently than Pc, not muh. You can have a picture of a guy 
 or gal up when you play (rubbish) , collect badges (rubbish) , unlock stuff like different backgrounds 
 (rubbish) . They only good thing about it is that it is in colour.
  Here is the killer blow, this game is only worth using if you have a mate with the game as well. 
 So the chances of you finding ANYONE with the game is unlikely. So buy it now and you can't play 
 with ANYONE because nobody bought the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Worse game ever, and i thought Pokemon Dash was the worse game out, oh man how wroung was i!?.
 
  
  Whats the point in bringing out a game thats only the same as Pic Chat on the DS?. i mean, only 
 thing added is a char and rubbish games!!!.
  
  This game is'nt worth youre money so dont buy it, it may be fun for your first DS game (Like i 
 did) but when you get more you'll come to realise what a rubbish game it turned out to be.
  
  Its so bad, non of my friends wont buy it, and my local game shop will only give me 3 for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreDREb13
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the worst game I've ever seen and/or played. It is BAD. Why buy a game where all you can 
 do is talk? Your character doesn't even look good! This game is a very stupid idea for a gamer. 
 Not a good start for the DS. All you can do in multiplayer is talk to a computer, play hot potato 
 for 3 seconds, or fall asleep because of the game. Here's a suggestion, buy this for those who 
 can't sleep at night. There is no difficulty to this game what-so-ever. The graphics are horrible. 
 Just a 2D picture of your character. The sound is even worse. All you hear is background music. 
 There IS NO gameplay. All you do is type. Take my and everyone elses advice, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercman
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  this game is not even worth 1 cent  bad awfull dull!!!!! 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  When i got this i thought it was gonna be wicked...... i was totaly stupid. You have allready got 
 it on your ds then why buy the bloody thing again for $30! . What a load of rubbish . The graphics 
 are the worst yet on the ds . The sound well ............. WTF !!! And the gameplay, there is no 
 flippin gameplay !
  The worst game ( its not even a game ) on the ds possibly made ever . Do me and urself a favour 
 and do NOT buy this thing . Even the mini games are a total letdown . I mean, come on! U must b 
 joking . Whoever made this game must be on drugs . What am i ment to right for difficulty? Ill 
 guess ill write very easy . Even though its not a game so it cant be easy or hard.
  
  I am afraid there are no good things about this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pichu0102
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of worst ever created. The only way it could have been saved is through WiFi, 
 but they didn't wait for that. The gameplay is horrid, in fact, there barely is any gameplay! Only 
 a few minigames to play, and they aren't any fun if you're the only one playing. The graphics are 
 horrid, and remind me of old online text-based games. The difference? The old online text-based 
 games were actually good. The only place where this game shines is the background music, which 
 is actually quite good. However, the sound effects drag it down again. Overall, you'd be wasting 
 your money, even if you bought it for less than $5.
  Steer clear of this game, and find something else worth your time (and money) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clowd7
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my DS hoping that it would be cool. I had read alot about it and I like customazation 
 so im like cool. I soon found out that it was a very cool game at firts then you find yourself 
 putting in random words to find gold and resetting the game to see what new items you get. 
  
  There are words called "money words" that get you a certain amount of money when you type them 
 in. The money is used to buy new clothes and other accessories. There are 10, 100, 1000 and 10000 
 gold words. This was cool at first but when you find all of the words you cant put them in again 
 and are forced to play horrible mini games to gain money. The items you can buy depend on the day, 
 time and year. Everyday, new items appear in the store. But after a while the same items come up. 
 So you can play around with the dates and time to get new items. I kept resetting the game over 
 and over again to get new items but instead i got the same item over and over again. 
  
  Now, this game is for the talking feature. Chances are that no one, NO ONE has this game. And it 
 isnt wi-fi compatable. If someone did have tha game they would have to be sitting directly in front 
 of you which defeats the purpose because you could easily open your mouth and speak to them. 
 
  
  This game sucks. Please dont buy this. Its a complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC__16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Ping Pals, I knew that my life would never be the same. I spent so much time 
 just playing the awsome mini-games, and the graphics were top notch. If you thought Halo 2 had 
 good graphics you would not believe how much better the graphics are. They are stunningly good. 
 Making the Avatars has to be the best part. I love making super samari guys man!!! The sound is 
 just perfect! I even fell asleep listening to the great music. It is so come and makes you feel 
 good about yourself.
  You get in touch with your inner soul and listen to the calming sounds of Ping Pals.
  
  Overal 
 this is the best game you could ever want on the Nintendo DS, and is truly revolutionary!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Totodile
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was expecting it to be a way better type of Pictochat.
  I was oh so wrong.
  It's graphics are very poor, the items you collect have no use and are very 
 lame and boring. I shouldn't even be calling this a game. You can't win, there's no incentive and 
 it's just so boring. It is the worst game I have ever experienced in my whole life. Please take 
 my advice and not buy this thing. Not game. Thing. I am sure it will dissapoint you. Just stick 
 with the inbuilt and free Pictochat. Whoever made this should be ashamed of themselves.
  They have given a bad name for a great handheld. No one even wanted to buy it off me so I had to 
 smash it and it's case with a sledgehammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix13
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good since I really like the "Unlocking" part of the game (buying the all the 
 clothes, music, and backrounds) . There are tons of themes and cool armour. A great game to roleplay. 
 Make shure you have a friend with a DS as well or you'll get bored the first day. Not much else 
 to say about the game, the only reason you should get it is if you want something better than picto 
 chat. Overall it's pretty good, and make shure to get it used. I give it a 7.0 out of 10.0. thank 
 you and goodnight *walks off stage*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  Ping pals is a fun chatting game, and it is getting a few bad reviews. In this game you chat with 
 people and buy thousands of items to customize an avatar with. It is pretty fun even in single 
 player. Just customizing your avatar is awsome 
  
  Gameplay: It's got very easy to learn controls, just typing and stuff. 
  
  Graphics: The avatars 
 are a cool anime style type people. You can make them look really awsome *cough, my favorite, samurai, 
 cough*, or kinda weird.
  
  Sound: It has some pretty catchy songs, but also some annoying ones. You can choose to turn it 
 off if you don't want to hear the music but want to hear the sound effects. I do this sometimes. 
 
  
  Overall, this is a fun game, but isn't entirely worth it exactly. It is fun for some but other 
 more serious gamers wouldn't really like it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishmobsta4eva
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jan 21, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  There is little I can say to fully express my hatred for this game. It's Pictochat with a smaller 
 box! And hey, guess what, it's only $30! And whoever said that the minigames would be a good idea 
 to this chat-based game, they were dead wrong, for you are timed and must use the letters to type 
 in an answer. And what is your reward? Making you stupid, big-eyed avatar look cool! Wow! You can 
 choose from either hats, facepaint, or the shoulders of a shirt! For the love of god, don't make 
 the mistake that I made and do not buy this embarassment to a perfectly good handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Za23
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2004 2:29 pm PT
Review:  ame play: 7/10- The overall game play of this game is really just based on chatting and acquiring 
 coins to update your avatar. Building your avatar is fun and there are many combinations of items 
 to fit your creative vision. This is mainly for multiple players but can be used for single player 
 chatting too. Speaking of single player mode, there are only 3 single player games. During multi-player 
 the games are better, but still seem repetitive. This also takes the new content download of the 
 DS to a new level allowing you to copy the game to up to 7 people for a limited amount of time.
 
  
  Sound 3/10: Sound? Oh you mean that elevator music crap that makes you want to cut your ears off. 
 Though throughout the game you can buy new music to fit your needs. Still, the music is rather 
 bad.
  
  Controls 5/10: You only use the touch screen. Thats it! You never use the buttons or the shoulder 
 buttons (L and R) . The Touch pad, which is pretty easy to useright? Yes! Except for in this game, 
 they make the letter keys way to small and since typing is the key role in this game that's quite 
 bad. Thats all I could find wrong with controls.
  
  Graphics 8/10: nice little comic like characters or avatars as they call them. Everything looks 
 as it should. You can tell the sunglasses are sunglasses and that the army vest is an army vest. 
 
  
  Over All its gets a 7.0
  
  Its worth it if you have alot of friends that get it or you have alot friends and that can download 
 the single card thing into there DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
