-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/piratesofthecaribbeandeadmanschest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pirates.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hack-and-slash swordplay is more shallow than it appears.
 lean sound design.
 minigames are few and uninteresting.
 graphics are chunky, with lots of texture seaming and tearing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.3, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Buena Vista Games
Developer: Griptonite Games
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Jun 27, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though Dead Man's Chest is largely competent, the sword fighting is too repetitive and the minigames 
 are too few and too bland to get anyone particularly excited. 

  Hot on the heels of Bethesda's Pirates of the Caribbean: The Legend of Jack Sparrow, which filled 
 us in on some of the past exploits of cinema's most flamboyant buccaneer, comes Buena Vista Games' 
 Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, which aims to bring us up to speed on Captain Jack's 
 most recent voyage concerning a certain seafaring spirit named Davy Jones. Unlike the film, though, 
 which bristles with danger and a grand sense of the fantastic, Dead Man's Chest has nothing particularly 
 exciting to offer, as it focuses on uninspired swordplay and a handful of unremarkable minigames. 
 The whole game feels pervasively dull.  

  The story in Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest is fairly faithful to its cinematic counterpart. 
 You'll play as all three main characters from the film -- Elizabeth Swann, Will Turner, and of course, 
 Captain Jack Sparrow -- over the course of the game. The game starts with a little explanation for 
 what Jack was doing in that coffin at the start of the film, and on the whole the story is mostly 
 faithful, though it tweaks a few minor exchanges for the sake of streamlining the game's storytelling 
 and stuffing more fights into the narrative. The game seems to use stills taken from the film and 
 its relatively simple 3D engine in equal measure for the story sequences, and though neither is 
 particularly cinematic in nature, both suffer from the fact that the game features no real voice 
 acting beyond a handful of in-game battle cries, and all of the game's attempts at storytelling 
 end up feeling really dry.  

          Captain Jack Sparrow has a debt to pay to Davy Jones.     

  You'll spend the majority 
 of your time hacking and slashing your way through filthy pirates, the bloody British, hungry cannibals, 
 and more. The game gradually grants you new combos and special moves as you progress, but pounding 
 on the Y button seems to do the job pretty well most of the time. Though all three characters play 
 pretty much identically, each has a unique power move that's activated by pressing both shoulder 
 buttons at once. Will throws a flurry of hand axes, Elizabeth breaks out with two swords, and most 
 amusingly, Jack fires a single bullet from his gun, which then ricochets around the room for several 
 seconds. The power moves are generally good for giving you some breathing room when you're surrounded 
 by enemies, but the game limits how often you can use them.  

  In addition to your standard cutlass, you'll find other weapons dropped by downed enemies or hidden 
 inside crates, and these range from a human femur to a pirate's blunderbuss. While your cutlass 
 apparently stays razor sharp forever, the other weapons you pick up wear out rather quickly, and 
 the game provides you with a wear indicator, as well as a gauge indicating how powerful the weapon 
 you're holding is. You'll also find piles of skulls and rocks and such that you can chuck at enemies 
 from afar, as well as torches to burn down flammable obstacles and buckets of water to douse flaming 
 obstacles. Surmounting such obstacles is really the only thing to take your mind off all the monotonous 
 sword fighting, though the game's penchant for repeated backtracking within a level makes this 
 about as tedious as the sword fighting.  

  Dead Man's Chest tries to mix things up a little with a few stylus-controlled minigames in between 
 the regular levels, but they're all so simple that the novelty wears out before you finish your 
 first game. For example, Walk the Plank is a simple four-color pattern-memorization game that pits 
 Captain Jack against a potentially mutinous crew member as they both balance precariously on the 
 mast of the Black Pearl, while Shoot the Monkey treats the Black Pearl as a shooting gallery of 
 sorts, where you aim to shoot the undead monkey Jack and avoid wounding one of the crew. Perhaps 
 the simplicity of the minigames would be forgivable if there were a greater variety, but what's 
 actually here gets old immediately. Through all of your trials and tribulations, you'll pick up 
 plenty of what a pirate treasures most: gold! Your plunder can be used between levels to buy concept 
 art and additional characters, as well as alternate costumes and weapons. There's a decent amount 
 of stuff to unlock this way, but most of it is just for show.  

          Though you gain access to a number of additional moves, you rarely need them.     

 
  The game's sound can feel anemic, but the overall presentation of Dead Man's Chest is rather evocative 
 of the movie, if a little bit sunnier. The environments are small, with some touches that are minor 
 but significant in setting the tone. It sets a pretty good mood for adventure, but technically 
 it's really underwhelming, and a lot of the environments, as well as the characters, look chunky 
 and crude. Textures are highly pixelated throughout, and we also saw some really unsightly texture 
 stretching and seaming.  

  Despite the fact that the PlayStation Portable and Nintendo DS versions are completely different 
 games, both suffer from core gameplay that is dull and repetitive. If you're a big fan of  Pirates 
 of the Caribbean , Dead Man's Chest is a decent companion to the film, and you'll probably be more 
 willing to overlook the repetitive swordplay and meager offering of simple minigames than most. 
 Without some affection for the source material, though, Dead Man's Chest will seem like a pretty 
 unremarkable action adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  At first, this game seems like it's just a piece of garbage, and essentially, it is. But for some 
 reason, I can't stop playing it. The simplistic controls make it easy to pick up and play, and 
 the collectibles are cool. Concept art, weapons, and costumes.
  
  The graphics are alright, nothing to scream about, but the cutscenes are a nice touch. The backgrounds 
 have some nice features, like running rivers, storms, distant ships, that kinda deal. The sound 
 is alright, again, nothing amazing, but it is reminiscent of the movie, which is cool.
  
  You have one minigame, in which you shoot Jack The Monkey by tapping him on the touch screen. It's 
 ok, and is a nice diversion from the hack and slash deal, but it doesn't occur enough.
  
  Overall, it's a fans game. I know this has been short, but there's not much to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linardi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  It was really fun, I completed it in about 1 day. In about another two days I earned enough money 
 to buy everything, and now I do have everything. When the game is completely finished, it becomes 
 a portal to unthinkable bordem. Sometimes I might play it to kill time, but I don't have any fun. 
 That's why I encourage my friends to get it too, so we can player 2 player mode, which I've heard 
 is great fun. I love playing any console on a multiplayer mode with anyone, I think it's really 
 fun so I don't get bored of it. If you are thinking of bying this game, at least tell a couple 
 friends to get it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Well maybe not the worst game, but it really is poor. I was expecting good things from this game, 
 with the graphics and the potential to be a great game, but it really is pathetic. The gameplay 
 is sooooo repetitive, the levels are essentially the same just with different skins. It requires 
 no skill at all to defeat enemies and get through a level. Parry, attack, parry, attack, run, attack, 
 parry, attack... Movie licensed crap. The graphics however are brilliant for a DS game, some of 
 the best yet seen, but from a DS game I don't really care about graphics. I want innovation with 
 the touch screen and microphone, not tapping squares on the screen in minigames! The sounds are 
 also so bad that I just switched off the volume on my Lite. To be honest I hate this game, even 
 though I got it free in a competition. The good thing is that the money I trade it for will go 
 to my Wii and Twilight Princess on December 8th.
  
  To sum up this game: AVOID LIKE THE PLAGUE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendan253
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean Dead Mans Chest is a great game all together. The game basicly follows 
 the story in the movie, but it gives more detail. For example: you start of as Jack Sparrow and 
 you have to find the picture of the key.
  The gameplay is great. It is in a 3D engine. 
  The top screen doesn't just show the gameplay it also shows a picture of your character, their 
 health, and a meter for your special attack. While the bottom screen shows your current weapon 
 and your collectibles like coins and rubies. If you collect 4 rubies at a location you unlock a 
 combo move.
  There are also mini games tided in with the game. The mini games are Walk the Plank (in this game 
 you have to try to knock your opponent of the mast) , Shoot the Monkey (in this game you have to 
 shoot the monkey more times then your opponent) , and Boom Barge (you have to try to shoot the other 
 ship and destroy the other ship before it destroys you) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbleBassDrummer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I won't lie. I went to see Dead Man's Chest in theaters twice already. As good as the movie was, 
 I've been played enough movie based games to know that they're usually lacking in... um... you 
 know, that thing that makes us like to play video games. I think they call it fun. However, this 
 is nothing of the case with Pirates of the Carribean: Dead Man's Chest.
  
  Some may find it repetitious, but there's no denying that Dead Man's Chest has a solid core gameplay. 
 You play as Jack, Elizabeth, and Will, respectively, and follow the scenes from the movie. The 
 first level will put Jack on Prison Island, where he managed to find the "drawing of a key." The 
 Prison Island scene from the movie was only a minute or so long, so a full blown level out of it 
 may seem a bit over the top, but that's how this game does its levels. Also, Elizabeth's escape 
 from Port Royal on the second level is a bit farfetched. It turns a scene where Elizabeth escapes 
 into beckett's office into a full blown conflict, pitting Elizabeth against half the British Royal 
 Navy by herself. Needless to say it doesn't follow the movie exactly, as in Tia Dalma's swamp, 
 you'll be greeted by melting swamp monsters. Maybe the crime here is that since Aladdin on Sega 
 Genesis, we've managed to forgive movie game levels for not staying tight with the movie. However, 
 in all fairness, the game is what we're playing.
  
  The gameplay, as I said, may seem repetitious, but as is the nature of all beat 'em ups. Games 
 like the new Ninja Turtles series have forgotten that a game like that needs to keep moving to 
 stay interesting. Pirates does just that. You'll be slashing away at pirates, guards, monsters, 
 and whatever else, what have you. You'll defeat two or three (usually) enemoes and then move on. 
 You'll also never feel like you're really stuck, as the camera gives you a side view, and follows 
 you pretty well. The camera presents no real issues at all. You'll unlock combos by collecting 
 four gems scattered throughout a level. This will make the combat a lot more interesting, but it 
 also means you'll have to keep your eyes peeled. Mostly, the gems are hard to miss, but sometimes 
 you do have to go out of your way to look for them. After unlocking all the combos, the second 
 playthrough becomes really interesting, because having all the combos makes it a much more complex 
 fighting experience. There are also plenty of weapons scattered throughout the game that you can 
 use. Except for guns they all fight pretty much the same, though they all have varying levels of 
 strength. More often than not, your standard cutlass is more than enough to get the job done.
 
  
  The controls aren't bad at all. The combos are easily utilized with usually holding the L button 
 or simply combonations of different main buttons. The combos are never more than two or three buttons 
 long, but there are so many that you may finding yourself finishing one preparing the next. There 
 are some combos, sadly, that you might not even use. For a game that relies so heavily on combat, 
 it's a shame they didn't make these combos melt into each other for endless streams of hurt. The 
 touch screen here might as well no be a touch screen at all. It counts your gold, tells you how 
 many gems you have, and your current weapon. It's a shame they didn't give you an inventory, and 
 the touch screen to pick your weapon quickly.
  
  The graphics remind me of N64. This is a handheld system, so I'm not going to be a graphics prick. 
 N64 graphics on a handheld is more than I thought I'd ever see in life. The sound is pretty good. 
 You'll hear swords clash, and the Pirates soundtrack looped into cool battle themes. The voice 
 acting however, really leaves something to be desired. It's not so much the quality, as it is the 
 horrible lack of it. Between level cutscenes seem particuarly dry without it. When Tony Hawk American 
 Sk8land can put speeches in between levels, Pirate's animated cutscenes could have used full voice.
 
  
  This is the first game of it's kind on DS. Though it has it's share of flaws, this is an entirely 
 fun and competant game for your pocket. It's nothing new or terribly interesting, but that would 
 be asking too much out of a game that's trying to just make use of the hardware. Like I said, it's 
 loads of fun, just don't expect too much you haven't seen before. It doesn't break any boundries, 
 but it serves its purpose in creating a 3D beat 'em up adventure for your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  To make it simple it was awesome. You can play as Jack, Elizabeth, and Will. The game is a basic 
 hack and slash adventure through the movie. There was a wide array of different enemies to fight 
 through from bloody British (Ryan Davis) to pirate scum, all the way to native cannibals. Enemies 
 will drop an assortment of different things. They will drop health and special potions. Health 
 obviously heals health and special fills up your special bar. Sometimes a weapon will be dropped. Each 
 weapon has a certain amount of attacks it can take before it breaks, the stronger it is, the more 
 fragile it is. Gold will also be dropped for unlocking special goodies such as a better weapon 
 that would usually break in about 30 seconds. You can also unlock characters so you can play that 
 character on any level. Also each character has a special outfit such as Jack has the Tribal Leader. Concept 
 art for the movie is also available. So with all of this, plus 3 exciting mini games, Pirates of 
 the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest will keep you playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morningstar51
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is very repetitive, but it provides the player with plenty of action and lots of unlockables, 
 which sort of makes up for the lack of innovation. Unfortunately, the boss fights in the game all 
 feel the same. There is really no strategy to beat the bosses. Its not even required to use any 
 of the advance combo moves to beat them. It's nice that you can play through the game as all three 
 heroes from the film though. At least each character has a special attack, which on occasion can 
 be very helpful. The environment graphics look incredible, probably some of the best looking backgrounds 
 I've seen on the DS platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nibs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I just got Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Mans Chest and all and all it was a pretty good game 
 
  The gamplay was by far the best it was intersting and addicting. I also wonted to know a little 
 about the moive before it came out and this is the perfect way.. you can play this game with Jack 
 ,Will and elzibeth and you can switch with each of them in the middle of the game 
  It was a bit short so the value wasent the best for the price!! 
  To me the graphics are what 
 held this game back if they were a bit better and less pixalated this game would have been better.... 
 
  They still have the catchy theme music but twisted and it was exciting to listen to so all in all 
 it was 8.6 game to me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffedcabbage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest is great for many reasons. For one, this game is 3d, 
 other than Mario 64 and Animal crossing there arent many 3d games on DS. Its like having a whole 
 3d adventure in the palm of your hands. The controls are super easy, if you cant figure these out, 
 then you shouldnt be playing video games. When you are fighting an enemy, there isnt a lock on 
 system, but its not needed at all. The controls suit the 3d environments you will be exploring 
 and fighting your way through.
  
  Second, the graphics on this game are awesome, considering its on DS. Most 3d games, the graphics 
 are so bad, that you cant even tell whats going on, but this game totally takes care of that.
 
  
  Third, there are many unlockables. There are different costumes for all 3 characters, a lot of 
 concept art and a whole lot of weapons to buy and find during gameplay.
  
  This isnt a main reason to buy this game, but, there are a couple of mini games that are really 
 addicting. Thats more of a bonus rather than a reason to buy this game
  
  This game is worth every cent it costs. This is a definite must own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest is a little disappointing. The camera view is horrible, 
 and looks almost like a 3d game, when you move you can't even see whats in front of you do to 
 the horrible camera view. I bought this game for the ds instead of the psp for 2 reasons, #1 its 
 $10 cheaper, #2 I thought that they were going to give the ds better controls, and that they were 
 going to use the touch screen way more. sorta like in resident evil for the ds, when you could 
 swing the knife by using the touch screen to swing any way you want, well that was not the case 
 at all you touch screen serves to purposes in this game. All the touch screen is used foe is to 
 cont your gold , something so small they could have put it on the top right or left on the main 
 screen. And even though I havent seen the movie I know for a fact that this games is nothing like 
 the game. The reason I say this is because when you playing the game you have to kill people, and 
 after killing a group of people magically all the doors open just at that time (stupid!) Now what 
 they should have done was wants you kill them all one of the have a key, that you could get to 
 open the doors, instead of just magically opening.
  The graphics are ok, nothing special, but ok, if the worked on the game a little longer, and figured 
 a way of making the piccolos a little smaller the graphics would be better. The sound is ok to, 
 there are some good music, but thee is at no point does the character talk, only subtitles, witch 
 really makes me want the psp ver. better. The value is again fair the game could be longer, but 
 I guess it's ok, plus the game was only $30. The gameplay is pretty bad,, mainly because of the 
 camera view, and because like I said before with the magical doors just opening. The game is also 
 a little weird, and at certain parts makes no scents. Personally I think that the game is ok if 
 it was like $20 or you are just really rich, or still play gba games and are used to it, LOL. 
 
  Anyway thank you for reading my review, and please leave some good feedback, and leave a comment 
 in my blog. Thanks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  This is an early review for sure, but I decided to add my $1.50 anyway, because it might be useful 
 to someone. I watched a few of the trailers floating around for this game before it came out and 
 thought they looked too good to be true. But some of the comments I read weren't making it out 
 to be anything special. Still, I dropped the $35. down on it yesterday and have made it past the 
 first boss. So far I really like this game a lot. It's exactly what I want from DS games. The graphics 
 are top notch, and of a kind I personally haven't seen on the DS yet (currently own 9 DS games) . 
 The movement is smooth, the action is constant - ceratainly a hack and slash adventure game. The 
 buttons are responsive, though I think there's room for small improvements mostly during combat. 
 The camera has a few glitches occasionally, like when you're moving between two rooms - there were 
 a couple of times when it kept flicking me back and forth between two rooms and I couldn't get 
 oriented properly, but these seem to be rare at this point and aren't a significant distraction. 
 Overall the camera works surprisingly well. It follows your character and doesn't get in your way. 
 It's not a 3D game I like Metroid Prime Hunters is, but it's designed to look like you have more 
 freedom than a typical 2D side scroller. So far for me the game presents a LOT of combat fighting, 
 box breaking, and a good amount of story line which contains a few humorous remarks along the way. 
 There are cut scenes which momentarily show you what action lies ahead after you reach certain 
 point along the way, and there are also story-based cut scenes after you finish levels. Game saves 
 are mandated by the game and not the gamer. Usually I would prefer to be able to save games at 
 any point in the game, but in this case it works out ok; the game automatically saves at the right 
 times, and they are frequent. The sound is good, but it's no movie soundtrack.
  
  Overall, I think this is a top-notch game for the DS. For me it's addictive. The graphics, controls, 
 and gameplay are all fantastic. If you like action/adventure games on your DS, you'll definately 
 want to check this one out. I think it's a "must have" for any DS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game was great on the PSP and I wondered, "Will it be better on the DS" Well, I didn't bother 
 trying it because I needed to buy it because Blockbuster in my town wasn't getting the game til 
 July. So I bought it 2 days later and I was just amazed by all the great things in the game. Graphics: 
 Great fpr a DS game. Sound: Crystal Clear. Gamplay: Leading ou through the game with a smooth storyline. 
 What I am trying to explain, is that Dead Man's Treasure was a big surprise, but in a good way. 
 I believe it was one of the best DS games I have ever played. If you love action-adventure games 
 and r elooking to take that kind of game on a trip portably, then you will fall in love wih Dead 
 Man's Treasure. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
