-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/piratesofthecaribbean3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Blocks and counterattacks liven up combat.
 New tools let you uncover secrets in previously visited levels.
 Touch-screen minigames and duels enhance game without dominating it.
 Story scenes and characters' abilities jive with depictions in the movie.
 Graphics show that the DS can do decent 3D.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Can only play three different characters in main quest.
 Multiplayer is limited to duels and a dice game.
 Brief voice comments are only highlight of the audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: May 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The DS rendition of At World's End delivers a good mix of sword fighting and acrobatic exploration 
 that jibes with the movie's overall tone. 

  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End for the Nintendo DS is an action adventure game patterned 
 after the film of the same name. The game lets you control three of the main protagonists as you 
 jump and stab your way through 30-some levels that loosely follow the progression of the movie. 
 Fans of the movie franchise will appreciate how the 3D graphics bring places like The Black Pearl 
 and Davy Jones' Locker to life, and also how the game's designers have taken care to concoct a 
 balanced mix of sword fighting, swashbuckling acrobatics, and stylus-based minigames. Furthermore, 
 anyone that was disappointed by the DS version of Dead Man's Chest should be pleased to learn that 
 At World's End looks nicer and is more involved than that earlier game was.  

          You'll control Elizabeth, Will, and Captain Jack as you swashbuckle through 30-some levels 
 based on the movie.     

  You'll have your choice of Elizabeth Swann and Will Turner during the first dozen levels, but a 
 trip to Davy Jones' Locker eventually makes Captain Jack Sparrow available for the remainder. The 
 game's story is generally faithful to the film's, although some events have been shuffled and some 
 new plot points were created to cram more traveling and dueling into the overall journey. While 
 the graphics are rendered in 3D, the action is 2D. The camera usually follows your character's 
 movements from left to right like a typical 2D side-scroller, but the camera perspective will occasionally 
 switch to a behind-the-back view when you climb ladders or walk deeper into the background.  

 
  Getting through each level involves a fair amount of acrobatics in the form of jumping between 
 platforms, climbing ladders, sidling across overhangs, and swinging between ropes. You'll also 
 frequently make use of helpful items, such as a bamboo pole, torch, and grappling hook. Breaking 
 open crates and barrels will give you coins, health refills, and different special weapons that 
 you can unleash on enemies. As you make your way through a level, you'll encounter pirates and 
 other armed foes that you can do battle with. By pushing the buttons, you can make your character 
 block, jump, and chain together attacks using a sword. Before an enemy lunges in with an attack, 
 an icon will appear indicating that you can perform a stylish counterstrike by tapping the X button. 
 Solitary foes can be dealt with by repeatedly mashing the attack button, but fights against two 
 or three opponents require a strategic mix of blocks and counterstrikes. You'll "die" if you run 
 out of health or fall into the water. On the whole, the game isn't all that challenging. There 
 are some tricky jump sequences and hectic battles here and there, but checkpoints are plentiful 
 and you can continue as often as you need to.  

  People complained that the previous game, which was based on  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's 
 Chest , was a linear romp that didn't offer many weapons or chances to explore. At World's End 
 responds to those complaints by offering a wider variety of weapons and attacks as well as letting 
 you wander off onto side paths that lead to items that you can collect to eventually extend your 
 health bar or unlock bonus levels. This game also makes better use of the system's touch-sensitive 
 screen. You change weapons by dragging them around on the touch screen and some tasks, such as 
 picking treasure chests and repairing door locks, involve completing minigames that require quickly 
 drawing lines or rotating gears with the stylus. Every couple of levels or so, you'll participate 
 in a duel with a major villain, during which you perform different attacks by drawing lines and 
 shapes on the touch screen. When it comes time to deal the finishing blow, you have to draw a simple 
 pattern that's shown to you for only a split second. If you flub up, you'll need to dish out a 
 couple more regular attacks before the finisher prompt appears again. A pirate ship serves as the 
 hub between levels. On board, you can talk to various crew members to learn new attacks and to 
 switch characters. There's also a Liar's Dice game below deck that's played entirely using the 
 stylus and touch screen. The nice thing about duels and the minigames is that they're brief and 
 generally don't get in the way of the game's button-based acrobatics or group sword battles.  

 
  You won't be impressed by the audio, which mostly consists of looped movie music and a few frequently 
 repeated spoken phrases, but the graphics are clean, and the overall presentation matches the movie's 
 atmosphere. The characters resemble their movie counterparts, they move fluidly, and the backgrounds 
 are full of plants, signs, and other details that evoke the movie's locations. Levels are split 
 into small, manageable sections, no doubt to help the system display the 3D environments, characters, 
 and flowing waterways without grinding the action to a halt. Texture quality varies, but the 3D 
 environments are reasonably intricate and generally look good. The previous game was plagued by 
 muddy textures, disappearing polygons, and other graphical glitches. This game doesn't suffer from 
 any of those flaws. Levels contained within the same area tend to recycle the same enemies and 
 set pieces, though, so you may experience the occasional fit of burnout from that.  

          These pirates can't swim. Fall into the water, and you'll restart from the checkpoint. 
     

  In terms of length, it'll probably take you about eight hours to complete the game, with another 
 hour or two on top of that if you intend to find all of the hidden map pieces and unlock all of 
 the characters in the two multiplayer games. The multiplayer games, unfortunately, are nothing 
 special. You can play Liar's Dice with as many as four DSs sharing a single copy of the game. Or, 
 if you know someone else that has the game, you can participate in duels using any of more than 
 a dozen characters.  

  Fans of the movie will likely be pleased with Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End for the 
 Nintendo DS. Despite a few reasonable dalliances, the presentation and story progression remain 
 faithful to what was depicted in the film. Meanwhile, the game itself delivers a balanced mix of 
 acrobatics, combat, and exploration that fits with what you'd want to be able to do as Captain 
 Jack in a video game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Annimation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  I was very pleasantly surprised by this game. It is well designed with different strategies involved 
 and makes good use of the touch screen especially with the sword fights (sword fights take place 
 on top and bottom screens but the ones of the bottom screen are particularly good) . It was challenging 
 and deeply entertaining with good graphics and graphical accuracy and a good combination of things 
 to keep the interest going. As you proceed through the game, you soon realise that you will need 
 to come back particular areas once you've obtained the right tools for the job and rather than 
 being a bore, it drives you on in the quest. With sword-fights, acrobatic ability, stealth and 
 items to collect, It all makes for good game play. In summary, it was absorbing and kept me very 
 well entertained and yes, it's much better than Dead-Man's Chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lauder_now
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS seems to play host to a plethora of platforming games, from the New Super Mario 
 to Assassin's Creed. I just purchased Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's end a week ago. Who 
 cares if i'm a little late coming into this game, I live in Australia and the games are $60 US 
 over here. I only buy preowned. 
  
  Anyway, back to reviewing. Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End is a simple, linear, but essentially 
 fun platforming game. Jumping across ledges, carrying fire from one spot to another in a limited 
 amount of time, crawling through familiar scenes from the movie, it's all great. However, with 
 all great game design, there's a few minor gripes which I have with the game. 
  
  The combat is fun... for the first 2 levels. After you make it into Davy Jones' Locker, the combat 
 gets boring, even with the strategy you get with Savvy Weapons (such as strategically thrown flash 
 bombs) and the stealth kills. I really disliked the whole Davy Jones' Locker Level, as the music, 
 tone and atmosphere simply killed the whole swash-buckling pirates theme.
  Aside from those minor grips, the fun and sense of reward you get after unlocking Jack Sparrow 
 revives the game and gives you reason to play it till the end. 
  
  The length of this game is enough to keep you entertained, and is well worth buying. There were 
 some additional features i found quite pointless though... i'm one of the few people which hates 
 the 'Liar's Dice' mini game, and the fact that the entire single-card multiplayer revolves around 
 this makes the multiplayer pretty dull. The duels are fun though, and aside from a few minor levels, 
 i found this a very, very enjoyable platforming game.
  
  Review by Lauder Now
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saleen1012
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Carribean at World's End on DS is the closest story towards the Dead Man's Chest, 
 and the end of Dead Man's Chest. It follows along the scenario of the movie, which the rest of 
 them lack on, and fall behind. On the last two Pirates of the Carribean's, you will notice that 
 you dont play with Jack Sparrow, but with At World's End, you have the ability to, which will seem 
 rewarding, while you're playing. The similarities between this game, and Dead Man's Chest is that 
 the goal is to run a lot, and beat down A LOT of enemies. I would compare this sequel to a Tomb 
 Raider/ Prince of Persia type of game. At some points of the game, the designers, did at times, 
 get a bit lazy, by making you grab on some ledges, but then some of the same ledges, that are also 
 possible to grab they don't allow you to grab, which makes the game a lot harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderSora
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  These Bastards didn't even use voice acting! WTF?
  
  The graphics suck. They look like a Nintendo 64 and SNES reproduced.
  
  
  
  My advice is 
 if you want a good game, buy Super Mario 64 DS. You'll have much more fun playing it than this.
 
  
  Gameplay is horrible. It takes forever to figure it out.
  
  Cutscenes? No. They don't have cutscenes, instead, horrible attempts at them. You see a "3D" view, 
 then various text from characters.
  
  This is fail.
  
  So basically, do not buy Pirates of the Caribbean: At Worlds End for the Nintendo DS unless you 
 find it at a cheap price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1914
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End may seem like a worthless cash-in when you see it in the 
 store, but looks can be deceiving. The graphics look like they were pulled out of a PSP game, there 
 are plenty of items and unlockables, and this game captures the humor and wit from the movie. They 
 even give you 4 different attacks: Basic, sneak, item, and counter attacks. Duels may be a little 
 less action packed then the movie duels, but are just as fun as regular gameplay. So, I highly 
 reccomend this not only to Pirates of the Caribbean fans, but to anyone who likes adventure/action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Let me premise my review of this game by saying, I never saw the movie and I'm not a huge fan at 
 all. I did see the first Pirates movie and it was entertaining for what it was. My reasons, however, 
 for trying this game out have all to do with the fact that I love action / adventure games and 
 I love my DS.
  
  I'm happy to say, this game was a pleasant surprise. It had a lot of the expected rough edges of 
 a movie cash-in, but it's also very fun to play. If I had to sum up At World's End DS in a sentence, 
 I'd say it's very much like having a pocket God of War. Well, it's not going to compare to Chains 
 of Olympus, but you get my meaning.
  
  The game begins with a simple level, offering instruction the whole way through. At the end of 
 the level, you duel some guy. Like I said, I didn't see the moviesome guy. And that's pretty 
 much how the entire game flows. You'll do a few levels, and then, rather than a boss battle, you'll 
 have a duel, which is done using a combination of the touch-screen and face-buttons. It's rather 
 simple, but entertaining nonetheless. The levels (and this is why I made reference to God of War) 
 are comprised of a mixture of clever navigation  ala scaling walls, grappling across pits, hand-climbing 
 your way over large divides, etc.  and a bit of combat and platforming. The levels are very well 
 designed and, though you'll be doing many of the same things throughout the game, they remain fresh 
 the whole way through. In addition to taking obvious cues from God of War, At World's End also 
 takes inspiration from the Zelda series (and, of course, God of War takes inspiration from that, 
 as well) . As you progress through the game, you'll find new tools that you'll use to get through 
 levels. One of the first tools is a long bamboo pole, which you'll use to pole-vault across long 
 gaps in a given level. The animation of the character looks great when you're vaulting, and it's 
 just a lot of fun. It's the same for most of the other tools you'll acquire, as well. By the end 
 of the game, you'll be required to utilize all the various tools and techniques you've received 
 in order to make your way to the final goal.
  
  As mentioned, there is a bit of combat and it's one of the game's weak points, to be sure. There 
 is actually a decent variety of enemies and they each have unique attacks, but, unless they're 
 in groups, they offer little to no resistance. It's not a huge drawback, because the real fun comes 
 from the adventure elements. The puzzles might be easy in the extreme, but just making your way 
 through a level is a lot of fun. On the production end, this is no Nintendo-published title. This 
 is, indeed, still very much a movie cash-in and, as such, it's got the bare bones for looking good 
 without any polish. The graphics are a mix of very pretty and very sparse. Sunsets are actually 
 quite gorgeous, but the water and waves are pixilated. Character clothing is detailed, with great 
 shading, but faces are blocky and lack much detail. The cutscenes, for the most part, show the 
 game at its worst, and At World's End's best pose is when you're actually going through a level. 
 Perhaps the game's creators would have fared better with a less realistic approach to the character 
 models. That said, everything still looks good where it should, so no major complaints.
  
  Sound, too, is quite good. I recognize many of the actors' voices, though voice-overs, too, are 
 sparse throughout the game. The music is entertaining, and the sound effects work nicely. What 
 doesn't work so well is the game's hub, which happens to be whatever ship you are supposed to be 
 currently traveling on. You'll find your way around eventually, but there's too much and too little 
 at the same time. In that, I mean there's all these different people and items on a ship that you 
 can interact with, but each offers only one or two minor things that you might need. It's kind 
 of like a messy desk. As for replay, I actually see myself playing through this adventure again. 
 Perhaps not right away, but it's got an arcade feel to it that I enjoy. There's a multiplayer thing, 
 but it's merely more dueling; not sure if that's going to inspire anyone to pick the game back 
 up or not. But the main game is not terribly long, which I'm sure most folks would expect. I'd 
 say, overall, if you're an adventure fan looking for something to play on your DS, this is a decent 
 choice, if you can find it at a discount price. I would certainly not recommend buying it at the 
 full retail price, if for no other reason but simply to slow down Disney's march toward world domination. 
 But for $20 or less, it'll probably satisfy you until Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword comes out or you're 
 ready to replay Phantom Hourglass again for the third or fourth time.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  GD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizdizzy
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End had a tremendous amount of potential, so its unfortunate 
 that Disney chose not to fully utilize that potential. The graphics were decent, the special weaponry 
 ala daggers, bombs, and whips were fun to use, and Jacks compass even led you toward hidden treasure. 
 However, the game is six, maybe seven hours long if you replay the levels to attain all the treasure 
 chests. Fortunately, I purchased it when it was twenty bucks. And while the levels escalate in 
 difficulty, the boss fights do not, effectively meaning that the first boss fight was as difficult 
 as the final one. Overall, it is a bit short, but a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbossaFan5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I really wasn't sure if it was going to be good. The first game for GBA 
 was terrible. When I played this game, I loved it. The game is highly addictive and very fun. The 
 Liar's Dice mini game and duel mini games are fun. The Liar's Dice game can be played via download 
 with one copy of the game, but the duel requires two. You can unlock duelists, such as Captain 
 Barbossa, by beating them in the game. The game is made up of Mario style adventure levels with 
 FANTASTIC GRAPHICS. It is 3-D. You can also download cheats at Disneyland. However the game ends 
 much too quickly. This was the first game I actually finished. It took me, an average, play for 
 fun player, about nine hours. Of course, you can go back to unlock other levels, but it is tedious 
 because you must replay every level to find map pieces. In closing, I would highly recommend this 
 game, but don't be surprised if you finish it in a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas-Master
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is indeed an interesting title. It has alot of action and some very neatly designed levels. 
 The fact that the three main characters are SOMEWHAT different is pretty cool. Unfortunately, the 
 movie's characters (bosses, supporting characters) are the only unique characters in the game. 
 The enemies are very generic. I feel like I'm fighting the same battle a dozen times. The minigames 
 are very interesting. The Liar's Dice takes a bit of getting used to, but it gets pretty good when 
 you learn how. The duels are very well designed. The moves Barbossa teach you really spice up the 
 battles. My only big complaint is the length. I got this game on Sunday. I'm on the second-last 
 world. And if you knew me, I'm imfamous for taking forever to beat my games. It feels like it'll 
 be a lengthy game at first, then BANG! You're on Davy Jones' doorstep. Overall, this game is very 
 fun. I'd reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_the_first
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Most movie-based games feature either horrible graphics or horrible gameplay, but of course some 
 exceptions exist. And I am very happy to say that this game is one of them.
  Being a great fan of the movies I thought Id give this game a try and see how it was. During the 
 first level I wondered if I should play any further, it was boring since it was a practice level. 
 And since the previous game got a lot of bad reviews it got me really worried about my money. I 
 did play further though and I was very pleasantly surprised. The game actually does feature a lot 
 more then simply pressing the same button the whole time, or jumping over the same things over 
 and over. I play platformers on hard and I still havent finished this after a week of playing. 
 I keep going back over levels I have already played. Why? Cause its fun! You have to time your 
 jumps and helping-weapons really well and defeating three enemies at the same time can be pretty 
 tricky. First thing that crossed my mind after I got through the first level was that they actually 
 made a really good platformer and then put the whole POTC atmosphere to it. Almost like its not 
 about pirates at all, just a really fun game, and on top of that it has pirates. And come on, who 
 doesnt like pirates? Some levels have some really well hidden secrets that arent so easy to get 
 to and you can replay any level you have already played to find those secrets. The music can be 
 really, really frustrating in some levels. It just loops and loops without any change. But in most 
 levels your too busy timing your jumps and helping-weapons that you dont even notice, and at those 
 times the music actually does add to the overall experience, how crazy that may sound.
  Ah, the graphics. Well, lets just say there have been worse games on the DS. It doesnt show the 
 true power of the DS, but the levels are enriched with details and I must say that I rather have 
 it like this then a game with great graphics that doesnt move flawlessly. All in all the graphics 
 are good, just not great.
  Levels are really big and if you play on easy or normal there are plenty of checkpoints. When you 
 play on hard there are of course a lot less checkpoints, and might leave you feeling like there 
 is too little. But hey, thats why they call it hard, isnt it?
  The mini-games are fun as well. Opening chests by moving the stylus in between rows of picks can 
 take you a few tries, but it isnt all that hard on the whole. The good thing about those chests 
 is that they arent overdone: they dont appear too much so they wont get you frustrated over 
 them. The duelling system is well thought out and makes it easy for both left-handed and right-handed 
 people to play. The voice acting done for duels is a little boring, the same thing is being said 
 over and over. There is no place left for you to cower! and Im being keelhauled! doesnt sound 
 very intelligent anymore after the third time of hearing it.
  But the replay value is great since you can replay any level you have played before. Much like 
 Lego Star Wars II, only without the glitches and blasters.
  
  So my conclusion is that if your looking for a nice platformer that is action packed and has nice 
 little minigames to it, then go for this game. This will give you a good experience in the story 
 mode and then there is a lot of other maps to be found that lead to other islands, thus more levels. 
 It truly is a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peopletopeople
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game added in battles, people, events, and much more in that were not in the movie. Davy Jones 
 was not killed by lightning, Will did not fight a lost soul or jack, Davy Jones did not kill Beckett, 
 and Tia Dalma had a lot to do with the movie, and nothing to do with the game. And I don't know 
 who that guy from Sigapore was, but Soa Feng looked nothing like that. Overall, the was fun but 
 not worth valuble time. la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la l la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1399
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 28, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  I was looking to get this game once I saw the movie, I figured the movie was good so why not try 
 out the game, I would of got the Xbox 360 version but I didnt feel like dishing out $60 on a liscened 
 movie game, so i bought the DS version, and I have somewhat mixed reactions to the game.
  
  Gameplay: While the gameplay can be a lot of fun, it is a pretty bland hack n' slash game, yes 
 you get a whip or a couple of grenades here and there, (which are fun to mess around with by the 
 way) and if you slash an enemy with a whip, he dies almost instanty, but when you run someone threw 
 with a sword he doesnt go down, which doesnt make much sense. You can pick three characters, Jonny 
 Depp, Elizabeth, and Orlando Bloom. The uses of the touch screen also are mixed, the lock picking 
 is fun, but dueling is a little awkward. A plus for the gameplay is that there is a lot more puzzle 
 solving in AWE than in DMC, giving a lot more variety to the gameplay making it feel more like 
 Prince of Persia or Tomb Raider. It is also worth mentioning that getting Captain Sparrow is very 
 rewarding! Even though it takes half the game to get him. All in all the gameplay is a fun, albeit 
 repetitive hack n slash that throws in a few interesting puzzles and duels here and there, and 
 it does a good job following the events of the Movie.
  
  Graphics: The garphics are impressive in some spots, especially in the environments but fail to 
 impress you in player models, the characters in the game dont look much like the real characters, 
 but the 3D environments confiscate for that.
  
  Sound: There isnt much dialogue, the characters say a little phrase when they get hurt and are 
 fighting, but thats it. The in game music, however, is really good and it really goes with the 
 gameplay and pirate theme.
  
  Value: You'll finish the story in about 6 hours, Jonny Depp is worth unlocking, and there is a 
 few minigames here ant there, even a multiplayer mode, also you can come back and play any level 
 you want after you finish, if thats your thing.
  
  Overall this game deserves a around a 6.5 out of 10, its fun, but has flaws you can get past if 
 your a big fan or a fan of beat em ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuyasongoku
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 24, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok i liked the movies, they're fun in a family orientated way, so i thought i'd give this game 
 a go, maybe it would be simular to Sid Miers - Pirates! Fingers crossed. But no, what i found was 
 something based off the exact same movie story. Not that that's a bad thing, it's enjoyable but 
 after an hour playing it it got fairly dull. They tried their best to make use of the touch screen 
 elements , which is good, but overall a found the game play just too repetitive, and too - be there 
 done that. The graphics are nicely done when fighting but in the normal side scrolling mode just 
 average. This is not the best review ever written but it's short and quick. if you're a fan, you'll 
 probably like this, if not don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azotyp
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 24, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  I checked this game , and im dissapointed ,there is new character view , but that isometric viev 
 from last part was better. Also there is less hack'n'slash action in battles with oponents , and 
 there is less satisfaction from fighting oponents. Thee was addad some usage of the touch screen 
 , like minigame with opening a locks and others propably , but i wont know that because i ended 
 playing like a fter 6-7 minutes. if someone is planning to buy that i say , better wait for Ninja 
 Gaiden release , because this game is not worth paing money for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 22, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is very different to it's predecessor. It has now been 
 transformed into a platformer, with some appealing levels and features.
  
  Graphics: They're quite actually, considering the genre of games (movie- based don't usually get 
 good graphics) . They are full 3D, though a little bit choppy sometimes, especially in scenes of 
 action (which is normal, due to the DS's hardware limitations) .
  
  Sound: A bit monotonous, using the same theme for the whole level you are playing. It's subtle, 
 yes, but it could be a little more versatile here. Voice acting is quite nice, though still continue 
 to be in English for who plays in different languages.
  
  Gameplay: Nice. Platformer, action-pirate based game, it's all here - in different dosages. The 
 levels are big, but not boring, and the touch screen isn't used much (common to these games) . However, 
 it makes use of the latter in the boss battles, which simply involve sliding the stylus to harm 
 and then a combo to disarm your enemy. Simple, but fun. Opening chests also involves the touch 
 screen, as well as equipping some items.
  
  Replay value: Not much. Local multiplayer is just what it includes. We didn't expect Wi-Fi though, 
 but it would be a good addition. The Mini-games help a little, but after completing the main story, 
 there's not much to do.
  
  Resuming, POTC: At World's End presents itself as being a good movie-based game, especially on 
 a handheld! It contains enough for keeping you entertained for some hours, and certainly fans of 
 the movie shall like this. It also appeals for non-fans, like me, in which the game is surprisingly 
 good. However, it doesn't include much replay value, and it may get boring after a while. Get it 
 if you like! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
