-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Planet Puzzle League
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/paneldeponds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brain-bending puzzle mode.
 Interesting combo mechanic.
 Robust online options.
 You can talk to other players via voice chat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Normal game often degenerates into chaos.
 So-so graphics.
 Not as new as its price tag.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 267 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Jun 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Planet Puzzle League offers a puzzle game experience that is familiar, flawed, and fun, all at once. 
 

  Planet Puzzle League is the latest block to drop in an old series of simple puzzle games known 
 as Puzzle League (or Panel de Pon) . The idea in these games has always been to shift like-colored 
 blocks into rows or columns of three, prompting them to politely vanish. It should sound familiar, 
 and not just because the series has been around for 15 years. Everyone, at some point in their 
 gaming career, has matched colored blocks and made them disappear. So what separates Planet Puzzle 
 League's colorful cubes from the other blocks, jewels, and pills you've sorted in your life? Two 
 things in particular: The DS stylus, which makes sorting blocks easier than ever before, and global 
 Internet play, so you can challenge the square-pushers of the world. These two new features make 
 Planet Puzzle League a nice place to revisit, though its staying power is questionable.  

          Back evil rectangles! You shall not have my squares this day.     

  In case you aren't 
 familiar with the series, colored squares rise from the bottom of your screen. You can drag them 
 horizontally, but not vertically, to match up with like-colored squares. Like Tetris, if a block 
 touches the top of the screen, you lose. Also like Tetris, the game moves faster as you score points. 
 So while the blocks rise slowly at first, they eventually speed up.  

  The intellectual meat of this game is setting up the blocks in a way that creates a chain reaction: 
 Your first matchup leads to a purple block falling between two other purples (for example) , which 
 in turn leads to another score, and so on and so forth. Planning these sequences, or at least recognizing 
 them, is what has always made Puzzle League fun and engaging.  

  However, this leads to an odd flaw in the gameplay. To set up a sweet chain reaction, the screen 
 must be mostly full of blocks. Yet, if the screen is nearly full, you're nearly dead. In the early 
 going you have time to work sweet magic, but as the game accelerates, you're reduced to simply 
 flinging blocks around, praying for random chain reactions. This creates a perverse sense of guilt 
 every time you do something cool, because like a bee setting up a perfect sting, you're hastening 
 your own demise.  

  This is probably why Puzzle Planet never became as popular as other giants in the puzzle genre -- you're 
 constantly working against yourself. However, there are more modes than just the normal game, and 
 these are far more rewarding. The best is puzzle mode, which confronts you with an assortment of 
 blocks that must all be neutralized within one or two moves. These are well paced, usually with 
 four or five easy puzzles to keep you winning, and then one mind-bender to get you thinking.  

 
  Another cool mode is active puzzles mode, though it requires some explaining. When matched blocks 
 disappear, you have a split-second to shove a nearby block into the space, hopefully leading to 
 another series of matched blocks. So, every active puzzle begins with a series of blocks disappearing, 
 and you have to quickly move the one or two blocks that will keep the combo rolling, until all 
 the blocks are gone. These puzzles are where the game earns its money.  

  Then there's daily mode. This mode contains three challenges you can attempt only once per day. 
 So you'd think these  would not  be challenges you could easily attempt outside of daily mode anytime 
 you wanted. After all, what would be the point of that? But alas, they are, making this feature 
 utterly pointless.  

  This leads to a greater problem with Planet Puzzle League: its total lack of continuity and purpose. 
 Sure, there are tons of puzzles to solve, but there's nothing to motivate you aside from your own 
 lack of anything better to do. Once you put this game down, it's easy to forget about, because 
 there are no rewards or anything else to look forward to. Also, the various elements, while good 
 in and of themselves, do not connect in any meaningful way.  

  At least the head-to-head content is nice and atavistic. If you break open a nice, big combo, you'll 
 dump giant blocks on your opponent's pile. And if you work certain item blocks into your combos, 
 you might reshuffle your opponents' pieces, freeze up one of their rows, or simplify the colors 
 on your own board. Not only can you wirelessly challenge your friends, you can also take on complete 
 strangers from around the world. What's more, with the DS headset (not included) , you can even 
 chat with your opponents. Now, if you want to discuss the psychological effects of orange blocks 
 versus blue with a like-minded puzzle nerd, you finally can. You can also let interested DS owners 
 download a free demo of the game.  

          As you can see, the DS engine handles both squares and circles with ease.     

  Planet 
 Puzzle League has solid graphics, though colored squares haven't exactly been cutting-edge since 
 oh, 1980. And the backgrounds are murky, fuzzy, and dull, and are much better when you don't even 
 notice they're there. The music is upbeat electronic stuff that's typical for your average puzzle 
 game.  

  Even though the game itself is far from puzzle-perfect, Planet Puzzle League is a fun title with 
 enough worthy challenges to warrant playing. Its weird, paradoxical combo scheme keeps it from 
 approaching the greatness of games like Lumines, Tetris, or Super Puzzle Fighter, but if you're 
 looking for a new way to flex your brain and test your reflexes, this piece is a solid fit.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  That's right. ANOTHER tile switching and matching puzzle game. And that's right. It's just as addicting 
 as every other example. The game is very simple. There are different coloured blocks on your screen. 
 You need to swap tiles horizontally (the game doesn't allow vertical tile swapping) and match tiles 
 in a row of at least 3 of the same colour to gain points. As the time moves on, another block will 
 gradually be added to the screen, and you continue playing. The longer you last without losing, 
 the faster more blocks appear. If one of your blocks reaches the top of the screen - you've guessed 
 it - game over. Sounds simple. It is. But it's amazingly addictive.
  There are many modes on the game, including the main single player mode where you more or less 
 try and score as many points as you can. Other modes include puzzle, daily play and wifi mode. 
 
  Puzzle mode includes hundreds off puzzles where you get a certain amount of moves you can use to 
 clear all of the blocks on the screen. This mode is all good until it starts getting ridiculously 
 hard and frustrating. 
  Daily play is a strong mode. Every day you get the chance to play 3 modes that last for only 2 
 minutes. Each mode is only playable once a day. This is because every day that you play the game, 
 your score is added to a graph which will show your progress. 
  Wifi mode is also very good... that is if you can ever get a game. I only managed to get one game 
 against someone called Cage (who I sadly got thrashed by :- ( ) Other than the poor popularity of 
 the game, Wifi is reasonably enjoyable.
  And I think that's the game in a nut shell. A brilliant puzzle game to get your brain working. 
 You'll find yourself furiously tapping away on the screen within days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluDaSlayer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  The Panel De Pon and Tetris Attack series has been my all time favorite genre of puzzle gaming. 
 The experience on the Super Nintendo was unforgettable and there was nothing like it at the time. 
 
  
  However the rendition made for the DS, although the controls were innovative and convenient just 
 didn't do it for me. The game lacked some serious heart and flare presented by Tetris Attack, Panel 
 De Pon, and Pokemon Puzzle League. Those games had a story mode, if not subtle and a cast of likeable 
 and playable characters. 
  
  Planet Puzzle League is just boring. The themes are very generic, the backgrounds are bland and 
 the music is horrific. It is obvious that this was targeted for an older audience but this game 
 could have been a more creative interpretation. 
  
  I was just quickly bored by the limited game modes and NO UNLOCKABLES. There is nothing to motivate 
 you to play asides from the online mode but how often do you find yourself near a compatible wireless 
 hub when you're on the go? On the train home from work or university? 
  
  Although this game had a few positives such as the vertical use of the dual screens and the use 
 of the stylus to rotate blocks, I found it missing A LOT of substance and people give the game 
 more credit than it deserves. I wish I could like it, I've liked ever other game like it but it's 
 just... boring...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicKaitou
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  El tetris attack o Panel De Pon a mi parecer es el juego de puzzle mas importante de todos los 
 tiempos, tiene la simplicidad de Tetris DS pero adquiere esa complejidad que hace funcionar tu 
 cerebro.
  Aqui tenemos otro expositor de este puzzle , pero para la Nintendo DS.
  
  Despues de jugarlo un rato pude notar el ambiente en el que trabaja el juego , los escenarios son 
 bastante originales y la variedad de opciones son suficientes para tener partidas con diferentes 
 estilos.
  
  Conserva todo el estilo del puzzle a excepcion de un punto: Si mal no recuerdo en Teris Attack 
 de SNES las piezas caen sumamente rapido lo cual requeria mucha mas rapidez de mente para realizar 
 cadenas gigantes , como es el caso de muchos expertos.
  En este caso ,caen sumamente despacio a lo que da cabida a cadenas gigantes ( el limite es hasta 
 cuando ya no te quedan piezas por jugar , lo cual me pasa a menudo cuando llego a las 13,14 cadenas) 
 ,que a pesar de todo logran enganchar bastante bien hasta al mas veterano.
  
  El punto mas importante que encontre en esta edicion de Puzzle de Pon
  fue la musica ,.. es... realmente 
 genial. Es perfecta para este juego .
  Les puedo asegurar que he llegado a jugar este juego de repente para solo escuchar la musica . 
 Increiblemente relajante.
  
  Para finalizar ,tengo que mencionar uno de los puntos fuertes , el WI-Fi, o sea , jugar con personas 
 de todo el mundo y demostrar tu grandeza? 
  
  Por fin , horas de juego seran recompensadas con algunas cabezas cortadas y humillaciones en linea 
 , muajajajaj
  
  Hablando en serio , jugar en linea es una de las mejores cosas que le pudo pasar a este juego.
 
  
  ALTAMENTE recomendable e INDISPENSABLE en la coleccion DS.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matdredalia
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  I am a huge puzzle game fan so I was obviously very excited about Planet Puzzle League. When I 
 found it at my local Wal Mart, I was ecstatic. That is, until I got it home. Whereas Tetris DS 
 brought a wide variety of new playing methods to it's DS edition, Planet Puzzle League has nothing 
 to really make it stand out. It is only one simple game that gets old after about twenty minutes.
 
  
  There is a very lacking attempt at making things interesting in garbage mode, and the problem solving 
 challenges are fun for, again, about twenty minutes.
  
  Planet Puzzle League isn't too shabby if you can find it in a bargain bin, but I wouldn't pay more 
 than ten dollars for it. It just isn't that entertaining, and it will get very old, very fast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Planet Puzzle League is a version of the long-running Japapense puzzle games Panel de Pon, which 
 is also known to many as Tetris Attack and Pokemon Puzzle League. This particular version, however, 
 is a lot more flashier, being a little reminiscient of Lumines.
  
  If you don't know how Panel de Pon is played, it plays like this. Instead of blocks falling from 
 above, they build up from below. In order to clear them out, you have to match up three blocks 
 either horizontally or vertically of the same color. Any more than three blocks is a combo, and 
 if you clear out another row of blocks in succession, that is called a chain. Obviously, you get 
 more points for making combos and chains.
  
  You are only allowed to manipulate the blocks horizontally. Whenever you clear out blocks, they 
 disappear, and whatever's above them will fall. This will allow access to other blocks in order 
 to line them up that you couldn't have done beforehand. What's nice is that if you have a potential 
 chain set up, you'll be given a hint arrow telling you where to swap out the blocks.
  
  You'll also have two different buttons on the side of the play field. You have a pause button that 
 you can use if things get really hectic, and it will stop time so you're able to find a move that 
 you can do. If things are getting too slow for you, you can advance the lift, and the lift will 
 bring up more blocks for you to play with.
  
  Planet Puzzle League contains a whole slew of different ways to play. If you choose Single Player, 
 you'll have access to six different modes. Time Attack has you scoring against the clock in three 
 different modes of its own. Score Attack is just that; get the highest score you can in two minutes. 
 Lift Attack will only give you points when you advance the lift of blocks. Garbage Attack will 
 have you clearing out as many junk blocks as you can in two minutes. In order to clear out junk 
 blocks, you have to match up an adjacent group of blocks with a junk block, and then the junk blocks 
 will revert to useable blocks.
  
  Other modes of Single Player are Vs. Com, (play against the computer) , Endless (never-ending marathon) , 
 Clear (a line will eventually appear, and you have to get the highest block to fall under the clear 
 line) , Garbage Challenge (clear a never-ending avalanche of junk blocks) and Puzzle. In Puzzle 
 Mode, you're presented with situations where you're given a limited number of moves to set up a 
 chain that will clear the screen of all the blocks. If you make a mistake, you have a rewind button 
 that will take back the move you made. If you're stumped, you have a hint button that will tell 
 you where to make the next move. If you use the hint button too many times, though, your game will 
 end. Also, if you use the hint button, you'll need to start the entire puzzle over again if you 
 want to the game to acknowledge that you've finished the level. There is a Daily Play mode that 
 lets you play the game in short two-minute bursts. You can select from the same modes available 
 in Time Attack, but you can only play them once per day, and along with a record keeping graph 
 chart are the only real differences between this mode and Time Attack.
  
  There is also multiplayer Wi-Fi, where you can play with up to three other people. This is where 
 the real value of the game shines. Competition is always available, and the box does say there's 
 support for voice chat, but I haven't been able to find a headset for the DS to try it out.
  
  The game's got a nice graphical vibe to it. Similar to Lumines, there are multiple skins you 
 can select from for pretty much all your modes. The backgrounds are vibrant with designs and pulsating 
 lights, and when you make a long string of chains, everything becomes incredibly brighter. The 
 only downside is that the latter half of the skins share the same tile patterns as the former half. 
 It would have been nice if each skin had its own unique tile pattern. The game also would have 
 benefited with several more skins, as 10 just doesn't seem to be enough.
  
  Complimenting the skins are the wondeful soundtracks. The music of Planet Puzzle League is fantastic, 
 with each track being upbeat and catchy. It's like a little techno here, a little rave here. Mixed 
 in with the freaky backgrounds, it really gets that puzzler side of you pumped. If you're a fan 
 of the Panel de Pon games, this is a no brainer. If you've never played them before, but enjoy 
 puzzle games such as Meteos or Bejeweled, you'll definately enjoy this. If you're looking for a 
 great online puzzler, again, you really can't go wrong this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Planet Puzzle League is almost like tetris, except single square blocks are falling from the sky. 
 Every block has its own color, like red, green, etc... Or every block has its own shape, you decide 
 what you like. The goal is to stack horizontally or vertically three or more of the same kind of 
 block. When you complete a 4 or more stack or combo, you send garbage to your opponent if you vs. 
 an opponent. Its pretty fun, with many different kind of games, like time attack, garbage destroyer, 
 you vs. com, or just beating levels and meeting requirements. There is a great multiplayer; you 
 can play with anyone on the internet. Multiplayer is pretty good, but its kind of easy to go on 
 and on with an opponent for a long time. I knew this was what I was getting when I bought it, but 
 I still expected it to be a little better. Its great for new comers, and if you don't get bored 
 easily, or just love puzzle/tetris games, then this game is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King9999
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Planet Puzzle League (PPL hereafter) is the latest entry in the long-running Panel de Pon series 
 (you know it as Tetris Attack/Pokemon Puzzle League) , except once again anything associated with 
 Panel de Pon was removed. This time, however, there are no personalities to be seen in Puzzle League. 
 That fact might make PPL seem lifeless at first, but you'll quickly forget Yoshi and Pikachu 
 once you realize how much fun you're having dumping garbage on your opponents online.
  
  For those who are not familiar with Panel de Pon/Tetris Attack/Pokemon Puzzle League, here's a 
 brief rundown: gameplay involves manipulating blocks to match three blocks of similar colour. Matching 
 blocks will destroy them, earning you points, and causes any blocks that were standing on the destroyed 
 blocks to fall. Matching more than three blocks (called a combo) gives you extra points, and matching 
 blocks as they fall (called a chain) earns you even more points. The goal is to make huge combos 
 and chains; it might seem onerous at first, but over time you will begin to see moves well before 
 you actually make them, and the effort is rewarding. There are alternate modes of play where instead 
 of gathering points, the objective is to drop garbage blocks on an opponent. Garbage blocks are 
 simply obstacles that restrict one's moves. They can be eliminated by matching blocks that are 
 directly touching a garbage block.
  
  PPL offers various single- and multi-player modes, but the biggest reason to own PPL is to play 
 against other players online in Wi-Fi battle mode. The game offers a novice battle mode for those 
 players who want to get their feet wet against other new players, but once the game thinks you're 
 good enough, novice battle becomes locked. You will then be forced to try either free play mode, 
 which is an unranked battle mode; birthday battle, a quirky mode that lets you challenge other 
 players who share your own birthday; or friend battle, which lets you challenge players in your 
 friends list. The latter is noteworthy because it allows you to use voice chat during gameplay.
 
  
  Wi-Fi battle is where you will spend most of your time playing PPL, and the great thing about Wi-Fi 
 is that there is no lack of competition. Japanese players in particular will make short work of 
 anyone who hasn't been practicing on a consistent basis. Once you get tired of being pummeled by 
 someone whose name you can't read, you can play some of the single-player modes. Daily play allows 
 you to play three different modes, but each mode can only be played once per day. A handy chart 
 shows your progress on the path to becoming an expert player. There's also Puzzle mode, which consists 
 of puzzles that range from clearing all blocks in a fixed number of moves, to very specific tasks, 
 such as making an L shape out of a limited set of blocks. Vs. com pits you against an AI-controlled 
 opponent to do battle in various modes, though the only mode that mattersin preparation for online 
 playis garbage battle. PPL offers local wireless play for up to four players. All the vs. com 
 modes are available here, plus the ability to send a playable demo of PPL to any DS unit in range. 
 The latter is a handy feature to have, and will hopefully be included in future games.
  
  There are a few issues with PPL. Daily play is a nice feature to have, but its purpose is nullified 
 by the fact that the same modes in daily play are available elsewhere in the single player menu, 
 and you can play these modes at any time. PPL's other problems involve online play. The game will 
 track your wins and number of matches played, but there is no real leaderboard. The online rankings 
 are reset every week, and even worse, instead of one main leaderboard, there's one board for each 
 day of each month. In other words, you are only ranked in birthday battles, and your rank is compared 
 against other players who share your birthday. If you can't find any players with your birthday, 
 you may have to change your birthday in the DS system settings. It's a silly way to find good players.
 
  
  Those flaws aside, PPL is still a game worth owning. It's hard to resist what's essentially online 
 Tetris Attack, and the fact that competition is fierce means PPL isn't going to be put down for 
 quite a while. Any future iterations of PPL should focus more on online play by offering more modes 
 and features, as well as a single leaderboard that allows players to check their stats against 
 the world's (i. e. Japan's) best. For now, let's enjoy what we have and hope that someday, we can 
 survive the 14+ chain that gets dropped time and time again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLAudio7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who enjoyed Tetris Attack on the Super Nintendo or Pokemon Puzzle League on the Nintendo 
 64 should definately consider this game. Casual gamers all the way up to hardcore gamers will be 
 able to adjust the settings to fit their needs. Gameplay: Being part of the Puzzle League series, 
 the gameplay is exactly like the older games in the series, having you line up 3 or more panels 
 of the same color to make them disappear. This also leads to chain combos, which are very useful 
 in multiplayer. The gameplay is further enhanced by letting you move panels with the DS stylus, 
 but you also have the option to use classic button control (though the stylus is the fastest and 
 easiest way to play the game) .
  
  The single player half of the game features 6 different types of game modes: Time Attack (try to 
 get the highest score in 2 minutes) , Puzzle (features different scenarios ranging from easy to 
 very hard) , Endless (keep playing until you get a game over) , Clear (clear all blocks above an 
 indicated line) , Garbage Attack (similar to Endless Mode, only this time garbage will keep falling 
 on you) , and Vs. Computer (self-explanatory) . This game also features a Daily Play mode, which 
 gives you 3 different game modes (Lift, Garbage, and Score Attack) to play for 2 minutes, then 
 records your scores on a chart and compares it to earlier scores. There is also an option to add 
 items into the mix, but I would leave this feature turned off as it makes the game easier or harder 
 depending on what you get. The effect of some of these items include: transferring all the garbage 
 on your screen to your opponents screen, shuffling your opponents panels, making all of your cleared 
 blocks count as a combo for a short time, and more. It sounds like an interesting addition to the 
 gameplay, but it could've used a little more customization (ie choosing which items you want to 
 use in game) .
  
  Also included for the first time in the series is online multiplayer, letting you play against 
 one of your friends using friend codes, or free play mode, which lets you play a random person 
 from around the world. If you are a newcomer to the series, I would just stay away from multiplayer 
 until you get some skill at the game, because 90% of the time you will be playing against people 
 who could probably beat you in under 30 seconds. It also features a Birthday Battle mode, which 
 (just like the items addition) could've been tweaked more. All it basically is is a ranking system, 
 but in order to play in this mode, you have to find someone with the same birthday as you. Of course 
 you can make this less of a hassle by going on a forum and telling people to set their birthday 
 to a specific date and battle that way.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are more or less the same as they were in Tetris Attack and Pokemon Puzzle League. 
 Theres 7 different types of panels, including the classic panels from Tetris Attack. Theres also 
 10 different stages each with their own unique theme and music. No, this game does'nt have a Mario 
 or Pokemon theme, but instead has it's own techno-esque theme to it.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game has sort of a techno / rave theme to it. Its probably not the best 
 music in the world, but some stages have some catchy tunes to them.
  
  Value: While single player can be fun, multiplayer is where its at. Once you master single player 
 you will probably be playing multiplayer all the time.
  
  Overall: Planet Puzzle League is a game that should not be missed by anyone who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Puzzle League has been around since 1996 and the game shows no signs of dying down, as this handheld 
 release comes to prove.
  
  Planet Puzzle League is like Tetris Attack, only with a bunch of added features and new challenges. 
 The purpose of the game is to remove blocks from the puzzle field by matching 3 or more of the 
 same color, vertical or horizontally. You can only slide blocks left and right, swapping two at 
 a time. You do this by using the stylus, and you can play with the DS sideways or not and configure 
 it for left-handed and right-handed play.
  
  New rows of blocks keep appearing from the bottom of the screen and the speed increases the longer 
 you play. By creating chains and combos you can temporarily pause the rows and continue to move 
 blocks to create more chains. These pauses are lifesavers when the pace of the game gets really 
 fast.
  
  The game comes packed with six different single-player modes that are sure to keep puzzle game 
 enthusiasts busy. Puzzle mode offers a series of different challenges where the goal is to clear 
 all the blocks from the screen using a set number of moves. In Endless mode you do your best for 
 as long as you can until eventually the pieces reach the top of the puzzle field. Time Attack places 
 you against the clock, completing stages before the timer runs out. Clear requires you to keep 
 doing chains and combos until the puzzle field goes below a certain line.
  
  Garbage Challenge reminds me of Super Puzzle Fighter. There are large brown slabs falling on your 
 colorful blocks, and to get rid of them you have to make a chain that is touching one of the slabs. 
 I grew very fond of this game mode, actually, it gets pretty challenging. There is also a Daily 
 mode where you can play three short games a day, that even keeps track of your scores and progress 
 over time using a graph.
  
  You can also play against an AI opponent in Vs. Com mode, but you will probably want to go head-to-head 
 with someone else. There is a local wireless option for up to four players, but you can play against 
 anyone anywhere in the world over the Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  Wi-Fi Battles have three servers , so to speak: Free Play, Novice and Friend Battle. Free Play 
 is for friendly matches that won't affect your rankings. Novice is for beginners, and more experienced 
 players won't be able to access this mode (there are certain conditions based on skill, victories 
 and score) . Friend Battle is for playing against people who have shared their friend codes with 
 you. Friend Battles support voice chat, so if you have been debating about a DS headset, this would 
 be a great excuse to get it.
  
  Planet Puzzle League instantly reminded me of Magnetica in many ways, with the futuristic menus, 
 plenty of game options and cool music. But it borrows from Brain Age in the sideways play style, 
 three tasks per day and progress tracking. While the core of the game is not a new concept, Planet 
 Puzzle League has plenty of replayability packed into a single game cartridge. The simple touch 
 controls will appeal to new players, while veterans might want to set the game to be played with 
 D-pad and buttons. Either way, there's a control style to suit every player.
  
  With tons of tutorials, demos, challenges, puzzles, difficulty settings, customization options 
 and multiplayer, this is another DS must-have for puzzle fans.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=planetpuzzleleague 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanWaste21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo brings a satisfying mix of intense puzzling and thought evoking combos to the Touch Generations 
 franchise with Planet Puzzle League, the newest in the popular Puzzle League series. It's easy 
 to see the similarities between this and other Touch Generations titles right off the bat. Easiest 
 to notice is how players are encouraged to play with the sideways style made famous by Nintendo's 
 Brain Age. Holding your DS sideways as well as being forced to use your stylus for basically the 
 entire game, by now, gives the impression that you're ready for a more casual experience. Fortunately, 
 PPL is the perfect blend of casual pick up and play mechanics tossed in with strategy unmatched 
 by any modern (or possibly even classic) puzzle game to date. In better words, it's easy to learn, 
 but extremely difficult to master.
  
  To excel through the game, players must move blocks around in order to link same-colored blocks 
 in sets of three. While that part's easy, it gets more difficult when shooting for the high score: 
 if you want to reach the top, you've got to take advantage of the many combos and chains possible 
 on the provided gridded playing field. Linking more than three blocks will award you combos, while 
 setting off reactions will assign you varying degrees of chains. Chains are the most important, 
 awarding gamers high amounts of points as they obtain 14 or even 15 (or even higher!) reactions 
 set off from their original 3-block set. Not to mention, chains are almost necessary for multiplayer 
 victory. It's all too fortunate a tutorial is included for all Puzzle League newbs; I woudn't have 
 survived without it.
  
  On the other hand, any modes other than Endless and Garbage Mode seemed frivolous at first: puzzle 
 mode, an adventure through different sets of... well, puzzles, gives you the answers, while Clear 
 Mode (clear a certain amount of blocks as fast as you can) unashamedly hands out infinite retries. 
 Actually, almost every mode in the game (other than Endless and Garbage Mode, of course) is designed 
 to ease players into PPL's plethora of complexity. Seems like the perfect idea for nongamers, those 
 Touch Generations folks. Daily Mode shows your progress on a day-to-day basis (kinda similar to 
 Brain Age...) . Having problems making active chains? Use Active Puzzles mode. Though it gives you 
 the answers, it's all meant for perfecting your skill; something you'll definitely need in the 
 multiplayer arena. One mode that seems to be missing, however, is a skins mode. Throughout playtime, 
 players will be given options for multiple playing field designs and layouts. If anybody remembers 
 Q? Entertainment's own puzzlers Lumines and Meteos, gamers may unlock additional skins for their 
 viewing pleasure. Is it a required feature? No. But I'd really like to add on to the already ultracool 
 styles PPL is shipped with.
  
  Though the majority of content won't blow the minds of Puzzle League veterans, this iteration in 
 the series proves that Puzzle League is still one of the most in-depth, skill-based puzzle games 
 ever made (next to Tetris, duh!) . And if you're new to any of this, it's almost guaranteed that 
 you'll be making Puzzle League old-timers cry for their mommies thanks to simplified modes and 
 the godly inclusion of touch controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsakuraHao2004
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Planet Puzzle League is a truly amazing, addicting and under appreciated DS puzzle game that goes 
 without notice. Its like one of those games that felt like Ico. Not enough people have it or play 
 it. Its a really great game but unfortunately it goes without notice.
  
  ==== The Basic Game play ===
  
  Planet Puzzle League is similar to Tetris Attack and its Japanese 
 Counter part, Panel De Pon .Basically in this game is to make chains of blocks that fall to make 
 combos to score points and throw garbage at your opponent (in some modes) . In the same vein as Tetris, 
 once the blocks reach the top of the screen, its Game Over.
  
  So in Planet Puzzle League, the game play is like Tetris Attack. You can chain combos of 3, 4 and 
 5 of blocks and so on. The more chains you do at once the more points. And also in Garbage mode, 
 (which also happens to be the only mode you ll be playing over WiFi) the only way to do throw garbage 
 at your opponent is to chain blocks of 4 more to do this.
  
  There is also another way to do this, when you chain 3 blocks, they dissipate. This will make some 
 blocks fall, as this happens if you quickly chain the falling blocks you'll be able to throw garbage 
 at your opponent as well. There's even at times this white marker that will occasionally help you 
 as to where to chain blocks.
  
  Also in the game you could use the Stylus. Not only is this recommended, but its definitely the 
 way to play this game. And its great the stylus works so well.
  
  You'll have to chain blocks so quickly, the D-Pad just wont cut it. They also give you this blue 
 Arrow like button to speed up the rise of the blocks. Youll often have to rise the blocks just to 
 get that 4 block chain. I'll be calling this the Accelerate Button.
  
  What makes the game so fun and addicting is the fact of how many modes of game play you're offered. Not 
 only is there a ton of single player stuff but, the game play never gets old. They even give you 
 a neat little tutorial in the game, if you don't want to read the manual. This is great for someone 
 like me who jumps right into the game and looks at the manual a bit later.
  
  Its amazing as to how much the single player offers, that its baffling, and I do mean that in a 
 good way.
  
  ==== Modes, Modes And More Modes ====
  
  In Planet Puzzle League there are many game modes and different variety's of the tetris attack 
 puzzle to keep you entertained. These are all the single player modes:
  
  Time Attack - You're basically against yourself and trying to score as many points as you can in 
 2 minutes. In this you get 3 modes of play : Lift Attack, Score Attack and Garbage Attack.
  
  Puzzle - Now this is one fun mode of single player play. There's basically like these mission 
 modes of where your placed in different situations to solve puzzles. Really good, addicting, time 
 consuming stuff.
  
  Endless - The name speaks for itself. You keep playing until the blocks reach the top of the screen. No 
 time limit. How long can you last?
  
  Clear - In this mode you have to clear all the blocks above this white line marker. You'll have 
 to press the blue Accelerate button to raise the blocks just to see that line. Pretty simple concept. There's 
 even different stages in this as you progress in this mode.
  
  Garbage Challenge - In this mode, the garbage is falling on your blocks. Make chains of blocks to 
 clear the Garbage. This is kinda like Endless Mode.
  
  Vs. Com - In this your'e not going against yourself. You're against the computer. There's Clear, 
 Score and Garbage Challenge. This is where you can test your skills against somebody other than 
 yourself.
  
  There's also Daily Play. I'm gonna go and give this the same criticism Gamespot gave this mode. Daily 
 Play is basically 3 modes of Game play that are within 2 minutes. Yet, they could only be played 
 once a day, and the modes are such as the ones you can find above. Does this make any sense to you?
 
  
  Why would I want to play a game mode, that i can easily play for longer without a time constraint 
 such as this?
  
  Why didn't they offer something I cant normally Play?
  
  ==== The Sound And Visuals ====
  
  What I love about this game is that it has this beautiful 
 looking Interface. Before you even play, you can often change the background and even the blocks. This 
 is some beautiful DS Graphics.
  
  The Sound is basically this uppity Techno/Electronica Beats. Its nothing too flashy, but it works.
 
  
  There's also another feature that's pretty unique. Like in Hotel Dusk, you play the game like a 
 book. That's right, Vertically. Not Horizontally. You could also change this, so its the classic Top-Down 
 Look...
  
  But playing the game like a book gives the game more room. When you play it like any other DS Game, 
 everything looks cramped. It works too, but i Prefer the Book Style .You could even adjust the game 
 play according if youre a Leftie or a Rightie.
  
  ==== The WiFi And Wireless Play ====
  
  Yea, the games got WiFi. Although, while fun. There's 2 Problems, one of which I mentioned Earlier. Not 
 enough people play the game. When you go wait for someone to play it could take about a minute to 
 2 minutes to find someone.
  
  Now, its not the games quality which is at fault here. Its just not too many people play this. Which 
 is quite sad, for such a great game like this to just be passed around to nobody.
  
  Then there's the Second Problem , There's only 4 modes of Play. All of which involve Garbage Mode. While 
 it could be argued its the most fun game mode. I would have liked to see more of the variety offered 
 here like they give in the single player.
  
  There's Novice, Free Play, Friend Battle and Birthday Battle.
  
  Novice is like a beginners 
 online mode where you play against people of low ranking. This isn't ranked, and when you win too 
 many times in this, the mode disappears.
  
  Yet if you lose enough in other modes, this comes back. This is a good place to start. Friend Battle, 
 is well against Friends and is in fact ranked. Free Play is not ranked and you get put in a game 
 with someone of any skill level.
  
  Now Birthday Battle is the most intriguing. You get into games based on what your birthday is. This 
 is something that can be abused in a good way. People often take one Birthday and people change 
 their birthdays to that one day. Now you got your own custom league of players. Birthdays are easily 
 adjustable within the DS. The rankings do count but the overall ranks get reset each week.
  
  There's Wireless Play which is playing with people around you. Basic Enough. But something cool 
 is that you can send someone a Demo of the Game. Neat eh? Also wireless play could be accessed only 
 using one Game Card!
  
  There's one more thing I forgot to mention. In Wifi, there's only a 1v1 Mode. I would assume this 
 is because of the space constraints. Yet on Wireless you can play with 4?
  
  ==== Final Thoughts ====
  
  Planet Puzzle League is truly one fun and addicting Puzzle Game 
 for the DS. The Visuals and Sound are Amazing (Especially that Interface) . The single player variety 
 is amazing although the Wifi could have used some work. This game is definitely worth your money.
 
  
  ==== My Final Plea ====
  
  Not enough people play this and its a shame. So right here I am voluntarily giving away my Friend 
 Code for the game in this very review. So many People often look for friend codes, so here's mine, 
 right off the bat. Please if you can, Encourage people to buy this and tell how amazing of an experience 
 this game is.
  
  3522 9164 3180
  
  If you add me, give me a private message and I'll be sure to add you too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_RAG
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  Ok To start it off.
  
  Planet Puzzle League is Something that Nintendo pull out randomly and has made a success out of 
 it. PPL offers Alot of new things that what Lumines I and II, and Tetris DS couldn't do. For expwatch 
 its a faster style when it comes to solving puzzles and the Wifi side of things is great, including 
 the DS Headset which fricken sweet.
  
  PPL Design is somewhat nice looking. Music is well done, Graphics are very nice and the Gamplay 
 over all once you pop it in your hooked cause come on peeps with touch of your finger you can do 
 things faster and easier. All Though they could have added more to this game like downloadable 
 levels or new styles/skins. If you were to play this game you would be holding it like a book which 
 is sweet. If you were to say that Tetris was still king now? I would say there are better puzzle 
 games out there for us. Like this!!! Over all PPL is great nintendo and Interllident System pull 
 something off that is wonderful. Bad side of is that there could have been more for it. and wifi 
 side of playing the game could have been more impove as well. This Game isnt for everyone. By the 
 way I am puzzle fan and I respect King Tetris but honsetly there better games.
  
  So Over all Score:
  Gameplay 10/10 Graphics 9/9
  Sound 10/10
  Value 10/10
  Reviewer's Tilt 
 7/10
  Total Score 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoozam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I am a HUGE fan of Tetris Attack! for the SNES... and that's pretty much 
 what this game is. The only thing that would of made it better is if they kept the same characters 
 in it. I almost missed the sappy story where Yoshi runs across the rainbow from area to area freeing 
 his friends from Bowsers rein of terror. lol Using the stylus to move the blocks works great as 
 well. Anyone can pick up and play the game, but like any game, if you want get really good it'll 
 take a while. Definitely worth the money. It's an ideal pick up for someone who enjoys puzzle games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  But the music really sucks. Play with the sound off and put one of your favorite records on.
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed much since Tetris Attack, and that is a good thing because Panel de 
 Pon's core gameplay is probably the best of the puzzle genre. As far as looks go, it's generic 
 stuff. I have to say, I prefered Tetris Attack -- and even the Pokemon one. Wrapping the game up 
 like that gave the game a lot more character and inspired a much better soundtrack. I wish they 
 would have stuck with the Yoshi theme, but alas! Core gameplay is still there, and that is what 
 is most important -- especially with this series. And the extra features in this iteration make 
 it definitely worth picking up even if you have some of the older games -- case in point: online 
 WiFi battles. Woot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I refuse to call it Puzzle League. Its either Tetris Attack or Panel De Pon. 
 I don't care what Copyrights say! All kidding aside, my review may be worthless, as Tetris Attack 
 was my all time favorite game on the SNES, and even if they just released that again on the DS, 
 I would have enjoyed it.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Amazing. Gamespot's review kinda made me feel like they sucked at the game. I myself am undefeated 
 online, and have chains that last longer than 5 minutes on normal, though once in a while on hard 
 I can do it (With Explosion rise on, which allows you to raise the blocks during a chain) with 
 no problem. Now, what I can't understand, is how you die in endless mode. I have to say, the only 
 time I die in endless mode is when I either purposely do it. Now of course, if you really sucked 
 at the game, maybe when the stack is at the top you are almost dead, but when I play, there is 
 always a block touching the top, so I have as many blocks as possible. Anyway, the game is all 
 about chains, which are when you clear something, and the blocks fall into place creating another 
 clear. Unless you make a mistake and accidentally clear a block you are setting up for a chain, 
 its possible to do them forever! Combos are when you clear 4 or more blocks in one move, and are 
 useless in multiplayer and score competitions unless you score them at the end of a chain. There 
 is puzzle mode, which gives you limited moves, active puzzles which gives you a pile of blocks 
 and one chain to remove them, and clear modes where you try to clear blocks before they hit the 
 roof. Garbage mode drops a pile of blocks on you, and you try to clear them all before time runs 
 out! Multiplayer wise is like versing an AI. I'm proud to say I beat the highest difficulty AI, 
 but it wasn't easy. When playing a skilled opponent, you have to pile enough stuff on, and then 
 not clear too much. If you pin yourself, which is clearing so many blocks that you have no moves 
 left, its game over, and if you don't send enough garbage, they will have a clear board, and pile 
 more on you, forcing you to lose. If you are both skilled opponents, you will both focus on clearing 
 blocks until one is pinned, takes too long for a move, or gives up. I myself am undefeated because 
 I don't quit even in a match that lasts upwards of 10 minutes. Some last longer, though most opponents 
 quit after 15 minutes or so. Its a tug of war, and its a fun one. With online play, you could play 
 forever. One thing I will completely admit Gamespot was spot on with is the lack of continuity. 
 Tetris Attack had a story to it. In Puzzle... Panel De Pon DS you just have a bunch of modes to 
 play, no unlockables, except more puzzles after you beat puzzle mode. If you are already a fan, 
 this won't be a problem, but if you absolutely need some sort of progression you won't like it. 
 But for people like me, who played Tetris just to see the castle launch, the numerous game modes 
 and online play is enough to keep you addicted.
  
  Graphics
  
  Colorful, bright, happy, and well animated. Wait... thats Tetris Attack. Let me rephrase. Technoish, 
 bland 3D, and distracting, with abstract concepts. Yeah, thats Panel De Pon DS. Very disappointing 
 in my opinion. Also, be sure to select your favorite block type, because some block types make 
 it extremely hard to play as they disappear different than the ones you are used to! Very annoying. 
 Overall the weakest aspect of the game.
  
  Sound
  
  Decent. You get long fanfare when you do a chain of 10 or above, but it seems to not add anything 
 new after 20, which is disappointing, or its so long, that it gets cut off by another one started 
 by your opponent. The music is strange, and no where near as good as Tetris Attack. Its merely 
 average.
  
  Value
  
  I don't care how much it costs, there is a lot of gameplay packed into this game. I have to say, 
 the lack of story and stuff is disappointing once again, but still, its amazing to see how many 
 game modes they packed in, my favorite new mode being active puzzle.
  
  Tilt
  
  I loved the game series from the beginning. Thats tilt enough. I love the series, and hope it outsells 
 Pokemon, despite knowing it won't. Lets just hope it sells well enough to hold a tournament or 
 something online, because I'll be there. I love the game, nothing will change that, no matter what 
 form it is in.
  
  BTW, the learning curve is four or more hours because to truly master this game, you will need 
 hundreds of hours into the series. It takes a good 2 hours just learn all the different ways to 
 continue chains. And if you use stylus mode thats another hour, plus if you learn all the modes, 
 I'd say it takes a long time to master. Easy to learn, hard to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAlabastor10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- PPL is very intuitive and you will learn how to play in about 10 minutes. And it's easy 
 to be an expert due to the tutorial mode. The gameplay is easy and not hard to learn. All you do 
 is slide the tiles to clear them leading to combos leading to chains. Graphics- This game has some 
 of the most retro graphics on a Nintendo DS. From the tiles to the backgrounds and the songs (which 
 ill get to later) , it has that retro look. The backgrounds consists of cars, spheres, patterns, 
 etc. Sound- The music in this game is retro, too. Whatever background you put, PPL puts a great 
 song that syncs into the background, leading to a retro theme for that game. There are over 10 
 song to listen to because most of the time you'd want to hear the calming music and lose the game.
 
  
  Value- The game is $30 ($35 in EB or Gamestop) . For a great game like this it is definietly worth 
 it. I just wished it would have reduced to $20, though
  
  Tilt- The big difference her from games like Tetris Attack and Pokemon Puzzle league is the Wi-fi 
 play. Here you can challenge people from around the world. It even gives you an option to play 
 with people in your skill level so you don't have to be scared of losing to an expert
  
  Overall- Buy this game. It will surely keep you occupied for a LOONG time. You can play PPL anywhere 
 and have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enral
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  You'll never want to put down your ds after you get this game going. It has a very friend system 
 that introduces you into gameplay from very easy to very difficult level by level. The graphics 
 and sounds are really nice and the hotel dusk screen makes it more interesting. There are different 
 modes and gameplay to choose from and one of the more attractive one is the garbage mode. Multiplayer 
 is fun where you compete against other people. You don't have to be scared of losing because ranking 
 is not recorded.
  
  Overall, this game is a must get for all puzzle and non-puzzle lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudg__er
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Pros: Simple, easy to pick up and play. Wifi mode is a blast. It's a great game for all brains!
 
  
  Cons: Graphics and sound are nothing special. If you've played Meteos Disney Magic, you are going 
 to have a tough time with this since you can't move up and down. .
  
  Gameplay: 9. If you had played the regular meteos before you will feel right at home here. The 
 basic idea of this game is to move tiles left and right so you can make groups of 3, then they 
 disappear. Just like in tetris if the blocks reach the top then you lose. There are many modes 
 to play such as time attack, endless mode, etc. But everyone is going to love wi-fi. There are 
 black block and if you line them up then a big block appears on your opponents screen and only 
 can be removed if your opponent can gain tons of points. Graphics: 7. Nothing special really. All 
 there really is, is your backround and your tiles. There are some really nice backgrounds though 
 and the tiles match them well.
  
  Sound: 7. Same thing as graphics, nothing special. The tunes can be very catchy and matches the 
 background excellently.
  
  Value: 10. There is a ton of replay value. There is wifi, daily mode (basically a mode which you 
 can play once in a day and it is just to get your brain working before you really start playing) 
 and all the modes you can think of. There is even a birthday mode where you can battle people on 
 wi-fi with the same birthday as you which is very unique and interesting.
  
  Tilt: As you can see from the review I just had an excellent time with the game and I better stop 
 reviewing this game and go play it now.
  
  Overall: 9.0. JUST GO BUY THE GAME NOW! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
