-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pogo Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/pogoisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Games are easy to pick up.
 Lets you transfer tokens to your pogocom account.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Quality of the games is inconsistent.
 Word Whomp's vocabulary is lacking.
 Not enough games for the price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Mar 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those already committed to the games from Pogo. com on offer here might appreciate this portable 
 package, though it still feels a little lean. 

  EA's Pogo. com has been a major player in the casual-social games scene on the PC for years, and 
 a little slice of that success is now available on the Nintendo DS with Pogo Island. This five-game 
 collection includes a few games that can be played for free at Pogo. com, as well as several available 
 only to subscribers of the premium Club Pogo service. For your $29.99, you get Poppit!, Word Whomp, 
 Phlinx, Tri-Peaks Solitaire, and Squelchies, as well as a simple story mode and some limited multiplayer 
 abilities. It's a good cross section of the types of games offered by the Web site, and the ability 
 to transfer tokens won in Pogo Island to a Pogo. com account will likely appeal to those already 
 enamored with the service. Based on what you get for the price, though, the games are neither numerous 
 enough nor consistent enough in quality.  

          Tri-Peaks Solitaire is one of the games previously available only to Club Pogo members. 
     

  Poppit! is as close to a marquee game as Pogo. com has, and it translates to the DS nicely. You're 
 presented with a field of multicolored balloons, with the goal being to clear out as many as possible. 
 You can tap the balloons with the stylus to pop them, but balloons can only be popped when they're 
 touching at least one other balloon of the same color. As you pop balloons, the remaining balloons 
 will rise and shift to fill in the gaps. The strategy quickly becomes not just locating clusters 
 of balloons to pop, but also setting up additional clusters by anticipating what the field will 
 look like after you pop some balloons. Poppit! isn't a particularly taxing puzzle game, nor is 
 it inherently addictive. About the nicest thing you can say about it is that it's pleasant.  

 
  Word Whomp is a simple word jumble game. You're randomly given six letters and a limited amount 
 of time to form as many three-or-more-letter words out of them as you can. Fans of board-game staples 
 like Scrabble and Boggle will find that Word Whomp scratches much the same itch, and it's an easy 
 game to loose track of the time with. What hurts Word Whomp is its finicky vocabulary. Since Pogo 
 Island is rated E for Everyone, it doesn't recognize anything that's even remotely racy. There 
 are also plenty of E-rated, Merriam-Webster Abridged words that don't register, yet the game will 
 randomly accept abbreviations and acronyms. It's too bad that these inconsistencies have to crop 
 up, because at its core, Word Whomp is one of Pogo Island's more appealing games.  

  Tri-Peaks Solitaire is essentially still just solitaire, though with a few unique twists. You're 
 presented with a field of playing cards arranged into three pyramids, all of which are face down, 
 except for the bottom row. You're also given one face-up card in your hand, and you can pull any 
 of the exposed cards from the pyramids and place them in your hand, so long as the card is either 
 one number higher or lower than the card currently in your hand. It may sound rather impenetrable, 
 but it's actually a pretty fun and smart variation on a well-known card game, and it's easy to 
 knock out a game in just a few minutes.  

  Squelchies works with the same mechanics that drove the Japan-only arcade game Money Puzzle Exchanger, 
 as well as the mobile game Fast Food Mayhem. The upper screen is filled with columns of different-colored 
 squelchies, and by tapping on the corresponding column on the bottom screen, you'll pull down the 
 squelchy from the bottom of that row, along with any other like-colored squelchies it was directly 
 adjacent to. From here, you can drag them to a different column, and by placing three or more like-colored 
 squelchies together, they'll pop. Despite being nearly identical to other games that have been 
 around for years, it's still a unique-enough concept among color-matching puzzle games to feel 
 fresh. The way you have to use the stylus to move the squelchies can make it harder to keep up 
 than it ought to be, though.  

  Phlinx is the least appealing game out of the bunch, due in no small part to the fact that it's 
 a ham-fisted knockoff of the Bust-A-Move series. Unlike Bust-A-Move, Phlinx lets you move the launcher 
 on the bottom screen to three different positions, giving you more angles of attack. You also always 
 have a perpetual guideline that makes the game even easier. Yet, even though these changes make 
 the game much easier than the game it's ripping off, the pacing is achingly tedious, with single 
 games going on for much longer than they ought to.  

          Word Whomp would be much more appealing with a better vocabulary.     

  You can play 
 all of these games individually or with a group through the party mode. However, Word Whomp is 
 the only game that offers real head-to-head competitive play, and it requires that both players 
 have their own copy of Pogo Island. For a little context, there's the island adventure mode, where 
 you travel around a board-game-style map, randomly playing these games, as well as a few wholly 
 forgettable microgames that task you with sorting rusty nuts and bolts, patching up sails, and 
 engaging in other nautically themed tasks. What will make the island adventure mode most appealing 
 to established Pogo. com players is that it offers an easy way to earn additional tokens. These 
 tokens, which you can earn by playing any of the games in Pogo Island, can then be transferred 
 to your existing Pogo. com account, where they can be used to purchase raffle tickets for daily, 
 weekly, and monthly cash prizes. The promise of winning cash money for playing games is appealing, 
 but the odds are so long that it shouldn't be your main motivation for playing.  

  Considering that these games can be played for free, or for a relatively nominal fee, on the PC, 
 Pogo Island is likely only appealing to folks obsessed with collecting those Pogo. com tokens. Tri-Peaks 
 Solitaire and Word Whomp are both games with genuine, long-lasting appeal, but they're just not 
 enough.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Timberwolf753
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you can't put down because your having some good old fashion fun. 
 The game come with 5 classic pogo games like Pop It and Tri-Peaks. If you loved playing them on 
 the computer than you will love playing them on the Nintendo DS. Without further talking lets gets 
 to the review of this small and portable game.
  The first thing that has to be mentioned is that the game is actually pretty easy. You can beat 
 it in 20 hours or less if your a pro at pogo games. When playing the game in its adventure mode 
 you get ranks ad badges in the games that are pretty easy to attain.
  The second thing is that if you just want to play a little you can and not lose any of your tokens 
 that you collected. Ah yes the thing we all strive for on pogo. You can amass a lot of token in 
 one round of playing through the adventure mode of the game. On a side note there is an option 
 to just play the games themselves and earn token that way.
  The last thing i would like to talk about is the only bad part of the game. You are limited to 
 something like 20,000 tokens a day or something like that. Also it does not keep your account information. 
 You have to input it all the time. That is the only bad part of the game.
  In conclusion, you can't put down this game. It fast and easy and most of all portable. If you 
 have a few minutes to spare and want to get some token you can accumulated that at a nice pace. 
 The only trouble with the game is the limit of how much token you can transfer a day to your account 
 and it keep your account information. All in all you should buy this game because it is just plain 
 fun in a small package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I love to play on the Pogo web site on the computer so I thougth it was great when I saw they were 
 moving on to the DS. Of course they could not put all thier games on one DS game so they picked 
 a few but they were some good ones. They have Word Whomp which is a word game and some of the others 
 were more like puzzle games. I think all in all it was a good move on pogos part to take some of 
 their games to the DS. It would be nice to see them come out with a few more of my favorites on 
 ds. The graphics are good and so is the sound and the game play is just a lot of fun. This game 
 is a little easy to beat so maybe they could have made it a little harder but all in all it was 
 worth it and I hope to see more to come throught the years. Pogo Rules and so does this game! If 
 you are unsure about this game then rent it first but I am sure that you will like it. Give it 
 a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the 5 mini-games are at least decent and they use the touch screen 
 and it works very well. The fact that you can transfer your tokens to your pogo. com account is 
 very cool via wifi. There are a lot of modes to play and they are very good and the quick play 
 is very good for people that just wanna go ahead and play before they make their own file. The 
 rankings are really cool and can tell your position in the game or how good you think you are. 
 There are goals for certain games and that is really cool and to get them all can keep you playing 
 for awhile. Each game has a difficulty level and that is good so that you can try to master a game. 
 The bad parts of this game is the story mode is just way too repetitive, you spin the spinner and 
 you go the amount of spaces and then you play a mini-game and you rescue your 5 friends and thats 
 mainly it. Some of the mini-games i think are really tough and can get frustrating to beat them 
 if you have to beat them. There are only 5 mini-games, that is not very good, EA should have made 
 at least 3 more mini-games and shouldn't have made it so repetitive. If you already have a pogo. com 
 account, you might think this game may be extremely easy and/or very boring because you may think 
 its too easy. Overall, not the worst game on the DS, but i think its a lot better for rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluezy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Pogo Island is a collection of five minigames from EAs popular casual games website, pogo. com. 
 When you first start the game up, there are three save slots to choose from. From there, you name 
 a profile and then you can begin. In that profile, you can move through 10 ranks as you play through 
 the game and complete more and more games (for example, 50 wins at Tri-Peaks) .
  
  Seasoned veterans of the website will find the included games very familiar, as they are all pulled 
 directly from pogo. com. Word Whomp is a word game, as the title suggests, where you spell out 3-, 
 4-, 5-, and 6-letter words using the six letters given to you. You are given a time limit of three 
 minutes to complete all the words. Tri-Peaks Solitaire is a solitaire game where you must clear 
 cards in numerical order (for example, an ace to a 2, to a 3, back to a 2, etc) . You can get powerup 
 cards and every so often, youll get a jackpot spin, earning you up to an extra 1000 tokens. Squelchies 
 is hard to explain, but the objective in the game says to keep the Squelchies away from the bottom 
 until the crab reaches the treasure chest. Poppit! is a balloon popping game, where you must get 
 all the gifts in the balloons to the bottom of the screen through popping groups of two or more 
 balloons. Staying true to the original online version, there are two helpful powerups to give you 
 an extra push: the pin, allowing you to puncture any balloon you wish, and the anvil, which lets 
 you pull a row of balloons down by one. Lastly, Phlinx rounds out the bunch as a bubble-popping 
 game in the same style as Bust-a-Move, except you are able to move between three different firing 
 spots on the bottom of the touch screen.
  
  Island Adventure is the games story mode. The story is that you must repair a boat that apparently 
 crashed when the Pogo mascots were on the water. You play each of the minigames with a goal attached 
 to each of them, and how well you do in those is reflected in the spinner afterwards. Different 
 coloured stars and icons on the game board are for different things, such as an anchor for extra 
 minigames like Nuts &amp; Bolts, where you must separate nuts and bolts into two different piles, 
 while watching out for and avoiding the rusty ones. Another one is a red star for a Poppit! challenge. 
 You must reunite with five friends and collect four items to repair the ship and win the game.
 
  
  A cool feature of Pogo Island is the token transfer, which is where the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 comes into play. To transfer your in-game tokens to your real-life pogo. com account, you select 
 the Token Transfer option from the main screen, put in your pogo. com username and password, and 
 within half a minute, your tokens are added to your real-life web account.
  
  There are a few negatives to the game, however. If you play on the easiest setting, you are basically 
 held by the hand as you play. For example, you have a hint button in Word Whomp that gives you 
 a letter if you are stuck. The bad part of that, though, is that you are allowed to press that 
 as often as possible, removing the challenge from the game. Another negative is the small number 
 of games included. There is plenty of fun to be had in the five minigames in the package, but one 
 can see it all in a short amount of time.
  
  Overall, EAs casual games package is good for a first try, and even people who have never been 
 to the website will enjoy this collection of fun minigames. However short, there is some fun to 
 be had in this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a Pogo. com user for quite a few years now, so seeing Pogo Island come out for the DS 
 really had me jumping for joy, as some of my favorite games are in there.
  
  Pogo Island is a mini-game collection that comes with two game modes, Quick Play and Island Adventure. 
 Quick Play is just what it sounds like, you pick one of the mini-games to play and play it as many 
 times as you want.
  
  Island Adventure mode mainly plays like a board game, and there's a little storyline behind it 
 too. You play as the captain of a cruise ship that is shipwrecked on a deserted island. Your crew 
 has gotten lost while searching the island for materials to repair the ship, and your goal is to 
 reunite the crew members and get enough repair materials to leave Pogo Island.
  
  To move around the island you use the spinner. Grab the pointer with the stylus and give it a twirl 
 to see where you land and how many spaces you can move. The spinner changes as you progress in 
 your quest, giving you better options, for example the Idol icon gives you a Jackpot spin and the 
 little running man lets you pick in which direction to move next.
  
  Landing on the Star icon means you have to play one of the micro-games. There are four original 
 micro-games, all based on repairing the ship and gathering the crew. Nuts and Bolts has you sorting 
 the good nuts and bolts from the rusty ones and packing them into barrels. Hammer a Nail is like 
 Whack-a-Mole, you have to hammer the nails that pop up from the floor boards. Sail Repair is a 
 bit of a puzzle game where the parrot drops clothing items for you to sew on and repair the holes 
 on the sail. All Aboard gives you three crates to pack in your cargo and shipmates, and a hammock 
 to launch them onto the ship. I swear, I can't complete this game. I never get anything into the 
 far right crate
  
  Landing on random spots on the board lets you play a mini-game. The mini-games are just a few of 
 Pogo. com's little hits: Squelchies, Poppit, Phlinx, Tri-Peaks Solitaire and Word Whomp.
  
  Every game requires you to either win it or play it a certain number of times to achieve a certain 
 score in order to move on. Playing games awards you with a rank and tokens that you can transfer 
 to your Pogo. com account. There are also several badges to earn from each game.
  
  All the games are easily controlled with simple taps and drags of the stylus, though I have a hard 
 time with the All Aboard aiming and launching. Maybe it's just me though.
  
  The only real issues I had with the games that had some impact on gameplay was with Squelchies 
 and Phlinx, since there is like a blind spot on the game area in between the screens. And at random 
 times, Tri-Peaks Solitaire would just lock while loading a new game.
  
  Overall, Pogo Island is a great puzzle/mini-game fix to have handy. It's user friendly, easy to 
 pick up and play, and hard to let go. I only wish there were a few more games in there.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pogoisland 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukkinPhuts
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  As a pogo. com player I was excited to be able to play pogo on my DS and being able to transfer 
 tokens sounded great.
  For the most part this game is good, it has 5 varied games and allows for up to 3 profiles.
  
 There are two modes available, quickplay and adventure. Quickplay allows you to jump into any of 
 the 5 games and adventure you play any of the 5 games randomly, including a few mini games to move 
 around the island and gather items to finish the mode.
  Word whomp is good on the DS, you use the stylus to click on letters, click submit and it works 
 really well. Tri-peaks &amp; Poppit both work well with the stylus. The two weakest games are squelchies 
 &amp; Phlinx for different reasons.
  
  Squelchies I found hard because of the gap between the top and bottom screen. Once your squelchies 
 start to drop below to the bottom screen it makes it a little annoying because of the blank spot 
 the plastic creates. Phlinx has two problems, the first being that the graphics are not very good 
 or clear, but the main problem is the controls. You can use the stylus to move the target line 
 left &amp; right, pressing the cannon to fire the stone up to the playing field. I found the stylus 
 too fiddly to accurately aim and spent lots of time adjusting the target line before being able 
 to fire, slowing the game down. You have the choice to use the d-pad or A, B, X, Y to move the line 
 and fire stones, you can also shoot stones with the shoulder buttons but using these was even slower. 
 The target line moves painfully slow making what should be a fast paced puzzler slow and painful 
 to play.
  
  If you are a pogo fan I would recommend this game or if your favourite games are some of the more 
 solid ones, I think this is a good rather than excellent game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couchpotatotwin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome and addictive. The first day I bought this game, I played it for hours. 
 I love every game, but my favorite game is Tri-Peaks Solitaire. The look of the game is different 
 from the pogo. com look, but it's really cool. I also like that you can transfer your tokens to 
 your Pogo account. It's so hard for me to put the game down. The only thing that gets me to stop 
 playing the game is when my battery is low! I recommend this game for gamers who love to play games 
 that will ease you after a stressful day at school or work and keep you playing them for hours! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
