-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Point Blank DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/pointblank/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Capably translates light-gun controls into stylus controls.
 40 minigames are some of the best from Point Blank's past.
 Solid two-player single-cart play.
 Dr Dan and Dr Don are back.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames boil down to long stretches of ceaseless screen tapping.
 Many minigames are functionally identical.
 &quot;Classic&quot; coin-op games are incredibly dull.
 Little incentive to keep coming back.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 179 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Light Gun Shooter
Date: Jun 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Adapting a light-gun game to the DS is a clever idea, and Point Blank DS does it quite well, but 
 there's just not enough variety to keep it going. 

  It's been more than five years since Dr. Dan and Dr. Don last appeared in Point Blank 3, and in 
 the time since, light-gun games have become about as dead as the Latin language. Considering that 
 Point Blank never really rose above its niche appeal, it seemed unlikely that there would ever 
 be another entry in this quirky and enthusiastic series, which is part of what makes Point Blank 
 DS such a pleasant surprise. In an undeniably clever design move, Point Blank DS emulates the usual 
 light-gun controls using the DS touch screen and stylus, and it works surprisingly well. The whole 
 package does a rather fantastic job of capturing the spirit and energy of the Point Blank series, 
 but the action doesn't change much, and because it doesn't give you any strong incentives to come 
 back, Point Blank DS runs out of steam a little too quickly.  

          Dr. Dan and Dr. Don, the most questionably accredited medical professionals in video games, 
 make their glorious return.     

  To a certain extent, the WarioWare games owe a measure of their cross-cultural charm and kinetic 
 pacing to Point Blank. Rather than having you hunting down terrorists or shooting the limbs off 
 shambling zombies like in so many other arcade light-gun games, Point Blank was just a collection 
 of incredibly fast-paced minigames. Though presented mostly with 2D sprites, there was an undeniably 
 dizzy charm to the minigames, which would challenge you to clear out rooms full of cardboard cutout 
 gangsters, cowboys, and ninjas; protect Dr. Dan and Dr. Don from hungry piranhas, out-of-control 
 barrels, angry music fans, and falling satellites; shoot loads and loads of circular bull's-eye 
 targets; and much more.  

  Point Blank DS cherry-picks 40 different minigames from throughout the franchise, so there's a 
 pretty good cross section of minigames to put your different faculties through their paces. There 
 are tests of accuracy, judgment, reaction, attention, and precision, and they're usually over in 
 20 seconds or so. The minigames are packaged in a few different ways here. There's a mode that 
 emulates the structure of the arcade games, putting you through a randomly selected series of minigames, 
 and it includes a practice mode and three difficulty settings. You can also play any of the included 
 minigames one at a time in the freeplay mode or go into the game's museum mode to play digitized 
 versions of four classic Namco coin-op games, the latter of which isn't quite as novel as it sounds. 
 The wireless versus mode is a nice touch, giving you access to a good number of the included minigames 
 while requiring only one copy of Point Blank DS.  

  Taking a cue from Nintendo's own popular Brain games, Point Blank DS includes a brain-massage mode, 
 where you'll play through a series of four similarly themed minigames, and then the game will present 
 you with a title and a score based on how you performed. While Brain Age and Big Brain Academy 
 operate under the notion that they're somehow educational, Point Blank DS doesn't take the brain-massage 
 mode so seriously, which becomes apparent once it starts awarding you with titles such as "sock 
 washing authority" and "famous popcornist."  

          The gameplay transition is surprisingly smooth, but the actual games get repetitive quickly. 
     

  While it's a fairly attractive package, with weird, colorful visuals, a manic soundtrack that remixes 
 music from the classic Point Blank games, and an endearingly off-kilter sense of humor, there's 
 just not enough real variety to the gameplay. Many of the 40 minigames included are often just 
 the same minigames with different graphics swapped in, and though there's a good range of focus, 
 all of the minigames eventually just boil down to tap, tap, tapping on the screen. The game also 
 doesn't offer much in the way of unlockables to draw you back, making it easy to play for a few 
 hours, then put down and never touch again.  

  On some level, Point Blank DS is an interesting experiment on Namco's behalf, but frankly, Point 
 Blank was more interesting when it was a light-gun game. The control offered by a light gun isn't 
 nearly as flexible as control with a touch screen and stylus, so to see light guns used in such 
 an unconventional way was really refreshing. On the DS, though, there are other games that have 
 already explored the fast-paced minigame space more thoroughly, stealing some of the appeal that 
 Point Blank DS might have had.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Having played Point Blank to death at the video game arcades, this collection comes across as being 
 understandably disappointing. The stylus is an effective substitute for a light gun, because you 
 merely need to point and touch your targets, accuracy is hardly an issue. It's matter of whether 
 you are hitting the right objects. Thus, the game must be played at the highest level of difficulty 
 for any kind of real challenge to be had.
  
  Overall, it seems like the game has lost challenge and some charm of its original arcade version. 
 This collection contains exactly the sort of games found in the original Point Blank arcade version, 
 the graphics and sound are also the same. The lack of new content is disappointing.
  
  Nonetheless, if you've never played the original arcade version, this collection will come across 
 as a passable pack of mini games with some interesting extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcap669
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  if you have played the PS1 version, you are gonna quite get dissapointed in this
  
  well this game is fun, you play some fun minigames that are all related to shooting
  
  the 
 thing you do here is just shoot around some targets that the game asks you to shoot...... and basically 
 thats it...
  
  it has quite alot of minigames, maybe like 15-20 or something but you do the same thing each minigame, 
 shoot
  
  the music is quite fun to listen to... it has kind of like a Wario Ware feel to it or something
 
  
  the graphics arent that great, almost all is 2d... actually, everything is 2d... EVERYTHING!
  
 
  well, i spent like 30 minutes in playing it... and i feel like i want to play it longer
  
  a fun game... its just fun
  
  i think that you guys/girls might want to rent it first before 
 buying
  
  By the way, this is my first review so... i quite suck... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 26, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  I love Point Blank. I've played all the arcade games. So, naturally, this would be a blast for 
 me to play, right? WRONG. Something totally went wrong in the transition from Arcade to handheld. 
 Was it the loss of the light gun? Was it the loss of fun of putting tokens in the machine? Let's 
 find out:
  
  Gameplay: Mediocre. The games are creative, but they are used too often throughout the game and 
 some are ridiculously easy, therefore making them boring. There is a small amount of modes to play, 
 and having to beat the minigames over and over again sometimes makes it tedious. This should have 
 all been polished up quite a bit.
  
  Graphics: As good as they will get for a cartoony DS game. Nothing bad to say in this department, 
 only good. The game is very colourful, bright, and has a nice visual style.
  
  Sound: Hmmm, what do I say about sound. It's just a bunch of gunshot sounds when you shoot something, 
 sooo... not bad in the sound department. The music kinda sucks though.
  
  Value: No replay value, no general value, really should be rented or at least check your sale bin 
 for this one. I bought it, and I'm honestly ashamed to own it.
  
  This wasnt a very good game overall. So bad, I've got nothing else to say about it. Thanks for 
 reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiplash
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Considering that this is a port / greatest hits collection of the 3 game series, I was really surprised 
 to see how few games they included. They have so many to choose from, but they chose to bring over 
 so few. Also, many of the games they chose are forgettable.
  
  This game turned out to be a very limited version of Warioware, in that it is made up of several 
 tapping games. At least Warioware has variety (slashes, microphone use, puzzles, etc.) Unless you're 
 a diehard fan that must play this on the go, stick to the 3 PS One games... any one of them is 
 better than this compilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4311york
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Fast Load Times
  +Easy Pick-Up-n-Play
  +Addictive Replay - High Score
  +30 plus shooting/tapping games
  
  The Bad:
  -Repetitive
  -No Unlockables from what I can 
 tell
  -Probably a good $19 game, $29 is probably too high
  
  If you ever got the chance to play Point Blanke 1 thru 3 on the PS1, then you will know exactly 
 what to expect in this game, less the gun of course! Here Namco has you tapping instead of shooting. 
 It actually works VERY well, and was easy enough that my 6yr old daughter could even play. 
  
  The game is very fast paced and has quick load times to match the fast pace. This is easily 
 a game you could play while waiting in line for 10 minutes. In fact, it is probably the best game 
 on the DS for short "spurt" gameplay! I can't see anyone playing this for more than 30 minutes 
 at a time, as it is just constant action. You simply would get TIRED.
  
  The only negative thing that I can say about this game is that it probably doesn't warrent the 
 $29 price tag. It's a fun game, but it is VERY shallow. There are 30 plus mini games, but the basic 
 gameplay element is the exact same in each of them. Tapping, tapping, tapping!
  
  It would have been awesome if they would have had some unlockable games, such as Duck Hunt, or 
 one of Sega's Shooters included.
  
  Good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Point blank used to be one of my favorite arcade shooters back in the day because it did not involve 
 buckets of blood a la Lethal Enforcers or House of the Dead back then. It was a nice family friendly 
 alternative. I was very happy to hear that this game was coming out for the DS but then I thought 
 Where is the Fun without the gun? The fact of the matter is the game is still fun BUT the replay 
 value and fun factor are very limited. Without that patented Namco gun giving you feedback the 
 game is simply not the same. It is fun for a while but this game was returned to EB from yours 
 truly within a few days. Its just not the same without the guns.
  
  Dont get me wrong though, the presentation is very good as is the arcade translation from graphics 
 to sound effects but there is just a gun missing in all this. I sure hope this game comes out for 
 the Wii that I plan to purchase because with the Wiimote this game would be a lot more fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  While the DS has certainly gotten its share of brain training games and other touch-screen centric 
 games, one genre surprisingly missing has been light gun titles. Namco Bandai Games is about to 
 change that trend with their game Point Blank DS. Mixing touch-screen gameplay with frenetic shooting 
 (and even some light brain exercises) , Point Blank DS features some series trademark action and 
 attitude. Unfortunately, it just can't seem to muster up enough depth to keep those features fresh 
 for much longer than an hour or two.
  
  Point, Shoot, Repeat
  If you played Point Blank in the arcade, you already have a good pretty idea what the DS version 
 is all about. You play through a multitude of short mini-games that test your accuracy and speed 
 using a light gun. But, in the DS version, the light gun is gone and in its place is your DS stylus. 
 Tapping the stylus on the touch-screen is now the equivalent of a light-gun shot, which on its 
 own is a pretty intuitive idea and one that is implemented in the game fairly well. 
  
  There are quite a few different mini-games to play through that span four different difficulty 
 settings. The higher the difficulty, the more elaborate the mini-games become. For example, one 
 mini-game has you shooting criminals, while avoiding civilians. But, on the harder settings, you 
 can only shoot criminals that are carrying weapons, forcing you to not only shoot fast, but to 
 think even faster. In all the mini-games, however, are never too complicated as to make them hard 
 to play through, which helps give the game a bit more appeal towards younger gamers.
  
  The main mode in the game is Arcade, which has you playing through two four-level bouts of shooting 
 action. Between those rounds are a couple bonus mini-games where you can score some extra lives. 
 There are four different difficulty levels in Arcade to give you a bit more replay value, although 
 the lower two end up being a bit too easy. If you grow tired of Arcade (which I wager you will 
 fairly quickly) , there are a few other game modes to keep you busy. Freeplay lets you play through 
 any mini-game of your choice, which is nice for honing your skills or practicing a game that has 
 been giving you trouble. Games Museum is a nostalgic trip down memory lane and features four re-creations 
 of old arcade shooting games. There are only four games, however, so Games Museum ends up being 
 little more than a very short trip down memory lane. 
  
  Brain Massage?
  The last mode, Brain Massage, is probably the most unique in that it combines shooting with some 
 light brain analysis. In Brain Massage you play through mini-games and once you're done the game 
 analyzes your actions and charts the results in areas such as Accuracy, Judgment, Attention, and 
 Reaction. There's even a snooty scientist character that gives you the results, which is a nice 
 touch. For multiplayer fans, there is also a single-card download option where you and another 
 player can compete head-to-head in some mini-games, which is pretty addictive.
  
  When it comes to visuals and sound, Point Blank DS isn't anything to get excited about. True, the 
 game features its trademark characters Mr. Dan and Mr. Don, as well as some colorful sprite-based 
 graphics. But the real fun lies in the mini-games. It's just a tad unfortunate, though, that the 
 game really doesn't have much depth besides that. Granted, it's fun to play with another person 
 and it's cool to play through the unique Brain Massage mode. But, if you're looking for a DS game 
 that's going to provide hours of entertainment, you'll have better luck elsewhere. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Well shooting gallery games on the DS would be great using the stlus to shoot and having a time 
 limit. While you probaly would need a screen protector and might break your stylus. You'd tap so 
 much with your stylus that you couldn't play this game in public. Like Nintendogs only for diffenernt 
 reasons! 
  Well someone adopted that idea! Point Blank DS is the game's name. Some of you may have played 
 the Arcade version and maybe some have played the PlayStation version. Well now Point Blank comes 
 to a handheld! Here is my review!
  
  The gameplay is pretty nice. The stages are really fun! With alot of shooting! YAY! But the stages 
 are short. While the modes are fun too! Multiplayer is really fun too! While the stages are short 
 the game is really short too! 
  
  The graphics are nice for a DS game too! With about the average graphics for the Dual Screen machine! 
 The game is rated E10 but blood would have been nice!
  
  The sound is okay. the ducks squick too! 
  
  Good game average DS game rent it before you buy 
 it! 
  7.3 good~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeefBoy25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Point Blank is i great multiplayer game and the munigames are great with the touch screen. Some 
 are more challenging than others and can be great if you are competative. Most of the fun is watching 
 and hoping that your opponents fail. Although the graphics aren't amazing, they are very good for 
 the kind of game Point Blank is. The arcade game was fun, and I think the touch screen is better 
 than the gun that the arcade games use. The are some unlockable features which are cool to shoot 
 for, and the one way I could see it getting a lot better is by adding a setting like that of mario 
 party of something kind of similar. All in All I think it turned out well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
