-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Trozei!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/pokemontorouze/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice twist on puzzle conventions.
 New art style brings lots of personality.
 Koffing!.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Few gameplay modes.
 Some icons difficult to distinguish.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 423 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Genius Sonority
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Mar 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A meager selection of gameplay modes keeps Trozei from being essential, but the core gameplay remains 
 engaging, regardless. 

  Aside from its stunningly relentless fight for the hearts and souls of schoolchildren the world 
 over, Pokmon is best known in the world of video games for consistently fun and accessible role-playing 
 games, though it has regularly taken detours into other genres. It has experienced success with 
 puzzle games in the past with Pokmon Puzzle League, and Nintendo goes back to that particular 
 well with Pokmon Trozei for the DS. As easily as Trozei! could have been highly marketable trash, 
 the gameplay actually has something new to say, and a change in art style makes things all the 
 more interesting.  

          Pokmon Trozei is like the Mobius strip of puzzle games.     

  Pokmon Trozei cribs 
 liberally from a number of established puzzle games, and the hallmarks of games like Columns and 
 Bejeweled are in plain view, but it assembles the pieces into something fairly unique. You're presented 
 with the familiar box-of-blocks playfield, which immediately begins filling up with icons for different 
 breeds of Pokmon. Using the stylus, you can select an icon and slide it up, down, left, or right. 
 Icons don't move independently, though, and when you slide one icon, it causes the rest of the 
 icons in that row or column to slide as well. If you slide horizontally, the icons will wrap around, 
 meaning that if you slide a row to the right, the icon that was on the far right will slide into 
 the far left. Your ability to slide icons up is limited, but when you slide an icon down, it causes 
 icons on the bottom of the column to fall back down from the top. The sort of curved-space logic 
 that Trozei employs can be a bit much to wrap your head around, but it is one of the key features 
 that give the game its unique gameplay style.  

  There are also new icons that regularly drop down from above, and you'll need to quickly make room 
 before the entire playfield fills up. Initially you'll need to create a vertical or horizontal 
 row of four identical icons, which will clear out those icons and activate a "Trozei Chance," which, 
 for a little more than a second, makes it possible to clear out icons with rows of just three. 
 If you're able to take advantage of that Trozei Chance, you'll then be able to clear out pairs 
 of identical icons. You can slide around icons at will the entire time that the Trozei Chance is 
 activated, making it quite possible to create huge chain reactions, which will net you big points. 
 Things start off pretty slow, but the icons start falling more quickly, and with greater variety, 
 the further you get into the game. The Trozei Chance system does a commendable job of injecting 
 the game with a sense of urgency, and the way that icons wrap around the playfield flexes your 
 puzzle game muscles in ways they're not really used to. The gameplay isn't without its faults -- the 
 manic pacing makes it difficult to really plan out high-yield chain reactions, with luck playing 
 a bigger role than it ought to. Also, certain icons aren't as distinct as others, which can lead 
 to some deadly hesitation.  

  What's most unfortunate about Trozei, though, is its meager selection of gameplay modes. Single-player 
 options are limited to an endless mode and a short and sweet adventure mode, which sees you playing 
 the part of some kind of Pokmon secret agent trying to recapture Pokmon that have been thieved 
 by a shadowy organization. The adventure mode puts you through a series of increasingly difficult 
 stages where you have to clear out a number of icons to advance, and it throws an occasional boss 
 fight at you. There are also some training levels peppered throughout the adventure mode, where 
 you're given a premeditated scenario that you have to figure out how to clear. These levels become 
 downright diabolical later on, and had the developer cared, they could have supported a separate 
 gameplay mode all on their own.  

  You can play competitive or cooperative games against another player locally, whether he or she 
 has a copy of the game or not. Anticipating that Trozei will appeal to the playground set, the 
 developers included an espionage mode, which, when activated, will constantly search for other 
 nearby DSs that are also in espionage mode. If and when it finds one, it will automatically exchange 
 information, possibly giving you the location of a rare Pokmon. Trozei subscribes to the copyrighted 
 "gotta catch 'em all" mantra, and you collect Pokmon simply by clearing them out as you play the 
 game. This has been an effective motivator in other Pokmon games, but since you don't really get 
 anything from catching them all in Trozei, other than some kind of embarrassing bragging rights, 
 it's kind of a moot point.  

          The new art style found in Trozei represents a nice change of pace for the Pokmon franchise. 
     

  The Pokmon series has always been home to a hyperactive breed of anime, something that Trozei 
 eschews for a more inspired art style that is more than a little reminiscent of Genndy Tartakovsky's 
 work on  Dexter's Laboratory  and  Samurai Jack --a style that, admittedly, has fast become almost 
 as prevalent as the anime aesthetic in modern animation, but it's still a nice change of pace. 
 Though the menus and the playfield show off a little bit of this funky flair, it really comes across 
 best during the adventure mode, where the gameplay is punctuated by stylish little animated cutscenes 
 that use both 2D and 3D graphics while, most impressively, maintaining a singular style. There 
 are only a few different pieces of background music that match the game's feverish tone, but they 
 can eventually wear out their welcome through sheer repetition.  

  The rather limited and predictable number of gameplay modes in Pokmon Trozei is lamentable, but 
 the gameplay still holds up quite well, putting its own spin on the standards of the genre. There 
 are certainly deeper, more robust puzzle games available for the DS, but Trozei is still fun and 
 mostly recommendable, despite some missed opportunities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hazaal
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Guys like me will find disappointment when were FORCED to play a girl. We would usually 
 skip stuff like:
  
  (Too Truely) Nonsense Story
  (Not much reference to purpose) *Actual* Purpose
  (Exept Generation I & II, they were too classic 
 to miss.) Forced to play as a certain gender.
  (Highly impossible, the capture styler from POKEMON RANGER 1 & 2 ""oh yeah"" sounds more realistic.) 
 The zapping out of Pokeballs through wifi would overcrowd the system, blow it up, get killed, and 
 be stuck in heaven with a load of Dododo**. 
  
  AS A POKEMON FAN I AM SHOCKED TO SAY THIS, EVEN IN IN CAPS LOCK, sorry nintendo, BUT THIS GAME, 
 in my opinion, MAKES THE POKEMON GAMES, johto, sinnoh, hoenn, etc. , LOOK A HECK OF A LOT BETTER 
 THAN THEY WERE BEFORE.
  
  
  Time i ansered the asteriks***
  
  *=Not used for much, are they? No wonder people invented animal cruelty. keep 'em locked up and 
 dump 'em when you own the earth? I mean, if i was GIOVANNI, MAXIE, ARCHIE, CYRUS, GORDOR or BLAKE (this 
 is "literally" a list of main bad guys from pokemon) I wouldn't go that far.
  **= if you know whatr doduo and dodrio are then this makes sence. basically a one-headed doduo. 
 baby form is you will.
  ***- and asterik is one of these stars (*) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 14, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  First thing I want to say is that if you are a Pokemon fanboy (as so many people seem to be) , you're 
 probably going to enjoy this game because of the Pokemon and all of the "catching" that goes about. 
 I, am not a Pokemon fan, I don't play Pokemon games, but I thought this would be a quality puzzler. 
 I was mistaken. 
  
  The puzzle aspects of this game are simple. You line up 4 matching Pokemon and it starts off a 
 Trozei. After that you line up 3 matching (within a limited time) and then you line up groups of 
 2 or more. As long as you are matching groups of 2 or more the Trozei time continues, but if you 
 don't match anything for about 2 seconds the time ends and you repeat the cycle. 
  
  My main problem with this game is that there is either something more to it that I don't understand 
 or it's just ridiculously easy. Often after setting off the initial 4 Pokemon I can just not do 
 anything at all and 90% of the screen will clear itself. The pieces will just fall down and keep 
 clearing themselves. 
  
  This always confuses me because most of the pieces that I see clear aren't perfect matches. I'm 
 thinking that there is some sort of similarity between these Pokemon that are matching up that 
 I don't know because I don't play Pokemon games. This is the first reason that I say Pokemon fans 
 will find more enjoyment out of this game. 
  
  In the "adventure mode" of the game you go around to different areas Trozei'ing different amounts 
 of Pokemon to pass the stage. Each stage asks you to Trozei a certain 3 Pokemon. I don't quite 
 understand this part either because the Pokemon seem to appear randomly in each level. So, to Trozei 
 those specific three is all luck? Does catching them all always come down to luck?
  
  Once again, I blame my lack of knowledge (and the lack of wanting any of the knowledge) for disliking 
 this game. I am a huge puzzle game fan, so I do have reason for playing this game, but I really 
 just don't see the puzzle strategy or the urge to "catch 'em all". 
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone to be honest, but Pokemon fans probably can't resist 
 it and will more than likely have fun. If you are under about the age of 10 you'll probably have 
 more fun with it than I did as well. Those who are only puzzle fans, look elsewhere for good times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemyxDanceWater
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply ADORABLE! I fell in love with it when I saw the commercial. The game is very 
 addicting and it's totally fun! My friends are like pfffft, you STILL play poke mon?! but NO this 
 game is not ALL about pokemon, it's a matching game kinda sorta! I really really enjoy this game!! 
 The music to this game goes along with the theme.... just plain ol' cute! PLEASE if you love games 
 like Sudoko and Matching Games... BUY IT!! YOU MUST BUYYYYYY  
 Ok now I'm going to stall for my 100 words... akrgksnm aklmjklfmgd kmfklmhdfk klmdfkmhd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: nice twist on puzzle conventions, new art style brings alot of personality, uses 
 the touch screen perfectly, all 380 pokemon's to collect, easy puzzle meganism is easy and works 
 good with the nds, ENDLESS MODE is endless fun {this mode i play always but i played the game once 
 out} .
  THE BAD POINTS: few gameplay modes.
  [CONCLUSION] POKEMON LINK {the earopian name of this that sounds ten times better than: POKEMON: TROZEI} 
 is an great puzzle game that uses all characterisms of the ds perfectly. an not so intresting story 
 mode that you not playing so much anymore after you played it out. but with the ENDLESS MODE {my 
 favorite mode} you can eastly play for 10 hours or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Stylus mechanics are almost perfect; good espionage system, retaining Agent Cards from 
 rivals and raising ranks as you battle; pok&eacute; mon rarely seen in other installments appear 
 more frequently; great surprises with the pok&eacute; mon rounded-shapes.
  
  The Bad: Music don't change too much, and 60% of the sound is lost when coming out from DS speakers; 
 ugly design in story mode, just following the hype; when you reach higher levels, forever and endless 
 modes become unbeatable.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Trozei came to consolidate a new way to enjoy puzzles, and it's achieved through 
 a very well-known franchise. Remember the times when you were trying a puzzle, and just wanted 
 to grab that piece with your own hands and drag here or there, and you will find out why this formula 
 get what it takes. Sliding pieces is simple, easy to learn, and more accurate than it seems at 
 first sight. Except for a (really) little time lapse when executing combos, the entire thing works 
 pretty fine.
  When it comes to graphics, is fun to imagine someone gathering artists around a table and telling 
 let's do it all again, but this time inside a circle , because some solutions ended very fine (take 
 a look at Zubat) , refreshing some ten-year old characters. And under good beats too, but you just 
 can hear it all on headphones (DS speakers don't get the bass) .
  About climbing levels, the game system can be unforgiving. You can't earn any kind of item to help 
 you staying in that stage, or something like that. You have to pass 6 levels to save your progress, 
 and it become almost impossible in higher levels.
  After all, a good game. Opening fields for the next puzzles that may come out from their hats, 
 and being honest to a franchise that still have so many fans around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye303
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  To start off, if you couldn't tell by the sarcasm this game is bad. I think Game Freak or whom 
 ever created this game was just trying to make money. I mean c'mon people its POKEMON TETRIS just 
 with a few twist. I mean all you do is build on top of one another and try to break a pattern. 
 IT TETRIS BUT WITH A NEW TWIST!!!
  they just added a story in the game to make it more exciting. THAT'S IT!
  And the whole time 
 you're playing tetris and the creators try to make it fun by saying catch this and that pokemon 
 and YOU CAN'T EVEN USE THEM!!!
  Then the creators of this game try to make it more fun by adding a meaning to it. you can tell 
 a game isn't that good if a MEANING HAS to be added to make it more fun. The plot is that you try 
 to save stolen pokemon from evil and then try to see how many of them you can catch in endless 
 mode.
  SOUNDS AWESOME RIGHT?
  
  I WOULDN'T RECOMMEND THIS GAME NOT EVEN FOR POKEMON FANS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odysseycat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei is a puzzle game where not only you save stolen pokemon from evil you also get to 
 see how many of them you collect as well in both story mode or endless mode. They used the same 
 graphic design from warioware touched on the pokemon and the people. To play the game you can only 
 use your stylist since the control buttons won't be available to use except for the B and start 
 button. Music and sound effect works well to go along with the game. So basically the game is good 
 for both puzzle and pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Although Pokemon games are mostly known for their RPG mechanics, Nintendo did something good by 
 pursuing the idea of a puzzle game for the Nintendo DS surrounding a Pokemon theme. With game mechanics 
 that strongly resemble a mix of Columns and Bejeweled, Pokemon Trozei is a fast-paced puzzle game 
 that will require some dexterous control of the stylus.
  
  The Single Player game includes an Endless Mode and an Adventure Mode. Endless Mode gives you a 
 puzzle board where Pokemon just keep coming faster and faster until eventually you aren't able 
 to keep up with them anymore.
  
  In Adventure Mode, the story is based around secret agent Lucy Fleetfoot. Lucy is an SOL agent, 
 protecting Pokemon from the Phobos Battalion. Her job is to infiltrate the secret warehouses owned 
 by the Phobos Battalion and recover all the stolen Pokemon.
  
  The gameplay is fairly simple. In a Tetris-like puzzle area where pieces fall from the top, you 
 must use the stylus to slide the little Pokemon up, down and sideways to line up four of the same 
 kind. This is called "trozei". When you first trozei four identical Pokemon, the background turns 
 green indicating a Trozei Chance. The Trozei Chance is a short time frame during which you can 
 group Pokemon together in goups of three, and if you succeed, you can then pair them up. You can 
 keep on sliding Pokemon during the chance period to create several chain reactions. The longer 
 the chain, the more points you get. If you succeed in clearing the entire board (Trozei All) you 
 get 10,000 bonus points.
  
  Things get tricky since the Pokemon on the puzzle board move as if the board was continuous. Slide 
 a row to the right or left, the Pokemon on the end of it will appear on the opposite side of the 
 board. Slide a column to the bottom, the Pokemon will fall from the top. You can also slide Pokemon 
 up, but only one space.
  
  Although the mechanics are fairly simple to grasp, clearing the boards isn't. As you proceed from 
 warehouse to warehouse, things will get faster and more complicated, and you will need to Trozei 
 more and more Pokemon to clear the board. It's hard to plan chain reactions ahead, because you 
 can't touch the top part of the screen, so being lucky is as much of a factor as being skilled.
 
  
  Each puzzle stage has a set goal of Pokemon to be "trozei'd", but there is also a goal in points. 
 If you reach that number of points, you are awarded a Coin.
  
  As you clear certain boards, more warehouses will be unlocked and the Phobos hunchmen will reveal 
 themselves. The Phobos Batallion has a few tricks up ther sleeves to make your trozei'ing job more 
 difficult. They will throw round stones that can only be matched with a pink "wildcard" Pokemon, 
 they will cause heavy rains of Pokemon to come down, and they will even turn out the lights and 
 make your Pokemon look like a bunch of silhouettes (now that's disorienting) . The trick to beat 
 them is to constantly trozei your Pokemon, which keeps them stunned.
  
  Aside from the several storage areas and mini-bosses, there is also a series of labs that are used 
 as tutorials. Completing the tutorials also gives you Coins. Coins can then be used in a special 
 area of the map where you can redeem one for two minutes of play time in a wider puzzle board, 
 for a chance to trozei rare Pokemon.
  
  Every Pokemon you manage to trozei will appear in the completion list. There are roughly 400 of 
 them, and the rare ones are difficult to match since they disappear from the screen after a short 
 period of time. They will flash, and by the time you notice them, they're gone.
  
  The game also offers two multiplayer modes, Battle and Pair. Battle is a versus match, while Pair 
 is a co-op game.
  
  Graphically, Pokemon Trozei has an interesting style of artwork. In Adventure Mode, there are little 
 "cutscenes" where you meet the Phobos henchmen, and it's done with a mix of still frames and moving 
 backgrounds.
  
  The music is fast-paced and appropriate for a puzzle game. Some of the tunes are more pleasant 
 than others, but they all reflect the urgency of the shape-matching, especially when your Pokemon 
 reach the top of the board (that one is especially annoying though, turning into what sounds like 
 a series of squeeks) . Although the background music will change from puzzle to puzzle or from time 
 to time in Endless Mode, it would have been nice to be able to pick the music we want to play at 
 any given time.
  
  There aren't many game modes available and the Adventure Mode can be completed fairly quick, but 
 the sheer amount of Pokemon to collect keeps me going back for more until my stylus is nearly leaving 
 smoke trails from moving that quick. The bottom line is that Pokemon Trozei is a fun, frantic and 
 addictive game for puzzle enthusiasts and completist gamers alike.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Ful ltext and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pokemontrozei 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Although I only played a demo I thought it was OK. But the goals in that mode other than adventure 
 are kind of crazy the plies start to build up, it reminds me of a mix of Pokmon Puzzle League 
 (Which I Own) and Tetris a pretty good mix but I didnt really Love the game a whole lot. The sound 
 was good. Difficulty is Just Right for someone who has played the above games. The graphics are 
 good. I personally like the sound. But if I walked into a Game Store and I saw Tetris DS or Pokmon 
 Trozei, I'd Pick Trozei. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojoepalmer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon TrozeI Is almost as what I expected: I addiciting tetris game with the creatures people 
 like. Unlike tertis You can move you pokemon around to a make a Pair ( that has to be 4 of the 
 sam pokemon) . As you get pair you pairs can get smaller and smaller. Another thing it is one of 
 the only pokemon games to have every single pokemon without need to trade pokemon or use a AR. 
 The downside for poke fanatics is you can't trade pokemon onto like ruby version. And as you keep 
 beating each level in adventure mode: It gets tougher. Overall: If you want some pokemon styled 
 tertis, then It mostly be worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Why is only the European version called Pokemon Link!? The unfortunately titled Trozie is a somewhat 
 fun puzzler that manages to succeed where others might have failed because of - wait for it - the 
 Pokemon factor. 
  
  Its a fun game in it's own right, with gameplay similarities to two of peoples favorite puzzlers: 
 Tetris Attack and Meteos, but the additional goal of finding and... ughhh... trozi-ing all 380-something 
 pokemon seems more like a chore than anything that belongs in a puzzler. 
  
  The most impressive things are its pseudo-stylish pokemon look chic, and an excellent array of 
 multiplayer options. Of course, multiplayer is the way to go if you want to challenge your skills.
 
  
  Unfortunately, flashy pixels and Wi-Fi features aren't much more than a tinsel on Trozie's knockoff 
 foundation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zigsta
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Pokemon Trozei, I decided to pass. It simply wasn't a standard Pokemon game 
 that we all know and love. So what made me buy it? I just gave in. It was on sale, after all. Sure 
 enough, buying Trozei has been worth the price.
  
  I'll be brutally honest here: Trozei's story mode is incredibly short and lacks hardly any story 
 at all. However, Trozei's value doesn't depend on its lackluster storymode, but rather Pokemon's 
 "Gotta catch 'em all" slogan", true to the franchise as a whole. Capturing all 386 Pokemon is done 
 by lining them up, called a "trozei", hence the strange title. However, capturing these Pokemon 
 is no simple task; the rarest legendary Pokemon are so elusive that hardly anyone even knows how 
 or where to find them. Furthermore, most of the Pokemon in your Trozei List (Think the Pokedex 
 of the RPG Pokemon games.) are "rare" Pokemon, which means they're (duh) not very likely to appear 
 the first time you try a puzzle. That's where the replay value comes in -- trying the various story 
 mode levels to catch 'em all.
  
  But you can't catch 'em all just by yourself. Some Pokemon are easier to find or can only be found 
 in multiplayer mode, which takes a while to get going. Why? Trozei is pretty hard to describe to 
 a newbie, so it takes at least several games for your potential opponent to get the hang of the 
 game. Furthermore, even after your friend finally learns the basics, you're probably so far ahead 
 of him/her talentwise you'll beat your friend silly in Battle mode, and in Partner mode your friend 
 will only be a liability. However, once you find a suitable opponent/partner, Trozei's multiplayer 
 can be very fun and will offer chances at rare Pokemon that are normally hard to find on your own.
 
  
  Trozei is addicting, especially for a Pokemon fan such as myself. If Pokemon isn't your thing, 
 trust me -- don't buy this game. It'll have absolutely no replay value for you at all and will simply 
 be a waste of money. On the flipside, if you are a Pokemon fan, try this game out, even though 
 it has its flaws. That reminds me... probably the biggest flaw in the game is when you battle a 
 boss from the Phobos Battalion. These baddies can turn your Pokemon into black shadows until you 
 get a trozei or about ten seconds creep by. This isn't that bad at first, but the further your 
 progress in the game, the faster the Pokemon fall down from the top screen, which can really add 
 up fast in the later levels. This black-out results in many Pokemon shapes appearing identical, 
 often resulting in you losing after waylaying the boss for the past several minutes.
  
  So that's my review. Try Pokemon Trozei out. Then try to put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Hola a todos, empiezo diciendo que estoy escribiendo este repaso casi justo en el momento en el 
 que me he acabado el juego, bueno la parte que se puede acabar, el modo aventura, por tanto mis 
 sensaciones son muy frescas.
  
  Voy a ser claro, el juego estuve a punto de dejarlo al segundo dia. Si as de claro, me estaba 
 aburriendo, y eso no es bueno, y creo que es donde falla el juego, en las primeras horas de juego. 
 
  Las primeras horas son las peores por una simple razn, es lento, este juego gana mucho en cuanto 
 vas pasando pantallas y el juego se va acelerando, la diversin aumenta por momentos y la adiccin 
 sube y a veces te cuesta dejar una misin a medias, hasta que no la acabas no paras.
  
  Estoy de acuerdo en que al principio los juegos deben ser ms fciles y que la dificultad vaya 
 in crescento, pero aqu juega un arma de doble filo, y sobretodo para los que no somos fans de 
 Pokemon, como yo, que a mi me es igual que sean caras de Pokemon como que sean caras de la Disney, 
 yo busco diversin, soy un fan de los juegos tipo Puzzle y he jugado y acabado todos los que han 
 salido para la DS, que por cierto aprovecho para decir que es la mejor mquina para jugar este 
 tipo de juegos, y al principio la lentitud en que caen las piezas y lo simple y repetitivo del 
 manejo del juego te hacen aburrirlo.
  
  Por suerte una vez superada esta primera parte y cuando ves que las piezas empiezan a caer con 
 cierta rapidez, notas como no puedes desviar la mirada ni un momento, y te engancha, as de simple, 
 te engancha, as como con le Polarium el incremento de velocidad no es beneficioso, aqu si.
  
  En el momento que acabas por primera vez el modo Aventura crees que ha sido dificil conseguirlo, 
 pero te das cuenta que has desbloqueado el modo dificil del modo aventura, y no te lo puedes creer 
 pero se puede complicar ms!!!, pero he conseguido acabarme los 2 modos del modo aventura y he 
 despbloqueado el modo infinito, que tal y como dice su nombre no se acaba. Me ha costado un par 
 de semanitas, sobretodo las ltimas pantallitas en las que la velocidad ha sido brutal, pero al 
 fin lo hice.
  
  Respecto a otras questiones tecnicas del juego decir que los grficos son flojos, pero ms que 
 suficientes y casi necesarios, su simplicidad es positiva, adems adoro que no hayan hecho piezas 
 tan pequeas como hicieron en el Meteos, que creo que eran demasiado pequeas.
  
  El sonido correcto, la msica poco variada, pero bien.
  
  El sistema general del juego es bueno, 
 pero un poco montono, aunque con el incremento de la velocidad gana mucho.
  
  Del apartado multijugador no puedo opinar porque ya sabeis que no suelo jugar en estos modos, ademas 
 me estoy dando cuenta que Nintendo esta apostando fuerte por este modo y gente como yo nos sentimos 
 un poco raros, porque compras un juego y si lo acabas resulta que solo has disfrutado la mitad 
 de el, y si no lo acabas ya no te digo. Espero que no dejen nunca de lado el modo monojugador, 
 y espero que lo potencien un poco porque cada vez hay mas multijugador en los cartuchos y las aventuras 
 solitarias son mas bien cortitas.
  
  Resumiendo, buen juego para los amantes de los puzzles, dadle la suficiente confianza para llegar 
 al momento divertido y lo acabareis disfrutanto. No lo recomiendo para los jovencitos fans de Pokemon, 
 les recomiendo que miren jugar a un adulto, y se lo pasaran bien, tal y como han hecho mis hijos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei is the best game ever! The game is you as Lucy Fleetfoot and Prof. P being members 
 of the SOL, finding out that the Phobos Battalion has taken all the pokeballs with pokemon in them, 
 and have stashed them in storages which are mostly secret but why can something more than 10km 
 away can notice? That's the SOL Satellite. You use a Trozei Beamer to trozei the pokemon from their 
 pokeballs, send them to the satellite and send them to the SOL Laboratory, safe in Prof. P's lab. 
 The gameplay is an instant classic. Line up four and you have saved some pokemon. You may think 
 on Secret Storage 1 (the first level) that 50 pokemon to trozei is too much. Wait when you have 
 to do 800! There are 4 different types of levels (SOL Laboratory, Secret Storage, Huge Storage 
 and Phobos Mobile) . Each one is harder than another. You can get all 386 pokemon in this game (well, 
 most of them) and some are in a rare condition. These pokemon disappear 15 seconds after it appears 
 or 5 seconds after no trozeing. The bosses in this game are pretty hard but possible. After you 
 beat all of them then the game turns into hard mode (which, I am going to do after I get all the 
 rare pokemon) and I don't know what happens. People can DS Download Play, and also they don't have 
 to play with you, they download a miniature version which can't do Adventure and Forever (I don't 
 know about Forever) modes. There is Endless mode which is an endless stream of pokemon. Forever 
 is unlockable, it's a wider stream of endless pokemon. There are also hi-scores here. There are 
 already made hiscores for all of them (including Forever and how much pokemon are in your trozei 
 list) . This game is a great game, for anyone who likes puzzles that are fast-paced, and also once 
 you have finished the game, always say that you want some more when you line up four! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei is a puzzle game. You have to shift and slide the Pokemon and match them up. Four 
 in a row and your good to go. Though i do wish it was more challenging then what it already is. 
 It is a weird game but highly addictive but it needs to be more of a challenge. If i was the makers, 
 i would change it around a little to make it better. Then i would release it to the public. The 
 thought of just shifting and sliding Pokemon to get four in a row and to be good to go is really 
 pestering. I would give it a ten, but i feel like it should not get one from me. After all, i am 
 one the best gamers out there and i have a unique taste in video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rachelly
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  The gameplay has potential, and the story line is adequat, but the characters and the music here 
 are completely out of line. It's a good game for the who liked Tetris DS and other puzzle games, 
 but pokemon fans stay away! I've been waiting months for Pokemon Ranger and Mysterious Dungeon 
 to come out, and so as the suspence was killing me, I bought Pokemon Trozei. In fact, I bought 
 it just today and won adventure mode in 2 hours and 15 minutes straight. By the time I was done, 
 I couldn't get that repetitive music out of my head. Completely not worth $35 of my well-earned 
 money, I'm returning this game first chance I get. No offence to those who liked it, but this game 
 is just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhfial1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to clear something up. Pokemon is not stupid, and the people who don't like 
 it are just bratty, snot-nosed idiots who make fun out of making fun of little kids for liking 
 a very fun fad. One more thing; Pokemon IS still popular. If you disagree with me, explain the 
 several pokemon games coming out every year, the relative success of the TV show (Which has aired 
 more than 300 episodes, and several movies) , and card game, which releases new booster packs every 
 so often, and more. So, Pokemon-haters, just shut up. Pokemon Trozei is an excellent game. No matter 
 whether you like Pokemon or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is decent. If you sit down on the couch and play it then you will get the crap addicted 
 out of you. It might take a while to get what your suppose to do but afterwards it gets repetitive 
 but then again what puzzle game doesn't? Its still fun though. The new heroine in Pokemon Trozei 
 looks nothing like the other humans in Pokemon games. Neither do the villans. Where is Team Rocket 
 when you need them. If you ever going on a roadtrip bring this game. I'm sure Endless mode will 
 keep you busy for an hour or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is apparently aware of puzzle-gamer's needs, just look at number of puzzle-games already 
 released for the DS. Meteos, Magnetica, Tetris, and don't forget the hefty number available on 
 GBA and GBC. With the added touch-screen features, the DS seems to be a relatively ample system 
 for unloading puzzle games and so we are presented with Pokemon Trozei! The newest Pokemon game 
 available.
  
  Some of you may remember Pokemon Puzzle League which was released during the N64 era and later 
 on the GBC, Pokemon Trozei is rather different from those games and that's both a plus and negative.
 
  
  Essentially, in Trozei, you'll use the DS stylus to slide rows of Pokemon icons up and down, back 
 and forth, trying to line four or more like icons. After you line up four you can line up three, 
 and then two, which can create chains like in many other puzzle games. It's actually possible to 
 clear the entire screen of Pokemon, but on the harder levels it's rather difficult to do so. 
 
  
  The game has a very lite attitude and 'story'. Of course, no one expects a puzzle game to have 
 a story so it really isn't bad that Trozei has none, still it seems a bit hollow. After the tenth 
 time you play you may start to wonder things like : "Why did I just fight a man in a scorpion tank 
 while sliding pikachu heads across the screen?" And the lack of story or any other true depth is 
 Trozei's major problem. Once you beat the game there is no true motivation to play again besides 
 a new 'difficulty' setting. 
  
  The game's graphics are fine, puzzle games usually aren't praised for graphics but Trozei manages 
 to deliver some interesting style that breaks away from the usual Pokemon games. In the actual 
 puzzle game section however, there isn't much to look at besides slightly animated Pokemon heads.
 
  
  The sounds isn't amazing but nothing is wrong with it. I'd like to have had some change in music, 
 the music provided for puzzles can get sorta annoying after the 20th time you hear it. 
  
  Overall, Trozei delivers a unique style to the puzzle genre but falls short due to a lack of depth. 
 It remains a fun game, just not a very long lived one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daigakusee
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  I just wish this game had more depth. The puzzles are fun but it made me wish there were more to 
 it. The different levels and challanges were harder and looked different but the game style was 
 the same, meaning you used the same strategy. Once you figure out how to best line up 4-5 in a 
 row you start to find the auto pairing to be anoying because it clears out your perfect row before 
 you can drag the 4th or 5th one to its destination. I purchased a used game and so when i played 
 all the warehouses were open to me. I do not know if this is normal or not but perhaps the previous 
 owner already passed and unlocked them all for me. This was a bonus for me if he did because I 
 do not plan on playing this game for very long even as a puzzle game. This is ofcourse because 
 I do not like these types of puzzles, most of the scoring happens because the right combo falls 
 into the right slot and takes no effort on my end to plan out.
  
  In summary, borrow from a friend or rent it. The first hour that you spend playing this game will 
 determine if you like it or not because it will be the same from beginning to the end. If you must 
 own a copy, then buy it for cheap and not at full price. Puzzles games in my opinion go down in 
 price very quickly so you should find this game in the bargin bin very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei is a colorful Bejeweled-style puzzle game in which you'll be tasked with arranging 
 Pokemon into lines as they fall from the top of the screen.
  
  ... The story mode kicks off with some extremely easy tutorial levels, appears to be story-driven, 
 it has you assuming the role of a young female tasked with aiding a professor [in order to help 
 him rescue pokemon from an unscrupulous organization that steals pokemon and does evil things with 
 them. [Sound familier?]
  
  Truth is, the story is as irrelevant as it is intelligible to us at this point, because at the 
 end of the day this is a puzzle game, and regardless of any thrilling twists and turns in its plot, 
 you'll still be spending the bulk of your time arranging pictures of Pikachu and friends into lines 
 of four...
  
  ... You'll deal with the Pokemon that are continuously falling from the top of the upper screen 
 down to the touch screen -- not by moving them as they fall, but by rearranging them once they've 
 landed. You'll rearrange the neatly ordered Pokemon pile by placing the stylus onto the Pokemon 
 you want to move and then dragging it either vertically or horizontally, at which point the whole 
 row or column will move to accommodate the Pokemon's new position. Any Pokemon that are dragged 
 off the bottom of the touch screen as a result of your rearranging will fall from the top screen 
 again...
  
  ... your primary goal in Pokemon Trozei is to arrange pictures of the same Pokemon into lines of 
 four or five; but the game isn't quite as simplistic as it sounds. After successfully making a 
 line of four or five, those Pokemon will disappear, and those remaining on the screen will be rearranged 
 as a result. At this point, lines of three or more matching Pokemon will disappear, and will be 
 followed by lines of just two. Spectacular-looking combos, then, aren't difficult to achieve, although 
 it's rarely a result of genius planning.
  
  That pretty much sums up what the game is and how to play, but let me add something else to that: 
 Boss Battles are HARD! Sometimes, they will turn out the lights forcing you to trozei pokemon just 
 by using the sillouttes of their faces, and sometimes they will throw junk ("Jammer Balls") into 
 your screen which can't be trozei'ed the normal way, you must get three dittos to make a row of 
 four to get them to disappear.. they will sometimes throw in rare pokemon and give you only a short 
 while to figure out how to trozei them to "catch them" (Yeah, same old, same old.. gotta catch 'em 
 all.. and all that!) I almost lost my first boss battle, because pokemon began falling at breakneck 
 sppeds, along with jammer balls, and I had a hard time making anybody trozei! (What's with the 
 fluctuating difficulty.. main game is easy, but boss battles are considerably harder!)
  
  But, even if you hate pokemon, this game is a great puzzler.. the tutorial is optional ("called 
 labs" ) and you can play them all you want for additional coins (used to unlock bonus stages with 
 even rarer pokemon) or skip them altogether if you just want to get throught the game.. only the 
 very first tutorial is mandatory for getting through the game.
  
  Want to try before you buy? There is a great flash tutorial the trozei website (you can get there 
 from nintendo's website) that demos how to play; it's actually the first few tutorial "labs" you 
 do in the game! How to trozei, how to make combos, why ditto is so important (he's sorta the "wild 
 card".. if you have three like pokemon and a ditto, it will trozei them as if they were four like 
 pokemon!)
  
  I'm having a blast with the game! Aside from the aforementioned "Adventure Mode" there is also 
 an "Endless mode" (trozei until you get a game over) and serveral multiplayer modes. You can even 
 do download play with the game so all your friends can see what the hype is all about! The more 
 you play, the more rare pokemon you unlock, and the more people you play with, you can unlock even 
 more rare pokemon. I love pokemon and I love puzzles, so the idea of using a puzzle game to "catch 
 'em all (again) feels fresh and new.. although this game is not for everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duudeV2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Before I got this game, I thought it was just going to be "okay". You know, something to keep me 
 occupied until Metriod Prime Hunters and Tetris DS came out, and I even thought I would stop playing 
 it before then. But, to my surprise, I was wrong.
  
  I've never seen this kind of puzzle game before. It is sort of like the other Pokemon Puzzle game, 
 pokemon puzzle leuge, for the GBC, with a twist. Instead of just moving the pokemon left to right 
 or up and down to get three in a row, you can move them all directions (except diaginal) to get 
 4 in a row. And the twist on that: Once you get 4 in a row, a "trozei chance" becomes avalible, 
 where you can get three in a row, then 2 in a row. You can basically clear the whole board if you 
 get a good one.
  
  Now, I know what you might be thinking, which was the same thing I was thinking when I first started 
 to play the game. Trozei chance makes it too easy. I mean, besides the fact that you only need 
 to Trozei 40-100 pokemon (meaning just clearing them off the board) , the speed of the pokemon falling 
 is pretty slow, and one good Trozei chance can clear off the whole board for you and get you extra 
 points. The begining is not that exciting. And I was thinking about putting this game down for 
 good at the begining.
  
  But what kept me going? The difficulty. Yes, I did just say the difficulty was easy AT THE BEGINING. 
 But once you go through the story mode, and get up to levels where you need to clear 400, 500, 
 up to 800 pokemon to pass, where they fall at excruciating speeds, well, you'll lose, and want 
 to try again.
  
  The story mode isn't that big of a deal. Well, the story isn't great anyway. Just about some pokemon 
 agent trying to get back stolen pokemon. The graphics for the "cut scenes" aren't that great, and 
 are pretty much cute anime-ish. But the graphics for in game play are great, it's actually fun 
 to look at little pokemon... heads... sort of. The graphics did a good job.
  
  Back to the story. Like I said, the story itself isn't that exciting, but completing the levels 
 are. You are set in this new world, and the levels are storage houses, either small or huge, and 
 you need to clear them to get the next one. Sometimes two or three pops up at once. And when you 
 clear enough levels, a boss level pops up, which is usually harder than the normal storage houses. 
 
  
  There are also extras in the game. I am honest when I say that if this game didn't have a pokemon 
 theme, I would not play it. It just wouldn't be as interesting. I really wanted to "catch them 
 all" because in the storage houses, and in endless (the equivilent of free play) there are secret 
 pokemon that may or may not appear. And even if they do appear, you only have a cirtain ammount 
 of time before they dissapear, and you need to try to trozei them all over again.
  
  Other extras include hard mode for story mode, which you can get by just completing story mode once. 
 It gives an extra challenge to players who thought it was too easy. And trust me, hard mode is 
 hard. The storage houses fill up faster, the bosses have more attacks, everything. 
  
  You also have forever mode. Which is the same as endless (free play mode) only a bigger board. And 
 instead of getting 4 in a row to get a trozei chance, you need to get 5 in a row, then 4, then 
 3, then 2. The good thing about Forever mode is that rare pokemon that appear in the later levels 
 of endless mode appear earlier in forever mode. (which is wierd, because you can just choose your 
 level for endless mode) (Although, you can only choose up to level 20 before you need to play on 
 to later levels like 30, 40 etc)
  
  Overall: If you have some extra money to spend, this a great puzzle game. Better than most, actually. 
 It's fun to play when your waiting for a big game to come out. Also, the multiplayer isn't too 
 shabby either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei! is the latest DS puzzle game, but unlike previous greats Meteos and Polarium, it's 
 not as addictive. The goal is to form horizontal or vertical lines of the same types of Pokemon 
 by sliding them along the playfield, but the game's far too easy. Plus, the Adventure Mode, where 
 you're supposed to search for rare Pokemon, is nothing more than the puzzle game with some cut 
 scenes, and actually locating the rarest of creatures is more dependant upon luck than actual skill. 
 However, Trozei! is still enjoyable to a degree, especially when playing against friends via Wi-Fi. 
 
  
  Only buy this game if you're a Pokmon collector or if you are bored with all the other puzzle 
 games that are currently released on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstrgmr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Trozei is a Pokemon puzzle game in which you try to line up four Pokemon by using the Nintendo 
 DS Stylus. This is the first game that only uses the Stylus, and it makes the game more fun, and 
 more challenging. It has all 386 Pokemon, and you can get them by Trozeing them (Putting four in 
 row) , but some you can only get while playing against someone else via LAN. This game is the first 
 Pokemon puzzle game in a while, and it is much improved on the old one. The graphics are a little 
 sketchy, and the cut sceens aren't great, but other than that, this is one awesome game, that even 
 non-Pokemon lovers might enjoy. Pokemon lovers, you should definetely pick this up, and non-Pokemon 
 lovers, give it a chance, you might find out that it is more fun than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollaback_Girl
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I mean seriously, this game has made Pokemon horrible. Instead of making this dumb game they could 
 of spent more time with Pokemon: Diamond and Pearl!
  This game is stuffed up bad, i mean really, a puzzle game only helped the like's of Street Fighter 
 which is already more successful then this piece of junk.
  I don not want this game to support the DS's fan base because if it did DS wouldnt be as successful.
 
  
  Let's wrap it up: Bad game altogether. Fun for kids and major Poke fans. Otherwise give this game 
 a try, but i dont think you'll like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Genious Sonority is now in charge of developing Pokemon games but it made some mistakes with Colosseum 
 and XD: Gale Of Darkness... but thats another story.
  
  Pokemon Trozei is a very entertaining puzzle game similar to Tetris. You have to arrange Pokemon 
 into lines as they fall from the top of the screen, you control it exclusively with the stylus. 
 There is a very curious multiplayer mode in wwich you compete against a friend in a match to be 
 the fastest arranging Pokemon.
  
  It features 2 single player modes, one is the easy tutorial in which you are teached to play the 
 game. The other one is story driven and it is about a young girl that has to help a professor.
 
  
  The game's gameplay is very very similar to Tetris'. You arrange pictures of Pokemon into lines 
 or columns of 4 or 5 and after you do so they disappear causing the remaining pokemons to rearrange, 
 but the difference is that you can arrange pokemon that are already at the bottom.
  
  Overall: Pokemon Trozei is an excellent time killer, it is fun, fresh, entertaining, challenging 
 and very colorful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbgamefreak5
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  the game is really childish, u know... its pokemon, so anothe rpuzzle game, all they can think of 
 now these days? the game can be addictive, but after 30 minutes youll wanna put this game down, 
 its not good at all, and if u do get into it, youll find that just the fact that its pokemon it 
 kills the mood, honestly dont buy this game unless u see it for like 5 dollars, matter of fact, 
 dont bother at all, just steal it fomr your friend and see for yourself, and if you do find that 
 this game is fun and you love it, then you must be 5 years old, cuz not even my 4 year odl nephew 
 culd stare at this game for 3 seconds, even at the cute lil pikachu, he was ready to play gta liberty 
 city stories for psp, or castelavania for ds, o wow thts right, pay 35 dollars for a crap game 
 liek this or pay 35 bux for one fo the best games for the ds, castlevania: dawn of sorrow.... hmm, 
 the choices........ exactly, stick with the better games, all tht neeeds to be said, game is not 
 good [] [] [] [] [] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
