-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Dash
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/pokemondash/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 25 different tracks, which can be played in both single and multiplayer.
 You can create custom tracks using Pokemon RPG GBA cartridges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is overly simplistic, and terribly repetitive.
 The in-game radar is lackluster to the point of being useless.
 Mediocre presentation, with dull looking visuals and irritating audio.
 Challenge is wildly erratic, ranging from way too easy to exceedingly difficult.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 4.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 778 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Ambrella
Genre: On-foot Racing
Date: Mar 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pokmon Dash is simply one of the laziest uses of the DS's touch screen technology to date, featuring 
 highly repetitive gameplay that gets old before you've even finished your first race. 

  It's hardly surprising that Nintendo would have a brand-new Pokmon game ready to go within the 
 first few months of the DS's launch, what with it being one of Nintendo's biggest franchises and 
 everything. However, what is thoroughly shocking is how completely half-baked this first attempt 
 is. Titled Pokmon Dash, this bizarre racing game is simply one of the laziest uses of the DS's 
 touch screen technology to date, featuring highly repetitive gameplay that gets old before you've 
 even finished your first race.  

          Pikachu wants you to help him race by scraping your stylus across the touch screen as fast 
 as you can. Do yourself a favor, and tell him no!     

  The basic gameplay in Pokmon Dash works as follows: As the lovable Pikachu, you participate in 
 something of a foot race against five other notable Pokmon characters. These races consist of 
 finding a series of checkpoints scattered across a fairly vast and treacherous landscape with varying 
 types of terrain. To race, there is really only one control mechanic. You simply take the stylus, 
 and repeatedly scrape it across your touch screen in the direction you want Pikachu to run. The 
 faster you do this, the faster the little guy will run. If this sounds like it might be a little 
 repetitive, you're wrong. It's actually  a lot  repetitive. The action of just briskly pushing 
 your stylus across the screen becomes very tiresome very quickly, and at times, you may actually 
 find yourself worried about scratching up your touch screen.  

  The actual racing itself is broken up by periodic bouts of hot air balloon flying and rough-terrain 
 crossing. Essentially, the way the race tracks are designed is that you'll find lots of lava pits, 
 ice fields, chasms, and oceans blocking you from getting to the next checkpoint within a stage. 
 Some of these things can be traversed naturally, though they will slow you down. Others require 
 you to run over a special icon on the map first, which will let you walk on lava, or something 
 to that effect. Others still simply can't be crossed without the aid of a balloon. You can find 
 balloon icons all over the map, and once you find one, you'll suddenly find the gleeful Pikachu 
 launched into the air. At this point you can move to anywhere on the map before you come diving 
 back to the ground. You can even pop the balloons to head to the ground much faster (though you'll 
 want to avoid doing that over a particularly hard surface, as it will stun Pikachu temporarily) . 

  While these few little things do add some variety to the gameplay, the problem is that the whole 
 racing model is simply flawed, largely because of its reliance on a near-broken radar system. Whenever 
 you find yourself airborne, you'll be able to see the entire map, and you'll see a little map that 
 displays where the next active checkpoint is on the upper screen of the DS. The problem is that 
 it only shows a scant bit of the terrain around where the checkpoint is, and the little arrows 
 that appear onscreen while you're racing disappear. If you can recall what direction they were 
 pointing before you actually go airborne, you might be able to find the next spot reasonably quickly. 
 However, if you don't, you can very easily fall behind. In fact, it's really in your best interest 
 to just play through all of the tracks at least a few times before actually trying to win any of 
 the races, as you pretty much need to memorize the checkpoints before racing effectively.  

  Apart from these problems, there are some other annoying quirks that further bog down the experience. 
 For one, the challenge in the game is simply all over the map. The first sets of races you can 
 play are supposedly a normal difficulty, though overall, they're almost ridiculously easy, since 
 your opponents are insanely slow. Once you move onto the hard mode, the difficulty shoots through 
 the roof, and successful races almost become a fleeting afterthought. There are also some other 
 irritating little things, such as the game's pause menu, which is just plain dumb. Basically, the 
 pause menu is mapped to the touch screen, and when you select any option, it acts on it without 
 any confirmation menu whatsoever. This means that if you accidentally, say, hit the "exit to main 
 screen" option instead of "restart race," option, the game will exit out of your current GP and 
 you lose all progress up to that point. Had there been a confirmation menu to help correct this, 
 it wouldn't be a problem at all. But then, considering how generally thrown together this game 
 feels, it's almost unsurprising that issues like this would exist.  

  Pokmon Dash also offers a couple of other available modes beyond the GPs, though none of them 
 are any good. The multiplayer consists of all the available tracks, playable for up to six players, 
 as well as a fairly weak battle mode. Each player will need his or her own copy of the game to 
 participate. There's also a weird custom track mode, where, by plugging in one of the GBA Pokmon 
 RPG cartridges, like Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, FireRed, and LeafGreen, you can basically create 
 new courses that are shaped like Pokmon characters. However, this mode is almost totally worthless, 
 mainly because the custom tracks just look plain awful and are rarely ever any more (and sometimes 
 are significantly less) fun than the already included tracks.  

          You can tell you're running through grass, because it's green. Get it?     

  Even outside 
 of this custom track mode, the basic tracks in the game just don't look impressive at all. Everything 
 looks flat, ugly, and unpleasant. The Pokmon racers aren't really any better, though they are 
 marginally better than the nasty race environments. The top-down camera view works serviceably 
 for what the game is, though it doesn't allow you much breathing room to see what's coming up ahead. 
 The audio in the game is equally annoying, featuring a lot of Pikachu's cutesy voice, some fairly 
 forgettable music, and a few cheap sound effects here and there. All told, it just seems like the 
 developer had no aspirations whatsoever to do anything decent with this game's presentation.  

 
  Though it may be the first DS game to bear the crest of the Pokmon license, Pokmon Dash is a 
 game that will be unappealing to even the most vehement of fans. The game itself has so little 
 to do with the actual, established Pokmon brand beyond an exceedingly halfhearted use of the show's 
 characters, and the whole racing mechanic just falls terribly flat. DS fans will have to wait a 
 little longer for a decent Pokmon game, as this one is most certainly not it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  - The Good -
  
  * It's Pokmon
  * It's Racing
  * You can upload your Pokmon from GBA cartridges to Dash for use of parachuting, although it's 
 not much.
  * Splendid graphics
  
  - The Bad -
  
  * Controls can result in aching hands
  * It's far too repetitive for the general public to enjoy
 
  * You can only race as Pikachu
  
  Pokemon Dash is an extremely underrated game, and I don't blame the general public's views upon 
 this game, this game is extremely repetitive, but if you look upon the the actual tracks you race 
 on, and the features of the tracks such as using a Lapras to get across the sea are nifty experiences. 
 If you pause for a long time after playing it for a long time, it shouldn't feel too repetitive, 
 which is a good thing, since you could class it as those "play-when-you're-bored" type of game, 
 and I recommend this game to die hard Pokmon fans, collectors or Nintendo DS fan's. I personally 
 bought this game because it was, well, Pokemon, and I love collecting games. Pokmon Dash is a 
 great game, but it could be better.
  
  Let's talk game play. Ok, you could call this a floor or a disappointment, but personally Nintendo 
 and Ambrella were just trying to make some "innovative" controls, 60% of it turned out well. To 
 move Pikachu (your main mascot for racing) you have to repeatedly slide the stylus upwards as fast 
 as you can, which may result in aching hands or you'll just get tired, turning left or right is 
 sometimes annoying, and you don't use buttons whatsoever.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, if only you could spectate a race and view the seas and snow, it's 
 wonderful stuff, it's one of the best visuals on a DS game, and I haven't seen anything too pixelated, 
 or any pixelated flaws. Each attributed area looks stunning, even though it's not too atmospheric, 
 environmental wise, only the ground is detailed, since (did I forget to mention that..) this game 
 is in bird's eye view.
  
  There's one annoying thing about the sounds being generated from the DS' stereo speakers, and that's 
 called; Pika! Hearing the sound of Pikachu chant his own name while taking off on balloons, or 
 crashing, or anything to do with interacting, Pika's high pitched voice can get annoying very frequently. 
 There isn't anything original about the music here, and has nothing to do with previous Pokmon 
 installments, so we can't really do much praise here about the sounds of this game, but they aren't 
 entirely annoying, although they aren't the best, they aren't ear crackling.
  
  There's a small time feature on Pokemon Dash, and that's uploading your Pokemon from your Pokemon 
 party from a GBA game inserted in the GBA cartridge of your Nintendo DS, all you do is parachute 
 in a spot randomly on the Pokemon, and it's got attributed areas such as sand, forest, grass and 
 snow, etc, it's nothing to get happy about unless you like trying out everything about anything 
 about nothing.
  
  While having not much to say about this game, there isn't anything else positive to say that I've 
 already said, unless someone out there totally loves this game, I don't recommend this game and 
 it's not worth trying out, but if you buy it, keep it. One - because trading in games are rip offs. 
 Two - because it's not that bad enough for you to take back somewhere anyway. Three - Every game 
 deserves a chance, even E. T on the 2600, so play it for a while, Surely it's extremely repetitive, 
 the game seriously isn't too bad, just give it a chance, just one. But if you haven't played much 
 Pokemon games in your previous years of gaming life, this isn't a good entry to your Pokemon gaming. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Value: 5/10
  Story: N/A
  
  Overall Score: 
  
  4 5 6 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeromusUltima
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 1, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Absolutely terrible. It makes a bad name for the GOOD Pokemon games in the 
 series. Don't think Emerald is like this because IT"S NOT. It's way better.
  
  Graphics 4/10: The graphics in this game are some of the worst on the DS. The races are only played 
 in a birds-eye view, which is pretty poor. The animations are so bad, like some sort drawing done 
 by a 3 year old. Well not THAT bad but you get my point. Very bad.
  
  Gameplay 2/10: The overall gameplay to be honest: Is shocking. You might think you can play as 
 characters apart from Pikachu but you can't. If that's not bad enough, the track designs are really 
 sloppy. Trust me, you will be bored of this game before you even finish your first race. Also, 
 because you HAVE to use the stylus, this game can break your touch screen from tapping it too much. 
 Yet another reason not to buy this game.
  
  Sound 2/10: The sound in this is terrible. There are only a few grating tracks that make nails 
 on a chalk -board sound like an opera. The sound Eefects are lame too.
  
  Replay Value 1/10: This game's track design is so bad and the gameplay is so repetitive that, like 
 I said, you will be sick of this game before you finish your first race.
  
  Closing comments: With sloppy animations, boring track designs and repetitive music and gameplay, 
 You will be sick of this game by the PRESS START screen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Wow, I got this game on it's release day and let me tell you... It blows. The racing is so repetitive, 
 boring, and hard. The graphics and music a pretty good like any other Pokmon game. But unlike 
 the perfect gameplay that most Pokmon games have, this game is completly lacking that.
  
  The best part about this game, which is pretty neat. Is being able to take your Pokmon from all 
 of the GBA Pokmon games (Ruby, Sapphire, Red, Green) and turn them into courses on which you can 
 race on. This will keep you entertained for about 20 minutes only because the gameplay in this 
 game sucks.
  
  If you're a diehard Pokmon fan, you might not want to get this one because it might change your 
 views. But there is some fun to be found here. But you have to look really hard. Stay away from 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezlatias
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  If you play just once, it is fun, "cute", and has an innovative gameplay. Now, play it for about 
 two hours and you'll have your wrists hurting due to repetitive effort, and your DS' Touch Screen 
 all scratched. The graphics just fail to achieve the DS' true potential. At the very beginning, 
 you can race with your eyes closed and your hands tied up. Just a little further, you'll want a 
 game enhancer to race through those levels. Loads of bugs, especially when Pikachu flies with the 
 balloons. Also, you should rather listen to music instead of the annoying soundtrack of this game. 
 If this was the best Nintendo and GameFreak could do, Pokmon would not have got so popular and 
 so many sales. This game is an overall lack of effort, and a waste of money and time. If you want 
 to play it too badly, rent it or get lend from someone. It's not worth buying at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Well Pokemon Dash did what it was supposed to do, and that is to sucker out Pokemon fans into wasting 
 a fourth of a DS Lite's cost to play a horribly put together game that had a good motive. That 
 good motive was ruined with the lazy controls and odd map layout that confused the casual gamer 
 and probably a lot of Pokemon fans. The animations on some of the characters were nice but even 
 with Gameboy Advance cartridge use, you can still only play as Pikachu. With Gameboy Advance Pokemon 
 games in your DS's other slot while playing, you can upload the Pokemon into the DS card (up to 
 6 parties can fit in) and they're all turned into stages, but most of them are just float up, drop 
 down, and float back up again until you hit all the landmarks. That probably took along time and 
 the Grand Prix's get more and more challenging, but that's all the game is; a bunch of unrewarding 
 grand prix's where you have to watch the credits all the time after the last cup. If you wanted 
 a good Pokemon game out of this, go buy Diamond. If you wanted a good racing game out of this, 
 why did you look even near Dash. Go do yourself a favor and get Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timson622222
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This has nothing to do with Pokemon whatsoever. Let's whip some grades.
  
  Graphics: A+
  Graphics are great, and better then the Simpsons Road Rage for PS2, Gamecube, and XBOX.
  
  
 Gameplay: D-
  Straight drop on grades, the gameplay is pretty bad. Good way to scratch your DS screen.
  
 
  Multiplayer support: F
  I haven't even played multiplayer. It requires at least 2 chips, and you can't DS download play 
 which will make your friends who don't own Pokemon Dash very very sad.
  
  Special: C+
  The special was very disappointing. I thought it would be fun but it wasn't. Besides, you have 
 very little time anyways.
  
  Players: F
  You can only play as Pikachu. There's no variety in this.
  
  Point of game: F
  You just race. 
 You might scratch your DS screen while racing. And the levels get harder as you go on.
  
  Credits: F
  Yeah, you can roll over the credits really easily. But to beat this overly hard game 
 just to get this? You might as well unlock new players!
  
  Overall: F
  I just can't stand this game, and why Nintendo made this. Personally, Ambrella doesn't know how 
 to make Pokemon games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game was an uninspired way to tide over pokemon fans who just purchased a new DS. There is 
 nothing that is distinctly pokemon about this game in terms of gameplay. The only thing that makes 
 this pokemon dash is the pokemon themed visuals.
  
  What makes this game bad is that your entire time playing it is spent scratching on the screen 
 with the stylus. This makes it hard to see what you're doing and you may find yourself running 
 of course. The worst part though is the nice scratch marks you'll see on your DS screen after spending 
 any amount of time playing this game.
  
  Huge pokemon fans will probably be disappointed with this title. If your a fan of comic racing 
 games this might suit you more. Still there is nothing to really make keep this game entertaining 
 and you'll probably be bored with it about 20 minutes after you first start playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Dash is simple scam to try and get money from pokeomn fans. It is a lazy, not fun, under 
 performing DS game. The fact that the only playable character was pikachu made this game that much 
 less fun. I would have liked to have the option of being other pokemon other than the yellow rodent. 
 Also, their were the same pokemon in the races for all the tracks. I owuld have liked to have a 
 seen a wider variety depending on the elements of the stage. For example, having ice pokemon for 
 the snowy tracks and fire pokemon for the lava stages. To put it simply, stray away from this game 
 as you possibly can, very , very, very far away.
  
  The only cool part about this game is that you can make custom tracks by inserting a GBA pokemon 
 game in teh BGA lsot of your DS. This is cool because the tracks are based on the pokemon in your 
 party and the time you get is based on the levels of your pokemon. Other than that, this game won't 
 keep you entertained enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6/10
  In the same mold as most of the other trash around the DS launch, appaerntly the developers were 
 so excited about the possiblity of touch screen controls, that they based almost all the gameplay 
 off of basic, mundane, stylus movements. There is hardly anything more to say. There are a few 
 different pokemon to play as, but it makes no difference who you are, and some broken race ideas. 
 Overall, the gameplay is all boring stylus thrusts that will not keep you very interested
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  Although it would be pushing it, I think Pokemon Dash was probably graphically 
 possible on the GBA, which is really a surprise considering I would think people would want to 
 make the most of the new handheld power, but I suppose this game wasn't very ambitiuos, and the 
 graphics are solid evidence to that case. A poor showing in the visual area.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  Once again, boring, attainable on a previous platform, and uninteresting. Hardly 
 a surprise for one of the worst spinoff pokemon games available.
  
  Value: 3/10
  To be completely honest, I was done with this game pretty quickly. And I am convinced I have seen 
 all it has to offer. Although the premise for the game didn't have much potential, it could done 
 more to hook me in for more than a half hour.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 6/10
  I really wanted to glean some entertainment from this game, but it was too hard. The only reason 
 I have even played is because my pokemon-obsessed brother wanted and got it. My parents wasting 
 30 bucks on this game really makes me hurt, and I hope I can convince anyone to not waste their 
 time and money on this poor attempt, no matter how much you love pokemon.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon series has always been a big hit especially for the original fans (like me!) but sadly 
 they were porbably all dissapointed. Me included. For the first few minutes i was like WOW! cool 
 game after that i was like WHERE IS THE BIN? For a dedicted fan i was very very very very dissapointed 
 (plus a few more verys =] ) To be honest the graphics are ok as is the sound but the repetitiveness 
 is very annoying the maps don't really change much and there isn't much in the way of being able 
 to race in different fashions (i probably confused you there so... there is not much variety) . 
 It only really grips you for 5 mins or so and then you think 'i have just been ripped off! ggggrrrrr!!!' 
 Overall: The Pokemon series has been ruined with this the quality is depressingly bad for a pokemon 
 game lets hope the rest are up to scratch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 2, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  I will tell you right now that I have been a huge Pokemon fan since Day 1. I LOVED Snap, both Stadiums, 
 TCG (GBC game) and am mildly enjoying Mystery Dungeon right now. With that being said, I figured 
 even if reviews weren't too great of this game... me being a fan would keep me from hating this 
 game. Well I was partially correct, I don't hate the game, but I sure as heck did not enjoy it 
 much either. Read on.
  
  Gameplay (6/10) : This game actually starts off as being VERY promising. The concept is simply that 
 you slide the stylus across the screen in the direction you want to move. There are different terrain 
 types that you must account for that affect speed and you can also travel by boat (Lapras) or by 
 air (balloons) . The controls remain the same though and after you beat the first cup on the first 
 difficulty, you will begin to realize the flaw of this game. Reptitive, tedious, and boring gameplay.
 
  
  They could have at least made the tracks a little varied in order to make up for the lack in variety 
 of control, but they just did not do so. It gets dull fast and you will likely not even TRY to 
 attempt the other cups, let alone the higher difficulties.
  
  It could have also helped to have other Pokemon to choose from, with different attributes.
  
 
  Graphics (6/10) : The models of the Pokemon actually don't look all that bad, it is the environment 
 that is the problem. It is simple and gets the job done with letting you know what each object 
 is... that isn't the problem. The problem is lack of variety. You pretty much see the same two tree-types 
 over and over again, along with a few variations of the same types of terrain. Once again, variety 
 is the issue here.
  
  Sound (3/10) : The music is passable. It isn't horrible nor is it great. The problem ONCE AGAIN 
 is lack of variety. Pretty much the same tracks repeat over and over again and you really get tired 
 of them eventually. On top of that, even though the sound effects aren't that bad as far as quality, 
 they are very annoying and oftentimes you will find yourself just turning down the sound when you 
 play this game. I don't ever want to hear Pi-Pikachu! again.
  
  Value (6/10) : Amazing for how bad this game is overall, it has a decent amount to offer in replay 
 value. You can revisit all 5 cups in two higher difficulties, there is time trial, there is a decent 
 multiplayer (multi-pak only) and there is one other neat little feature. If you plug in your GBA 
 Pokemon game into the GBA slot on the DS, then whatever is in your party in the GBA game can be 
 transferred over to Dash in order to create a unique 'track' shaped like your Pokemon... meaning 
 there are essentially 386 unique tracks you can play if you own all of those Pokemon. Needless 
 to say, the tracks are difficult to navigate and the already difficult to use radar is renderred 
 almost useless thanks to how dense these stages are. Oh yes, and you will likely get through ALL 
 the tracks with 1st place and no continues for each difficulty in less than 20 hours. Probably 
 WAY less than 20. It took me about 10.
  
  All in all, the only reason any Pokemon fan would ever want to own this is merely for the sake 
 of adding it to his or her collection. I own a considerable amount of Pokemon merchandise and I 
 just had to add this, I wish I never opened it and just kept it sealed. Anybody who wishes to PLAY 
 this game, would do better not to. There are MANY better racing games out there, so please avoid 
 this game, for your own sake. If you really MUST buy this game AND play it though, just don't get 
 your hopes up for some crazy fun and good game. It is casually and mildly entertaining for a short 
 period of time and NOTHING more. Enjoy (yourself by not playing this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Er0KMarioMan
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Dash is a pathetic game that pathetically clings to the life on a popular lisence. Those 
 buying it for that lisence will realize it features almost nothing to do with the little monsters, 
 an no, it's not an innovative touch screen game.
  
  The gameplay in Pokemon Dash is horrible. It would have been much better off with the name Pokemon 
 Scratch, because that's literally all you do. You scratch the stylus in a frenzy across the touch 
 screen, and hope Pikachu, and only Pikachu, can make it through various obstacles to beat a weird 
 rooster or funky chameleon. Yeah, the game didn't even feature two playable characters, or unlockable 
 characters or really unlockable anything. But that doesn't matter, because you'll bore of the game 
 before you feel like wanting to unlock anything anyway. The graphics appear to be prerendered 2D 
 sprites, everything looks sort of fuzzy though, and just plain bad. The scenery is even worse, 
 tree there, tree there, puddle there, another tree there. That's the best the game can do. We should 
 applaud them for trying. The sound is just awful, bad music and bad sound effects for a bad game.
 
  
  Your better off not even thinking about Pokemon Dash, as it is an absolutely terrible game. It 
 was a quick release for the DS so blind Pokemon fans would buy anything with a yellow rat on the 
 cover. But don't be fooled, the game has nothing to do with catching monsters and the whole touch 
 screen control is a bold faced lie. It's not control, it's just a mad scratching motion with no 
 depth and no point. Avoid this one at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Well I am sad to be here and writing this review. I sad to say this but their is a pokemon game 
 that is just bad. Pokemon Dash is that game. Everything in this game is terrible. The gameplay, 
 the graphics, the sound, and everything else. The premise in the game is just what the title says. 
 It is about pokemon dashing or in simpler terms they are racing. The thing is this sounds like 
 a good premise for a pokemon game but it isn't. Like I said earlyer everything in this game is 
 bad. First the gameplay. You move your pokemon you are racing with by sliding you styleles across 
 the screen a lot. Now this may sound like it works but it doesn't. It is not very responseve and 
 you really feel like it could have been simpler and could have been more responsive. Another problem 
 is that when you go into trees the pokemon slow down. Now this may seem realistic and all but even 
 when you are racing with grass type pokemon slow down when you a racing through the forest. This 
 problem also shows up when you are near the water and any where else. Well thats it. I can't talk 
 about this game anymore. Let just tell you that this game is just bad and you are hard pressed 
 to find a good thing in this game. Well that it. I can't take it anymore. Please Nintendo!!! No 
 more dumb spinoffs. Leave the Pokemon series a RPG series and no more dumb spinoffs. Well thats 
 it. Good bye and good ridence Pokemon Dash and don't ever come back. PLEASE YOU ARE NOT WELCOME 
 IN MY DS ANYMORE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  The main reason why i didnt like this game off the bat was the graphics werent to good, the gameplay 
 really doesnt make up for its lack of everything else, although is somewhat entertaining. All you 
 do is run and run and swim and fly and land and run, so constant movement of your stylus must me 
 made. You race against 7 other pokemon through different types of terrain like forest, grass, sand, 
 snow, mud, but you go slower on these lands unless you pick up the power up for that land, their 
 is a speed up power thing you can pick up for all the different types of terrain or you can just 
 run on the track they give you which wont slow you down. You can also swim in shallow water but 
 the darker blue water you will need the water pokemon that you can find on certain parts of the 
 map during the race. And you can also find ballons which will allow you to fly anywhere you want 
 on the map and if you need to land faster pop a few balloons, but be careful not to fall to fast 
 or you will get hurt. Really this game isnt horrible but isnt that great either so buy if your 
 a fan of pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the worst games on the ds ever.... if i just checked the review before buying 
 buying the game i would never, in a million years buy this game !!!!
  even with 25 tracks this game is short.... i was done with it in 2 days.... it was a hard 2 days 
 because after about 10 tracks the game became really boring !!! even the graphics were not good 
 !!! nothing about this game was good at all !!! they could have have done something like choosing 
 characters instead of just pikachu and all the different pokemon having different stats and also 
 the different types of pokemon having different powers !!!! now tht would have been a cool game 
 !!! a lot could have been done with this game and this game could have been fun instead of boring 
 and the graphics could have been much better !!!
  to sum it up, this game is not at all worth ur money !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Pokemon racing game, as well as the first Pokemon DS game. And it's also the 
 worst. Pokemon Dash is so bad, even hardcore Pokemon fans are also disappointed. Review start.
 
  
  The gameplay is very terrible. You can only be Pikachu, the entire game is repetitive, the challenge 
 level is mega-low and to play the game, you keep on rubbing the Touch Screen with the stylus over 
 and over again. Of course, doing that too many times can cause the Touch Screen to break. That 
 happened to my old platinum DS, and THAT'S why the gameplay is so bad.
  
  The graphics are also mediocre. Sure, there are 3D Pokemon (which is good) , but everything else 
 is choppy. Besides the 3D Pokemon, the game looks more like a Super Nintendo game. The graphics 
 are so bad, they aren't even funny at all.
  
  The sound is also the worst. Sure, there are other sounds, but most of the time, you'll hear Pikachu 
 yelling out PIKA! PIKA! over and over and over again. This is very annoying, you'll want to turn 
 off the DS's volume.
  
  There is absolutely NO replay value to all gamers, even to hardcore Pokemon fans. Even after completing 
 the first track, you'll want to turn off the game.
  
  Final words: This game is absolutely bad, it's even worse than Nanostray (which was also bad) . 
 The game is very easy and repetitive, playing the game can break your Touch Screen, the graphics 
 are terrible and the sound is very annoying. Seriously, do not buy this awful garbage, even if 
 you are a Pokemon fan, as this will malfunction your Touch Screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheerpg
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Dash's concept is pretty hot: a on-foot racing game using the touch screen. GamePlay:
 
  Learning how to play the game is pretty easy. Just slide your stylus in the direction you're heading. 
 While racing against 5 other Pok&eacute; mons, you can pick up different items to make your pok&eacute; mon 
 run faster in different elements ( grass, sand, forest, earth ) . You can also take transports, 
 to fly or cross rivers.
  The only major problem of the game is the following: even with all the pick-able items, elements, 
 vehicules, etc. sliding your stylus on the touch screen gets B-O-R-I-N-G. Graphics:
  The cartoon-like graphics are really good. Colors are everywhere and shadings are pretty nice.
 
  Still, the resolution is very weak.
  
  Sound:
  A single annoying soundtrack. LAME!
  
  Conclusion:
  Pok&eacute; mon Dash is the kind of game you will play when you don't feel like 
 playing something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omochao
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game, I was real excited. But now, it sits in my DS case, almost never leaving 
 it. Once you unlock everything, there's pretty much nothing left to do. The graphics are pretty 
 good, but that's really the only good thing about the game. I really hate the sound. It would be 
 nice if you could race as other Pokemon, but you're stuck with Pikachu. Normally, this wouldn't 
 be that big a deal, but when you keep hearing "Pika pika. PIKA! Pika," over and over, you're gonna 
 want to shut this rat up (sorry if I offend Pokemon fans, but if you play the game, you'll agree) .
 
  
  Rent? Buy? You can rent it if you want, but you're better off staying away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Dash is a horrible game. It should say on the back of the case: Specifically designed to 
 screw your DS over. What was Nintendo thinking? Making a game to destroy your touch screen? I think 
 we should destroy this game. I'll go back in time and stop this game from ever being made. I'd 
 throw the game in the toilet but it's my brother's so I won't. I hate this game... But I'll at 
 least explain it.
  
  Pokemon Dash is a racing game. You use Pikachu and Pikachu only. You beat the other Pokemon to 
 checkpoints and then to the finish. Ugh.. Thats all I can handle.
  
  The game ends too quickly, but if you beat it, your touch screen will be totaled anyway. If you 
 did beat it, I salute your DS for doing all that work. Don't buy Pokemon Dash! I'm sorry if I'm 
 too intense Gamespot, but I'm just giving out my opinion of the game. Please don't buy Pokemon 
 Dash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Dash is a great game for the DS. It doesn't have much of a plot. But playing it sure gives 
 you an idea of what's going on. Pikachu and his friends and Meowth are racing and this is a great 
 game to include the sliding feature. Rather than the buttons, you use the touch screen and rub 
 the stylus very quickly in the direction you want Pikachu to go. This game does include flying 
 in a hot air balloon and falling down but is not really in full 3D but Nintendo did a nice job 
 maintaining a full 360 movement. There's 30 tracks yet that 5 are only for multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 can not DS Download Play but the tracks are great. Even the names, for example Jirachi Mountain. 
 At the end you land on a mountain shaped like a Jirachi head. Although that heaps of pokemon were 
 cut out in this game, it is also the first appearance of my favourite pokemon. This fellow is your 
 trainer at the practice tracks. MUNCHLAX! This game is not a circuit racing game but is outstanding 
 on different surfaces, pads, Lapras (he's really a water pad) and Meowth (again?) . When you play 
 this game, the first cup has about, three tracks with no balloons but the balloons challenge it. 
 Once you get to the third class (expert GP) you can go around the track getting any checkpoint 
 rather than order. There are three classes, Novice GP, Hard GP and Expert GP. There is also a feature 
 (and is the first game to have it) to have a GBA pokemon game (must not be pinball) and the pokemon 
 in it's party will be cloned into your DS and two checkpoints will be on it. These pokemon will 
 be tracks. You start from the balloon, then do the track. You can make 5 of these. The credits 
 are also good. You have a super long road and Pikachu is walking along it. And on the top screen 
 are pokemon that you have raced with. The credits is on the road. When the road ends. Pikachu will 
 walk until you can't see the road, then use balloons then you will see an island that says in huge 
 sand, END. This is a great game and I recommend anyone getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has been in the whole industry for ten years now and this game is a complete failure! Here 
 is why I say that...
  Even though this game looked fun when it came out, it really hurts your hand if you play it just 
 three minutes and a few seconds. If anybody asks you if you play this game 24/7, you would answer 
 no. This game is highly easy and you can only be pikachu and only  : (. I was first suspecting more 
 like you can choose what pokemon you wanted to be. To all pokemon fans out there, you will really 
 and really want to avoid this game. I never play this game anymore for many and many of reasons. 
 So take my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patd23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  the control is really weird and hard to get used to, but you do, eventually. i think this game 
 would do much better if the programmers just used the buttons to race and didn't rely on the stylus. 
 there could have been more characters, too.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: even though the islands look strange from high up, they're extremely detailed. you 
 can see every detail of the pokemon very clearly and everything looks crisp and neat.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is easy enough, although it would be better to not have to swipe the 
 stylus across the screen to make your pokemon move during a race. racing gets really annoying after 
 a while.
  
  THE SOUND EFFECTS: this is the first handheld pokemon game to actually feature the pokemon speaking. 
 ex: "pikachu!" so i give them credit for that. and the effects sound pretty realistic, too.
  
  THE GOODER-NESS: there is multiplayer for those of you with any friends who are also huge pokemon 
 fans, but i haven't used it to date. this game also has nothing to do with any of the other games, 
 and you don't even try to catch anything. i do like munchlax, though.
  
  this review has been written by patd23 from gamespot. com and no part of it has been copied and 
 such. if you don't copy any part of this and stuff like that, then we're cool.
  
  ~the patdster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teliko_Hat
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  well this was just a darn awful game. thankfully i dont have it any more though. you would get 
 maybe about twenty full hours of this game before getting bored or completing it. the controls 
 are very straight forward, but then again i never really liked the idea of most games only using 
 that touch screen. it sucks! theres no imagination put to it. dash was a very easy game to complete. 
 it took maybe fifteen hours total plus the extra five hours going back trying to beat personal 
 scores. very limited for sounds also. maybe the odd squak from pikachu getting run over by bigger 
 wild animals. so at the end of the day i would say the only good thing about this game was the 
 easy controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really disappointed by it.
  
  Gameplay: Get this. I was so excited to hear that a pokemon game is coming to the Nintendo DS. 
 I bought it. I thought it is going to be like the amazing games of the gameboy color that is a 
 RPG game which was unbelivible. I started playing and what I found out. It is a racing game. This 
 game is CRAP!!!
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty decent for a Nintendo DS game. The players look 
 fantastic and the animation are decent.
  
  Sound: The sound aswell is pretty decent for a Nintendo DS game. The music is good and the sound 
 effects are fantastic.
  
  Value: You can play for like 5 minutes and then be bored to death. The gameplay overall is really 
 boring and if it was a RPG game then I will have 10 time more fun then this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is one of the worst game you will find on the Nintendo DS and 
 you should definitely will want to stay out of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love the Pokemon series period. I saw this game in stores and thought it looked great. 
 It was, for like 1 hour. The day somebody sells ice to an eskimo is the day I rate this game more 
 than a 3.0. The reason this game sucks is because of the poor effort that Nintendo put into it. 
 Not only that, after about 1 hour your DS will be screaming, "Stop scratching my screen!" Yep, 
 it scratches the screen like slicing an apple. Some reasons I rate this sucky game what I rate 
 it are.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is horrible. They say downloading the maps of your GBA Pokemon would be cool, 
 but anybody who says that needs a huge spankin. when you download the maps you have only 2 checkpoints 
 and are rather easy to find. Another thing about the regular gameplay is how repetitive it is. 
 Find the checkpoint fly, over and over again. IT SUCKS! Also the tracks are the same. When you 
 beat easy GP you get Hard GP. The tracks do not change at all and the difficulty is ls not much 
 hader. Last this game has 1 playable character, Pickachu. 
  
  Graphics- Graphics are very weak because the are like SNES. Very annoying also because the graphics 
 have weak color and the top screen is useless mainly because of the grapics. The radar is so horrible 
 it is like trying to follow a map without anything on it. There is nothing else the graphics help 
 you with but, oh wait, THEY DON'T HELP YOU AT ALL!!!
  
  Sound- I can't describe how much the sound in this game sucks. There is one song for every race 
 in the game. I probably wouldn't even call it a song because its like a 3 second line then it just 
 plays it again. The worst part of the sound is that every second or so Pickachu will yell out, 
 "Pika-Pika!" Gosh that drives me insane and if I took a poll I'm sure everybody would agree with 
 me except those gay guys who think little animals are cute and cudly. I'm sure I don't!
  
  Value- Alright, this is the easiest thing to explain. Repetitive. You consantly do the same thing. 
 Computers are easy to crush. Also, each so-called different GP has the same tracks and near same 
 difficulty level making this game one of those game that just after the first race you go, "This 
 game sucks!" I would not reccommend Pokemon Dash to ANYBODY!!!
  
  What the crap is Tilt? Anyway, this game sucks so much I'm sure I'd give it a 1.
  
  Conclusion- 
 Clearly you can see why Pokemon Dash is NOT reccommended to anybody. i mean, atleast Nintendo could 
 put effort into this game. Do not waste your $30 dollars like I did. Buy a GOOD game and make sure 
 the word Pokemon and Dash are not in the title together. Anyway, this game it pitiful and does 
 not deserve to be in my DS library. Buy a worthy game like Mario Kart DS, Animal Crossing Wild 
 World, Tetris, or Metroid Prime Hunters when it gets released in a few days. Those games are worthy 
 of your money and DS library. Avoid Avoid Avoid!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  So you see that people hear say this game sucks. I'm hear to tell you one thing: it doesn't. So 
 its a race with pokemon. Pokemon is great and racing is great so they go good together. You control 
 Pikachu to race to the finish. Its really cool how you can put a pokemon gba game in the slot and 
 then... do... stuff. Anyways a cool thing about it is that you go through lots of obstacles like 
 riding a water pokemon to a land or speeding through the sand and dropping down from the sky via 
 ballons. Well this game is a game you must have if you like Pokemon like me. Did i mention you 
 can mess with Pikachu's face in the main screen? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Dash is the first Pokemon game out for DS. If you have a DS and like Pokemon maybe you 
 should wait on Pokemon Diamond by playing the GBA versions.
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay of this game is bad. It would have been alot better if you had a FREE MODE 
 to practice in. Pokemon Dash won't take too long to beat anyways.
  GRAPHICS: The graphics of this game are kind of like some late N64 or early GCN graphics. The graphics 
 save the game from being so bad but doesn't save it enough.
  SOUND: The music makes you think you are jogging. BabaahBabububanannhhh is the sound you'll hear 
 the most.'
  VALUE: A short horrible racing game that doesn't live up to Nintendo or Pokemon name.
  MY SOCRE: 
 3.6 BAD
  GoB March 05 News: 5.0
  Box Cover 8.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  not very good design, worst game ever for pokemon i mean reali we are on the ds nintendo this game 
 is bad gba hav made good as pokemon games y cant u make ones like those 1st coz this game is so 
 boring. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game knowing there were bad reviews but when I popped it in my DS I knew they were 
 wrong! I actually enjoy playing this game. I think they could have spent a little more time on 
 the graphics. The sound is cool and i like the speedups you find in the game. I think one of the 
 reasons I prefer this game is becuase I am a big PokeFan and the Gameplay is very easy! I think 
 this game really deserves a 10 but because of the graphics it went down a little. I would defintely 
 suggest this game to friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 1.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  pokemon dash is a complete wast of time. the Graphics sucks you cant see anything at all. there 
 is no sound at all. the idea of the game is so stumped. even if you are a pokemon fan you will 
 still hate this game. the game is so short it's not even funny, wast of $30. the game is encrediply 
 dom.. what ever you do; do do do do do do do do do do do do do do not not not not not not not not 
 not not not not not not not not not not get get get get get get get this this this this this this 
 this this game game game game game game game game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Company has made realy good pokemon games, but pokemon Dash is the worse by for!.
  Not only can you ONLY play as pikachu, the races them self are boring.
  
  Main thing i would 
 like to point out is the Map, its useless, You cant even follow it propply and you can get lost 
 on it seeing as there is'nt a route to follow,
  
  Playing as Pikachu only i was rubbish also, why cant you play as others?. like meowth, Treecko, 
 Mudkip and Torchic, you can race against them but not play as them.
  
  The best thing about the game is that you can create self maps with ur old RPG pokemon games, but 
 even then its stupid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  When i first saw PD on the DS launch list i was generally hyped up. Pokemon is one of the greatest 
 gaming series in the world. With the chairman and creator of it raking it in, were collecting the 
 critters and battling it out like gladiators, but this game is a great shame.
  The pokemon racing theme is a cool idea, but the low selection of Pokemon and really hard races 
 in EASY mode makes this game a great drag.
  The landscapes you have to race in are quite dull and basically all look the same. Its either grass, 
 water or sand. The lava and snow are nice touches but don't give the game any justice, just make 
 it a lot more difficult.
  The thing is that this game dosn't absorb you like other pokemon games. The races are very difficult 
 to master and the constant balloon flying begins to touch ones nerve.
  I wouldn't go and buy this game if i were you, i regreted it.
  
  I just hope the new Pokemon 
 DS game does a lot better than this. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont 
 play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play 
 it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont 
 play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play 
 it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont 
 play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play it dont play 
 it dont play it dont play it dont play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Ambrella, the developers that created Hey You Pikachu and Pokemon Channel, return with a light 
 racing title featuring Pokemon. Though this isn't quite the racing game that everyone was hoping 
 for, it's pretty decent and mildly unique in its own way. In the Regular GP mode, you have 5 cups, 
 each featuring about 5 courses, which make a grand total of 25 courses in the game. In Pokemon 
 Dash, you take control of Pikachu (the only racer you can play as) to get to goal sites. In each 
 course goal sites are scattered across a huge field. You must run to each site in a certain order 
 to complete the stage. There are usually between 6-10 goal sets in each course. In order to get 
 to some goal sites, however, you must have a strategy to do this. There are options, such as using 
 pads to increase your speed in certain areas, using balloons to fly very high and fall wherever 
 you choose, and using a Lapras to get across deep waters. There are a few areas where you cannot 
 cross, such as water, swamps and lava, unless you have a pad with you that can let you cross. At 
 times, these strategies get a little confusing, so sometimes it's not as easy as it sounds. After 
 you beat the Regular GP mode (and you will in about one hour if you play till the end.) You'll 
 unlock the Hard GP mode, which truly is more difficult then the Regular, and Special mode, which 
 lets to put in Pokemon GBA carts into the Nintendo DS cart slot to get extra content and courses 
 for Pokemon Dash. But aside from that, the only other thing Pokemon Dash offers is a multiplayer 
 mode, which probably nothing special. The gameplay itself in Pokemon Dash, is little unique, but 
 it's not really enough to grab peoples attention a lot.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game looks, in general, decent. The pokemon have solid details, but at times they have odd 
 animations. The 3D character model for Pikachu is the one used in Pokemon Channel (since Ambrella 
 also made that game) and it's pretty much the only good looking feature about Pokemon Dash. At 
 times, the 2D graphics will look a little pixeled that's noticeable. But if you can ignore a couple 
 problems, then Pokemon Dash isn't ugly to look at.
  
  Sound:
  
  There are only a few music tracks heard in this game, and only half of them sound good. The other 
 music only sounds tolerable. Most of the songs are happy, if you get my point. Pikachu is back 
 with his usual high-pitched, but cute, voice, which isn't a bad thing for me. Once again, Ambrella 
 reuses some sound effects from their previous game, which also, isn't a problem with me. Overall, 
 if you like happy music and other sounds, Pokemon Dash has some of it.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  After playing about 2 hours with Pokemon Dash, I must say it is fun... only for a short while. 
 I can tell in the future I won't be playing it much. The game is short and offers little replay 
 value. Instead of giving us a game where people play with Pikachu, Ambrella gives us a racing game 
 that isn't recommended for everyone. So it comes down to this. If you like happy themed Pokemon 
 games, and if you're open-minded, Pokemon Dash is a decent game to try out. But if you're looking 
 for a great racing title for the DS, this is not it.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Mildly unique gameplay elements
  -Solid graphics and music (aside from a few pixels)
  -Pikachu's 
 voice brightens some peoples lives.
  
  Cons:
  
  -Very little replay value
  -Too short
  -There are occasionally some issues with navigating to get to certain goal sets.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gloobadude
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  Okay, heres the main part of the game, you use a pokemon to race. But no, not like any racing game 
 before, but with the touch screen! Thats right, you guide the pokemon with your stylus! And you 
 can even get in a ballon! Wow, a ballon will surley bring everyones interest up! Okay, the parts 
 where I am excited are all sarcasim. It doesn't even sound fun, the fact of pokemon racing makes 
 you want to barf! The controls are bad, the gameplay lacks, and you feel like you want to die! 
 If you are forced to buy it, sell it as fast as you can! Go buy a game that has a meaning and skip 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MylesRamos
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Not the best game i've played. Pokemon is a good series but this is one of the things that would 
 give a series a downfall. The gameplay was different, and the graphics were not up to the DS' potential. 
 The sound, though, was the best part, but it wasn't Super Mario 64. It is not worth buying, unless 
 your a hardcore Pokemon collector. If you are looking for a DS game, check out some of my other 
 forums. I am making some for Pac-Pix, Super Mario 64, and some others in the future. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  TALES OF SYMPHONIA KILLS ALL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HevendorKing
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  To put a Pokemon game on the DS, Nintendo sacrificed the most important thing in a game: Quality. 
 Basically, it involves stroking your stylus to move that sickening Pikachu to the Pokeball checkpoints 
 in order while outracing your CPU opponents. Simple, isn't it? Well, that's exactly the problem. 
 The computer is so stupid and the game is so easy that it eventually drives you nuts. And the stupid 
 feature that allows you to play on Pokemon-sprite based courses is just as bad as the rest of the 
 game. The only good point of the game is the graphics. I docked points off the sound because all 
 it is is the "Pika pika!" that drives me insane. The game could have gotten a better review if 
 Nintendo allowed you to play as different Pokemon *cough* Mudkip *cough* but instead they decided 
 to make a feature that requires a lot of playing and a GBA Pokemon game to use. All in all, the 
 game guiltlessly hangs itself in my Hall of Shame for horrible gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has been a big selling series around the world with the many original RPGs on the Gameboy. 
 The series has been a great fun experience for everyone of any age. Yet, Pokemon has try with other 
 genres like Pokemon Snap on the Nintendo 64 that let you travel around the world of pokemon and 
 take pictures of all the pokemon. They also went pinball on Gameboy Color and Advance. Yet they 
 were mediocre games like Hey You Pickachu, which let you command Pickachu with a microphone. The 
 idea was original, sadly the microphone was not very responsive and the whole game did not deliver 
 a fresh experience. Now Pokemon has finally arrived on the Nintendo DS for the 1st time with Pokemon 
 Dash. Pokemon Dash introduces racing to the franchise, but does it really establish a new series 
 for pokemon or will it be another error for pokemon? Read on and find out.
  
  The pokemon tournament has just started and your Pickachu is ready to compete in the different 
 cups and tracks against other pokemon like Torchic, Meowth, etc. Pickachu must make his goal through 
 1st place on all of the different cups and become the ultimate pokemon racing champion. Pokemon 
 Dash does not really deliver an actual continuing story with events, is just like most racing games, 
 making your way to become champion.
  
  Pokemon Dash does offer a simple unique idea for racing games with overhead view by letting you 
 guide Pickachu on the touch screen through each checkpoint on the courses. However these checkpoints 
 must be followed in the exact order that the game tells. Which is a problem because most checkpoints 
 are far away then others, making you get confuse a lot. You control Pickachu by constantly touching 
 Pickachu to the right direction you want to take, is actually great this way instead of controlling 
 with the D-Pad. While controlling is nice with touch screen, it can get really tiresome, because 
 you are constantly rubbing the touch screen on many directions. Sure everything sounds original, 
 but not quite mainly because the game is not really challenging. The opponents are very easy, mainly 
 because even if you are in last place you can hurry up and catch them all and win the race, unless 
 you are playing the hard courses. The dual screen is weak, the top screen shows a weak map of the 
 stuff near by you, but is not exact all the times. In the touch screen is where you see the whole 
 racing action. 
  
  The game also lets you fly in an air balloon to reach checkpoints that cannot be gone through 
 on foot. In this part you will get a map of the whole course with all of the checkpoints. The problem 
 here is that the game does not tell what checkpoint you have to go next. After you decide where 
 to land, Pickachu will be landing with 2 balloons. You have to make sure Pickachu doesnt fall 
 on very solid ground or trees, otherwise the game will take you to the air balloon again, and le 
 you try landing on soft ground. 
  
  Despite that the gameplay is not really sweet in some areas is still an easy simple experience 
 for kids, and it doe quite offer a lot of different courses to keep the player coming for more, 
 that if you actually like the game. Kids might actually get trouble sometimes trying the hard mode 
 mainly because the AI is intelligent and knows the location perfectly of all checkpoints. Despite 
 not being a great experience Pokemon Dash does still offer a bit of strategy, when you actually 
 find items that give you more speed in specific terrain, but you can only 1 item at a time.
  
  Pokemon Dash is not truly what the title says. The game does feature some pokemon to race against, 
 but you can only play as the cuddly Pickachu. Truly is a miss of opportunity that will affect pokemon 
 fans that could like to play as Torchic, Meowth or any other pokemon in the game. The problem also 
 is the variety, they are different pokemons to race against but all of them race exactly the same 
 with no different speed or ability. The game could have also let you shoot powers, making each 
 pokemon have their own unique abilities. 
  
  The graphics are pretty much average with the backgrounds. Expect grass lands, snow lands, forest, 
 swamps, lava, etc. While it seems like a lot of environments they are actually repetitive since 
 most of the time the courses contain a bit of all of those. The backgrounds and sprites get totally 
 pixelated when up-close or far away. The animations on the characters dont really feel fluid as 
 they should be and practically a bit slow. The environments are bland, no real ambience of each 
 place to make you feel really the experience. The only real graphic potential is the 3-D Pickachu 
 in the main menu, in which you can goof around with by holding his ears, paws, etc. The developers 
 really needed to take more time by adding more variety in the whole graphic engine.
  
  The soundtrack is soft and very happy on each course, yet it also doesnt feel very varied on each 
 course. Yet the happy soundtrack fits nice with the gameplay you get. There is not much pokemon 
 language except for the cute Pickachu with his pika pika. They are no real sound effects that you 
 can find, mainly because of no true special effects. There is no big complain in terms of sound, 
 but the sound effects and soundtrack can get repetitive at times.
  
  The multiplayer wireless might be of some interest for pokemon fans going against each other. The 
 bad news is that you still have to use Pickachu only. The game also delivers a special mode that 
 if you put a GBA pokemon game, it will download your main party you have in the game right now, 
 then with those pokemons, Pokemon Dash makes different courses dedicated to each pokemon you have, 
 in those courses you must find all of the hidden checkpoints. While it is technically a great idea, 
 it doesnt really juice up completely the experience.
  
  Pokemon Dash is another of those Non RPG pokemon games that try to do something new, but dont 
 quite cut it as they should be. The idea is certainly unique, but is not well establish in the 
 whole game. The developers did not take their time to deliver a lot of variety in the whole package. 
 This game is best for pokemon fans to rent only, if you do not know about pokemon or never like 
 it, dont try renting this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meteorgun7
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 25, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Background:
  
  Pokemon Dash is a racing game in which you control Pikachu. There are numerous tracks that you 
 can race on and if you upload any of your Gameboy Advance Pokemon Games from Pokemon Ruby to Pokemon 
 Emerald, you can create new tracks to race on. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  When you first begin playing the game, there is a tutorial so you can understand how to play. Basically, 
 what you need to do is pass through checkpoints before your opponents get there. There are a lot 
 of power-ups that can help you depending on which terrain you are in. If you get a forest power-up, 
 Pikachu will be able to travel faster in a forest. A lava power-up will let Pikachu go faster in 
 lava. There are also two other ways of getting to hard to reach checkpoints. You can you a Lapras 
 so you can get across water or you can use a hot air ballon to travel anywhere on the race track 
 except you can't land in the forest or the water. 
  
  Graphics: 7 out of 10
  
  When you first start the game, you will see a happy Pikachu that will greet you in the bottom screen. 
 I put this under graphics because Pikachu looks as if he was right there in front of you. Anyway, 
 when you start a race, you don't get to see much of 3D graphics since the camera is a bird's eye 
 view camera. This is still pretty good though.
  
  Control : 9 out of 10
  
  It is very easy to control Pikachu in this game. All you need is your stylus and you are set. You 
 need to use gentle strokes because it can get tiring if you apply pressure to your stylus.
  
  
  Difficulty: 
  
  The difficulty of the opponents increases as you win more cups. It 
 starts out very easy in the beggining but then, it gets harder.
  
  Buy or Rent:
  
  I would say buy if you are a Pokemon fan since this is a must have game for any Pokemon fan. If 
 you are not a Pokemon fan, rent it, you might not like it.
  
  Overall, this is a very fun game. Uploading your Pokemon from your Pokemon Gameboy Advance games 
 can be very fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingskullz
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 22, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  i cant believe i spent my money on this!!! When i first got this game i was really excited at the 
 prospect of a touch based pokemon game. when i heard about this game i thought a pokemon racing 
 game may be playable. But i was mistaken.
  
  Gameplay: The whole game is the same with unbalanced difficulty, one minute u rip everyone in one 
 race and in the next near indenticle map you get beat bad. Also the touch control aspect of making 
 Pikachu move is repetativ and boring.
  
  Graphics: O. K 3-D graphics but nothing special. im giving this 8 on Graphics because the intro 
 to the game looks like a gamecube title.
  
  Sound: Nice squeek sounds when pikachu gets stunned and good backround music.
  
  Value: the 
 main reason i bought this is the feature of transferring pokemon from the Gameboy games and making 
 them into tracks. unfortunately if u have low level pokemon you will have around 10 SECONDS!!!! 
 to complete a race! The main game is a joke !!!
  It is sooooo repetative u wont want to complete it!
  
  TILT: Overall a Reppatative game and 
 once u complete it (if u can be bothered) u wont be coming back for more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 12, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has been arund for about 9 years now. With its phenomenal first releases, Pokemon Red and 
 Blue, you'd think this series would never die. it was a simple, yet involving RPG that twists the 
 formula around, allowing you to capture different pokemon to use as your team. It has spunoff many 
 other Pokemon games, but the worst of them are the ones that stray from the formula that made Pokemon 
 RPGs work. Now, Nintendo has released a Pokemon game for the DS, but wait: its a racing game? That's 
 right, folks. Simply put: This is easily the worst Pokemon game and second worst game to grace 
 the DS, bar none. This is racing at its worst.
  
  Here is a warning: unless you have a screen protecter or you don't care about you DS touch screen 
 becoming scratched, DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. Basically, what you do, is in a race, you repeatedly 
 scratch the surface of the touch screen fast enough in the direction that you want to move. But, 
 eventually, if you play it too long, your DS screen will not take the pressure anymore. Aside from 
 that, it just isn't fun. It is ridiculously easy to win a race, and since there isn't a huge variety 
 of gameplay, you'll be doing the same thing over and over again. You occasionally get a power boost 
 or fly into air, but because aren't much fun either, and because they're so rare, you will never 
 want to play this game... ever.
  
  The sound and graphic quality of the game are pretty bad, but they are sadly the best qualities 
 of the game. You'll be seeing a lot of the same green tress and blue water in every ciurse, with 
 a chunk of yellow for Pikachu, and a chunk of red for Torchic. Not to mention that, even though 
 this game is 3D, it isn't very hard to pull off with only 6 scarcely different chunks of color. 
 The basic action is running, anyways, so it could have at least looked a bit better. The sound 
 doesn't farewell either. It's better than all of the other aspects because you don't hear much 
 from the game. But the sounds that you do hear, are pretty terrible, and the music isn't that great, 
 either.
  
  To put it this way: Pokemon Dash is suicidal to your gaming collection and the well-being of your 
 DS. It just isn't fun to play, and to top it all off, you'll harm your touch screen. Don't pay 
 $30 for this hunk a junk. I'm glad I didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 15, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  I'm a pokemon guy. I mean I don't watch the episodes or collect the cards, I just like playing 
 their videogames. It was the games that attracted me to it. The gameplay was absolutely awesome. 
 It related well to the player. The graphics may a bit off the curve, but it's still a great game 
 series.
  
  Pokemon Dash is by far THE worst Pokemon game that Nintendo has had to offer. I mean although not 
 abysmal, Nintendo Really messed up. I mean come on. Hiring a newbie developer to make a game that 
 takes a bit more precision than scraping your pen on the Touch screen. Ambrella? Who the hell is 
 that? I don't care. If it's not Gamefreak making a Pokemon game, don't expect a good playing Pokemon 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is abysmal. All you do is move your pen. I tried it and got tired of it a minute later. 
 I couldn't keep up. The Difficulty of catching up or trying to stay in the lead was way out of 
 my reach. I just couldn't do it!
  
  The sound was nice. It wasn't great but, at least it had Pikachu's cute voice either cheering, 
 jeering, or crying when he's about to get a face plant from falling off that awkward balloon of 
 his.
  
  The Graphics are really... rushed. It is very pixilated and the resolution is horrible. I mean 
 it plays nice 3-D figures and nicely illustrated backgrounds and environments, but it's just stupid 
 to have one good thing about the graphics and screw around with the rest. It's just ridiculous.
 
  
  Overall: It's not worth your money if your not a Pokemon fan. Just ask "Pokemon what?" It's not 
 worth your time. You might have some fun playing it. But be prepared to get bored... fast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
