-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Pearl
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonpearl/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Colorful presentation blends 2D and 3D.
 Enthusiastic soundtrack.
 Introduces online play.
 Lengthy, engaging single-player story.
 more than 100 new Pokmon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New touch-screen controls underwhelming.
 Online hampered by accessibility issues.
 Recycles some graphics and sounds from older Pokmon games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 4,513 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Game Freak
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diamond and Pearl do what the Pokmon franchise has always done best -- deliver an accessible and 
 highly addictive role-playing game experience. 

  Much to the delight of Pokmaniacs the world over, Nintendo and Game Freak have finally brought 
 a proper Pokmon game to the Nintendo DS with Pokmon Diamond and Pearl, and it delivers much of 
 what a fan would desirea richer, more detailed presentation, the ability to battle and trade 
 Pokmon over the Internet, and of course, more than 100 brand-new Pokmon to collect. Like any 
 of the core Pokmon games released since the original Red and Blue hit in 1999, Diamond and Pearl 
 offer some nice upgrades, but if you didn't like Pokmon then, you  probably  won't care for it 
 now. That said, it's a little surprising how well the formula holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which 
 is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as well as the quality of the execution. 

          The core Pokmon games have never looked better.     

  Sticking to the script, Diamond and Pearl start out the same as any other Pokmon game, and though 
 the specifics are different, the story plays out in a familiar fashion. Playing as either a young 
 boy or girl living in the out-of-the-way hamlet of Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region, you and 
 your highly competitive best friend are sent into the world by Professor Rowan to collect as much 
 data on the Pokmon that inhabit the region as is possible, which you do by capturing and fighting. 
 During your travels, you will battle plenty of wild Pokmon and other Pokmon trainers like yourself, 
 as well as face off with the leaders of eight different Pokmon gyms spread across Sinnoh. And, 
 in the tradition of the nefarious Team Rocket, Diamond and Pearl introduce the shadowy and oddly 
 self-righteous Team Galactic, a new Pokmon-obsessed organization for you to square off with. The 
 plot doesn't tread much new ground for the series, and it generally keeps things real light and 
 breezy. They won't dazzle you with the complexity or originality of their storytelling, but Diamond 
 and Pearl are still packed with lots of sharp writing. There are hundreds of people for you to 
 meet, and though they don't always offer lengthy conversations, they all have something to say. 

  The story is ultimately in the service of the gameplay, which fans and newcomers should be able 
 to leap right into without much fuss. You start off with a single Pokmon companion by your side, 
 which serves as your proxy in battleyou might be calling the shots in a fight, but it's 
 your Pokmon that do all the heavy lifting. As you wander through forests, fields of tall grass, 
 underground caves, and a myriad of other locations, you'll regularly be attacked by wild Pokmon, 
 which, if you're able to wear down their health without defeating them entirely, can be captured 
 in a Pokball, effectively taming them and turning them into companions. You can have up to six 
 Pokmon with you at once, and each of your Pokmon can learn up to four different abilities. These 
 abilities can come naturally as they earn experience in battle, or you can teach them new tricks 
 using technical machines and hidden machines, which can be earned in a number of different ways. 
 As they grow stronger, many Pokmon can also evolve, effectively turning them into an entirely 
 new and more powerful Pokmon.  

  The combat is turn based, and it's mostly about the rock-paper-scissors nature of the different 
 types of Pokmon. The only difference between Diamond and Pearl is the Pokmon contained within 
 each game. With the addition of 107 brand-new Pokmon, Diamond and Pearl raise the grand total 
 of Pokmon to capture to well over 480. Every single one of them can be categorized by type. Some 
 of these types are defined by elements, such as water-type Pokmon and fire-type Pokmon, while 
 others are determined by more specific, functional differences, such as fight-type Pokmon and 
 poison-type Pokmon. Each type of Pokmon is inherently weak to the attacks of another, so the 
 key to combat is having a well-balanced team of Pokmon with you that will be able to handle whatever 
 types of Pokmon get thrown at you. It's a simple enough concept to grasp, but there are enough 
 different types of Pokmon out there that you'll find yourself constantly tweaking your roster 
 of active Pokmon and laboring over which abilities you should be giving to which of your Pokmon. 
 The fact that you're constantly running in to, and thus capturing, new Pokmon makes the process 
 that much more involved. And that's just the basics. Aside from wandering around the Sinnoh region 
 and getting into countless Pokmon battles, you'll fish, harvest and plant berries, cook up special 
 treats for your Pokmon, enter your Pokmon in a pageant, set up a secret hideout, and more. These 
 games are long, with the main stories clocking in at well over 40 hours, and those intent on hunting 
 down the rarer Pokmon will spend far more than that.  

  The bulk of the activities in Pokmon Diamond and Pearl aren't new to the series, so what separates 
 these two from the Pokmon games that appeared on the Game Boy Advance? For starters, the presentation 
 has been improved to take advantage of the superior DS hardware. Though the game is mostly still 
 presented in 2D, there's improved detail to the 2D and you'll notice lots of nice polygonal touches. 
 For example, buildings and windmills are rendered in 3D, and it's enough to give the 2D world a 
 little depth. The game also has a bright, highly saturated color palette that makes it a pleasure 
 to look at. When in battle, the Pokmon are still static 2D spritesmuch of which appears 
 to have been recycled from the Pokmon games on the GBAbut in general, the 2D art still 
 looks sharp. The dynamic battle transitions look great, as do the numerous attack effects. Diamond 
 and Pearl also feature some catchy music, and there's a whole lot of it, with a special theme for 
 virtually every location or activity. As clean and upbeat as the music is, though, some of the 
 sound effects from the Pokmon themselves sound screechy and lo-fi. It's out of place, considering 
 how great the rest of the game looks and sounds.  

  There's also a little touch-screen support in Diamond and Pearl, letting you use the stylus to 
 select menus during battle and play a few simple, rather forgettable minigames that crop up. During 
 most of your travels, the lower screen on the DS is occupied by your Pokmon watch (Poktch for 
 short) . In addition to telling the time, you can install a number of applications, some more useful 
 than others, on your Poktch. There's a calculator, a pedometer, a status screen for your Pokmon, 
 a metal detector of sorts, and more.  

          Online play means it's that much easier to find others to battle and trade with.     

 
  What's probably the most significant new feature in Diamond and Pearl is online play, which lets 
 you battle, trade, and chat with other players over the Internet. The trading system is surprisingly 
 robust, letting you put any of your Pokmon up for trade on a global market, while specifying which 
 Pokmon you'll trade it for. Once you define the terms of the trade, the Pokmon is transferred 
 to a server, and you can set it and forget it. Your DS doesn't even need to be turned on for someone 
 to agree to your terms and complete the transaction. The online battle options aren't as immediately 
 accessible. Early on, you'll need the game-specific friend code for anyone that you want to battle 
 online, and it will take dozens of hours of single-player action before you'll be able to battle 
 with random strangers. The game also supports voice chat using the newly released DS headset, but 
 you can only use it with other players whose friend codes you've already registered. Of course, 
 you can also still battle and trade with other people through a local Wi-Fi connection. Diamond 
 and Pearl also promise connectivity to the upcoming Pokmon Battle Revolution for the Nintendo 
 Wii, purportedly letting you use your DS as a controller and take the Pokmon you've collected 
 on the DS into battle on your TV.  

  Between the 100-plus new Pokmon, the improved presentation, and the online play, this is a must-have 
 game for established fans. The new features also make this the most well-rounded Pokmon game to 
 date, and if you've never dabbled in the world of Pokmon before, there's no better game to start 
 with.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (318 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LuigiRulze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  Well if you havr played other Pokemon games this one starts off the same you pick a starter Pokemon 
 and you go off on an adventure as Lucas or Dawn. Trying to beat a team called team Galactica who 
 are trying to steal the worlds Pokemon (sorda like team Rocket exept they are bigger and all have 
 blue hair) and to beat all 8 gym leaders + the elite four and if you want to beat contests in between. 
 And for the newbys that are new in Pokemon you start off in the Sinnoh region and you can chose 
 from piplup, turtwig and chimchar. Personally my favorite part in the game is traning your pokemon 
 and battaling with them and watching 'em evolve but for other people its contests or Gym battles 
 or the elite 4 our wandering the Sinnoh region. Another great thing is you can use action replay 
 tp catch Darkrai and Doexos and stuff like that but dont (unless its for a legendary) . One bad thing 
 about it is that Platinum is alredy out and better so I sugest that if you have $5 more. So this 
 is an amazing game that anybody that can't gat Platinum should have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the next 2 Pokemon games and take the series into some new territory. 
 However, it suffers from the curse Ruby and Sapphire fell under. Beyond that though, it is still 
 a solid game.
  
  There isn't much new stuff here, which is the biggest problem. The touch screen is used in battle 
 and feels better, but doesn't really change much. The clock from gold and silver has returned as 
 have the day and night affects, which is great news. The bottom screen when you aren't battling 
 is useful, you can use if for the clock, checking stats, or playing fun little mini games even. 
 It isn't much, but is a nice touch.
  
  Diamond and Pearl also have a very cool underground part, where you can connect and play multiplayer. 
 You compete to dig for treausre and can actually dig in the same place at the same time. You can 
 also set traps and steal someone's findings so it is a fun new mode, my favorite part of the game.
 
  
  Online was also added in this installment, but it doesn't really add much. You can auction your 
 Pokemon and bid for Pokemon online which is pretty cool, but you'll rarely find a good auction 
 for you as most of them are just bad trades. Battling online isn't really fun either, because there 
 are so many different people that you typically won't find someone that will give you a good fight. 
 So, overall, I felt that online was not meant for Pokemon.
  
  That's really all when it comes to new features, you're still collecting 8 badges, still stopping 
 some evil organization, still battling the same way.
  
  I would also like to say that Pearl and Diamond have more replay value than any other Pokemon game. 
 There are tons of legendary Pokemon and new ares to go to after you beat the game, which is a big 
 plus.
  
  The sound is pretty good, the graphics are a downfall though. It's still plain 2D despite the 3D 
 graphics at some parts and the animation could be better, just feel a letdown in the graphics department.
 
  
  So to sum things up, Pearl and Diamond keep the Pokemon formula the same (sadly) but add some neat 
 little tidbits that make the game just a bit better then the average Pokemon games, if you're a 
 fan of Pokemon, you'll want to pick this up.
  
  Final Score: 8.25 + cave & replay value (0.25) - graphics (0.50) = 8.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth__Regret
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:41 am PT
Review:  Just a short review, this game is really a reminder of what pokemon was all about. ive played these 
 games for many years, i started playing when the first games come out in the 90's. blue, red and 
 yellow were an amazing addition for the gameboy and represented what an adventure game should be 
 like. Later came silver, gold, crystal they marked another great addition to the series with new 
 pokemon a different world, new people and the lovely addition of going back to kanto, which was 
 were blue, ect was set and doing the gyms there.
  next in line was ruby, saphire and emerald which in my opinion lacked depth and was rarther dissapointing, 
 as they had all the right foundations to create something really good but flopped with no lenght 
 or depth.
  leaf green and fire red, well hmmh seemed abit like a badass stew, everything possible was thrown 
 into those games, and it produced quite a good adventure with nice twists which left it a very 
 enjoyable game to play.
  finally diamond and pearl. these games really have now revolutionised the old school pokemon and 
 truend it more engaging, more colourful, 3D !!! and to be blunt truly amazing. ive really enjoyed 
 playing pokemon over the years, it really lightened up my childhood as well as my teenage years, 
 you know if there was anything bothering you, pokemon was there. it is really engaging fun to play 
 and a deffinant must buy for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  The Pokemon games each share the same story line, get the badges and beat the Elite Four, get all 
 of the Pokemon and you are done. But it is just that Pokemon games are games that we have played 
 since we were little kids and this game kind of brings back that feeling that we each used to have, 
 trying to catch them all and beat the game. I really enjoyed playing this game from the day I got 
 it (the first day it came out) to now (yeah I know, laugh it up) . Still, its fun getting together 
 with a friend and challenging them and winning (or in my case, losing, heheh) . I enjoy playing 
 these old-fashioned story plot games and I completly recommend this version, however, if you really 
 want to get them all, get Diamond as well because you will need to go look for a Pokemon you want 
 on Wi-Fi (a new feature) and they make such bad trade deals, which is a reason why I gave this 
 game a 9.0. I think that Nintendo should have put a program that says what would be a fair trade 
 for this Pokemon and this Pokemon. I mean, I traded an Entei (level 49 I think) for a level 2 Milotic 
 (laught it up, again) . Luckily I had the Emerald glitch, so it did not matter. And people with 
 Dialga, I'm sorry, but when we are looking for a Dialga, we are not going to trade you a level 
 100 Dialga for one that is on level 47. But still, if you want to re-live part of the experiences 
 from the past, this game will be more than happy to give that to you (did for me, so yeah, but 
 everyone is different so I do not know what effect it will have on you) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazekick2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl involves you, this Pokemon Trainer setting out in the Sinnoh region to catch, battle 
 and trade pokemon. As you go you collect gym badges, and then work your way up to the champion, 
 where you will become the champion upon defeating her! Sounds simple? This game does take a little 
 while to defeat, but should be somewhat easier for experianced pokemon fans. While you are on your 
 adventure, this organization, Team Galactic, is out causing all sorts of mischeif. It is up to 
 you to stop them from reaching their awful goals! The game overall is much like the other games, 
 but with more improvments, as there is with every new Pokemon game. And I am talking a lot of new 
 features! Now there are 492 total pokemon to catch, wifi battling unlike none out there, the all-new 
 Poketch system exclusively for the ds, personal clock determines time in game, all-new swarm catching, 
 and so much more that can't be explained! This is a must buy out of all the other pokemon games! 
 However, this game as I said is an identical feel of the rest of the pokemon games, and not to 
 mention there aren't many differences between Diamond and Pearl. But dont let that stop you! Play 
 this game and you will see what I mean!
  
  -Blazekick2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemanyeah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Story=6
  The story is kind of boring. It's just you are a trainer and your on your way to You met oak, rowan, 
 and others on your way but the story is like I said boring. But you do met familiar faces like 
 pichu, mew, and others but it's a little boring.
  Gameplay: 3
  This is also boring. The gameplay is bad and boring. The battles are just use pokemon moves by 
 selecting them and watch a boring attack. Like isn't this why I bought a video game. For gameplay. 
 Pacman is better gameplay then this. The best gameplay part is the contests and it's still boring. 
 To make this a better game it's going to need better gameplay.
  Details=8
  The details is the best part of the game. Each time you catch a pokemon it's added to your collection. 
 There are over 300 pokemon to collect in the game. It's also has over 100 items to collect. You 
 can also bring your pokemon into pokemon revolution, pokemon ranch, and bring pokemon from your 
 old pokemon game's pokemon into pearl. There it makes it very nice with those details.
  Overall=5.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaKatimari
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon pearl is just like any other pokemon game out there. Get 1  
 8 gyms, Beat elite for and foil evil organization. Pokemon pearl brought back the clock feature 
 in Gold/Silver/Crystal. They have updated the contest feature (Some people actually likes those?) 
 and the graphics have been updated very little they look 2.50D and just like Crystal/Emerald the 
 pokemon twitch before a fight ("Impressive") . Pokemon Peal/Diamond has some half a**ed touch screen 
 controls like dress up and cooking. There 450+ pokemon out there witch will keep you awhile but 
 you only have to see them not catch ("Challenging") , and you need fire red and ruby to see them 
 like the other pokemon games. There is now a online feature thats pretty cool but needing a friend 
 code is safe for kids but matchmaking would be cool. The music has always bothered me its same 
 god damn loop over and over again. but get past the flaws this is the basic pokemon adventure the 
 avid pokemon fans can enjoy. Hits: Classic pokemon game play, 450+ pokemon, playing a friend online 
 is cool. Misses: Graphics are still bad, Repetitive music, Not a lot of challenge. Over all i give 
 pokemon pearl a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danm311
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Pokemon for about 10 years now, I dont care what people think of me liking 
 Pokemon, its not just for children! The games require a lot of strategy to defeat the tough Trainers 
 ahead and its very addictive, once you start playing you cant stop!! I remember in 2007 I coudnt 
 wait for these games, I was so excited but I didn't need to get both Versions, thats just selfish!! 
 Nearly every player will probably end up with the same team of Pokemon before you get the National 
 Pokedex, but once the Elite Four is over you can do whatever you like!! It is very, very hard catching 
 'em all and its about impossible in these games because now theres well over 400 of the cute critters. 
 You can hunt down whatever Pokemon you want after the main story when you fight the Gym leaders, 
 which is quite easy if you raise the right Pokemon. The exclusive Pokemon to each Version isn't 
 important, except for Dialga and Palkia, the two legendary Pokemon, the choise is up to you which 
 is your favourite. This game is good for beginners of the series because it has good tutorials 
 as usual and its one of the main games in the series. My favourite spin-offs are the Ranger series, 
 which are fun but completely different to these games. Now im waiting for Platinum, which is identical 
 to Diamond and Pearl but has many new features like the Battle Frontier and many more Pokemon to 
 hunt down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varimath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is the review of Pokemon Pearl for the DS system.
  First of all, I just want to say that I really enjoyed the game. It gives you the old Pokemon feeling 
 of "gotta catch them all" and battle with your caught pokemon. Either against trainers or Gym Leaders.
 
  
  If you want some big improvements, the game is for you. Thanks to the Wi-Fi system, Pokemon Trainers 
 may battle against each other, playing with each other and rivalizing each other (a lot of "each 
 other" there) . Except from the Wi-Fi and of course new pokemons, there is no bigger improvements 
 of worth (according to me) . Its like any Pokemon game out there with a cool network improvement 
 if you are to sum it up. Its still isnt the ultimate pokemon game everyone is looking for, but 
 its really close thanks to the more realistic feeling.
  
  For the gaming in general, I miss the Fire and Blue versions actually. They felt so epic and well-thought. 
 This game misses the heart of the creator like Red and Blue had. Its still a really good game, 
 but you will feel there is something there missing.
  
  The joy of catching pokemons also got bigger. Thanks to the more advanced Pokedex (the collector 
 data for catched pokemon) is a really nice improvement. Sadly though, I dont think too many gamers 
 would care about it enough.
  
  A new world is waiting for you. It may not be fantastic, but it will be a magical journey which 
 you may want to return to a lot of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchiha-dante
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  i must admit im impressed, there have been so many pokemon games up to date, this being the most 
 recent one, u would think that pokemon games would lose their charm at this point but no, this 
 is proof of nintendo's genius.
  this game isn't only for pokemon fans, this game is also good for noobs or even those who say that 
 pokemon is for babies just to look cool, u can say all u want but u will fall in love with this 
 game just like all other pokemon fans, this game not only introduces new pokemon but it also features 
 the old ones and not to mention the use of GBA gamepacks such as fire red or emerald to obtain 
 other pokemon like legendaries.
  it also presents a new interesting storyline with new ennemies like team galactic and new legendaries 
 like palkia and dialga, in fact this game an enormous amount of legendaries compared to the other 
 games. this is an awesome game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXArIaxXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Ive been watching Pokemon sence i was 4 and i had played the start of the other games that my cousin 
 had then i finally brought 1 for myself and i think it was the best desion i have ever made! My 
 friend has pokemon diamond and i got pearl its really great getting to conect with each other and 
 doing all types of stuff trading pokemon, going underground, making poffins, batteling and HEAPS 
 more!! 150 new pokemon to find in Sinho then once you've finshed filling that you get the nation 
 pokadex which has over 400!! Graffics of pokemon when batteling are the same as the show which 
 looks awesome but when walking really dosent feel like your a pokemon trainer bit of a let down 
 no emprovment in graffics and sound\music, pokemon sounds could be a bit better but over all a 
 very good 9.5 from me well worth the $40 or so dollars! Just hope pokemon platinnum is just as 
 good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: money645
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest pokemon games EVER. Its just so addictive It'll have you playing it 
 for hours and hours. This game is no dout the most beatiful pokemon gme ever made the grapics are 
 just amazing for a pokemon game. The object of the game is the same as always catch as many pokemon 
 as you can and level them up then challenge te pokemon league. There are over 100!!!!!! new pokemon 
 in this new region including new prevoltions and evoltions. There is the prevovle form of chansey 
 named happiny, and then there are the new evoltions of rhydon, magmar, magiton, and electibuzz. There 
 are a couple new features in pearl including the abillity to GO UNDERGROUND, while you're down there 
 you can look for treasures such as moon stones and every other stone, shards, and of course fossils. This 
 pokemon game is the second best pokemon game ever (pokemon emarald) but still it is one great one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reziztance
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has long been one of Nintendo's shining gems. This is the first 'true' Pokemon game to 
 make an appearance on the Nintendo DS. 
  
  This game follows the same tried and true basics that Pokemon has had since its days on the original 
 GameBoy. Catch pokemon. Raise them. Fight trainers. Defeat gym leaders. Defeat the elite four. 
 
  
  This game takes place in the Sinnoh region. After finding three PokeBalls lying on the ground, 
 you and your friend fight off two wild Pokemon. After you go see the PokeBall's owner, he gives 
 you the Pokemon and asks you to go on a quest for him. 
  
  You will level up your Pokemon, get new items for them, and fight trainers. 
  
  Once you beat 
 the game, there's still some fun to be had. You can challenge the battle towers and see how many 
 consecutive opponents you can defeat, in a row. 
  
  You can also unlock the secrets to EV training and take your skills online. These modes are a refreshing 
 change from pwning the same bad guys over, and over, and over. 
  
  Graphically, it looks nice. The music is okay, but it is the same few compositions over and over 
 again. 
  
  This is a good game, that is worth getting for anyone who enjoys playing on the go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anvaartuatro140
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, Pokemon. One of those childhood favorites that sometimes you just can't get over. I must say, 
 I have just recently stopped playing, but whenever I pick it up again it is very difficult to stop. 
 It just keeps drawing you in; it unexpectedly hits you in your sweet spot and mysteriously pulls 
 you towards it. It is The Force. These same principles applied to all the Pokemon games before 
 this one, but this one came out, with all the decked out new features and Pokemon, I'm surprised 
 I'm not dead right now due to a Pokemon lapse. I'd have to say the decision as to what Pokemon 
 game is my favorite is at a standstill as of now due to some serious kick-bucket anime-ish action 
 in Emerald version. I can't decide between Pearl, Platinum and Emerald. But if makes any of you 
 Emerald goons out there feel better, Emerald is my favorite Gameboy Pokemon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisdean33
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  The best of pokemon has finally come! Great storyline best gameplay. The best game ever! Platinum 
 might be better but, it still has not came out. This adds more than 50 more pokemon and, action 
 packed with amazing features. My new fav is munchlax . New friend code and wifi is the best way 
 to communicate with people from around the world. The new sinnoh world is tha bomb! Way better 
 that the other's. The best of pokemon has finally come! Great storyline best gameplay. The best 
 game ever! Platinum might be better but, it still has not came out. This adds more than 50 more 
 pokemon and, action packed with amazing features. My new fav is munchlax . New friend code and 
 wifi is the best way to communicate with people from around the world. The new sinnoh world is 
 tha bomb! Way better that the other's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapi98
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  8.5? Gamespot doesn't have taste in pokemon.
  
  Graphics:9/10. Everything looks fabulous, from people, to environment, to the pokemon.
  
  Gameplay:9/10. 
 Choosing an option for battle may seem simple, but the layout and determining your opponens next 
 move is exiting.
  
  Music:8/10. Battle music and route music are catchy, but can get too repetive.
  
  Replay value:8/10. 
 You cannot really replay anything from the storyline, but you can always replay pokemon battles.
 
  
  Boss/enemy fights;10/10. Battling other trainers can be easy, but could also prove to be a pain 
 in the butt.
  
  Storyline:10/10. I love how it sticks to the plain old "become the very best pokemon trainer that 
 has ever been", but it also has the team galactic plot mixed in.
  
  This sums up the excellent handheld pokemon game that is known as pokemon pearl version.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: name0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:   awseome :) But I havent got it yet. I heard it was awseome in 
 999999999999999999...... ways! how _________ great is that! revolutionary... amazing... spectacular... 
 great... all plus more! you can get ANY, ANY!, pokemon! great . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . aaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhh.... aw aw a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a` a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a ZA a a a a a a a a a afg fg 
 b n j j b n j hnnbjjj g h ygh hj h g dcf d tf uyudcfijfigbd sgu 7 yh y u !@#$% ahgdjuwgrbuyuyfg 
 uyfyg7 s8rugt6ye fvgiujpvf eruji dfvijbh fdu rfuj9 dfgiy 8h dfoj fiugbv duhgb kxdbf xkdb xkdhb 
 xkdiuvb fchb ksdb dbf xdkbng dkghb xkdhb xkdgb skrbh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radamentlg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This is a Series that keeps giving! Many have through the years tried to put this series down due 
 to there own insecurities and fear of "embarrassment." I have been playing on these Pokemon games 
 since they first came to the US. I started out wit the Pokemon Red version back when the Game Boy 
 Pockets where coming out. 
  
  Back when Red and Blue were out it was about collecting badges and building a super team of Pokemon 
 to beat the game. after beating it a time or two you would wanna catch all the Pokemon; and in 
 order to do so you would have to have a friend with the other cartridge. This franchise has always 
 done a great job with making it addictive to play these game; but now on the new Pearl and Diamond 
 games you have a lot more to do and little trinkets, many new Pokemon. Though i am only a little 
 way through i can see how far the game has come on the hand held gaming devices from the beginning, 
 in fun, interactivity and replay. There are many in the series that i have not played but this 
 is one that will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and keeps you playing untill basically your fingers have gone numb and your 
 eyes arent seeing clearly.
  
  I gave this game an 8.5 out of 10. Why not 10?. Because 10 means the game is perfect, and this 
 game is not perfect, but now I will tell you what is leading up to the to be a perfect, and whats 
 the game needs to become a perfect.
  First of all its alittle confusing on where you have to go, and if you have no map your guessing 
 on where to go, so it takes hours till you figure out the new route to take, I guess thats what 
 an adventure game is, so i guess that doesnt knock it down it brings the game up., buti really 
 have no idea what i'm talking about.
  forget all that stuff, this game is perfect, but not perfect, just a great game, makes you want 
 more, and has wifi, but isnt the greatest, but still wifi.
  This game has something for everyone, great game, and is a verylong adventure. OH yeah it would 
 be a 9.5 if it had more save in your adventures, and you can have only one save file, come on not 
 2 or 3? That totall let down.
  
  All in all this is a great game, and every DS gamer should own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matijacu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  As always you begin your adventure as a young pokemon trainer, whose goal is to become the Sinnoh 
 champion. There are three beginner pokemon : Turtwig, Chimchar, Piplup. Unlike the old games for 
 the gameboy advanced and gameboy color, this game is a complete new experience. You also have a 
 rival that will battle you several times during the game, if you have chosen a boy then your friend 
 will be Dawn and if you have chosen a girl then your friend is Lucas. While traveling threw Sinnoh 
 you encounter Team Galactic and their plan is to awaken Palkia and to create their own universe, 
 after you defeat the Team's leader you get to battle Palkia, you can either catch it or "kill" 
 it. There are also other legendaries such as Uxie, Mesprit, Azelf, Creselia, Giratina, Regigigas 
 (only if you have Regice, Registeel and Regirock) , Darkrai (special event) and 
  Shaymin (special event) . As for the Diamond version the only difference is that there are a few 
 pokemon that you can't find in pearl - Mime Junior, Stunky... and also the diffrence is that in 
 Diamond you get Dialga and in Pearl you get Palkia.
  
  Once you have defeated all the gym leaders you get to battle the Elite Four and the champion. The 
 champion is actually Cynthia.
  Cythias pokemon: Spiritomb, Lucario, Roserade, Garchomp, Milotic, Gastrodon.
  After you become 
 the Sinnoh champion you get a poke radar with which you can catch rare pokemon from other regions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EMOEVOLUTION
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I never played Pokemon before Pokemon Pearl. I've always wanted to. I liked the idea of catching, 
 breeding, and battling Pokemon. When I started the game it was entertaining, but the longer I played 
 it the more I discovered that it just wasn't what I was hoping for.
  
  First the story line is very simple, and lacks any kind of excitement. You just follow the map, 
 battle people along the way, battle the gym leaders, listen to people talk, and then the Game is 
 over. There was no feeling of a challenge when you'd get to the battles because all the game mechanics 
 were simplistic and the computer opponents weren't very bright.
  
  But, I wasn't playing the game for the storyline. I was playing for after the the storyline, breeding, 
 battling, and collecting Pokemon! This turned out to be a let down. There are too many different 
 variables to breeding powerful Pokemon. You have IV, EV's, Natures, all of which you have no knowledge 
 of until after you catch the Pokemon, and even then only the Nature is displayed to you. All the 
 other values you have to calculate yourself outside of the game. It's very time consuming. When 
 you engage a Pokemon you should know what' it's IV, and Nature is before you attempt to capture 
 it. This would save a lot of time down the road. Instead you spend hours soft reseting, or hunting 
 down the perfect Pokemon.
  
  IV's are Individual Values that differ from Pokemon to Pokemon. The Higher the IV of a Pokemon 
 the stronger it's stats will be at level 100.
  
  EV's are Effort Values. Effort Values effect certain stats of your Pokemon such as Attack, Speed, 
 or one of the other stats. You have to train your Pokemon against certain Pokemon with a particular 
 EV in order to maximize it's strengths at level 100. There are items to make this easier, but it's 
 still a pain to keep track of this on paper.
  
  Nature - Is a random boost to a stat category, and penalty to another that each Pokemon has. There 
 are 25 different natures. A hindering nature makes your Pokemon not as good as it should be. While 
 beneficial nature can assist in making your Pokemon extremely powerful. This is the only breeding 
 value that you don't have to self calculate outside the game, but you only know the nature of the 
 Pokemon after you've caught it. There are Items to make this easier, but it's still a hassle in 
 the long run.
  
  Another let down was that the battle system is very slow, and battles eat up a lot of time. The 
 move sets aren't over complicated, and neither are weaknesses/strengths of Pokemon. But the animations, 
 text, and choosing battle commands just adds up to a really enormous amount of time drags on. It's 
 not a very enjoyable experience. It's more monotonous than anything else.
  
  There is a very simple way to make this game much better than it is. Make all values available 
 to in game calculation before you catch a Pokemon. Make battles slightly quicker than they are, 
 and make the Story engaging and dynamic.
  
  
  Don't even get me started on spending hours trying to catch Shiny Pokemon. 
  
  Until this happens 
 I can't see myself committing anymore time to what I had hoped would be an enjoyable experience 
 training, and breeding Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The Pokemon formula for Gameboy has been around for a long time and one might think that formula 
 has gotten stale. The truth is that yes, the formula has been around for a long time and it has 
 proven that it works not only on Gameboy, but also on Gameboy Advance and now on the DS. This game 
 will provide a fresh experience for the veterans and a new experience for the newbies.
  
  Pearl retains the core gameplay quality from the originals only it sports a whole new look and 
 a load of new features. I define "formula" in gaming terms as taking a concept or mechanic that 
 works and revising and expanding it in later installments. Pearl enacts this definition to a tee, 
 but all the while you are playing you will feel a strong sense of nostalgia because the game is 
 still very much like the originals. The game starts just like the originals only with a twist here 
 and there. You still are able to pick from three Pokemon, all of whom are the three standard starting 
 elements of fire, water, and grass. You meet a professor whose name is Rowan, and who has this 
 overzealous pupil who provides a little tutorial early on about catching Pokemon for new players. 
 You also have a rival, who happens to be a hyperactive nutcase, but he acts in a more healthy competitive 
 way than previous rivals did. The basic template from previous Pokemon games is certainly there, 
 only it has been rearranged quite a bit to offer a fresh story and allows introductions to new 
 characters. This familiar aspect will appeal to veteran players (like myself) who want something 
 new and exciting but at the same time they do not feel totally foreign to the new game. After you 
 pick your starting creature you progress a little more through the story and eventually you pick 
 up the incredibly useful running shoes which cut down on extended legwork, and ultimately you are 
 set loose to explore, collect Pokemon, and eventually become the greatest trainer ever. That is 
 basically the story in a nutshell, but it is easier said than done. There are hundreds of Pokemon 
 in the world and not all of them are easy to capture. Some Pokemon can only be acquired through 
 special means like trading while others have a "legendary" status and thus are difficult to locate 
 and even harder to catch. Pokemon are caught via various types of Pokeballs which are found, given, 
 or bought in places around each city. The trick to catching a creature is first weakening it during 
 combat, and then when you think it is weak enough you toss a ball via the handy touch menu and 
 the game does the rest. Your success depends on exactly how much damage you inflicted, how strong 
 it is (its level) , and what kind of ball you use. If you succeed in capturing a Pokemon it is automatically 
 added to your current team of creatures unless you already have six, which is the limit you can 
 carry. No need for concern because that Pokemon will simply be transferred to a handy PC which 
 can be accessed anytime at any Pokemon Center. The game hinges on Pokemon combat because that is 
 what they are primarily used for. Throughout the game world you will run into hundreds of trainers 
 who will challenge you if you to a battle if you happen to walk into their line of sight or if 
 you talk to them. Trainer battles are usually one-on-one affairs but from time to time you will 
 encounter two trainers you will face at one time. During the course of the game one of your goals 
 is to obtain eight badges that signify your victory over "gym leaders" that reside in each major 
 city. These leaders are elite trainers and are considerably more difficult to overcome, but a diligent 
 trainer could go to-to-toe with them. Once you defeat them you earn their respective badge and 
 generally it helps to advance the story. Combat, of course, relies on several factors: elemental 
 advantage, levels, and Pokemon moves. The elemental aspect is often given: fire is weak versus 
 water, grass is weak versus fire, etc. Some other elements like ghost and psychic are not as cut-and-dry. 
 The trainer who holds the elemental advantage over the other will often control the battle, and 
 that trainer will most likely be victorious. This is why it is important to learn early on to build 
 a team that is varied- to avoid being defeated by a foe who has an outstanding advantage over your 
 whole team. However, if your Pokemon are significantly stronger than their opponent level-wise 
 then generally type advantage can be disregarded. Levels are gained through defeating foes and 
 earning experience, and when a given number of experience is met your creature will gain a level. 
 And naturally, as your Pokemon grow stronger it will require more experience to next level. And 
 as your Pokemon level they will learn new, more potent moves often in accordance with their element 
 type. And sometimes when a Pokemon reaches a certain level they "evolve" by changing shape and 
 size. One very cool feature on the DS games is what is called "Poketch", and this is simply a collection 
 of very useful applications that can be seen on the lower screen of your DS. They range from a 
 doodle pad to a calculator, and there are a ton of them. And with the DS stylus you can cycle through 
 them and use them at your leisure. Some of these little gadgets have nothing to do with Pokemon 
 and they should just be considered miniature bonuses that you will run across from time to time. 
 Overall Pearl plays just like the originals in just about every way. Gameplay is absolutely extraordinary.
 
  
  Graphics are easily the best aspect of the game even next to its magnificent gameplay. So much 
 has been done to rework and redefine the game in just about every area. The world in general has 
 a heavy 3D look because now buildings are three dimensional, not flat. Other objects like flowers 
 and water have been redone to function as realistically as possible, and they look wonderful. Now 
 even the little doors to access buildings slide open! NPCs also are rendered a lot better because 
 they look 3D and not flat. Despite the new wardrobe on the world there is still a strong flair 
 of nostalgia because while they are new and fresh, they just look like what the "flat buildings" 
 in previous games would look like on the DS. Though the buildings and environments in general do 
 look like they may have been recycled it really does not matter because they look significantly 
 better nonetheless. The Pokemon combat is something that has been improved greatly because of the 
 handy DS lower screen. Rather than have a Pokemon's attack options on the main screen the DS shows 
 them on the lower screen, and using the stylus you use combat options like attack, run, bag, etc. 
 This new look helps keep the battle screen relatively clear, but the main screen still records 
 who is attacking who and such. The Pokemon themselves are rendered very nicely especially in battle. 
 They are crisp, colorful, and often are very detailed especially in later evolutionary stages. 
 Overall graphics take the prize as the most outstanding aspect of Pearl.
  
  Sound here works well with the game because they are simplistic, often soothing tunes that change 
 depending on the area you are in. Most of the time they are relatively slow, but when a battle 
 comes on the tempo kicks up with some well-themed combat music. The tunes remain mostly unchanged 
 even when looking back at games like Red and Blue, and though they are recycled they still fit 
 the formula. Some music like that in a Pokemon Center is completely unaltered. General SFX are 
 also "surprisingly" unchanged as well as with the navigation of menus, etc. And as from previous 
 games each Pokemon makes its own distinguishing sound, and it even changes after the completion 
 of an evolutionary stage. That adds up to hundreds of possible sounds from each creature and their 
 future stages. That is about the sum of it concerning sound, and ultimately it is unremarkable.
 
  
  Pearl can only be considered a "step up" in the sense that the series stepped up to the Nintendo 
 DS from the Gameboy Advance and original Gameboy. I would classify the game more as a diagonal 
 step upward because the game is very similar to all the previous ones. Though, if you played all 
 the previous ones you may not be as inclined to pick this one up because of the steep purchase 
 price. Regardless, Pearl packs a wallop as a terrific Pokemon experience and if you own a DS you 
 should definitely give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Introduction: Pokemon Pearl is a turn-based RPG, and the one of the newest installment's to the 
 Pokemon series.
  
  Concept: Like I said it's a turn-based RPG, It's quite similar to the last handheld Pokemon RPG 
 with new addition's like lot's of new pokemon, better graphic's and some new feature's to it.
 
  
  some people believe that it's a very repeative, well, that's true to a certain extent, but if your 
 into the whole train 6 pokemon, battle online and than train pokemon some more it, if your into 
 that, than it won't be repeative, I personally believe it's not repeative, I mean I have about 
 250+ Hours on this game.
  
  Graphics: It definatley has the best graphics in the whole series, on handheld's atleast, during 
 battle, the graphic's in my opinion doesn't look so different from the GBA game's except for being 
 a bit shiny or something like that.
  
  Story: Well, there's no real story to Pokemon game's, your just a kid, who train's to beat the 
 best Pokemon trainer's and so on.
  
  Music: It has really good music, I know music something not everyone notice's, but I do and I think 
 the music in this game is awesome.
  
  Overall: If you love Turn-Based RPG's (without a story) , than you will love this game, and believe, 
 It's worth the money, I mean I'm not that into RPG's and I spent over 250 hour's on this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiRai
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This review is coming from a die-hard Pokefan so, listen up. That means you, Jim. 
  
  Pros: Graphics, game play, pokemon.
  Cons: Game play, bosses, wireless/WiFi.
  
  Many of you 
 will be surprised to see game play listed twice. Explanation in a moment.
  Overall, this package was excellent. The graphics surpassed all previous Pokemon games and quite 
 a few DS games as well. Nintendo also did a decent job of intergrating the touch screen in, although 
 sometimes it got in the way. Half the time the touch screen was useful, the other half useless. 
 The new pokemon were original and decent, but the names needed some work. ("Turtwig?") . EV training 
 took a whole new level in this one, and it was a nice addition. Importing of pokemon from previous 
 versions was great. Original idea. =P.
  
  The cons measure up to the pros only in quantity. Now I will explain the game play part. There 
 really wasn't anything new in this package. Nothing stood out. Its the same story, but this time, 
 no rival. It lost a point, so to speak. In my opinion, Gold was way better. I brought the Kanto 
 and Johto together, an excellent combo. Pearl had the potential to be so much more, but lost it. 
 It followed the same story line and game play - one a time, beat up the other guy. I would have 
 liked a complete overhaul, kinda turning the fighting into a more turn-based one that a lot of 
 Japanese RPGs have. WiFi also disappointed me. It was so slow and fragile. The options were only 
 limited to those Pokemon that you've seen before. The internet in and of itself self was shabby. 
 Same complaints for wireless.
  
  All in all, a great game, flawed, but great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrpshooter37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  For the first Pokemon game for the DS its good however it has some game play issues. First, starting 
 a game and beating it ends up the same. You start at a town, beat gym leaders, beat the Elite 4, 
 go to battle tower and get a upgraded card. Most of these achievements can't be achieved without 
 Wi-Fi and those that don't are incredibly difficult. Also like a lot of the Pokemon games flow 
 is an issue where you have large periods of leveling before battling gym leaders which is a bit 
 slow. 
  
  Remember Pokemon Silver, remember how you could run through Kanto and kick the original game's 
 gyms. That would be a great feature in the game since it extends game play by another 20 hours 
 or so.
  
  Now for the good stuff. First I'd like to say that the graphics are pretty nice for the next generation 
 Pokemon game. The touch screen is well utilized during game play and from what I know contests 
 from Emerald have been toned down from impossible to feasible.
  Another nice feature to add in would be a difficulty level from easy to hard so that people who 
 can literally play this game in their sleep can now challenge themselves very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmurfer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  hmmmn, thought it would have me be able to go to other regions to collect their badges. I would 
 rather call it innovative because of its new ideas in getting the realistic view of the game. For 
 example, the improving elite four levels so as to make the game a bit harder and the combination 
 of the regis to get the ultimate regi.
  I'm still rather pissed at nintendo for the unaccessible secrets such as Deoxys and other legendaries 
 without the nintendo code (mystery gift, whatever) . The point is they are discriminating people 
 in other regions to travel long distances just to get the codes (and it ain't cheap.) Still they've 
 got better graphics, slightly better (or maybe the same) gameplay, more pokemon and maybe too many 
 secrets. In comparism to diamond, i would choose diamond over pearl cuz it has certain pokemon 
 that pearl does'nt such as Scizor. And i think Dialga is a rather better legendary pokemon than 
 Palkin. Well there you have it, an insubstantial game with sufficient repetitions and errors. But 
 that did'nt prevent it from making a score of 8.5. 
  NINTENDO HOPE YOU ARE READING THIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashleyamk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  To start this, I would like to point out the main thing:
  
  This, is a Pokemon game. It's main point of entertainment is little children, but its complexity 
 makes it AOK for all ages, sort of. It has some childish things in it, but it has great replayability. 
 Here are some main points for the game.
  
  New Pokemon: 8/10
  
  Originality is not lacking in this criteria. From kricets to Anubis posers, they have almost everything, 
 except a koala.
  
  New Continent: 5.5/10
  
  Boring in my taste, it's hard to find a way around the place without TM2 Fly, internet sources, 
 or a game guide. The mountain in the middle of the region is my main point of this criteria.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  A great way to allow people to realize that this game is for the DS. 
 The DS revolutionizes graphics for Nintendo handhelds, and this game clearly expresses the new 
 feel to it.
  
  Difficulty: 6/10
  
  What I'm implying in this section is how well they put difficulty in the proper areas. They didn't 
 EPICALLY fail, but it could've been better. It's too easy for the first 7 bages, then gets incredably 
 hard. The difficulty makes people older than 9 realize that this game was designed for children, 
 so it has to be easy.
  
  The good:
  
  Mapping design
  
  Graphic detail
  
  Awesome new pokemon
  
  The bad:
  
  Same old, same old
  
  Movepools for older pokemon
 
  
  Difficulty range
  
  almost impossible to navigate
  
  Overall, I'll give it a 9, for good quality and effort into a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I've played Pokemon since I was very young and always liked it now I don't really play it. 
 I rated this to what I would call quite lenient because I generally did like the improvements. 
 I liked the touch screen when you are in battle I thought that was great and to be honest the graphics 
 are improved immencly.
  
  I remember my first pokemon game - Fire Red - when I first played it I was 4 and I thought it was 
 absolutely fantastic at that point. This is so much better looking back on it. I really loved the 
 new friend thing when the people followed you rather than ran away from you and you had to find 
 them.
  
  I would say the game was sound improved aswell... I used to find the sounds really irritating but 
 now in this new game it's very much improved and I rate it an 8 and I believe it is very good for 
 the youngsters to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Diamond is not a bad game. This being said it's not a Wonderful game. this is your average pokemon 
 game. It's fun but after a while you say "WTF i have beaten the elite four and I'm still playing 
 this game. Why?" I know there i a lot of to do but sometimes i ask, why? I mean i would never sit 
 there and try to catch all 500 or so pokemon. I'm not saying that no one would. this is my preference. 
 If you are a fan of this type of game then Diamond is one Nice peace of work but for me, it is 
 simply get all the legendaries and show off to my friends. The wi-fi gives you a little more to 
 do but if you are a casual pokemon trainer like i am then you probably won't get much use out of 
 wi-fi other than trading. If this was my opinion i would give it a 6 or so cause i don't get to 
 much out of these games but top be fair, I give it an 8 cause there is nothing wrong with it, and 
 hey, there is even a cloning glitch as well.
  
  and yes i copy pasted this from diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valentine_8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond / Pearl is great. Amazing graphics, easy completing, and realy addictive. But it 
 can be better. The news on this game are the Poktch, one gadejet where you can see what time is, 
 the callendar, and other kind of things. Other is the Battle Island, a great island with strong 
 trainers, as strong as the Elite 4. Is a great game, you don't need to trade to see all Sinooh's 
 dex pokemons. But now the question: Better than Crystal or Emerald? No way, for sure. But is still 
 a great DS RPG.
  
  
  -=-=Portuguese=-=-
  
  Pokemon D/P  optimo. Grficos excelentes, fcil de acabar, e mesmo viciante. Mas podia ser melhor. 
 As novidades neste jogo  o Poketch, um gadjet muito util, as novas mudanas para a bike e a battle 
 island, que tem treinadores to fortes como os da Elit 4. Para completar a Pokedex de Sinnoh, no 
 percisas de trocar ou lutar contra outros jogadores. Mas agora, ser que  melhor que Crystal ou 
 Emerald? No,  claro. Mas continua a ser um optimo RPG para a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdray
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl
  
  A basic brief is, ... It's a Pokemon Game! come on everybody knows it, when a pokemon game is out 
 it finished always in the top 10 and it is give a very high score. I loved playing this because 
 the new story is a lot better than the gba ones and obvisouly a lot more pokemon to catch. Pal 
 Park and Wifi features are great.
  
  Graphics:
  
  What you would expect from a the ds console of course. Some 3D in the game like buildings and more 
 realistic water but appart from that its is always that simple pixel art.
  
  Story:
  
  The story looks always the same, you're the hero, there is a rival and you gotta train them all... 
 and catch'em all of course. Now there is team Galaxy ready to rumble the pokemon world and you 
 can help Sinnoh avoid a disaster.
  
  Features:
  
  The Wifi feature which where not seen in the older games, is now a great thing espacially the gts, 
 Global trade Station, there you can trade all your pokemon world wide from you house. Trade them 
 and it will be easy as A B C to catch'em all. So anybody who wants any older version pokemons now 
 they can have them at their will. The only problem in it is that there might be some hackers putting 
 up fake pokemon. You can do like poffins with a friend of yours and conteset or battles as the 
 other games but this time you'll need friend codes so it is a lot more secure.
  
  Final taughts are that this is preety worth playing but if you played a lot of other games of pokemon, 
 altough there are a lot of new things you might get preety bored, but yoiu have to play it atleast 
 once if you got a DS.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story is typical of all Pokemon games. You live in a small town in a large region. The 
 local professor decides that it is time for you and your rival to start your Pokemon journey. On 
 the way, you defeat an evil team planing world domination by using a legendary pokemon. You stop 
 them and continue on to defeat the Elite Four and the Champion. As always, the Pokemon Champion 
 is someone that you encountered many times on your adventures. Even though D&P have the same story 
 as every other Pokemon game, it is after the main story that they excel. With a whole new island 
 that has new sidequests and the swarms and the Pokemon Garden, this game has tons to do after the 
 main storyline. Even the gym leaders were fun and the puzzles presented by their gyms were fun, 
 but some puzzles were just annoying. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, giving 2D a 3D look. Each move has its own animation, which are 
 interesting to see.10/10
  Sound: Great music, but some of the battle sounds have been recycled, and are a bit repetitive. 
 Battle music will get very repetitive, but other than that, nothing else is wrong with the music. 
 9.5/10
  
  Overall: This is a great game that I have put more than 150 hours into. If you like RPGs or Pokemon 
 or both, get this game right now.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenliver22
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I WILL BE REFERRING TO DIAMOND/PEARL AS ONE GAME
  
  My favorite ds game of all. I've always liked pokemon for it's detailed unique creatures, and there 
 is more in this game for fans of the series than ever before!
  The adventure is the same formula as all of its predecessors: a professor who wants you to fill 
 the dex, a rival to compete against, an evil organization to foil, gyms to battle in and a champion 
 to defeat. But I found that i liked the story more than any of the other pokemon games, and for 
 the first time, you have to beat/catch a legendary pokemon that matches your toughest pokemon's 
 level the progress through the game.
  The gameplay is the same also, you catch pokemon by weakening them, level them up, teach 'em battling 
 moves, and fight other pokemon. Whats different this time around is the dramatically improved colors 
 on the moves and fields, better sound quality, and the addition of about 100 new pokemon.
  By far, the best addition to the pokemon series is ONLINE PLAY! There are more online options in 
 this than any ds game ever made. You can trade pokemon over the global trading system with detailed 
 specifications, and you can send your pokemon into the system for what you want to trade it for 
 and the ds doesn't even have to be turned online to receive your pokemon
  You can also battle pokemon teams that were posted online by other players. And, if you want to 
 get past the friend codes and fight skilled trainers real time, you can use forums to trade codes. 
 If you want to be a serious battler there is almost limitless hidden strategies to training and 
 battling which, when discovered add several more hours of gameplay.
  If you don't like battling as much than you can enter contests which provide a very different layer 
 of gameplay than battling. 
  
  Gameplay:8.4
  Graphics:8
  Story:8
  Music:8.7
  Content:10
  Overall:9
  
  A huge hidden content that keeps your mind stimulated and challenged. 
 Be prepared to spend lots of time if you want to get the FULL EXPERIENCE. Another game that if 
 worth every penny-if not even more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game of course, is the twin to Diamond. This game, like Diamond is too easy, has the same 
 graphics, music, and Pokemon. There is one difference though, in this game the legendary Pokemon 
 you catch is Palkia, the Pokemon who can alter space :) . This game is enjoyable, you can get a 
 Sinnoh starter, make Poffins (which I did not care about) , catch all 493 Pokemon, and have a ball. 
 The three starters are: Turtwig, Chimchar, and Piplup. I took Piplup in Diamond, I took Chimchar 
 in this game. good to take a different starter with each different game. Like Diamond, this game 
 has the same old story, you the hero going to stop an evil orginazation from trying to take over 
 the world. You then have to fight the Elite Four at the end, like always : (. I kind of wish that 
 Nintendo would make a differnet type of story for the Pokemon games :) . Overall, great Pokemon 
 duo for the Nintendo DS, same thing as Diamond, different legend to catch, ok music. Happy Sinnoh 
 travels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHeart9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, the pride Nintendo (second to the Mario series) , releases the Pokemon games Diamond & 
 Pearl, which is the first installment of the Pokemon adventures on the Nintendo DS.
  
  The story starts in the Sinnoh reigon. Were your character must undergo continous battles to rise 
 to become the Pokemon Champion. All the events and battles are the same, different place, same 
 story though (and way better graphics) .
  
  With some newer features, like the GTS (which allows you to chat, battle and trade by taking advantage 
 of the Nintendo DS wireless internet feature) .
  
  These new versions are pretty much the same as it's predecessors with a few twists to it. The games 
 are mosty recomended for Pokemon lovers.
  
  With i'ts share of flaws Pokemon Diamond & Pearl versoins are exeptional games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Pokemon is the iconic series for the DS. And now finally we have a Full Pokemon game for this amazing 
 little system, and what a game!
  
  Anyone who has played a pokemon game already knows what the Pokemon series is all about, but here's 
 a quick explanation; you catch pokemon, train them, battle them against friends pokemon, wild pokemon, 
 collect more, trade, and try to fill your pokemon database with as many of the hundreds of little 
 cute creatures as you can.
  
  Nintendo has scored a great combination with this iteration. It takes all the great elements from 
 Pokemon Red/Blue, and Ruby/Sapphire and adds them togther, with great extra touches here and there 
 for an outstanding finished game.
  
  On top of that are a slew of new pokemon waiting to be trained, evolved and pitted against other 
 pokemon. Cute, weird, funny and fierce, these little guys are more fun than a Barrel of Mankeys.
 
  
  I'm putting this on my list of Must Buy Games. If you are a wimp about getting a pink game, go 
 for diamond, but if you want to get the pokemon on the cover of pearl for your database you'll 
 have to trade your 'cover' pokemon with somebody who has the pearl version and needs yours.
  
  Gotta catch this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakanakaba
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  I like playing a pokemon game, hence why I got my own copy. Pokemon pearl was simply ok, not the 
 worse pokemon game, but it wasn't anything new. Same old battles and same old story, just in a 
 new place.
  
  Probably everyone has played a pokemon game of some sort and have realized that there is nothing 
 really new to it. There's nothing really different; go fight other trainers, get gym badges, beat 
 elite four and collect all those pokemon. If you're the type of person who liked the older versions 
 and have no real care of new changes, this game will work for you. It was fun and it had some fun 
 things that made it different than the others, but again, don't expect much.
  
  This is gonna sound a bit hypocritical seeing how I'm writing a review about a game I just played, 
 but the new pokemon get worse and worse. I litterally couldn't wait to get the old school 150 (250 
 tops) into the game cuz the new guys sucked balls. There is a clear difference between the original 
 and these newcomers.
  
  As stated earlier, if you like playing pokemon games, by all means get your own copy and play to 
 your hearts desire. If you're looking for something never seen before in this type of game/series.... this 
 probably is not a wise choice to spend money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Poke'mon franchise has grown immensely from the past couple of years, since 1993. From Pok'emon 
 Red and Blue to Ruby and Sapphire, the franchise shows no sign of stopping. And now Pok'emon Diamond 
 and Pok'emon Pearl are next in line, with mixed opinions. I got good news and bad news for all of 
 you that are reading my review and want to try out the game for yourselves, so I'll spill out the 
 bad news first. Okay, so the bad news is, the game doesn't have much new stuff to set it apart from 
 the rest of it's early succesors. Sure you get a new gadget, the Pok'ech, but other then telling 
 time, it's almost useless. The visuals out of battle could've been better if the devolopers wouldn't 
 have to use the same boring shade of brown you see pratticaly half of the game. And yes, there's 
 100 new Pok'emon, but a lot of them are either rare, ledgendary, or only aviable after you pass the 
 game. Now for the good news. Battles look a lot better than they did on GBA, with flashy visuals 
 and catchy music. Even the battle moves have changed into full 3-D. Diamond and Pearl aren't the 
 best Pok'emon games ever made, but fans of the series will still love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Before I begin note: I have not played a pokemon since silver, so I may claim some features are 
 new that actually are not.
  
  Story:
  This is the lowest point of the game. I will flat out say it, this story sucks. The legendary pokemon 
 that were once just mythical birds or clones of ancient pokemon are now considered freakin' gods! 
 There are temples in their honor and everyone talks about how these god pokemon created everything. 
 NO! That is not what a pokemon is supposed to be! I found mewtwo's story cool, he was a clone of 
 an ancient pokemon who destroyed his lab and ran away as a powerful psychic. But no, now they're 
 gods who created the universe, I should not even be able to catch that in a pokeball!
  
  A paragraph and I haven't even talked about the story. Team Galactic is out and off their rocker 
 talking crazy cultist talk, causing trouble where ever they go. While they're supposed to sound 
 crazy, they're the most normal NPCs in this world. Every NPC you find is a walking sign in that 
 they will only talk about stuff that makes no sense or will be a blatantly obvious hint as to what 
 you're supposed to do. Due to this, every town and everything in this world will feel stupid. I 
 liked the layout of the world, but the people in it just don't make me believe it at all, which 
 is kinda important for an RPG. 
  
  Graphics:
  I get a headache just trying to think if what I just saw was really good or really bad. It's a 
 2d grid movement classic RPG, but it's 3d in a way. Sprites look really simple and pretty dated, 
 this is no Mother 3, but the 3d looks nice blended with the 2d. I especially love the depth you 
 get on climbing up a mountain. Makes the game feel a bit better despite it's old designs on the 
 RPG world. It's also nice that they brought back night and day, now causing buildings to light 
 up and backgrounds in battle to change. There's a good deal of little touches, but the overall 
 look of the world looks like it needs an update, at least on character art.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you like pokemon before hand, you'll love this. If you didn't, then yeah. At a glance, it looks 
 like the same pokemon, and it basically is, but there's a lot and I mean a lot of hidden depth. 
 I can't even begin to list the small changes to the game that make it feel so much better. My 10 
 or so battles with people have actually been entertaining, where as back then I got bored and watched 
 people just mewtwo spam. Online also works really well. Voice adds a lot to the online and I finally 
 got to settle some scores of people. There's also a lot of secrets to find, and about a dozen legendaries, 
 even if I do hate them, as well as 
  
  I do have 2 big problems though. My first is that while there's well over 400 pokemon, they lock 
 all but 150 of them from normal capture, and from any capture until you pretty much beat the elite 
 4. This makes having 400 pokemon in the first place really redundant and ruins the already extremely 
 poor singleplayer portion of the game. My second problem is that lots and lots of new pokemon are 
 just flat out poor design. Some get no uniqueness to them, and a lot are just replacements of common 
 pokemon, seeing as the developers want to limit what pokemon you can find from the start to 150. 
 
  
  Smaller complaints include too much slow text in combat and not enough use of the returning night 
 and day system. 
  
  Sound:
  I can't complain about the music in the world. There's a good mix of new tracks that are very nice 
 and suiting of the world. It really drags me into the environment until I realize again the citizens 
 are all walking signs and don't know how to raise pokemon at all. The sound effects during attacks 
 are also nice, and new pokemon battle cries sound nice, though they need to update the old pokemon 
 battle cries as they sound completely out of place.
  
  My main complaint is that in battles, there's no variety. There's your 1 time battles like gym 
 leaders that have their own music, elite 4 music, ect. But all wild pokemon, your most common encounter, 
 have music that just got annoying to me. Trainer battle music also got on my nerves after a while. 
 Overall though, good music.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Fans of pokemon who want a newer, better, and online battle system. I want to keep loving pokemon, 
 and I still love the old ones, but gamefreak seems to have forgotten they were making an RPG, and 
 focused almost purely on the battle system. It works as the first online pokemon, but fails as 
 an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: Catch all the Pokemon you can and beat the Elite Four to become the ultimate trainer. 
 Well, at least in your own mind... there's always someone better. Oh, and you can be a boy or a 
 girl. Just to let you know...
  
  GRAPHICS (7.5/10) : . The graphics have pretty much not grown all that much since the last versions, 
 Ruby and Sapphire. The somewhat 3-D environments I have to say are a bit lackluster, but not to 
 an annoyingly bad degree. In other words, they're decent. The animations of the Pokemon look good 
 and the character animations are okay for the game. The attack animations look fantastic, though. 
 To put it all into context, the graphics are good. Not amazing, but good.
  
  SOUND (8.25/10) : The music is okay. Not exactly the best in the franchise, but it's good. The effects 
 are pretty decent as well. Just like the previous versions, there is no spoken dialogue in the 
 game, which is good, because if you've heard the dialogue they've been using in the 3-D games and 
 the anime lately... you'll know what I'm talking about. Ugh... thank God for no spoken dialogue in 
 this game. The battle cries for the new Pokemon are pretty good, but the older Pokemon, escpecially 
 ones from the first generation, could stand to get newer and better battle cries at this point.
 
  
  CONTROLLING AND PLAYABILITY (8/10) : The stylus controls are okay. I don't have a huge deal with 
 them, but some of configurations are a bit annoying. The button controls on the other hand are 
 great, though occasionally can get a little awkward.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT (9/10) : The new Pokemon in the game world are numerous in number, there are many 
 trainers to beat, newer Pokemon moves, and the battle system never gets old. There are many people 
 to battle, plus the new WiFi system allows you to battle people worldwide and finally, battling 
 friends without those annoying cables! I LOVE THE WI-FI ERA!!! On the other hand, the WiFi has 
 a clumsy way of connecting. Also, the game is pretty easy, except when you get to the Elite Four. 
 Metaphorically, once you get to the Elite Four, they just through you into the lion's den. They're 
 the most difficult Elite Four since the Red and Blue versions. Overall, the game is entertainment 
 for hours on end.
  
  REPLAYABILITY (6/10) : There are many ways to customize you're party and you can have fun replaying 
 this game, but after a while, the idea of replaying the game just seems silly.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -Great Sound
  -Decent Animations and 2-D Graphics
  -Fun Entertainment
  -Mostly 
 Okay Controls
  -Online Battles
  
  THE BAD:
  -The game is a bit too easy.
  -WiFi has a lackluster way of connecting.
  -Some controls may become awkard at times.
  -Average 
 Replayability
  
  THE BOTTOM-LINE: You've made a good purchase. It's not the best Pokemon game out there, but it 
 is worth your time. Just remember, the fun won't last. The game may have okay graphics, good sound 
 and fun entertainment, but the glory will not last forever. So savor it while you can.
  
  SUB-SCORE*: 7.75/10
  
  FINAL SCORE (Personal) : 7.75/10
  
  GAMESPOT SCORE: 8/10
  
  *Not 
 rounded to nearest quarter point... normally, in this case, it doesn't really matter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Diamond and Pearl, moves are now categorized into three groups based on how they are executed. 
 This theory allows new strategy and variety in the game instead of picking the familar pokemon 
 like Charizard and etc. The storyline is tolerable as the other games though the elite 4 is very 
 simple to beat and not as challenging as the ones in FireRed or Leafgreen. OOh Ya the best parts 
 of the game WI-FI battle, trade and chat with people around the world and if you want to battle 
 you have options for different levels making it a fair battle. Though disconnnecting players are 
 a real pain with you wasting your time and not gaining a win. The games vary in regards to which 
 Pokmon are in them. Some species are found only on Diamond Version and vice versa, and thus trading 
 between versions is necessary to obtain some Pokmon. GTS is another feature trade as a station 
 allowing you to obtain pokemon (that you have seen) around the pokemon world from other players. 
 Though they might ask for hilarious stuff for example. Lv. 1 Caterpie for Lv. 100 Dialga
  
  Overall, This game delivers great online multiplayer and great single player as well. If you are 
 fan of pokemon get this game though you probably have it already.! lol: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickyteusz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Watching the Pokemon saga evolve makes you wonder what will come next.
  The story is reletively the same. Battle your way through gym leaders to the elite four, defete 
 them and collect all of the Pokemon. However, Pearl has new features which extend the gameplay.
 
  The Survival area, fight area and resort area are new locations which offer more batteling. The 
 fashion contests which in turn, you will recieve ribbons for winning contests and the Pal park 
 where you import older Pokemon to add to your collection. To fill up your Pokedex there is also 
 the GTS which offers a world wide Pokemon tading service. Pokemon eBay. 
  If you can stil get them, there is also the special event Pokemon. Shayamin, Darkrai and Arceus. 
 The events which come with these Pokemon are reletively short but a fun addition. Darkrai and Shayamin 
 also add new areas on the map but do not contain anything interesting.
  All in all, Pearl is the best Pokemon I have played so far. Great grapics comapaired to older versions, 
 fun mini games for the touch screen such as poffin making and a cute voice contact via trading.
 
  It's just packed with fun little features.
  Still, repetetive if you get annoyed easily but if you're a true Pokemon fan, you'll accept this 
 repetitiveness and enoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  this is how i write my reviews 
  intro
  
  audio+visuals 
  
  story/plot
  
  controls +new features
  
  replay +gameplay
  
  overall 
  
  Intro 
  ok lets start this 
 off plain and simple; i don't mind pokemon. Well pokemon is good but bad. Is it me or is pokemon 
 looking liek a game still in the process. like all the games are demos of the one that should be 
 coming out. There are many gameplays like pokemon and its rated #2 for me its not as good as DQM: J 
 but then again DQM: J is a very mature gameplay. (its meant for older more thinking players) While 
 pokemon is great it has alot of down sides. which i will mention and why it is also sometimes good... 
 
  
  Audio + Visuals
  Now lets start this with a BANG pokemons graphics and audios are absolute crap. they area terrible 
 for the DS this is awful. now heres why. Pokemon could have been released in 3D; yes it could have. 
 The only reason it wasn't was because the pokemon company wanted the sales of Pokemon battle revolution 
 to be better and thought the sales would be lowered if they released the game in 3D. So as the 
 money sucking bats they are they decided to make you pay another 50-60 dollars in order to see 
 they're pokemon in 3D. now the 2D graphics are good... gor 2D but as DS graphics they suck. now 
 visuals are not all of a game true but if they completely suck like this then... well its not pleasing. 
 now moving on.
  
  The games audio is crap too the sounds are meaty and are bunched up up this kind of program is 
 very easy to use and is very useful... for them. it means they can sit on there butts and take a 
 break instead of forging a great game that should truly be called the ultimate rpg. The games actually 
 audio is ok the music is just blended. MAYBE THEY WANTED TO JUST GIVE YOU THE SAME CRAP OVER AGAIN 
 SO THEY CAN MAKE A GOOD 20 MILLION DOLLARS. in all seiousness though the games audio is some what 
 good but the same just added features. like a smoothie you decided needed one more banana, in order 
 to just get you through the day. I have nothing against Pokemon but i do over this game.
  
  Audio + Visuals score 1/10 
  
  Story/Plot
  ok well we all know it has a new plot yes but 
 its just liek the udio and visuals blended just a bit to seem new. the pokemon company has released 
 this plot WAYY to many times. To top it off its a bad plot. you a kid moves to new place and you 
 have to be the best pokemon trainer. now its great but now amazing. wat pokemon dose is it creates 
 a plot that no one can dissagree on wnicch is good. but that only has so much potential and eventually 
 ends up being really well i would say sh!!!! ty but ya its crap. re doo the plot and its fine. No 
 really the plot is like old wall paper and needs to just be torn down and completely redone. its 
 good but people crave and no one craves "mac-aronnie" every second of there lives. Thus i must 
 give this an ok score.
  
  Story/Plot score 5/10
  good but still needs to be updated and have it completely redone head to toe
  
  Controls +New 
 features
  Well the game has/had good controls but once again the simply update things no touch screen options (really 
 like sometimes but not really) now what has happened is they've moved two buttons the stat and 
 select buttons to the "Y" an "X" buttons (+O+) (note that is a smiley like thats freakin' great) 
 they've moved two buttons and the've added the idea of... nothing. really they have added nothing 
 ... to something. some new features are though
  go to the diamond review for this review is too long for gamespots... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the first Pokemon game on the Nintendo DS. It features all new Pokemon, towns, 
 and characters. As well as a ton of new features as well. The game is perfect for veterans of the 
 series, and new comers alike. The first thing I would like to comment on are the graphics. These 
 graphics are amazing on the Nintendo DS. For the first time, a hand help Pokemon game features 
 some 3d textures. Which look good. But besides the major tweaks and improvement the graphics still 
 look like any old Pokemon game, which isn't really a bad thing at all. If they messed with the 
 graphics, it wold probably be a bad thing, so lets not complain that each game looks the same, 
 as long as they are making improvements, I am fine with that. Another thing that I spend a lot 
 of time doing was the new underground system. It's a system where once you get so far in the game, 
 you can activate your explorer kit and so underground. There, you and your friends can mine, set 
 traps, and decorate your secret base. It's pretty fun. Like any other Pokemon game, there is a 
 series of gym battles, which is your main objective. After you receive all your badges, you move 
 on to your toughest challenge, the Elite Four. There are also many side events such as helping 
 people fighting bad guys, you know the story. The music is so-so. Nothing amazing, but it's easy 
 on the ears. The battle system is made to work with the touch screen very well. The only thing 
 that would have been better, was being able to move using the touch screen as well. But, I guess 
 they wanted to stick with the classic Pokemon feel with the movement. The Top screen is you character, 
 and the bottom screen is your choice of whatever Poke watch Application you want. They vary from 
 Clocks, coins, calculator, to link searcher. There are about 16 applications you can acquire on 
 your journey. Overall the game is a must buy on the Nintendo DS, whether your a Pokemon fan or 
 not. You will get your moneys worth. And with wi-fi and local multi-player, it as almost endless 
 play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  This game has you starting off in Twinleaf Town. After watching a documentary about the strange 
 Red Gyrados you head outside and find your friend. After some talking and what you head to Lake 
 Verity to try and see the mysterious Red Gyrados. On you was in you see an old man ad a girl leaving (I 
 have only played as a boy character so I don't know if it is a girl the other way around) / (Rowan 
 and Dawn) . After going into the tall grass you find a briefcase, you decide to return it when you 
 are attacked by a flock of Staravia. This is where your starter Pokemon comes in. You can choose 
 to battle as Turtwig, Chimchar, or Piplup. After you win the battle you head up to Sandgem town 
 and meet Proffesor Rowan. He says you can keep the Pokemon you chose at the lake, gives you a Pokedex, 
 and your adventure through the vast, beautiful region of Sinnoh has begun.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It is the very same formula as all of the other handheld Pokemon game. Get all 8 gym badges, ruin 
 the plans of some bad group of people that are trying to do something stupid, get a legendary Pokemon, 
 defeat the Elite 4 and the current champion, and you get to the battle tower (which hasn't been 
 in every game) . The addition of some online elements, an underground, night and day set with the 
 system internal clock, dayly/weekly events, and the touch screen make this games gameplay fair.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The best Pokemon graphics to date. This game is full of beautiful colors and great fight animations. 
 It honestly has some of the best graphics on any DS game. All in all, it has great graphics that 
 work well with the Pokemon formula.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  This game sounds great. You will find yourself humming some of the games melodys throughout your 
 day, and the evolution music is one of the best melodys in any game of all time, like I said this 
 game sounds great.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  This game controls very well and is very easy to learn. The only thing that is hard to control 
 is riding you bike at full speed. It's a good thing you can adjust it.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Every Pokemon fan should have this game. It has a great story in itself and has amazing colorful 
 graphics. This is by far the best handheld Pokemon game when it's all said and done. Pokemon Pearl 
 is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Now as wel all know, the Poke'mon series is a dear old friend to us all. Been here since 98' and 
 we all respect that. But as time went by we had gotten more amazed every time we saw a new Pokemon 
 game.
  
  It starts off on a sunny day when the first ever portable game for Poke'mon gets released. Pokemon 
 Red/Blue.
  After a year Pokemon yellow OMG! IT HAS REAL COLORS NOW!
  
  Now after we finish our first (*) colored (*) Pokemon game, we move onto Gameboy Colour. Yes it was 
 a blast and this is where it got interesting since you could see when you were going to level up 
 in battlle, and the Pokemon weren't just blocks of micro, they were now detailed and this was Gold/Silver/. 
 Now after a year Crystal came out OMG THE POKEMON ARE MOVING!
  
  Now after our moving scenario we go into a happy day where we meet Gameboy Advance, now things 
 get interesting! we now go into real graphics and whole new loads of stuff.. This is pokemon Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald.
 
  
  Now finally after this long run we finally meet the Nintendo DS, a great masterpeice of which we 
 would all love to have and many of us do have, and if you do own a DS your about 90% sure that 
 you will have a Pokemon game :)
  
  Pokemon Pearl starts off by choosing a boy or a girl, choose whatever then you go choose your starter 
 pokemon, starter pokemon vary from Fire/Water/Grass and it will always be like that, Pokemon tradition 
 I guess.
  
  Now you go through areas fight gyms and earn badges fight the elite 4 and of course Catch Them 
 All!
  
  [9.0] Ladies and Gents.
  Thanks
  futtii
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendrickd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a new fresh break-away from the usual Pokemon series. Just when you think that the 
 Pokemon series was dying Pokemon Diamond and Pearl Bring you back with a new adventure and even 
 more new Pokemon. You would think that they would run out of ideas when coming up with these Pokemon. 
 The story is about you a boy from Twinleaf town looking for a mysterious RED GYRADOUS. Then you 
 discover a briefcase with three Pokemon. Later on you discover that an evil organization is trying 
 to take over the universe with the power of Pokemon when they evolve. So you are set out to destroy 
 this evil organization. There are so many new features such as online and underground playing. 
 The old features such as double team battles and fashion shows are renewed in the series with little 
 changes that make it that much better. Don't Worry not all of the Pokemon are new they brought back 
 some of the favorites from the old series but for me that was kind of a pet peeve that all there 
 Pokemon aren't new. Besides That Pokemon Diamond/Pearl reminds us why we fell in love with the 
 series. That is why I gave Pokemon diamond/pearl a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyDelorian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  As with every Pokemon game, this one starts in a small town where you receive your first Pokemon 
 that you will love and train, no change there, but that is what we all love about Pokemon games.
 
  
  I first noticed that this game has 3-dimensional graphics and I was genuinely surprised by it, 
 and it made the game feel a whole lot better for me to play. No more 2-dimensional gameplay brings 
 this game into the current generation of gaming.
  
  The story is pretty much the same as usual. Pretty lame, having to save the world time and time 
 again, but hey, no one actually plays Pokemon for the story, do they? ... Do they? But there is 
 something about the way the story is set out. It just feels like a good game to play, and the story 
 carries on way after defeating the Pokemon League, rather than just finishing there or stopping 
 briefly after. It's long and keeps you playing.
  
  There are some sub-plots as well which are quite interesting to check out, and some compel you 
 to side-track. Everyone wants to see what else is happening in the world of Pokemon while they 
 are saving it from the evil Team Galactic.
  
  The new Pokemon! Oh now that is something I definitely need to talk about. I love the additional 
 Pokemon and the looks of them are just awe-inspiring. A must have Pokemon for any line-up is the 
 great Luxray, a powerful electric Pokemon with a great bite.
  
  Also there are a lot more legendary Pokemon this time around to build your arsenal with. A lot 
 of them are great but getting hold of them might be a little difficult without some sort of game 
 guide. The great Palkia, the main legendary Pokemon of the game, is a force to be reckoned with 
 so make sure you don't kill it or miss out your chance to capture him.
  
  In all this game, although has a cheesy story line, is a great game and fun to play for all. I 
 recommend it to anyone of any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHodgesComics
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Okay.
  1st Off, this game... another version of all the pokemon games; is.... indescribable? Umm, i dont 
 know how to put this (and i know that the ESRB has nothing to do with anything i experience online) , 
 BUT, the game is cheater attracted. If that dosent make sense, then well -- ITS FUN! lol. The gameplay... graphics, 
 pokemon design, and online technology?? OMG come on!! It just dosent get better than this.
  2nd Off, The people who use action replay... yea yea yea i know its fun to cheat i think blah blah, 
 stop! lol okay, ive experienced many cheaters on the web, and i must say... I'm Disappointed. the 
 games only flaw, is probably ONLINE CHEATING. WI FI should be able to detect if one is cheating, 
 It really messes up the gameplay.
  But over all, this game is A-okay... I SUPPOSE, is good.
  3rd Off, when is pokemon platinum coming 
 out... Gamespot says, 12/29/09!!!!!
  But thats impossible, it must be 08, but anyway yea...
  
  Recommend for the POKE LOVERS out there!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbplayer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl fun and hard. The fun part is 100 new pokemon. The hard, you can't catchem all. More 
 and more pokemon to memorize and catch. I mean, if you don't memorize pokemon, how will you now 
 it's weakness? It is still clasic though. And the good news is Flash isn't a HM! Yeah. Besides 
 cacthing pokemon, this game has better gameplay and is worth getting. There is yet another bad 
 team that you need to take care of. Team Galactic which is the most evilist, serious, and hard 
 on you. And acullaly the pokemon here are way strong! New moves, and new everything! One ather 
 bad thing is your rival. Depending on your starter pokemon he will have different teams per each 
 starter pokemon (not incuding his starter pokemon) . It's stilll a great game though. Just keep this 
 reveiw in mind 5 years from now because it's most likey you aren't going to cacthem all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirokarosu0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon series were always a good role-playing game that I loved. It kept me playing for weeks, 
 months, and years. These games have one goal: complete the PokeDEX, and train your Pokemon to level 
 100. I still haven't finished Pokemon Blue! Moving on, Diamond & Pearl offers 493 Pokemon to catch, 
 and train. This includes a whole new generation of battling, using new functions (such as moves 
 are either Special or Physical) . It also includes more Pokemon to train and battle against others.
 
  
  You select moves using either your stylus or your Control Pad. Moves are shown on the touch screen. 
 This game contains 8 Gym Leaders again, unlike the Gold/Silver/Crystal series where there are 16. 
 The whole game is fairly easy, and it's highly addictive. It keeps you entertained for years and 
 years, waiting until the next Pokemon game comes out. 
  
  It is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best pokemon RPG game ever. This game has alot of pokrmon to start and the game 
 has alot of leveling up if you relly like this game. The story has a great leanth so you will speand 
 alot of time battleing and leveling up. The has some rare pokemon that you can only catch once so 
 if you kill it then you cant get it anymore. You can also battle and trade pokemon online with your 
 friends the only bad thing is that you need his/her friendcode to do so. This game has the best 
 graphics for an pokemon game on an handheld system. The graphics are 3-d. Once you beat the game 
 you can go back and collect all the pokemon or you can travel to an new island you unlock and train, battle, and 
 catch some rare pokemon. If you like RPG games then you will love pokemon pearl. There is also pokemon 
 diamon version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is one of the best games on the DS and THE most addicting game I've ever played since 
 Team Fortress 2.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in Pokemon Pearl is, like I said before, addicting and a lot of fun. The battles can 
 get a bit repetitive but you'll probably not notice it in the harder battles. You may think this 
 game is worthless after you've beaten the story and there's no other use to level up your pokemon. 
 Well I'd have to say... WRONG! There are so many things that make you want to keep collecting and 
 leveling up your pokemon that I think makes this game have the greatest value in gaming history. 
 You can 1. Play the Story Mode 2. Collect Pokemon to put in your Pokemon Ranch (if you bought the 
 game) 3. Level them up for online on you DS or level them up for battling on Battle Revolution, 
 and possibly more to come.
  
  Graphics-
  Though 2D the graphics are crisp and clean with no glitches to account for. They'll almost never 
 slip up or do anything wrong. All the Pokemon look awesome also.
  
  Overall this game is any Pokemon fans dream and is a must own. You'll find yourself playing for 
 hours at a time just to level up your pokemon or collect after you've already played for hours 
 to beat the story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroomrick
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that you get totally atached to. The world of pokemon has never 
 been better. The core gameplay is untouched. But theres enough things to keep you entertained for 
 a long time.
  The single player is great. the added 3-D parts to the enviorment make the places you visit, from 
 snowy mountain peaks to old towers look real good. the new battle animations also look great on 
 the DS. To bad about the story. its the same thing. Theres a group of bad guys that want to take/destroy 
 the world and you somehow get cought up in it. same old.
  The online is something of a blessing for pokemon fans. you can battle and trade around the globe 
 with other trainers. it works.
  This game is no dissapoinment if youve been waiting for this game, you won't be dissapointed. If 
 youre new to the series, this is a great acsess point to the series, even the whole genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  GEESE how do i write with this many words... ok first off i bought this game in like june.... last 
 year, and it's like i farted a little in my mind because this is like one of the coolest games 
 for the D. S. named "Pokemon Pearl" that I've ever played. You can do so much in this game like 
 walk, or RUN or even catch Pokemon!!! i love this game, or at least my mind thinks that. I got 
 that action replay thingy, you know, and i did some cheats and gosh golly, i am uber crusty amazed. 
 NOW i can walk, RUN, and even catch Pokemon!!! I am please with the......$30? that i payed to get 
 this because there is nothing better than catching fat little yellow mice and weird balls of blue 
 tenticals. If you're ganna play a D. S. game, you are going to play this... because if you don't... IF 
 YOU DON"T PLAY THIS GAME I WILL GO TINY BLUE NAKED MAN ON YOU!!!!!
  
  
  
  Of course, I personally, am more of a nerdy anime person myself so this game just adds on to my 
 collection of weird games. (but i can't stand this show) You can get this game, or not... but you 
 know what will happen
  
  GO POKEMON!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinboy95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  unlike most RPGs this game gives you a choice of how you play the game. most RPGs have items that 
 are the best and you just choose the character to equip it to. but this game just about destroys 
 that barrier and laughs at it. any 3 of the starting pokemon will serve you well and none are actually 
 better than the other. the only exceptions in this are pokemon i like to call wuss pokemon. that 
 list includes magicarp, oddish, and caterpie. any one who says that it is a short game is lying. 
 there are over 400 pokemon and each one takes a long time to make it evolve. Even after that there 
 are event pokemon that you have to wait for to be released. the only real problem with the game 
 is that the designers let people put level one magicarp on the trade system with the asking pokemon 
 being a level 100 palkia. so if you think this is a lame game well I'm sorry you think that because 
 you are wrong, you are so wrong i see righter left turn lanes. so i now hope you will get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aultman72
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  over all this is a very good game if you like rpgs like this. very fun to play even at my age (15) 
 it is fun to catch things and train them to fight. and also very strategic also. it is also very 
 addicting once you get into you cant stop playing great multiplayer you can play with one friend 
 battling your way through 7 doubles matches as many times as you want or you can go to the underground 
 and play with a bunch of your friends digging for spheres to buy things for your secret base or 
 traps to stop your friends from going into your base once your done with the game there is plenty 
 more to do also you can go to the battle tower alone and battle or got try to catch all of the 
 pokemon in the game by trading and catching them in the wild if you liked the other pokemon games 
 this you must buy with upgraded pokedex and more things to do also better graphix and more things 
 to do than older gmes but if you are new you might want to buy the strategy guide to go along with 
 it so it will help you with what types of pokemon are effective in a situation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  In 1996, one of the most revolutionary and succesful games till date, Pokemon R/B was released. 
 It was a massive hit and one of the most liked games at its time. After four years, in 2000, its 
 sequel, Pokemon G/S was released. It also was liked by almost every gamer and was said to be better 
 than Reb amd Blue. Then, in 2003, Pokemon Ru/Sa were released. Though not as succesful and acclaimed, 
 they were commercially most popular and were still said to be very good RPG's. And now, in 2007, 
 Pokemon Diamond an Pearl were released. They were well hyped and they had much to stand up to. 
 
  
  And when the game hit the stores, it became a massive success and was hailed as the best Pokemon 
 game ever. But is it actually good enough? Lets find out:
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5/10
  With the touchscreen to support the old traditional Pokemon gameplay, the games have become more 
 addictive and more fun to play. Along with that, there are many new innovative elements added to 
 the game. One of the strongest points in the game in the touchscreen in the battles. It makes the 
 good old gameplay even better.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5/10
  Unlike the previous Pokemon games, the graphics in this game are much better and are, surprisingly, 
 3D. The graphics are both, technologically and artistically, brilliant. The atttractive graphics 
 make this game even better.
  
  SOUND: 8.0/10
  The sound, teven though it is melodious, gets repititive some times. The sound is not as god as 
 the sound in other Pokemon games and does not perfectly match situations.
  
  STORY: 8.0/10
  The stpry of the game is comparitivelty much better and intense. It gives a more 
 magical feeling and makes the game even better. It becomes one of the many strong points of the 
 game and adds to the fun.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 9.0/10 You can play tis game again and again and never get bored. This is probably 
 the best Pokemon game, when it comes to lasting appeal.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 (Not an average)
  This is the best Pokemon game. Apart from that, this is the 
 best RPG game one can come across on DS. If you dont buy this game, you're missing out on something. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is the first "proper" pokemon game to appear on the Nintendo DS, and 
 it is arguably the best Pokemon game yet.
  
  Pokemon D/P is your normal old school Pokemon adventure it follows the same story as all the other 
 pokemon games did, however they've changed the extremely annoying TEAM ROCKET to the slightly cooler 
 TEAM GALACTIC, but still, not much of a difference is there. One of the main differences here yet 
 again as with any other Pokemon game is the region and the Pokemon, there are yet more Pokemon 
 do discover and catch, whether this is a good thing or not is up to you, some people will be thinking, 
 "WAHOO!!! More Pokemon! Whereas the odd few will be thinking "What, more of them? You've got to be 
 kidding...." I of course am thinking the first one!
  
  So that's the main bit out the way, it really is just your normal Pokemon game.... or is it? Now 
 it's time to introduce the place where D/P really come into there own, the ONLINE play.... It really 
 is fantastic and probably the best online for a DS game to date! You can battle, trade, chat, and 
 even draw with each other! And that's not even the half of it!
  
  Like Pokemon Emeralds Battle frontier, this also has an extended story after you've completed the 
 main game. It's not like another bunch of gyms though, it is like a proper extension to the story! 
 You unlock a new area with one enormous mountain, you meet a new character there who will play 
 a big part later on, there's more contests to enter and more Pokemon to catch! (Including a secret 
 Legendary, but i won't tell you because i don't want to spoil the surprise!
  
  Although as i said before the story is basicly exactly the same as the previous "proper" Pokemon 
 games it does have much more going on and it will be much more dynamic. And there is always something 
 to do! No matter how many hours you put into the game (i've done over 120) your always spoilt for 
 choice! 
  
  All-in-all Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is a great game that will keep you occupied for months on 
 end! It may be like the previous games but with so much extra content does it matter?! 9/10! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crueltear
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has done the same thing since Red and Blue, you have some old guy who can't tell what your 
 gender is and who can't remember his grandsons name tell you about Pokemon and whatever country 
 you are in, then when he finally gives you a Pokemon thou douchebag of a grandson (which you probably 
 named douchebag) picks the Pokemon yours is weak against. (which is kind of pathetic seeing as 
 how you end up whooping his ass anyways) then you start collecting eight badges while a evil team 
 of bad haircut bandits try to do whatever they do and you just happen to be there to stop them. 
 plus the douchebag always wants to fight you. then in the end you fight 5 powerful trainers in 
 a row without a chance to heal your pokemon (without potions that is) cuz you know, thats fair. 
 and when your done... you wait for the next pokemon to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toon_Link87
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has always been one of my favorite series since Red and Blue. I'm happy to say that the 
 series is still going strong and the games are still as fun and addictive as they always been.
 
  
  The game first starts off like a normal Pokemon game, where you start off in a small town, have 
 a rival, and are able to choose from 3 starter Pokemon. You are also given a Pokedex to gather 
 information on all the Pokemon in the region.
  
  Gameplay is still basically the same, you fight using your Pokemon in a turn base system, level 
 up like in a RPG, and catch Pokemon. Although it seems simple there is a lot of strategic planning 
 involved in this game like which Pokemon are great against fighting other Pokemon or which Pokemon 
 should I use on my team to create the most balanced team. Overall the gameplay is still great even 
 after all these years.
  
  The games graphics are excellent. The Pokemon never looked better on a handheld. They made the 
 Pokemon more detailed, they even made differences between male and female Pokemon.
  
  There are a lot of new things in this game as well, which helps keep the Pokemon series fresh. 
 They have online play where you can trade Pokemon with anyone around the world, which has to be 
 the best new feature. Of course there is more Pokemon, over 100 new ones.
  
  Overall I would said this is a great game for veteran Pokemon fans or someone just getting into 
 the series. It still has everything we loved about the original Pokemon games with just the right 
 amount of new features and improvements to keep the game fresh. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead_stickman
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Pokemon fans will not be dissappointed with this installment of the franchise. The basic gameplay 
 is still the same, you catch, raise and battle creatures known as 'Pokemon', you take on gyms and 
 various other side quests until you eventually get to the 'elite four', beat them and you are crowned 
 the pokemon league champion.
  As soon as you enter the game, fans of previous games will notice immediately the change in quality 
 of the graphics. Pokemon Pearl & Diamond have made full use of the DS' hardware. Buildings now 
 have a lovely 3D effect to them and the colours are a lot more vivid. The pokemon games have never 
 looked better.
  
  The story is pretty much the same, but i don't think you can really criticise the game for that. 
 pokemon games all have the same structure to them:
  Get 1st  league.
  The story is pretty the much the 
 same as previous installments, you, along with your newly aquired pokemon friend, your friend and 
 rival with his pokemon, are snet out into the land of Sinnoh from the small out of the way Twinleaf 
 town by proffessor Rowan to gather info on all the different kinds of pokemon, you travel from 
 town to town, fighting, training, capturing and taking down the evil Team Galactic who seek pokemon 
 for their steriotypical world domination plans.
  The story won't dazzle you with its originality, but it is incredibly addictive.
  There is so 
 much to do apart from the main story, and even when that is over, there is easily a few more hours 
 to squeeze in. 
  
  There are over 100 new pokemon, all very well designed with plenty of variety, all different types.
 
  combat is turn based, with the pokemon with the higher speed attacking first. some types of moves 
 are better against certain pokemon, meaning there is a good amount of depth to the combat, this 
 will probably take up most of your time, as it is ultimatley what the game is about.
  Pokemon Diamond & Pearl also feture online play. you can Battle and trade with people all over 
 the world.
  Sadly there is little use for the touch screen other than to selct moves and for some quite pointless 
 mini-games.
  
  This game will take up a lot of your time, but it is well worth it.
  This game is one of the best of the year 100% worth getting.
  Thanx 4 reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoshiRules123
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Pokemon games have always been awsome, and Pokeomon Diamond and Pearl are probably one of the best. 
 This is the first time ever portable pokmon games got a 3-D appearance, and it looks great! As 
 always, at the begining, they give u a choice of 3 new pokemon. I love monkeys, so I chose chimchar. 
 hes awsome! I bought pokemon pearl because:
  1) Palkia looked really cool
  2) Since I was born in june, a pearl is my birth stone!
  I have completely filled up the sinnoh 
 pokedex and beaten the pokemon league, so Im basically done with the game. actually, I still need 
 Darkrai and the other 2 rare pokemon. I also need regigias and creselia. I hope to get them soon! 
 so in summary, this game is an awsome game. U should buy it if you have some money to spend and 
 time to play. Its a truly great game and I hope u guys like it as much as I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockwii13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the best Pokemon game to date. It has a lengthy storyline, great graphics 
 (for a DS) , and great gameplay. It is a great game for anyone, Pokemon fan or not. Some might call 
 Pokemon childish, but the skill and battle tactics in the game are too complicated for children. 
 New Pokemon, new attacks, and the new region of Sinoh make for an amazing game. 
  The battles are basically the same as all of the other Pokemon games. What makes Pokemon the better 
 of the RPGs out there, is it's simple, but challenging battle system. It's as simple as selecting 
 your attack and watch your Pokemon unleash it. But the part that introduces challenge is the part 
 that you have to decide what Pokemon would do better against your opponent's Pokemon, and what 
 attack would do the most damage.
  The online content is a great addition. The Global Trading System (GTS) will allow you to get any 
 Pokemon you want, as long as you've seen it first.
  This is the best normal Pokemon game to this day (which excludes Mystery Dungeon and console games) , 
 and any Pokemon fan should buy it, and newcomers should definately try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwind1012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real classic... and we know it. Pokemon Pearl changed it all. With all its new features 
 like Wi-Fi, touch screen, and more to do in the contests, there is no doubt that this game is horrible. 
 The controls are simple. You can now use the X button to go to the Start Menu instead of pressing 
 start. Other than that its as normal as it gets! The use of the touch screen was a so-so, they 
 could have done better with that. You get a watch that has a calculator, pokemon team status, step 
 counter, etc. And you basically use the touch screen to control the watch! 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing! The buildings and scenery, outside of battle, look realistic 
 and 3-D'ish! The graphics in battle improved slightly, and looks clearer. 
  
  Touch screen use: As I've said, you have a watch that used the touch screen. In battle, you can 
 use the regular controls (OLD-SCHOOL!) or use the newest technology... touch screen!!! You just 
 touch away from your pokemon team, moves, "Run", etc! You also use the touch screen sometimes during 
 contests, again, making it more realistic!
  
  WI-FI!: Wi-Fi was amazing ---it makes the DS an A+! You can now trade pokemon from all over the 
 world making trading the easiest tasks to getting all the pokemon in the National Dex! The only 
 problem is, you can have a hacked pokemon that someone hacked and it gets to be a pain (hacking 
 sucks!) You can trade with friends using Wi-Fi to (a private trade) you can trade any pokemon you 
 want... well at least if your friend lets you! You can also battle friends using Wi-Fi by exchanging 
 FC (friend codes) and battle your pokemon out! Also you can use the DS' Mic. to chat with your 
 friend while trading and battling! This is great to tell your friend "hey you cheater!" it's also 
 great for telling your friend what pokemon to trade! Wi-Fi is literally a state-in-the-art.
  
  Underground: A new feature called Underground was installed to this game. Remember in the Ruby/Sapphire 
 and Emerald games? Well remember the "secret bases"? Well they simply made it BIGGER by you getting 
 to dig in the ground, and making a secret base! That's not all! You can also use the DS' Wireless 
 Connection to let many people in your base at a time ---even around the underground! You can also 
 set traps on the ground that works with the touch screen and the microphone. For example, the rock 
 trap. You use the touch screen to break the rock until it breaks! The bubble trap, you use the 
 microphone to blow the bubbles away! Again, great use of the touch screen AND the microphone!
 
  
  There are many more features! Just buy the game and check 'em out! This game is very great in my 
 opinion, so get it now lol!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrist_watch
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I borrowed Pokemon Pearl for about 2 months and I'm now finished the game and honestly Pearl 
 and Diamond are the best Pokemon games yet. The storyline is rich and doesn't give for plot holes 
 as well as being entertaining. The vocabulary in the game was surprisingly at a higher level then 
 I thought which leads me to believe that this game was intended for the audience that would have 
 grown since the 1st generation release in the 90's. The mini-games are very entertaining, the multiplayer 
 mode of the Underground function is the best addition and I highly enjoy mining, disengaging traps 
 and capturing flags from other players bases and decorating my hideout. I wasn't surprised that 
 there were cut-scenes I just didn't know that the graphics were going to be that good and allowed 
 the cut-scenes to play out very well with a story telling feel to it. I would've like an eight 
 axis form of movement other than the old 4 axis with all the many improvement, but it doesn't take 
 away from the game and there are some points where it needed to be a 4 axis form of movement. You 
 can now run in the game which is something that made me happy. I disliked how games of this nature 
 would restrict you to a slow walking speed without any special upgrade or feature that needs to 
 be attained to increase the movement speed. Not only can you either walk or run, the bike has 2 
 speed settings as well. You can increase the speed of the bike to enable it to climb hills or just 
 move faster in general.
  
  Speaking of climbing there are more HM's that have been added to the list yet again. Originally 
 it was Cut, Fly, Surf, Strength, Flash. In later generations they added Waterfall and Dive. Now 
 there's two more additions, Defog and Rock Climb for a combined 10 HM's from the original 5 HM's. 
 On that note the number of Pokemon jumped yet again from 386 to 493. I don't know about you guys, 
 but I missed the original 151. Before that used to seem like so much and the rare Pokemon felt 
 rare, but now with all the new rare Pokemon and legendary Pokemon I just feel bombarded with Pokemon 
 now and I feel that the high numbers of Pokemon are taking away from the uniqueness and value of 
 all the Pokemon. Anyways If you're a serious collector then you'll have to do quite a bit of juggling 
 with all the previous games to attaint all if not most of the Pokemon and Rare Pokemon such as 
 previous legendary Pokemon and so forth. I think they should cool off adding more Pokemon to the 
 game with newer releases just for the fact that they added so much and there can be problems. I 
 believed that if they indeed needed to add more to the Pokemon index they shouldn't have added 
 so many for each generation. 
  
  The difficulty level is very real, unlike the previous games. Since there are more types of Pokemon 
 and sub/combined types it brings a whole new level of strategy and battle tactics to the game. 
 Items are much more vital than the last games towards the survivablity of your pokemon. I also 
 noticed that the further you get in the game, the more the enemy's/opponent's Pokemon stats increase. 
 For example even though your Pokemon man out level and be the advantageous Pokemon type, it would 
 still be a struggle to take the opposing Pokemon down. This was most likely added to prevent one-shot 
 kills in battle. Pokemon Pearl and Diamond are hands down the best releases since the 1st generation 
 (original 4 releases) in the series. I felt that even though the 2nd and 3rd generation were average 
 games, they did nothing for the story, so I'm happy that the 4th generation was everything and 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDEMONOFTHEMIST
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest pokemon game by far. Its truly 3D for once with only a few 2D element. The 
 2D for the main part only shows up in battle but the landscape is fully 3D with more place to explore 
 and train pokemon. As nintendo has done in the past they have added exclusive pokemon to each version, 
 each with their own unique abilites and evolutions. They have added new areas in the game to plant 
 and grow berries, breed pokemon using the daycare system, and a more standardized EV training. 
 On top of all that once you beat the game game new areas will become visible on your map allowing 
 you to catch new and stronger pokemon such as the legendaries. Learning the curve of this game 
 takes little to no time at all best of all its the 4th generation of pokemon game, this means that 
 you can easily migrate your pokemon from the 3rd generation with ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  While i grew up playing pokemon, I can't recommend this installation into the series due to the 
 lack of innovation in this game. It's not just the lack of innovation, it is the fact that everything 
 in this game is almost a literal carbon copy of every other game in the series. Pearl, and of course 
 diamond, feel like the same game. I had such high hopes for this game since the series was finally 
 making the jump to the ds. The game features everything that i have already played before. Even 
 if there are a few new features in this title, they feel stale and gimmicky. I sure hope the next 
 installation brings something new to the table instead of me working my way through the same 8 
 gyms, fighting the exact same battles, following the exact same villains. PLEASE NINTENDO! If the 
 next handheld Pokemon game doesn't offer something new, i think i may pass. I could just save my 
 money and go back and play the old games. At least the old games still feel fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExiledTemplar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Now I know what your thinking, "Another Pokemon game?!?! its the same as the last only with different 
 things" but this is different. Diamond and Pearl hold the expectations of Pokemon fans from way 
 back when it was a nobody. After I played through my Silver version, with the indestructible team 
 it was, I thought "Hey lets hope the new ones will be good as these three!" To sum it all up it 
 wasn't, Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald, were the biggest disappointments, cause one, where did the 
 time of day go?! i mean having the time of day feature made it feel so real. But i digress, Diamond 
 and Pearl had everything the thrid generation versions missed. The re-introduction to time of day, 
 the underground where you can did up hard to find items, the wifi, and the new pokemon, made these 
 games the best out of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icym
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Having not played any Pokemon series at all, which I know is amazing in this day and age, Pokemon 
 Pearl is a wonderful introduction and continuation of a fun series from Nintendo.
  
  Starting of with simple rules and story, your character journeys through the land of Sinnoh battle 
 wild pokemon, trainers, and the evil minions of Team Galactic. While the story isn't the most dramatic 
 you'll get into, it certainly is a lot of fun and helps to add to the game. As the game progress, 
 you'll travel from town to town battling trainers and catching pokemon to raise your status as 
 a trainer. At every town you'll run into and need to beat gym leaders and gain new skills that 
 allow you to venture to new areas. Every time you run into a Team Galactic member, you'll know 
 that you're progressing in the storyline. Eventually, you meet the mini-bosses, leader, and eventually 
 save all of existence. Not bad for a kid that started out raising pokemon! 
  
  An amazing variety of new and old pokemon show up for you to know and train. You'll figure out 
 how to work your team of 6 pokemon with their moves and elements to best maximize your team. Eventually, 
 you can battle your friends and strangers on Wifi. Even a few pokemon require you to interact with 
 others to evolve those few pokemon you can't catch! Oooh.... forced social interaction, how evil. 
 Battling teams and trainers tend to be a lot of fun. 
  
  After and before you're done with the story of the game, you'll find an amazing amount of extras 
 included. Going underground, beauty contests, etc etc are all there to extend the time you play 
 Pokemon Pearl/Diamond. Along with trying to catch them all, you'll be busy with Pearl/Diamond for 
 a long long time to come. 
  
  The graphics were very clean and crisp. The colors are bright and the effects are great to see. 
 All the 2D animations and effects are fun to watch, especially when battling trainers and wild 
 pokemon. Also, using the WiFi to meet and trade with others can't be any more easy. Its fun and 
 a nice element that the DS allows you to do. 
  
  I've spend so much time of Pokemon Pearl, I've slowed my time on other games, both playing and 
 buying. This latest installment certainly is a great example of why everyone is into this series. 
 I know I certainly am. Pokemon Pearl is a must have for any DS owner, young or old, no matter what 
 the genre you're into playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon series have always been addicting, fun and long. Very long. And this game is no different. 
 You catch pokemons, level them up, battle, catch more pokemon and so on. There is an unimaginable 
 number of different Pokemon. And its up to you to catch 'em all.
  
  If you never played a Pokemon game, you are.......... sick. Just kidding! Well, if you never played 
 a Pokemon game, this is how it works: you catch pokemons with some kinds of balls, named pokeballs. 
 when you catch it, you have to train it. Your pokemon gain levels (the maximun level is 100) and 
 new attacks. Oh! There are also various types of pokemon (fire, ice, psychic, ghost..... I cant 
 list them all) , each one with its own weaknesses and resistences. Yep, its a RPG. A simple and 
 fun RPG.
  
  This is the first time a Pokemon game has 3D elements (Excluding Pokemon Stadiun and others) . The 
 inclusion of them was such a nice feature!
  
  The music........ I have nothing to say. Its magnificent. I never saw a Pokemon game with bad music 
 or sound effects. Simply Amazing.
  
  Great game, great additions (Poktch, the multiple-functionality watch, Wi-fi battles and trades, 
 undergroung exploration, and much more...) , a must have for DS owners and Pokemon fans. Just buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 98scoutgandia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  When I saw the very, very early screenshots of the prototype DS it had a Pokemon game on it and 
 I was so excited that it was all 3D and I waited so much to find out that it was 2D/3D... But I 
 still liked it. I also thought that the graphics of the DS would be PSP-like.
  Gameplay - 8/10: Very much like the other old games but with a different twist with the features 
 of the DS
  Sound - 6.5/10: Why is it still very SNES like? Super Mario 64 DS had very good sound effects but 
 we only get a very good game with sound effects that are for SNES? But I still liked the composure 
 of the music though.
  Graphics - 7.5/10: Now here's where we are going to have a bit of arguing. First of all, why would 
 they make the graphics of the game only 2D/3D when they have SOOOOOOO much time to develop it? 
 I only felt like I was playing GBA. But I know they can do a lot better in the next DS Pokemon 
 game.
  Replayability - 10/10: "I finished it!" Yeah right. You can never feel like finishing it until 
 you have all the Pokemons, and I mean ALL!!! There are a lot of things to do after beating the 
 Pokemon League like playing online, catching more Pokemons and a whole lot more.
  That's all I can review for now. (I think.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I believe that Pokemon Pearl and Pokemon Diamond are very great video games. With very deep storyline, 
 realistic characters, and the enhanced graphics, this game is one of the best in the series. And 
 with the addition of wireless communications, and Wi-Fi, the game gets even better. The challenges, 
 the puzzles, and the battles all come together to make Pokemon Diamond and Pearl just plain wonderful. 
 I remember first getting Pearl, right off the back I thought it was cool. From the first second 
 you start playing it has a good storyline already. With all the new Pokemon, all the new areas... 
 Whoever says Pokemon is dead knows NOTHING about current events. Granted, they did copy over small 
 tidbits of story and edited it, but I think we can forgive them. Lastly, I believe this is a good 
 game for Pokemon fans, and non-fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofu-lion91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Well I have been playing the Pokemon series ever since Red and Blue so buying Pokemon Pearl was 
 a must have for me. I have thoroughly enjoyed the game and still have lots more to do. Like the 
 others in the Pokemon series, this game takes a long time to complete and even then there's more 
 stuff to do. It is challenging and highly addictive.
  
  The graphics and general design of the game have taken a leap forward and I was impressed with 
 nice 3D touches to buildings and different levels of height within the 2D world. The battle animation 
 however remains the same; 2D sprites and lots of recycled material from the previous games. I think 
 to improve this in the next Pokemon game, they should upgrade the battle animation to something 
 similar to Pokemon Battle Revolution (Wii) . This would make the Pokemon battles more realistic 
 and draw the player in, rather than the current mechanic animations of 2D sprites.
  
  As is expected of a new Pokemon game, it brings in 100 brand new Pokemon to catch and battle with. 
 I think most of the Ruby and Sapphire Pokemon were a little ugly and dull but Pokemon Pearl has 
 managed to swing it back around with new, cute and imaginative Pokemon. Getting hold of rare legendaries 
 has always been a problem and I think it's unfair to only give out tickets at events which never 
 seem to be around. I suggest that the next Pokemon game gives out the tickets in various challenges 
 after the player has completed the game. It will not only let players have a chance of catching 
 the legendaries but also provide extra game play.
  
  The introduction of Wi-Fi is a new addition to the series which gives players the option to battle, 
 trade and chat with each other. The trade market was designed well which allowed Pokemon to be 
 placed up for trade with terms specifying what Pokemon the player would want in return. The trade 
 could even be completed without the player's DS being turned on which has made trading quick and 
 easy. Battling and chatting with other players requires a friend code. This is for the safety of 
 players but makes it tedious and time consuming to swap codes and get everything set up.
  
  Night and day have been re-introduced which I think is a great thing as FireRed and LeafGreen seemed 
 empty without it. As well as this, dusk and dawn have been added which is a simple touch that makes 
 the games feel a little more realistic. Some Pokemon can only be caught or evolved at certain times 
 of the day and it gives a bit more variety to have different Pokemon appear at different times. 
 It also lets players complete the Eevee collection on Pearl as Espeon and Umbreon can only be obtained 
 in the day or night. This lets players avoid having to trade between the games and saves a lot 
 of time.
  
  Bases have also been re-introduced which is good because it's a cute little add on. The only problem 
 is that they're underground so they're mostly ignored. The underground itself is a fun little extra 
 which can also gain the player some nice items. Players can also link up in the underground and 
 play various games like capture the flag which is a nice feature. I think in the next Pokemon game 
 they should keep the underground but move bases back to the surface where they can be easily accessed. 
 
  
  The only slightly disappointing feature of Pokemon Pearl is the use of the touch screen. The screen 
 is taken up by a Pokemon Watch which players gain new functions for as the game progresses. The 
 Pokemon Watch reminds me of something that wouldn't look out of place on a Gameboy. I think it 
 was a rushed add on which could be really useful if it was re-designed and thought through better. 
 The touch screen can do so much and I think in the next Pokemon game they should use it more often 
 and more wisely.
  
  Another rushed feature which annoys me to bits is the Pal Park. It's great that players can transfer 
 all their Pokemon from FireRed and LeafGreen to Pearl but they made it into a silly, boring and 
 pointless mini-game. Not only are players limited to transferring 6 Pokemon a day, but they expect 
 you to run around and catch them again (like in the Safari zone but the Pal balls are like Master 
 balls and always catch the Pokemon) . If the player already went to the trouble of catching the 
 Pokemon on FireRed or LeafGreen then they should be able to transfer all their Pokemon in one go, 
 without the frustrating mini-game.
  
  All in all, Pokemon Pearl is an exciting game which guarantees months of solid game play. There 
 are tons of extra features, some useful, some plain annoying. I would definitely recommend this 
 game to anyone with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojoepalmer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are a milestone in the Pokemon series. With over 100 new Pokemon, some 
 great touch screen features, great wi-fi features, and a new place to explore the game series has 
 basically been upgraded to a new level. 
  
  While a lot the standard original features in previous Pokemon games have been placed in the game, 
 it still great to play, even newcomers may enjoy these games. The graphics are pretty great for 
 a DS game, and combines 2-D and 3-D images. Also the music can be fun to listen too when you are 
 in the right mood. 
  
  Veterans of the series will not only enjoy these features but also the new 100 Pokemon, and now 
 the ability to battle and trade via Wi-Fi connection. Also the touch screen is a great addition 
 to the series. And perhaps one of the best features is the fact that the DS game can connect to 
 Pokemon Game Boy Advance games and migrate Pokemon onto the DS game.
  
  
  The bad part of the game (s) is that sometimes the game can be too dependent on the touch screen. 
 Also the Wi-Fi can be troubling to use, not because the connection can be hard to access because 
 not only do you have to trade friends codes but the only way to battle at first is with just friends. 
 Only until you've beaten certain parts of the game can you actually battle anyone really on the 
 Wi-Fi connection. Also to migrate pokemon from the GBA you need to beat the game, which can take 
 a while.
  
  Overall, the game defiantly appeals to veteran's and newcomers can easily enjoy this new addition 
 to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swixer-Swaxer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  While this game is addictive it is not perfect.
  
  Great RPG-this is an amazing game, what more can i say?
  
  Addictive-This game gets better, 
 and better and better the more you play, you wont want to stop till you reach the top
  
  Does not Stop-This game keeps on going and going, non-stop
  
  Money well spent-Totally worth 
 the money no matter what anyone says
  
  Secrets-This game has a mystery around every corner, just when you think its over something new 
 pops up!
  
  Gameplay-great with over 100 new pokemon, this game is awesome
  
  Wi-Fi-The Wi-Fi is great, trading, battling. You'll love it
  
  there are so many good things 
 about this game, new and old! Fans will worshi it, new players will love it and even a monkey could 
 adapt to play it its simple, its fun is great.
  
  So look, i could tell you many more reasons why you should buy this mind-numbingly fun game but 
 the fact is it's your call. just heed my advice, this game owns.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is a game that manages to carry on the proud name of Pokemon well. You play as a 
 young adventurer who recklessly follows his mate into the woods in search of a professor whose 
 briefcase you have. Suddenly, you are attacked by some local pokemon and are forced to pick one 
 from the briefcase. This pokemon then becomes your constant companion, and you use him in everything 
 from battles to beauty contests. You are then set on a journey to collect pokemon and travel the 
 pokemon world helping those from the evils of the villainous Team Galactic. Many missions involve 
 you battling your way past normal people in order to reach the "bosses" of the level, such as Gym 
 Leaders, and leaders of Team Galactic. The gameplay is great, not differentiating itself from the 
 previous games, and makes it simple enough to pick up and play no matter what skill level you are. 
 The levels are splendid to look at, and the music is jolly enough to have playing wherever you 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xemnas_is_god
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Where can I start? This game has changed my life, i guess i could say. I have not yet been bored 
 with it or Diamond. The Poketch is one of the most alluring aspects of this game, being able to 
 see my pokemons health and status as I walk is just awe inspiring. It brings me back to the days 
 when i had to pause the game to see my pokemon. I will never be able to go back. If they remove 
 this feature, they have lost a loyal fan. The boss battles are not only fun but entertaining, as 
 they often talk to you when things happen that they don't like. With an arsenal of new gadgets 
 i would say that this game is ready for the future. While waiting for the next games, i comepletely 
 wore out gold/silver/crystal and ruby/sapphire/emerald, i do not see this happening with Pear/Diamond. 
 there are things to keep me occupied for years, especially the addition of the Global Trade Station, 
 the best way to "catch" em all. Bring the pain Darkrai, i am waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killings
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  As the first installment of the Pokemon RPG series on the DS, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are must-have 
 for addicts. With the usual extremely long plot, it'll keep you playing for hours. The plot unfortunately 
 shares many similarities with the other games in the Pokemon collection, but there are enough differences 
 and improvements to keep you more than interested. Starting off in the small town of Twinleaf, 
 you battle your way through the gyms of Sinnoh, always one step behind your competitive friend. 
 Throughout the game, you'll run into the menacing Team Galactic multiple times, and eventually 
 ending up saving a few legendaries from their grasp while you're at it.
  If you've got your hopes up for much better graphics, you may be a little bit 
  disappointed. 
 While still being slightly improved, the game still has a 2-D feel to it a majority of the time. 
 As for the music and sound effects, there only a slight bit improvement there as well. While the 
 calls of the new Pokemon are fairly nice, the older Pokemon from other regions don't have much 
 improvement if any at all. With many new Pokemon from the Sinnoh region, along with familiar Pokemon 
 from other regions, Diamond and Pearl have plenty of Pokemon to collect. While some are exclusive 
 to their version, you may have to trade with friends, which brings us to the topic of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi.
  Being one of the largest differences between the other Pokemon RPG's, Wi-Fi is the most anticipated 
 feature of the new Pokemon games. The touch screen, of course, being the second. (We'll get to 
 that later.) After registering a friend's code, you are now able to use this convenient new Wi-Fi 
 feature in several ways including battling, which also has voice chat as an additional new feature. 
 Trading between friends is another important feature, and you will most likely need to trade with 
 a friend via Wi-Fi to complete your Pokedex. In addition to the Wi-Fi features requiring a friend 
 code, there are two features in which a friend code isn't necessary. Any Pokemon fan will without 
 a doubt enjoy the Global Trade Center, and it is likely to be the most commonly used Wi-Fi feature. 
 Located in Jubilife City, within it you are able to search for the Pokemon other players from all 
 over the world have put up for trade, as well as offering your own and asking for another specific 
 Pokemon in return.
  The second newest, most anticipated feature of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl would have to be the touchscreen, 
 one of it's most obvious uses being to select menu options or commands within a battle. Along with 
 it's basic functions, the touch screen also allows the use of a new feature called the Poketech. 
 It appears full-screen outside of battle on the touch screen, and serves many functions, the most 
 basic being a clock. Many other unique and useful applications can also be included after acquiring 
 them.
  Overall, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is a recommendable, desirable game which any Pokemon fan would 
 enjoy. It is a wonderful addiction to any Pokemon-lovers collection, while remaining a somewhat 
 simplistic game for newcomers to easily adjust to. Don't hesitate to go buy yourself a copy, as 
 long as you aren't expecting a major change in the story outline or the game in general. These 
 new features and Pokemon, however, make these new RPG's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwolfz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was very good it had the elements of the classic Pokemon games but with better graphics 
 and online capabilities. I liked the feature pal park
  where you could transfer Pokemon from E/R/S and FR/LG .The battle tower was very fun because you 
 could play many different styles (well 3 but still) like mix battles on-line. The only thing i didn't 
 like was the music. always the same and is no different to others versions.
  This game is much like the classic Pokemon games but with more abilities more attacks more items 
 and generally more fun.
  
  overall i loved this game (and still do!)
  you should get this game if you like a hand-held never gets boring (slightly childish game)
  
 DO NOT get this game if you only play games for the graphics and music.
  But personally if you only but games for graphics and music then there is not point getting a D. S. You 
 Are Better Of Buying A Portable-DVD Player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  In This Game You Start In Twinleaf Town, Wathing T. V. In Your Room
  But You See A News Report About A Red Garadose In Lake Verity!
  You Go To Lake Verity To See 
 The Red Garadose Prefesor Rowan Drops His Suitcace In The Tall Grass! You And Your Friend Tries 
 To Pick Up The Suitcace Untill You And Your Friend Get Attacked By Two
  Starleys! There Are Three Pokeballs In The Suitcace!
  One Contains Turtwig The Grass Tipe, Chimchar 
 The Fire Tipe,
  Or Piplup The Water Tipe, You Chosse What You Want And Battle The Starleys!
  What I Like About 
 This Game Is: The Grapics Are Toadaly 3D Grapics,
  The Underground Games Are Fun, And It's Wi-fi Compadable So You Can Play With Frinds From School 
 At Home!
  what I Hate About This Game Is: In GTS (Gobal Trade Station)
  You May Get Hacked Pokemon From Hackers, So Use GTS At Your Own Risk I Used To Have A Hacked Pokemon 
 That Nearley Squred Up
  My Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkonimaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Opon starting up Pokemon Peral, you get this sense of nostalgia. And playing threw the game fells 
 no diffrent. You get to chose between a grass, fire, or water tipe Pokemon to begin your jouney. 
 And then you travil all around the world chetching diffrent Pokemon and beating the gym leaders 
 and the elight four in hops of becomeing the Pokemon master. 
  Nothing diffrent there, but what is diffrent this time around in Pokemon Pearl ,is the wifi ativity. 
 
  With it you are able to trade, battle, and chat with other Pokemon players from around the world. 
 Which is yet other resion to pick this game up. 
  
  Thow that is to say it dos not have it's flaws as well. The bigest flaw here is it's rilly offering 
 nothing to diffrent. I mene sure there is the wifi but other then that it's the same thing, diffrent 
 region. I whould have like to see at lest one other move set for your Pokemon so they han have 
 eight moves insted of four. Who knows maybey they will do that in there next Ds Pokemon game. 
 
  
  So over all if you are old or new to Pokemon give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl have the same basics as all the other Pokemon games dating back 
 to the earliest ones on the gameboy color. You train little monsters called Pokemon or "Pocket 
 Monsters" and you fight them against other trainers. It may sound pretty bland, but if you haven't 
 played a Pokemon game before you are in for a real treat. The object is to "Catch Em All" and try 
 to become the greatest Pokemon trainer in the world.
  
  As you progress through the game, and go from city to city, you battle gym leaders. Before being 
 able to progress through the game you must defeat these gym leaders. The Pokemon you face get tougher 
 and tougher throughout the game, so you must continually train your Pokemon. There are even Legend 
 Pokemon, which are stronger than all the rest and in some way have influenced the world in some 
 way or another.
  
  For people that have played previous Pokemon games, the new 4th Generation games are no disappointment. 
 There are a total of 493 Pokemon obtainable in the game, and they can all be obtained on Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pokemon Pearl with the new addition of the Pokemon Trade Center, which lets you trade 
 with people worldwide. Along with that addition, there are new moves, abilities, and other features 
 such as the Pal Park. These games also build on previous ideas like the Pokemon Contests.
  
  The storyline is interesting, the new 3-D look of the game looks incredible and the music is 
 tremendous as well. If you are an avid fan of Pokemon or you are looking for a fantastic RPG game 
 then you cannot go wrong with Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vasudean
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, a staple in the Nintendo portable gaming realm, some people know it from their stupid 
 TV show which is basically the same episode over and over, but others know this from it's fun and 
 addicting Pokemon games. A game that has since taken the gaming world by storm and is here to stay.
 
  
  Alright, let's take a look at the story of the game, pretty generic, you're a relatively small 
 town boy on a journey to beat all the gym leaders and to catch em' all. Unlike other handheld Pokemon 
 games, this one starts you out investigating the infamous Red Gyarados (if I misspelled it, my apologies) 
 and you get attacked by wild pokemon, in order to fend them off, you choose a pokemon, which later 
 becomes your starter. It's a pretty generic start which started in Ruby and Sapphire. Afterwards, 
 you and your rival/friend (can't have a Pokemon game without a rival) go out into Sinnoh and take 
 down the gym leaders and what-not. This game apparently also has your gang named Team Galactic 
 which seek to control the stars (kinda over your head don't you think? XD) and as a little thing 
 to take you through the plot, you have to take them down.
  
  Now to the gameplay, if you're looking for something new, go somewhere else, because this is basically 
 like most of the other Pokemon games, except for the relatively new thing of putting your Pokemon 
 through talent shows and a brand spanking new thing where you can take your Pokemon and battle/trade/whatever 
 other people from (cue loud, echoing voice) AROUND THE WORLD!!! I thought this little tidbit was 
 pretty neat in it's own right. Also, a new thing is that you can go underground and dig stuff up, 
 like fossils, gemstones, stuff like that. That's another neat little feature.
  
  Another is the controls, like every pokemon game, the controls are pretty spot on, but how do they 
 utilize the touch screen mind you? When you're running around Sinnoh, you get stuff for your Poketch 
 (Pokemon Watch, I think) and you can do things with it like tell time, to figuring out when certain 
 berries are ripened. Another feature is when you're underground, you use it to look for things 
 that are buried and sometimes, help you through the traps that some douchebag or yourself XD has 
 buried. To me, that's pretty neat.
  
  On a final note, sure this game series is getting a little stale, but with new things added to 
 it, Pokemon is going to be here for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_765
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  Is it often a game for a portable system comes out and sells more than console games? No, but the 
 Pokemon versions have done it every time. Now, let's be honest. Ruby and Sapphire were okay, but 
 a bit of a let-down. Although the gameplay was as good as ever, the music and style the game presented 
 weren't memorable. But the DS versions have shaped up quite nicely. They bring everything the Pokemaniac 
 wants: Nice story, albeit dated, some villainous team to kick around, eight gym leaders to pummel 
 down and get wierd-looking badges from, and the most important part, addictive gameplay. The gameplay 
 has never been better in Diamond and Pearl, and the fact you now have nearly five hundred little 
 critters to toy around with makes the game that much better. Being able to have wild double battles 
 is a nice plus, too. The music has also been improved, but you can plainly tell from lack of creativity 
 they changed the trainer and wild battle music from the Gold and Silver versions and imported them 
 over, but it's easy to look over as the field graphics have been vastly improved. And not only 
 did they improve those, but the quality of two-dimensional sprotes has been up-ed a bit, and the 
 battle graphics have been, too. If you can recall, the clock feature from Gold and Silver is back, 
 but now the game knows the exact day according to the internal clock. And not only just morning, 
 day, and night, but they also added evening in, so you can see that beautiful red tint on-screen 
 for your six-o'clock ventures. But it isn't just the visuals. The overall feel of the game makes 
 it all worthwhile. The plot hasn't changed much, but that in-between gyms seven and eight time 
 brings a nice storyline into everything. The games have never been without a rival, and in these 
 versions, you can also fight him after the game's completion on Saturdays and Sundays, and when 
 fighting him oh-so-many times, his Pokemon will actually end up in the seventies, which also leads 
 me to my next point. The difficulty, although as easy as ever, has changed to match Red and Blue 
 standards with higher levels for the Pokemon you'll fight, and the Elite Four actually have the 
 highest levels of all when not accounting for FireRed and LeafGreen's post-National Dex Elite Four. 
 And don't expect the game to be without it's flaws. Without the great Battle Frontier from Emerald, 
 there's obviously a lot left to want, and the fact that you can no longer challenge Gym Leaders 
 again due to the VS Seeker being the rematch item you obtain leaves me a bit disappointed. The 
 only other thing I would say on the minus side is the fact that these two games have taken out 
 some great moves Pokemon used to learn in the last games, which brings me to my next point: the 
 physical-special split in moves. This has left a lot of Pokemon starved, a lot more leaving as 
 happy campers, and a whole lot of others in limbo.
  
  Another feature all Pokegamer will appreciate is the ability to play wirelessly over the internet 
 through Wi-Fi. Now, trainers can battle against each other will be able to finally have a way of 
 challenging any trainers they want. Unfortunately, Nintendo is still hell-bent on its players using 
 the annoying Friend Code feature, which changes with each new game started. That's right. Don't 
 expect to have 5600 0001 0004 as your Friend Code after starting a new game. With this aside, the 
 freedom of online play and the ability to talk to your opponent is a very neat utility. 
  
  With the addition of such new things I mentioned earlier and the fact that there's now and ever 
 expanding Wi-Fi community to challenge and trade with, I would say these games have made a nice 
 trade-up, rather than a trade-down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  It was good, although it might be annoying to get attacked by Pokemon every time you step into 
 the tall grass. Also, its really cool how you can name your Pokemon trainer your name and even 
 sign your trainer card by yourself. IT WAS COOL HOW MY GUY HAD A WII IN HIS HOUSE!!!!!!!! The sound... 
 ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh... was okay. But it was cool when I got to run around Jublife City searching for 
 clowns. There was many cool parts. If you walk by ONE... just ONE person, they say, "I SPY WITH 
 MY LITTLE EYE A TRAINER LETS BATTLE" and it gets annoying. ANOTHER THING theres no multiplayer. 
 I like games such as Nicktoons: Attack Of The Toybots, a great multiplayer game. Or Transformers 
 Autobots. The game was so and so... Rent this game first, I'd say. There's always a Family Video 
 right around the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokmon diamond and pearl are the latest Pokmon Games from Nintendo and the first true Pokmon 
 game on the DS.
  
  In Pokmon you play as a boy or girl Pokmon Trainer and try to become the best Pokmon trainer 
 in the world. Being the first Pokmon game on the DS Pokmon Diamond/Pearl takes advantage of the 
 DS's Touch Screen and Wi-Fi capabilities. You can use Wi-Fi To battle and trade over the internet 
 To battle and trade with someone you have to have there friend code. To trade with out friend codes 
 you can put you're Pokmon up in an eBay style trade area where you can place your own Pokmon 
 and specify what Pokmon and what Level, gender ECT. The touch screen is used in two ways one is 
 for Poke aps and the other is for Berry making. Poke aps are little gadgets that go on the touch 
 screen, The Poke aps uses range from telling the time, a step counter and more. Berries are items 
 use use in Pokmon contests ( I will touch on that later ) you can now use the touch screen to 
 make them but this is only spinning circles on the touch screen.
  In teams of game play Pokmon has not changed much in the last 10 or so years you battle using 
 your Pokmon against other Pokmon and have them fight till one is left standing. if you played 
 Pokmon Ruby/Sapphire you will remember Pokmon contests where you show off you Pokmon in contests 
 to win prizes the contests are mildly amusing but are not nearly as prominent as the battles. The 
 story in Pokmon Diamond/Pearl ( or lack there of ) is largely the same as still have a rival through 
 the game and you still have to take down Evil villains that use Pokmon for EVIL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. 
 Pokmon Diamond and Pokmon Pearl have next to no differences the differences are
  
  
  SLIGHTLY different Pokmon ( that is all )
  Time wise with Pokmon D/P your millage may vary 
 if you just want to beat the elite 4 you will be done in about 20-35 hours if you want to do everything 
 that will take 400+ hours.
  
  To wrap things up pokemon D/P is still a solid and fun game but if you want a big change to the 
 series this is not it. But if you want a great portable RPG lock no further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodchip50
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Despite every single pokemon game having similar attributes and identical formats there is alway 
 something different about each one - execpt when comparing two from the same series e. g. silver/gold.
 
  
  Whats different in this one?
  There is a lovely addition of 3D graphics to the normal view, obviously the advantages of the DS 
 over GBA so wifi touch screen
  and as ever NEW POKEMON
  
  What are the dissapointments?
  there is little to do on the touch screen : ( shame as i love the 
 idea... still event only pokemon... annoying new HM 'defog' which de-fogs the area - useless at least 
 flash offered lowering accuracy but this just makes it a little easier to see the opponent... woop-a-de-doo
 
  
  anyway
  the storyline is in my opinion the best so far - although i cannot remember much about the others, 
 however it is very similar to ruby/saffire.
  I love the wifi trading system and this one is definitly the one which keeps the fun most alive 
 even after the storyline is over. 
  
  little more to say other than point out that this game offers a much better chance to fill the 
 pokedex so thats good :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 3D environments. Over 100 new Pokemon. You can transfer your Pokemon from your GBA game 
 to your DS game card. Online play.
  
  The Bad: Online play has some unnecessary constraints. The formula is EXACTLY the same as it was 
 since Generation I. Graphics are mostly 2D, and the Pokemon sprites don't look much better (in 
 some cases worse) than the GBA games. The new Pokemon are horribly unintriging. The unforgivably 
 sluggish pacing of battles takes some time getting used to.
  
  --
  
  Essentially more of the same, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is a sequel of sorts to the monster Pokemon 
 franchise. While the formula remains completely unchanged (even after a decade) , there are plenty 
 of new Pokemon and new features to keep Pokefanatics busy for quite some time.
  
  Sadly, this generation of Pokemon RPGs has got to be the weakest yet. What made earlier games in 
 the series so great were the adorable and exciting new Pokemon. There are hardly ANY Pokemon in 
 this generation (if any) that I actually like. Even the event Pokemon Darkrai, Shaymin and Arceus 
 look really, really, REALLY... bland, and NONE of the legendaries in this game could hold a candle 
 to the sheer coolness of those from previous generations (such as Mew, Lugia, Celebi and the legendary 
 dogs) .
  
  While there are some significant enhancements which make the Pokemon games even more accessible 
 than ever, sadly this games simply feels like a heartless cash-in on the popular franchise. Not 
 to say it's a bad game, but it's a far cry from the nostalgic value and replayability of previous 
 games in the series. I have very fond memories of my experiences with the Red/Blue, Gold/Silver 
 (and to a far lesser extent) and Ruby/Sapphire games, but this game was extremely forgettable, 
 as you can't shake off the feeling of deja vu considering how similar this game was to previous 
 titles in the series.
  
  You begin the game in yet another miniscule town without any noteworthy monuments, and you and 
 your rival embark on a short journey in pursuit of the Red Gyarados from G/S/C only to be ambushed 
 by Starlys. And... surprise surprise... a new professor seems to have left behind his briefcase, 
 which just happened to contain three new starter Pokemon, each one embodying one of the three core 
 starter types (Grass/Water/Fire) . I thought the starters in this generation were the blandest yet, 
 and I chose Piplup as it was the only cute/cool one of the three.
  
  Once again, you begin the game as a n00b Pokemon trainer who is in the running to challenge the 
 Pokemon league. There are 8 new gym leaders, and yet another Pokemon League challenge to muster. 
 And no Pokemon game would be complete without a team of antagonists (in this case, Team Galactic) .
 
  
  Battles are almost exactly the same as they were before. Turn-based with no sprite animations in 
 battles (apart from the two-frame introductory animation that was introduced in Pokemon Crystal) , 
 however, some subtle changes have been made to battles (such as new physical/special/other moves) , 
 and some alterations to some familiar moves (for instance, the move surf now affects ALL Pokemon 
 in a 2-on-2 battle, except the user) .
  
  The online portion of the game is a huge letdown for me. While the GTS (Global Trade Station) is 
 nicely implemented, it's a huge bummer that players can only battle with those registered in their 
 "pal pads" (rather than being randomly assigned an opponent who meets a certain criteria) . For 
 that reason, I've avoided online battling as it's a headache I'd rather do without. Trading also 
 takes forever as I had to sit through a completely superfluous 30-second long animation EVERY time 
 I traded. Why Gamefreak would want to test our patience like this is beyond me. I've noticed an 
 increased sluggishness with each and every generation of Pokemon, so I'd hate to imagine how much 
 worse it would be come next generation.
  
  All in all, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl was an enjoyable game while it lasted, and it should provide 
 players with over 100+ hours of gameplay for those who are in pursuit of "catching them all", although 
 more casual players will only be find themselves playing for around 30-50 hours, which isn't bad 
 in and of itself. Of course the game would be over much quicker if the game had not been so damn 
 sluggish.
  
  If Gamefreak expects the series to wow fans over the years to come, they need to abandon the formula 
 of the RPGs and try something a little different. I'm getting a little bored playing the same game 
 with a few superficial upgrades over 3 years. Even a new story would be a nice change of pace.
 
  
  Graphics - 7
  Good, but it's not much of an improvement over previous games in the series. Initially, I was expecting 
 a 3D game. Maybe next generation.
  
  Sound - 7
  The new Pokemon cries sound really nice, although the cries of the earlier 380 or so Pokemon have 
 been recycled from the GB/GBC/GBA games, so expect the older Pokemon to sound... well, crappy.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay is as addictive as ever, albeit the game isn't nearly as memorable as previous games 
 in the series.
  
  Value - 9
  With over 40 hours of gameplay, and over 100 hours for those playing online and/or in pursuit of 
 "catching them all", this game is a good buy.
  
  Tilt - 5
  Same old, same old. This game doesn't really bring anything new to the series at all. You'll have 
 a much better time playing the Gameboy oldies.
  
  Overall Rating : 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydromaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I have played Pokmon games like Gold and Sapphire since I was young, and they are great. Although 
 I did not think that they would be able to create more than 365 Pokmon, and now they have like 
 over 400. Pearl was not as great as I thought it would be, but then again most games are like that. 
 Over all, pearl was worth the money, and can keep you busy even after you beat the elite four. 
 Pearl is a great game, and I would definitely recommend you get it, especially if you have play 
 some of the other Pokmon games.
  
  Other Stuff
  
  Lots of new legendaries 
  
  Wi-Fi isn't have bad, if you have tons of friends
  
  Graphics are excellent for a Pokmon game
 
  
  Saving takes long if you deposit or take out a Pokmon
  
  Can connect with Battle Revolution for the Wii
  
  Allows you to transfer over Pokmon from 
 your GBA Pokmon games
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom712
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  First off, I'll say the bad things to get it out of the way. I think the main character (you) should 
 be able to talk like everyone else in the game. It's like you're always giving them the silent 
 treatment. I also think that you should be able to catch almost all of the pokemon that you need, to 
 complete the national pokedex. I mean, why would you buy more games so you can complete another?
 
  The best thing about this game is that there's something you can do after you beat the main part 
 of the game. There are these three main areas that you can access after you beat it. I would tell 
 you what you can do in them, but that would spoil the surprise. All of the gym leaders, like always, 
 train different types of pokemon. It's sometimes difficult to beat them depending on what types 
 you're raising.
  You're rival is a boy that's a trainer just like you. He wants to beat you everytime he meets you 
 somewhere. It's a never ending rivalry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxX-matt-XxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  You start off in pokemon pearl as a boy or a girl and you go out and battle other trainers and 
 beat them like any other pokemon game, the pokemon DS games have alot more features than the GBA 
 games.
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  What i think is really cool is that you can use the touch srceen in battle to choose your moves 
 and pokemon, this makes battling a little bit more fun than just using the arrow keys like in all 
 the other Game boy/GBA games it also makes it more interactive.
  
  All the things you can do in the pokemon DS games are mindblowing... you can dress your pokemon 
 up in a photo shot and make it look awsome how cool is that?
  
  Your can enter your pokemon into beauty contests and win low ammouts of money! 
  
  You can 
 inport your pokemon from GBA pokemon games such as ruby, emerald, shappire, etc
  
  You can go online using the wifi connection and get your butt kicked by a six year old japeanese 
 kid 
  
  The Graphics
  Pokemon is usually a 2D game but in this game bits are in 3D which is great and makes it that little 
 bit more fun.
  
  
  THE POINTLESS
  
  When Your versing the six year old japanese kid or whoever, you can get voise chat this is just 
 pointless i mean what are you going to say? my pokemons going to beat yours?
  
  Well thats all i can find thats supid in this game therefore i got my moneys worth. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjacobson21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -493 different Pokemon
  -wifi trading and battling
  -excellent replay value
  -Tougher battles require good strategy
  -Good graphics for a Pokemon game
  
  The Bad:
  
 -Story isn't very engaging but at par for Pokemon games
  -Would have been nice to explore Hoenn like you could explore Kanto in Pokemon Gold/Silver/Crystal
 
  
  Having not played Pokemon since the Gold/Silver/Crystal days I decided to pick up Pearl just on 
 a whim because it was on sale. I was instantly reminded why I loved Pokemon games so much. They 
 formula is basically the same, a professor gives you the choice of 3 Pokemon and you set out on 
 an adventure to become the league champion. But the game has over 100 new Pokemon and a complete 
 new area called the Sinnoh region. It would have been real nice if you could explore the Hoenn 
 region from Ruby/Sapphire like you could explore Kanto in Gold/Silver. Unfortunately you can't 
 but it's not that big a deal.
  
  One of the best features is the Wi-fi trading. Early in the game you gain access to the GTS (Global 
 Trading Station) which always you to trade Pokemon all around the world. Although your searching 
 restrictions are limited (you can only search by Pokemon, gender and level) it gets the job done 
 nicely.
  
  With so many Pokemon to collect, the replay value is excellent. To date I have over 100 hours of 
 play time and I'm not even close to getting bored of it.
  
  In conclusion, this is the best Pokemon game I have ever played. It's got enough old elements to 
 feel like a genuine Pokemon game and enough new elements to not feel repetitive and boring. I highly 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgfytr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I would just say: "Wow" to this game because of it's great graphics and music. It's 3-D realistic 
 action makes you feel right in the game, and so does the music. It's one of the world's best RPGs 
 and definitely one of the top 5's on my list.
  The creatures that inhabitant the land of Pokemon are not just cute, but tough. Though some of 
 the Pokemon could have gotten better work, the Pokemon Company did great in making the new and 
 improved Pokemon in this game. Not only that, but they had a revamp of EVERY single Pokemon yet 
 and added female and male versions to them! The graphics are a big 10 and the game is an absolutely 
 great view.
  The music in this game are very well selected and make the game become real. The music goes great 
 with the maps and towns and routes, and before you know it, you'll be humming it everywhere! The 
 sounds that the Pokemon aren't that perfect, but still best in the series.
  The difficulty is really simple for you people who got a 3rd grade education, but don't worry about 
 buying this game if you're younger. You need a thorough understanding of English (if you don't, 
 then you shouldn't have gotten this far in my review) , and some simple logic.
  Anyways, I recommend this game for first time game counsel buyers and for all you Pokemon fans 
 who just got a DS. One thing that draws this Pokemon game from being the best is that once you've 
 done everything there is to do, you'll probably put it in a bin to collect dust. It doesn't have 
 great replay value, but that's nothing to worry about now. This is definitely a keeper even if 
 you don't like Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucariokid1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  If you want to ever get in to pokemon then this would be a good start. The game is fun and also 
 is the best pokemon game to date as well as diamond. But it is not just once you've completed the 
 Pokemon league you put it down to collect dust there is more tasks as a trainer you have to complete. 
 But thats not all there is now 493 pokemon many new ones (107 if you want to be smart) that ar so 
 cool. Some of the new ones that have evolved from the games like leaf green and fire red. Thats 
 not all theres even new ways to evolve your little critters. Also there are some pokenmon making 
 a come back from the games gold and silver.
  Pokemon pearl/Diamond has been made with nintendo's new wifi network which is used very well on 
 the game. The only problem would be you can only online battle people you have obtained the friend 
 codes for. You now have access to pokemon which cant be caught in the game you have, but you can 
 now get them with the online trading network.
  All the gameplay through out the course of collecting badges and defeating team Galactic is fun 
 and doesnt need a hardcore gamer to complete the game.
  I would recomend this game to anyone who wants to start playing pokemon game or is just a fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drake1004
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  When I'm first playing, I was shocked 3D graphics in the pokemon series? Second shock was, when 
 I look for battle, I observe very good animation and nice 2D graphics. Again merged in pokemon 
 trainer. We got a new 100 pokemon and new start. Third pokemons which, we choose is: Turtwig (Grass) , 
 fire monkey and water penguin. Also added the new item, tm i hm. On the touch screen DS, we can 
 fight, catch and use pokemons. Very good solution is poketch, that is watch, calculator and have 
 2 functions which i don't get name. Is a new 8 gym leaders. Pokemon Pearls is nothing faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Pokemon series had be going for years, still popular for young children or if you still have the 
 heart of an child you still like pokemon. Now you can able too caught more pokemon and newer ones 
 as well. Different gym leaders to beat, new badges to get. Still has the same music, classic such 
 as pokeballs, bike. Now you have newer stuff, to do as well in pokemon. But this is still the same 
 as the old one, collecting and trading pokemon trying to fill your pokedex. Now new team rocket 
 to get a poweful pokemon. This game is good, cute for younger children. After a while this game 
 will get boring or tring beacause you will do the same as before but more update for the pokemon. 
 Now you can wi-fi as well to trade with other friends or other people. Still worth it, if you like 
 this game then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom66
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the same ole pokemon that the fans of the series has grown to love. Dispite the 
 fact your doing the same thing your doing in alllll the other games in the series, it some how 
 adds just enough to make you keep coming back for more. With a large variety of things to do, pokemon 
 to capture, and online play Pokemon pearl delievers on every level.
  
  Battleing remains the same. Take turns choosing attacks untill you or your opponents pokemon has 
 fallen. Iv always found that this system lacks any strategy. It is a major turnoff to the game 
 because it just adds to the repetitiveness of the game.
  
  Online play would be fun... if you had the ability to battle trainers around the world without haveing 
 to have there fc (friend code) . Altho you do have the ability to trade with trainers all over the 
 world. 
  
  The game itself is pretty long. i put in 10 hours and only had 3 badges. I guess this could be 
 good or bad depending on if you like longer games over shorter ones.
  
  But it seems that the pokemon series is going to suffer the same fate as the show. People are going 
 to eventually get bored of going to a place, Battling trainers on the way, get to a gym, battle, 
 get badge. over and over and over again. If the pokemon series was to get a storyline makeover 
 i believe that the game would become alot better in terms of repetitiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kid_buu222
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is like others grab a pokemon take it on a long journey and catch others and raise a perfect 
 team of pokemon to take them online. you now have 493 pokemon to choose from and a lot of people 
 to battle in and outside the game which makes the game just as fun as any other pokemon game for 
 the gameboy colour, SP ,and DS
  but the people who say ''been thier done that'' NO BUDDY GIVES A DAMN ABOUT YOUR OPINON . they 
 dont change it because it just to good to be changed . 
  
  
  but in the end the game is really fun and worth playing and pokemon games like pearl, diamond, 
 fire red, leaf green ,and emerald and all other games are real fun to play and plus you need some 
 of them to unlock other pokemon in diamond and pearl and none of that ranger crap or recue team. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxapollo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Another fun adventure in the world of Pokemon. As always, there are some new twists to keep you 
 on your toes, along with an array of new capturable Pokemon to add to your team. The new Pokemon 
 for the most part are just further explorations of the sorts of themes that have been seen in Pokemon 
 from previous editions, whether we are talking about new evolutions or baby-forms. Some of the 
 new characters are more unique in what they bring to the table for battles. The type-system seems 
 to be getting even more balanced as time goes on, which is a good thing. Any gamer who has been 
 around since Blue/Red/Green wiil remember the huge imbalance of power between certain types of 
 Pokemon and the rest. Graphically, there are no major changes to the look of the series, just a 
 cleaner look with some nice in-battle animations. New Wi-fi features allow for a much more interesting 
 and usable Pokemon trading system. As always, the game experience can range from mild amusement 
 to an in-depth addiction depending on how actively you engage the in-game world. If you liked other 
 Pokemon games, you'll probably like this one too. Newcomers to the series will have no problems 
 getting into it, as the interface is as user-friendly as always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  pokemon has always been a great gameboy game with hours of playtime. but after so many games, and 
 the fact it is now on the nintendo ds, you would think they would try to do somthing new, other 
 than new pokemon. dont get me wrong, its still a great game but if you have played the other pokemon 
 games already, you not missing anything.
  
  the touch screen feature is limited in its use. it just lets you use some of the basic features 
 of the game. locating items for instance or selecting pokemon in or out of battle. but they did 
 a great job with the pokedex feature on the touch screen. they could have used to make use of the 
 touchscreen with the attacks, like new attacks or somthing.
  
  other wise it is a well put together game for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SJOmofo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  The game has u controlling a boy who sets off to beat all the gym leaders and beat the elite 4 
 like all the other games, with wi-fi u can make this game last u a year. 
  Even after beating the elite 4 there is the battle tower and battle park which lengthen out the 
 game and give the chance to catch more legends. There is also another feature called pal park where 
 u have the chance to catch pokemon that u have from the other games, which I found very useful. 
 Overall the game will last u a long time and is very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manaphy490
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  im soo addicted to that game its alot of fun to do soo many things i think im living there ive 
 never felt bored from it its sooo addicting
  wifi with pokemon soo fun the best game online and soo many ppl says that 
  pokemon always done 
 the best 
  its hard only in battle tower so hard and fun everytime u beat 7 trainers u will get some bps and 
 evertime u battle they will be stronger i just love that thing 
  its nice for girls cuz it got some girls pokemon like purugly and others 
  and it spink good 
 for girls 
  i played this game more than 410 hours i told u i live in that game lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon pearl is on of my favorite games for the DS. The reason why it is my favorite is because 
 of the gaphics and all the stuff you can do and all the new pokemon and how you can us Wi-Fi and 
 how you can leval up all the pokemon and just beatin down other people in the game and how all 
 the new pokemon look like and this is just a very addicting game for any one to play. I reccamond 
 any one who likes pokemon to get this game because you dont wanna miss out on this game this one 
 is for all the girls because its pearl!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadraxis1809
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Great game all i have got to say. the new monsters and all existing pokemon add up to break bread 
 at an amount of exactly 493 species. first of all Pkmn Pearl offers the best or if not one of the 
 best RPG experiences on the nintendo DS with magnificent replay value with it. i mean i already 
 have clocked in at about almost 400 hours played the most ive played any game besides super smash 
 bros. basically pearl is a good game for the pokemaniac in all of us to catch raise and train pokemon. 
 this installment in the pokemon series is the BEST out of all the games released hands down with 
 a lengthy but "been there done that" style of game progression but even so the game feels fresh 
 with all the wacky music in to go with the pokemon battles. Good game and even better good playing 
 experience, that final fantasy series has NOTHING on pokemon. NOTHING!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  When Pokemon Pearl appeared at shops, I knew what I must do. So, I bought it. The game is cool. 
 You can travel everywhere in Sinnoh (Hokkaido) , you can have any Pokomen in all 4 generations (at 
 the beginning of the story when 2 Pokemon attacks the main character and his friend, you must choose 
 one of the 3 Pokemon (4th generation) in the briefcase and your friend same) . Also, like in every 
 Pokemon game there are the BADGES, the ELITE FOUR and the CHAMPION. In this game, there are 8 badges 
 (first 4 leaders which gives you the badges are easy to defeat in my opinion) , 4 elites (those 
 are the most difficult Pokemon trainers to beat, except the CHAMPION) and of course one champion 
 (this is the most difficult to beat) . The game is cool, but they could improve the graphics. So, 
 this game is recommended to any person who likes RP and Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rpgfightgamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Some things I would like to point out is I am irritated with the fact is that it does not go double 
 region like Gold and Silver. I also would like a longer storyline to keep me very busy apart from 
 collecting several monsters for countless hours. 
  
  However, I DID enjoy collecting new pokemon, even though some take HOURS to catch, I found the 
 new gyms an interesting new challenge, the new enemy, Team Galatica, I find very serious compared 
 to their predecessors. 
  
  Still, Game Freak should try something new with Pokemon. I most highly adivse to make it similar 
 to Gold and Silver (region wise, not story wise) and have more regional pokemon to catch (running 
 into the same old pokemon is bound to get old too) . Also, when trading pokemon, we should trade 
 back instead of having a one way ticket to no return. 
  
  Nevertheless, diehards are most welcome to play. 
  
  I found it addicting, crisp, classy, and 
 something worth the wait. But I still suggest a total upgrade. 
  
  Which is why I give it a high 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmaster823
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  when you look at Pokemon Diamond it is great until you get everything you can without using any 
 cheats. Afterwards it is a train and be bored game, heck it sat on my wall for nearly a month gathering 
 dust. The game content is great but like the whole world. Say that the game ends way too soon, 
 afterwards all you can do (after elite 4 and the champion) is get some strange island you can go 
 to big deal! you cant even get a rematch with the gym leaders like in emerald! 
  
  
  well i said what i could ones you beat the game dont send any pokemon over from other games. (re. 
 pal park) just play the game againg and againg till you get bored.
  
  hey if you want to kill time this is the best game for you!!!
  
  later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Not one of the better games as for story and how big the landscape is. Graphics havn't changed 
 much, and the battle scenes are a bit better. What makes this game worth it is the WiFi. Trading, 
 battling, and all around kewl ability. The GTS (global trade station) is an awsome way to collect 
 pokemon you don't have, only you've had to have seen them. The Migrating feature is a real relief, 
 even though you can only get 6 a day, it's easy to fill your pokedex, which also has some neat 
 features. The touch screen is a cool way to get things done, with clocks, maps, charts, item finder, 
 berry locations, drawing pad, and more put into it if you talk to enough people. There are alot 
 more tms in this game, so more moves. Theres also a kewl thing were u can make your pokemons ball 
 cooler when it comes out with like fire and ice and stuff coming out. The KEWLIEST MONSTER EVER 
 is in this game, Darkrai is the most awsome thing ever. The legendarys are awsome in this game, 
 you can get the event monsters from people over WiFi also, so you don't have to wait. Overall I 
 gave it 10 stars because it's a fun and time consuming game, even after the story. So go buy a 
 copy and join the fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  not much to say it's a good game but it's downfall and it's rising is that it it's exactly like 
 the other games the touch screen wasn't really useful and it takes a lot of time and it's partially 
 boring and at some points you get stuck andthe fact that you can't battle random players online 
 bring it down on the bright side 100+ new pokemon, new moves, it has wi-fi, and you can migrate pokemon 
 from recent pokemon games so all in all it's a really good game but you mostly need patience to 
 play it because it takes time to play but it's worth playing especially for fans of the series! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weirdly-Dead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  We all know of the day's back in the 90's when we all had a Gameboy and the game in it most of 
 the time was ether Pokemon: Red or Pokemon: Blue.
  (Pokemon "A. K. A.: Pocket Monsters" came from a manga over sea's that followed the adventure's of 
 Red and Blue two Pokemon Trainer's aiming to be the best)
  But now it is 2007 and a new age of Pokemon is here the Diamond/Pearl age of gaming! (Oh Snap!!!)
 
  We all know what Pokemon was like on the Gameboy color right?
  Well that's all changed the plot has changed a bit and there are now some new toy's to play with 
 in the never ending realm of Pokemon!
  The best feature of these title's are that the grapic's are updated to a more 3D look and there 
 are now well over 450 pokemon.
  (How ever to optain most of the legendary Pokemon you must go to event's like the manaphy event 
 that was at Toy's R Us a while back)
  Now for the leveling it is alot more fun to do with all the new Pokemon there are also new starter's 
 (We dont realy like them but dont tell them)
  Chimchar Piplup and Turtwig are the new starter Pokemon of these title's.
  You may choose one 
 of them and level them up to help you catch more pokemon.
  Now for the lenth it will take you about 80+ hour's to beat the game with all the pokemon and legendary's.
 
  (Some pokemon can only be optained using the transfer feature of the Nintendo DS with Ruby/Sapphire)
 
  But that is were online play come's in line yes I said it online gameplay!
  You can now battle and trade your Pokemon over Nintendo Wi-Fi.
  For getting some Pokemon you 
 will have to go to the Global Trade Center in one of the town's of Pokemon: Diamond/Pearl to trade 
 for Pokemon from ether version.
  There are exclusive Pokemon to each edition that are only optained in the edition and the over 
 person that own's the other edition has to trade Pokemon for it.
  "Final Comments: This is the best Nintendo has made so far but it's just the same thing you played 
 along time ago so if you are one of those Catch em All type's or just looking for a nice long lasting 
 RPG then Pokemon: Diamond/Pearl are the way to go have fun poke'fans!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  A new threat is rising in Sinnoh region, where Team Galactic tries to take over the world. To do 
 this they intend to use pokmons. You start as a novice pokmon trainer from Twinleaf Town and 
 its up to you to stop Team Galactics evil plans. Thats about it in terms of story, but Pokmon 
 games are not played because of their interesting story.
  
  Graphics are not good and it looks like that aside the touch screen features this game could have 
 been produced on the GBA as well as on the DS. Battle animations are the same as they have always 
 been, but DS can do much better than this. On the positive side I must say that the weather effects 
 outside battle looks really good. Also there are no frame rate issues what so ever.
  
  Music reminds me of those classic NES Mega Man games, but this time it gets irritating and boring 
 to listen to the music after 15 to 20 hours or so. I often found myself playing without a sound. 
 There are no voice acting in this game aside from individual pokmons sound effects, which are 
 usually mechanic and terrible. DS can produce much better music and sound than what Pokmon Pearl 
 has to offer.
  
  On the audiovisual perspective I personally enjoyed Spectrobes much better than Pokmon.
  
 
  Gameplay in Pokmon Pearl is exploration and there are eight different pokmon Gym Leaders located 
 in different towns. It is your job to find and defeat them in order to win their Gym Badges and 
 progress further on your quest. Structure is basically the same as in Zelda or Metroid. Its clear 
 and works just fine.
  
  Save System is great: you can save anytime anywhere outside of battle. When you later decide to 
 continue you will notice that the game starts at the same place where you ended and as a bonus 
 you get to see a page from your journal in case you dont remember what happened last time.
  
  It takes around 40 to 50 hours to play through the campaign, but I finally quit because of 
 boredom after 38 hours. Gameplay gets way too repetitive especially during battles, where you need 
 to watch the same stiff animations over and over again in order to proceed. It should not take 
 more than 15 to 20 hours to play this kind of game through.
  
  There is also Wi-Fi and multiplayer features, but I never got over the single player mode to get 
 a really good look about what that mode had to offer.
  
  Pokmon Pearl has a ton of gameplay and lots of features, but in the ends it was way too long and 
 repetitive experience for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archais121
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  It is interesting and fun they new storyline is good and the legendary new pokemon rock but it 
 has major downfalls. First POKEMON IS GETTING REPITIVE... Beat 8 gyms then the elite four but you 
 say its always been like that and its fun like that sure cant fic what aint broken but come on. 
 Crystal gold and silver were fun since you could go to Kanto and Johto... I miss Johto. Why not 
 make a game like that..... I mean Nintendo do you really expect me to plug in a new game into a 
 GBA since GB games dont work on the DS every time I want to go to Johto how 'bout come up with 
 a game with Kanto Johto Sinnoh etc. and if it cant fit all that into a game then split it up. Pokemon 
 has so much Potential but im so tired of the reptiveness. i might not buy the next pokemon if it 
 continues like this.
  
  The gameplay is still fun, 100 new pokemon even though some are the evolved forms of old ones or 
 the pre-evolved forms. But either way pokemon will still be successful and pple will still buy 
 it but a little more difference would be nice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: Wi-Fi! Night and day! Poke Radar! X-Scissor, U-Turn, Bug Buzz! Poffins! Underground! 
 Slathering honey! Shellos! Munchlax!
  
  The Bad: Lazy touch screen... 2D-GBA-like monsters... Poketch... Dressing, dancing... Saving a 
 lot of data... 
  
  The much-awaited 4th generation of Pokemon games arrives. And everything fans expected is here, 
 like trading Pokemon and battling through Wi-Fi connection with real people all around the world, 
 seeing day turn into night and so on with a real-time clock working just like in the GBC, around 
 100 brand new monsters (including new babies) , new ways for the Pokemon to evolve (some of them 
 unpredictable) , and all that stuff we already know (you may like it or not) . But little problems 
 still make the game experience a little tiring.
  As always you start the game in a small town receiving your first Pokemon from a professor, and 
 your adventure goes on as you become a trainer. You must search for new Pokemon species intending 
 to fulfill the Pokedex and also capturing and raising them through battling other trainers to challenge 
 the Gym Leaders and the Elite Four. This story line is still the same since the 1st generation 
 of the series ten years ago, and it has no need for a change; but things evolve, and some little 
 problems were left aside because the developers fear major changes, or just because they are lazy.
 
  What is better in this new generation? Wi-Fi is awesome, but it was almost an obligation for the 
 developers; day turning into night is great (and beautiful) , but they are just apologizing for 
 not including this in the 3rd generation games; splitting all kind of moves in special type or 
 physical type is an important change, and it's a good improvement in battling strategies; good 
 new moves, specially the bug-type ones, because bugs always needed stronger moves; Poke Radar (for 
 Pokemon searching) is cool; digging and seeking other trainers in the Underground is funny; slathering 
 honey in the barks to attract wild Pokemon is great; making Poffins using the touch-screen is a 
 fair step ahead PKBlocks; new interesting berries effects; and East Sea/West Sea Shellos rocks. 
 Almost there?
  There are little things that were supposed to make the game better, but... They just don't work 
 that fine. The graphics in the towns are great, beautiful 3D buildings, etc. but what about the 
 monsters? Why they look just a little better than in the GBA? The Poketch is a good idea, but most 
 of the apps are useless, or buggy. When you're battling other trainer you can just touch the move 
 you want your Pokemon to use; but when you need to know the power or accuracy of a move during 
 the battle you need to enter the Pokemon screen, and then select the moves page. Come on, they 
 have an entire screen to display that info! At least they should put a little info button beside 
 the move button, just like others did in Brain Age's training menu! And why managing items is still 
 annoying when you have a touch screen? I would like to trade items between my Pokemon by just dragging 
 the item here and there, but I need to select Pokemon , item , take , then select other Pokemon 
 , item , give , and search for the item I want to give (it will be in the last position in the 
 list, since it's the last item that entered the bag. And I must roll all the scrollbar over until 
 I can get there) . Simple?
  And other... tiring things. Crossing Mt. Coronet through cave and blizzard is unnecessarily unforgiving... 
 Contests are much less technical than it used to be... Dressing? Dancing? I bet girls like it. 
 Not me. Saving a lot of data... ? Are they kidding me??? And why they need to ask There is already 
 a save file. It is OK to overwrite it? all the time? There is just one save slot! And (last one) 
 it should bring more options to accelerate the battles, just like Advance Wars, for example. I 
 don't like to play a game for about 150 hours and see that 50 hours were spent slowly reading The 
 sandstorm rages. , Roselia is bufetted by the sandstorm! , mumble, mumble. (My suggestion: a system 
 with arrows poping up and down quickly for poison, hail, leech seed, swift swim, etc. At least 
 as an animation option.)
  I think it was my last new Pokemon game. It's good, but it could be much better. Or perfect, maybe? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Your done it again Nintendo create one of the major selling game to an even higher length. Pokemon 
 pearl has it all 2d and 3d graphics great music heaps of new pokemon wi fi connection it has everything 
 and heaps more. Pokemon pearl is a great rpg pokemon fans would love it i can tell you that. The 
 game series is great if you have not heard of this high selling game or played it. it starts of 
 if you want to choose a boy or girl Pokemon trainer you pick then soon you pick your starting pokemon 
 (battle monster) a Pokemon battles to reach a higher level. the game is backwards compatibility 
 too meaning if you have any gba pokemon games you can link them up and trade your Pokemon which 
 is very good seeing as in the last evolution of consoles from the original game boy color you could 
 not trade your pokemon from the game boy color to the game boy advanced but thanks to technology 
 it has been fixed. You can also use your Pokemon on the Nintendo wii if you have pokemon battle 
 revolution you can use your Pokemon to battle over all pokemon pearl is a great rpg full of fun 
 and exciting game play see the evolution of pokemon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertcwm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Greatest Pokemon Game I have ever played in my life. I've caught all 493 Pokemon and have a BLACK 
 trainer card. This game is Awesome for Pokemon fans everywhere in the world. Pokemon Rules! POKEMON 
 RULEZ!
  PoKeMoN RULZ! I i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii iiiib i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: castrolsupra23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at release date. This game is very addicting, I played over 300 hours all throughout 
 the summer of 2007. I played it every hour of the day. I pretty much brought my Ds wherever and 
 whenever I went somewhere. I played in the car, mall, school (before school ended) , etc. This game 
 was just addicting. From the start, it was kind of boring since I didn't have any Pokemon yet but 
 as I progressed it started to become A lot better. After beating the game, I traded a lot of pokemon 
 so that i could build up my collection of rare pokemon like event pokemon or something. I spent 
 over probably 100 hours trading. Then I figured out a way to make my pokemon A lot stronger by 
 EV training and getting the right IV's. At first i didn't know what this meant but I came to find 
 out that Ev training was Extremely useful in Online Competitive Battling. I spent about 150 hours 
 training various pokemon to create the ultimate team which I still have to this day October 19 
 2007 (the day when this review was written) but ever since school started... I haven't had time 
 to play pokemon, and also the hype is over. The Old Pokemon thread used to have 100's of pages 
 but since school started... now the Pokemon thread doesn't exist anymore. Oh well Good times Good 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlygamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The game has better graphics and new pokemon (about 100) for a total of 483 pokemon. The game is 
 for the DS but mainly uses the touch screen for battles and the pokedex, it would have been cool 
 if you could use the touch screen to navigate the start menu but you cant. Still the game is great 
 and while it has basically the same storyline as other pokemon games, the new locations and pokemon 
 make it fun. And with the ability to migrate pokemon from you GBA games (via the GBA slot) and the 
 ability to trade with people via wifi makes it possible to get all the pokemon without owning all 
 the games and it adds replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L8erSquare
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pokemon pearl/diamond does not drift far from the classic pokemon gameplay, which is 
 not a bad thing since it is already a solid and fun gameplay. The single player modes story line 
 and goal flows much like the older games. You start with one of the three starter monsters. The 
 players best friend is your rival, the player still need to get all eight gym badges, defeat the 
 elite four and master to become a pokemon master. There are now well over 400 monsters to collect 
 and build a team of six from to fight by your side not only for the story mode but for the multiplayer 
 modes as well. The multiplayer modes include local trade and battles that are accessible at the 
 nearby pokecenters. However if the players friends are not around or the player just doesnt have 
 any friends the battle tower and global trade station allows them to interact and play with other 
 players from around the world. The Battle tower allows players to fight with or against one another 
 in online single or team battles. The GTS is a great place for players from all around the world 
 to come together and exchange monsters, its a great feature that makes catching them all a little 
 bit easier. Graphics: It has a mix of 2D and 3D graphics. The people and monsters are 2D during 
 and outside of battles and in a 2D world with 3D buildings. It all looks, flows together and is 
 visually appealing. Sound: The music is acceptable and fits the moments and or events that its 
 used in. The attack sounds the monsters make are good as well, however the monsters crys can get 
 a little annoying at times.
  
  Overall view: The game play is enjoyable and there is enough depth and substance to keep the player 
 playing for a long time after the completion of the main story with the addition of the GTS and 
 Battle tower. Also for the more serious competitive gamers there are in depth breeding and leveling 
 techniques using a pokemons nature, behavior, and iv/evs. If you have a DS and enjoy RPGs dont 
 pass this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Boy oh boy, back tot his series again eh? Now as you may or may not have guessed the last few installments 
 in the Pokemon series have been nothing but attempts to cash in on the craze. Now with this being 
 the first Pokemon on their new system, Nintendo knew they had to make a good one again. This is 
 by far the most colorful and easy on the eyes of the series. The sound still hasn't been improved 
 since the original Blue/Red versions unfortunately. The amount of Pokemon to collect in this version 
 is ridiculous. I had a hard time even finding my old favorites from the early games in the series. 
 The story line is very long and should keep you entertained for a good amount of time. There are 
 a lot of little details they put into this version that don't really matter but its adding to the 
 game I guess. I'd say this is a good step forward in the series and I hope they continue this way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderDude14
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  What I got to say, I just absolutely loved this game! One of the best Pokemon games I have ever 
 played my whole life. I think I feel the same for Pokemon Diamond, but out of those two I have 
 only played Pokemon Pearl. I know Pokemon usually take a long time and this one did. I am a great 
 player as I have beaten all eight gym leaders, the Elite Four, and the Champion. I also have obtained 
 nearly every Pokemon available to me by using Pal Park. My strongest Pokemon is at Level 100 and 
 all of my most used Pokemon are above Level 50. The game's graphics are much better than older 
 Pokemon games and battling is better than ever. The game was pretty easy some points, but difficult 
 at other points. I can't wait for the next game if they do make one. I love Pokemon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Finally its taken 4 years 1 month and four days but they've finally done it. They have made a new, 
 real not re make handheld pokemon game. and all that time was worth waiting. This game is what 
 every pokemon fan has been waiting for. (well im not much of a fan but i like the games) I have 
 stuck with pokemon since pokemon blue and I must say this is the best in the series. The graphics 
 are really neat and creative. They are 3D and traditional 2D graphics at the same time. The pokemon 
 drawings look fantastic! Also I was impressed by use of the touch screen, they didnt over-use it 
 maybe a little underused but it was still good. Also, like all pokemon games, it is very very open 
 ended Overall I was impressed by this game.
  
  Then comes the flaws. This game is very hard at times. Sometimes i wonder how they expected us 
 to figure some of these things out. Also unfortunately there are no pidgeys, pidgeyotos, or pidgeyots 
 in this game. They decided to leave out my favorite pokemon! Lastly I hate some of the back tracking. 
 You do have to backtrack just a little in this game.
  
  Overall i recommend this game to any pokemon fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Smash_You_Bro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the only Pokemon game I would pay $1000 dollars to get my hands on. With 493 Pokemon 
 to catch you will be pretty busy just trying to get them all. If you bought Diamond instead you 
 may want to swap it. It not that Diamond isn't good it is just the pokemon you catch like in Pearl 
 you can get pokemon like Palkia, Bagon, and Pinsir. In Diamond you will be catching Dialga, Larvitar, 
 and Scyther. But back to Pearl. The graphics are good for th DS. One new thing in the game is the 
 Poketch which can tell time, show what Pokemon just caught, show the friendship between you and 
 your Pokemon and lots more of stuff. Two new HMs are Rock Climb and Defog. Pokemon Contests are 
 a lot more fun now. You can dance and dress up your Pokemon. The wi-fi connection is cool now you 
 trade and battle against people around the world. Well that is all I have to say there is a lot 
 more to say but I'm Bored of writing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  As the title says, why did they rate Diamond more than Pearl? I mean, Palkia looks WAAAY cooler 
 than Dialga, plus the only thing better in Diamond than Pearl is Rampardos instead of Bastiodon! 
 Anyway, enough criticising the ratings, this game is decent because: Better graphics, especially 
 for Dragon Dance; Cool new Pokemon, including Palkia, Rampardos, and Lucario; Cool new moves, including 
 Roar of Time, Seed Flare, and Dark Void; and also the Pokeradar which you can use to hunt those 
 different-colored Pokemon called shinies. Things that could be altered: Stupid Pokemon including 
 Bidoof, Kricketot/tune, and male Combee; Slow surfing; and more Fire types to the Sinnoh Dex. Well, 
 that's all I've got to say. I hope you enjoyed it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After 4 years of the same old Pokemon, Nintendo has finally revealed the next set and made the 
 first main-series Pokemon games for DS. They are easily the best handheld Pokemon games ever, but 
 still not as good as Colosseum or Gale of Darkness, which I really like despite other opinions 
 out there. There are some neat new 3-D graphics on the environments, but it still retains much 
 of the feel of the old Pokemon games' graphics, which strikes a perfect balance for the graphics. 
 The battle graphics are impressive as well. There are plenty of new features, such as Wi-Fi play 
 (best part of the game!) and importing Pokemon from the GBA games. If you're a Pokemon fan and 
 you don't own this game, you're missing out, no questions asked. If not, you could still give it 
 a shot, but it might not be worth the risk, because Pokemon definitely isn't for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saga_gemini
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, first i want to say that i bought this game, because i do like pokemon, i was kinda bored 
 and because i wanted to try the battles online.
  
  at my the first look i thought this game was cool, the new pokemons, the new trainers, the 3d buildings. 
 but after playing for a while i noticed it was just another pokemon game.
  
  The Good:
  -100 new pokemon
  -new trainers
  -new region
  (you know, the tipical new things that comes 
 out with every pokemon)
  -Wi-Fi
  - THE Underground The Bad:
  - Well there's actually nothing new that can be called original, i mean, this game doesnt even 
 uses the DS touch screen in a fun way, just to do those candy things so the pokemon can do good 
 performance in the contests.
  - the Wi-Fi doesnt let you do random battles, you can only battle with friends that you have exchanged 
 pokemon friend codes, and the only thing that the wi-fi lets you do without friends is trading 
 pokemon in some kind of auction house.
  
  Yeah basically is just another pokemon game, but anyways its still kind of fun and kills time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxkabamm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  It's everything it's hyped up to be... just better! Pokemon Pearl and Diamond prove that Game Freak 
 are doing a better job at the Pokemon games. This is a HUGE step up from Leaf Green and Fire Red 
 which I thought were very impressive.
  
  Any Pokemon lover MUST get Pearl or Diamond.
  
  Some of the new Pokemon names are pretty wild... But I soon got used to that :P.
  
  I was 
 so addicted to it at first that in one day I got to Hearthome from Twinleaf XD. It is a very addictive 
 game. The Pal Park makes this game even more enjoyable as it enables you to be able to play along 
 with your old friends from other GBA games (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Leaf Green and Fire Red) AFTER 
 you beat the Elite Four and Champion and you get the National Dex (To obtain it you must see EVERY 
 Pokemon in Sinnoh (That's 150 species) . I rate it 9.5 out of 10 (9.5/10) .
  
  Thanks for reading my short review :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfatman24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon games have been around for a few years now and they still are fun to play. Pokemon Pearl 
 is the same pokemon game that many of us have been playing for ages. The only differences are a 
 some very nice add-ins and enhanced graphics. One very nice feature was the wireless communication. 
 This enabled players who had the game able to trade pokemon with another player without buying 
 a link cable. A player could simply press a few buttons and the two ds machines would be connected 
 for battles, trading, or communication. Some more features include communication with distant friends 
 using wireless internet and trading pokemon with people across the world, however with both of 
 these their area few restrictions.
  When you communicate with your friends that have the game you must have a friends code. You are 
 not able to look up the name of the person and find them. Another problem is if you have no other 
 way of communicating with them then it is pointless. You must both be on wifi at the same time. 
 A player should be able to send a message to a distance friend so if they are playing they will 
 get the message and head to wifi center. I found out a player could trade pokemon across the world 
 on the new pokemon ds game. Truth is that it is crap. You can only trade for pokemon that you have 
 seen. So you cannot trade any pokemon that are from the original games unless you have the original 
 game or if you have some how seen it. I would have loved to have a magmar, jynx, or electabuzz 
 but no, I HADN'T SEEN THEM BEFORE.
  
  Overall the game is still the same. Start with one pokemon, catch new pokemon, get badges, catch 
 the legendary pokemon, and then the elite four. Also you can never forget that annoying tunnel 
 that is right before the elite four. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titiembe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was like the only reason I got a DS LOL! No, really. Well the game was very addictive (this 
 counts for both Pearl and Diamond cuz I'm too lazy to write a review for both) . So over a hundred 
 new Pokemon, which is good. For the first time I had trouble memorizing all there names I guess 
 I am starting to grow out of Pokemon lol. So anyway yeah the DS makes it better, but barely, I 
 mean it could've done without. It uses it for the little watch thing that has multiple uses and 
 to blend poffins. The Pokemon Contests are also a ton better in my opinion. The game takes awhile 
 to beat, but not that long as much as you need to get addicted to play more I guess. So, pretty 
 good Pokemon game. Lived up to all the hype at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billy2by4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I think everyone should know by now that this series has been going on pretty long now. And the 
 shows don't really seem very good. But pokemon the diamond and pearl games make up for it. As usual 
 there are different pokemon in each game. They also made some updates. First and most obvious is 
 the graphics. Each pokemon game before this had basic 2-d graphics and it looked good, but now 
 the new graphics are amazing. Everything is 3-D, buildings your character, other people, the trees, 
 and everything else is 3-D that they should have. Not only that, but there is much more pokemon 
 which makes the game harder, but more fun. First you have to SEE all 150 sinnoh pokemon, which 
 is not all that hard, but then once you do that, you have to catch all 462 (i think thats how many 
 there are) pokemon. They also added a place called palpark, which is south of sandgem by surfing 
 then east. If you have one of the older games, you can bring those pokemon to either diamond or 
 pearl using palpark. You have to have seen all 150 sinnoh pokemon to do this. You then get park 
 balls that are like master balls to catch the pokemon. This helps out a lot. But a small way to 
 make money and to get another pokemon (2 if you have both diamond and pearl) is by going to the 
 underground. To go there you have to speak to the old man is eterna city to the east of the galactic 
 building. He will give you a tutorial on how to do digging, make a base, even to go down there. 
 When your there you can dig up spheres to trade with the hikers down there for traps (for outside) , 
 and stuff for your base. But when you get to your base, you should notice that you have tons of 
 big boulders around your base. The way to get rid of these and in turn put in more goods, you have 
 to have a friend and steal their flag. You will be able to learn more if you talk to others around 
 the old mans house. So, if you either just got a DS, or your a pokemon fan but don't know if you 
 will like it, get and should probably be one of your favorite games for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farting_Buddah
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows about the pokemon franchise, and just about everyone has played at least one of 
 the games. It has evolved over the years, but does Pok&eacute; mon Pearl live up to the high quality 
 standards set by red, blue and yellow? Frankly, it doesn't, but it tries pretty hard.
  
  Gameplay: Pokemon Pearl sticks to the decade-old formula. You start in a small town, meet a professor, 
 and get your first Pok&eacute; mon. You then go out and catch other Pok&eacute; mon while beating 
 gym leaders. The game takes place in a mountainous area called Sinnoh, which in comparison to other 
 regions is actually quite large.
  
  I have always liked the saying 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it', but in this case it simply doesn't 
 apply. I was expecting a few new features, considering the DS's dual screens and stylus, but there 
 is very little. And what is there feels extremely tacked-on and gimmicky. For example, whilst battling, 
 you have the option to use the touch screen to select your next move. It's fun for a while but 
 it grows stale very quickly.
  
  All of these pitfalls cause Pearl to get boring very quickly - you'll feel as though you're playing 
 through the GBA games all over again. It is still entertaining, but it doesn't have as much of 
 an impact as the earlier games did.
  
  The main redeeming feature is the Wi-Fi play. I won't go into too much detail, but it is a great 
 system to use.
  
  This pushes the score from a 6.5 to an 8.0.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a pretty decent feature of Pok&eacute; mon Pearl. All of the overworld 
 sprites are two dimensional, yet most of the scenery is three dimensional. This gives it a Paper 
 Mario-esque feel. When you get into the mountainous regions of Sinnoh, the three dimensional effect 
 becomes very apparent - it's very layered unlike previous regions, which remained quite flat.
 
  
  It's not all daisies, though - the new Pok&eacute; mon simply don't cut it. There are a few standouts, 
 but most of them seem to be either bland new ones or bland makeovers of old Pok&eacute; mon. The 
 main problem is that many of them are unneeded evolutions of older species that seem to only be 
 there to fill up the pokedex. The battle sprites of the Pok&eacute; mon themselves look decent at 
 least, as they are much clearer than those of the previous generations.
  
  I'll give the graphics section a score of 7.5.
  
  Sound: The music at first seems pretty decent, 
 but when compared to that of other titles for the DS, it takes a nose dive. The compositions are 
 great, but the music itself sounds quite lifeless. The cries of the newer Pok&eacute; mon are simply 
 stunning, however - instead of sounding like a group of beeps, bird pokemon sound like they are 
 tweeting. It would have been nice if the developers had have reprised old cries, because the first 
 generation Pok&eacute; mon still sound exactly like they did in red blue and yellow.
  
  I'll give sound a 7.
  
  Value: In every other Pok&eacute; mon game I have played, I have continued 
 to train my monsters after I have defeated the elite four. In this outing however, I haven't had 
 the urge to do so.
  
  For a game I payed $70AUD for, I would have expected a lot more than an older game with better 
 graphics, sound and a few gimmicks, which is essentially what I got.
  
  I'll give this section a 6.
  
  Overall, I wouldn't bother with the game unless you intend to 
 play Wi-Fi with it. The system is amazing.
  
  It may seem like I'm being harsh after reading other reviews, and I can see why. But in all honesty, 
 it is not all it's cracked up to be. Don't get me wrong, though: It is a fun game while it lasts, 
 but don't expect to have fun with it for more than a month or two, unless you play Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper9-07
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl may be easy, but it's definetly one of the best in the series. Mainly features like 
 migration, Wi-Fi, the storyline, and the new pokemon make this game worth buying. The legendaries 
 like Giratina, Heatran, Rotom, etc. makes the storyline better. Even once you beat the pokemon 
 league, you have more of a storyline to follow at the Fight Area. During that, you can do the Rotom 
 and Cressilia event. Even if you don't like pokemon, there's a chance that you will after this 
 game. This game is basically flawless in every way, and it stands out by giving the pokemon series 
 a good name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameroz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has improve alot with this game the graphics and the gameplay is amazing the battle scene 
 still the same but looks little different and with new moves. the trainers and the gym leaders 
 are more challenaging then in the other versions in pokemon but one thing about the gym leaders 
 is that there is no fire gym leader which i was suprise about .New towns are amazing and there 
 are few more caves as well. the only thing that this version doesn't have that gold and silver 
 had was the phone but this version didn't need it because it had something better which makes the 
 game more good. Here is one thing i have to say about the lengendary pokemon Palkia when you go 
 after Palkia do not use your masterball because you can catch it first try with a ultra ball. It 
 still has the battle tower which is good because you'll want to go in there and battle as much 
 as trainers as you can so you can fill in your pokedex but you'll have to beat the elite 4 which 
 is not that hard at all i beated them with pokemon less then level 58 but you must and i mean must 
 bring some max potion full restore max revive full heal the important stuff because without it 
 you'll end up losing and have to start all over again which will suck unless your pokemon are over 
 level 60 then you should have no problem with the elite 4 but anyways this game is worth playing 
 and you'll like it better then the other versions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon. When the word hits the ears of any child or teenager alike, it's most likely to spawn 
 a reaction that most other games cannot. It's a 10+ year old game series created by none other 
 than Nintendo (dubbed The Pokemon Company ) , and its success has remained high for over a decade. 
 It's also a franchise that has brought forth an anime series, movies, merchandise, events, and 
 much more. Pokemon Pearl continues the Pokemon tradition by delivering a satisfying RPG adventure 
 game that can easily satisfy the needs of most gamers.
  
  What is exactly is Pokemon? Pokemon (short for Pocket Monster ) are creatures that inhabit the 
 planet's lands along with animals and humans. People who catch Pokemon are known as Pokemon trainers. 
 Most gamers will know exactly what Pokemon is because of its insanely huge popularity in both the 
 U. S. A. and Japan. The games' formula is fairly simple: find your way from town to town, while accomplishing 
 RPG elements such as delivering eggs and items, catch Pokemon and level them up by defeating other 
 Pokemon, and then defeat the Pokemon gym leader in each town. Your main goal is to defeat the gym 
 leader in each town and progress into the Pokemon League in which you must defeat the Elite 4 (4 
 difficult trainers and their Champion) to become the Champion. While many RPG twists are found 
 in the game (talking to trainers and battling them, fishing, finding items) , the game's main objective 
 is to catch as many Pokemon as you can and level them up to be as powerful as they can be. While 
 traveling from city-to-city, you can battle other trainers' Pokemon and defeat wild Pokemon (found 
 in grass, water, caves, etc.) to level up your own Pokemon. There are 493 different Pokemon, 100 
 new ones from the GBA games to this game. The game's entire combat system is turn-based (TBS, also 
 known as a turn-based strategy game) . When a Pokemon KOs another Pokemon, it receives Experience 
 Points, points that are added to a bar. When the bar gets filled, they may level up to another 
 level. Each Pokemon can be leveled up to level 100, at that point in which they cannot be trained 
 anymore. When Pokemon achieve higher levels, their stats are recalculated to a higher number. There 
 are 6 different stats, those being HP, Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed. 
 HP is how much health the Pokemon has. Attack (Physical Attacks) is a crucial partake in the calculation 
 of the damage the Physical attack of a Pokemon can do. Defense (Physical Defense) is an important 
 part of the calculation of physical damage that the Pokemon can receive. Special Attack and Special 
 Defense are the same as Attack and Defense, except they are special, non-physical attacks. Finally, 
 Speed determines which Pokemon attacks first. Natures are also random moods that determine certain 
 pros and cons of stats of a Pokemon.
  
  Each Pokemon also has a Type and a moveset. A Pokemon's moveset is limited to 4 moves, each having 
 different accuracy (chance of hitting) , base power (part of the calculation of damage) and a type. 
 Types (examples being Water, Grass Ice, Fire, Dragon) are classified for each Pokemon and each 
 attack move. Each type has its weaknesses and its resistances. Weaknesses (like pitting Fire against 
 Water) do less damage, while Resistances and super effective attacks (like pitting Fire against 
 Ice) do more damage. Also, when Pokemon are trained, they can gain Effort Value (EV) points from 
 different Pokemon they defeat. Although this is a super advanced technique, you can train your 
 Pokemon against certain others to gain EVs in certain stats, which results in some stats being 
 enormously high on a Pokemon. All of these points are the very basics to Pokemon battling. This 
 review is limited to a certain number of words, thus I cannot go into great detail of its advanced 
 features for battling.
  
  With basic information out of the way, the game's difficulty is just right. Newbies will fall in 
 love with the game's formula whereas veterans and gurus of the game will never be able to fully 
 master it. The problem with the singleplayer campaign is that Nintendo still hasn't fixed the obvious 
 problems that have plagued the Pokemon series (such as Pokemon-cloning glitches, too many wild 
 Pokemon encounters in caves and grass, etc.) . The gameplay remains solid, but there is too much 
 more-of-the-same from previous GBA games. Nevertheless, the game does take advantage of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection, which allows gamers all over the world to trade and battle with each other. It 
 also uses Pal Park, a way to transfer Pokemon from GBA games to the DS. The touch screen is also 
 usable, but its controls fail to make a strong impression and their isn't enough use for it to 
 be justified as a good addition to the technology. However, the game value is immensely huge. Literally 
 hundreds of hours can be put into the game trading with other people, thanks to the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection.
  
  The graphics are very disappointing. The game drops its 60-fps, buttery smooth gameplay from Pokemon 
 LeafGreen and, instead, copes with a 30-fps, low-resolution, partially-3D environment that doesn't 
 justify itself for its losses. Unlike previous Pokemon games, where jumps to next platforms meant 
 major improved graphics, Pokemon Pearl still feels like a GBA game, both art-wise, color-wise and 
 graphic-wise.
  
  The sound also feels a bit bland. Artistic-wise, some songs feel like they have the style of Animal 
 Crossing or Paper Mario, which is excellent. However, some songs are recycled songs from previous 
 generation-Pokemon games. While this is actually a good thing instead of bad, the better songs 
 have been cut and the ones that remain are remixed in an odd way. Nevertheless, the soundtrack 
 is still very good. Technology-wise, however, some songs feel like 5-minute fan-made MIDIs over 
 a PC and most songs can only be fully appreciated if they are listened with earphones. The audio 
 in this game does, indeed, have various standing points.
  
  In conclusion, Pokemon Pearl is a great adventure-RPG that no DS owner should miss. It fails to 
 bring innovation that many have expected and it still plays much like a GBA Pokemon game, but regardless, 
 it delivers hours of fun. Pokemon gamers will feel right at home with this new, hyped installment 
 and almost anyone can enjoy this game, regardless of your age and gender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Review: Pokemon Pearl
  
  Look out kids! It is the inevitable return of the Nintendo series that never seems to die! Will 
 this incarnation on the Nintendo DS fix the many improvements needed to drastically improve the 
 series? Or will Pokemon Pearl fall into the same pitfalls that made Sapphire and Ruby dull in comparison 
 to the original games?
  
  Story:
  Once again you take the role of a youth out to make is way in the world of Pokemon, and become 
 either the worlds greatest trainer of the worlds foremost Pokemon pageant champion, now with a 
 new evil team to beat, and new gadgets to aid in your journey to greatness, for which ever path 
 you choose.
  
  Graphics:
  Wow.... Talk about under whelmed; this game looks as good as its 2 GBA counterparts which wouldn't 
 be a problem in and of it's self if it were not for the fact that the DS is capable of 3d graphics, 
 and What use of the 3d graphics is poorly done in my mind (most of the buildings in the game are 
 now in 3D) . I would have been fine with the game world remaining 2d while making the fights 3D 
 using the character models they have been using since the N64 days, which would have stood out 
 a lot more than what seems like subtitle changes with 3d buildings that are almost unnoticeable 
 in 3D when compared to the GBA versions. This is one of the definite cases where Nintendo dropped 
 the ball in showing what this system can do with a flagship title (which Pokemon is for Nintendo 
 handheld systems) , and relegated the game to only being 2d with a few more sprites so show a little 
 more motion with the Pokemon, and add a tiny amount more detail in the surrounding backgrounds. 
 Other wise if you were expecting the same look you had with Pokemon sapphire and Ruby, then you 
 will be perfectly happy here.
  
  Music:
  Another boring soundtrack from this Pokemon game.... It has gotten so bad that I just turn it off 
 almost as soon as I boot the game up.... But at least the creature sounds are slightly better than 
 they were in the previous incarnations of the series still some better music would have been nice.
 
  
  Control:
  If you have played a Pokemon game in the past than you know what to expect in this game for the 
 most part, they made it easier to use the bike, and the fishing rod is more responsive than they 
 were in previous games, but for the most part there isn't much new to report, except that the entire 
 game can now be controlled by the touch screen. The game actually flows better when using the touch 
 screen and actually makes some of the best uses of the touch screen of many of the games I have 
 played on the DS since you can fully control the fights on with the touch screen, and the features 
 of the new Poketch are actually fun and friendly to use using the touch screen and open up some 
 new features of the game very nicely.
  
  Design:
  Pokemon fans will be please to know that what they love about the series still remains the same 
 and is not lost in Pokemon Pearl, but will also be horrified that almost nothing has changed since 
 the last real incarnation of the series on the GBA, it becomes quickly obvious where there developers 
 time went, designing the interface for the touch screen which although awesome, doesn't really 
 make up for what this game could, would and what I feel should have been: an all inclusive game 
 with all available Pokemon available to be caught in the 2 versions of the game, lets face it the 
 Pokemon world is huge now, so why cant we visit all of it yet? You could even justify releasing 
 a 3rd version of the game to justify having all of the Pokemon available to be caught in one inclusive 
 release of the series. Maybe have on version with the starting Pokemon form the original, one of 
 the second game's starting Pokemon, and one from the 3rd game's Starting Pokemon, while letting 
 the new starters be wild. The other place where the developers time went was into the new inclusion 
 of WiFi connection, which is cool for the most part, but when the trading system is so unevenly 
 balanced that no one in their right mind would want to look for a trade let alone be crazy enough 
 to trade.... For instance it is common to see a low level common Pokemon, looking to be traded 
 for a high level rare Pokemon.... And I swear that that makes up a good 4/5 of the available trades 
 on Wifi.
  
  Ok unless you are looking to get into the series fresh, or are a die hard Pokemon fan, steer away 
 from this game, or rent before purchasing, because even Pokemon fans may have a hard time loving 
 this game like you did the incarnations previous.
  
  Graphics
  7/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  5/10
  
  Fun factor
  7/10
  
  Tilt
  7/10
  
  Average score
 
  7.0
  
  Pokemon Pearl:
  
  Pros:
  Same Great Pokemon game play we know and love
  100 new Pokemon
  Minor tweaks make game play a little smother
  Battle online!
  Great use 
 of the touch screen
  Cons:
  Still can't catch them all in one generation of the series
  Should have been in 3D battles
  3d buildings don't stand out at all
  No major changes to the 
 series over the past 10 years
  Wifi trade system is still in need of balancing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  It took forever for Diamond and Pearl to be released outside of Japan, but it was well worth the 
 wait! Diamond and Pearl hit the DS with a bang! The graphics are as good as they get and the new 
 Pokemon just plain ROCK!! The game can be challenging at times and that's a good thing because 
 Ruby and Sapphire were just too easy. The new dungeons are long, difficult, and full of random 
 encouters. These random encounters are the only thing that could possibly be annoying in the entire 
 game. It seems like every step there's an encounter. At least this time around, the trainers are 
 reasonably tougher than they were in Ruby and Sapphire. The Gym Leaders aren't pushovers and actually 
 call for a descent strategy. I leveled my Pokemon about 10 levels higher than the bosses inorder 
 to take them down without much trouble, so Pearl calls for plenty of strategy inorder to beat the 
 game. Beating the took up a good 40 hours, but the game is still rewarding. Once the National Dex 
 is obtained the REAL fun begins. True, Pearl is just plain fun without the National Dex, but it 
 takes fun (and sometimes annoying) to the next level. Obtaining new Pokemon becomes extremly easy 
 with use of the Pal Park, but I had to work super hard to make that happen. Pearl can also be a 
 bit punishing, though. If you were fighting a boss at the end of a long, hard dungeon and lose 
 to him/her, you'll be forced to start over again and that can become VERY frustrating. On the plus 
 side, Pearl has some of the best graphics ever to be seen in the Pokemon games. The animated sprites 
 are pulled off, but if trying to catch a Pokemon that just won't stay in the Poke Ball will continue 
 until actually cought, which is really annoying when you're trying to catch a legendary Pokemon. 
 Both the graphics and sound are beatifully pulled off and add great presention to the overall game. 
 Diamond and Pearl are two awsome games that are almost as good as the original Red and Blue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoho402
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is kinda hard depending on your starter Pokemon. The sound is great and the music is good 
 too. Like all of other Pokemon games there is certain Pokemon that can be only catched after you 
 beat the game. The wi-fi is also good since you can trade and battle people around the world. There 
 is also event Pokemon. You can go to the event or do it my favorite way use action replay. You 
 also have a chance to catch Palka and many more Pokemon. Also there certain events that are hard 
 to find like going back th certain places. The game is very fun so enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  If you seen my review for pokemon ruby its basically that lol. Honestly though the game is still 
 the same you are new trainer... blah blah blah 8 badges blah blah pokemon champ :P. What hey do 
 nicely though is that leveling pokemon is alot more easier less tedious and after you beat the 
 main story they add so much more that you have to do and pokemon to catch you really cant stop 
 playing.... My playtime on it is 135 hours so trust me its fun. Newest best thing is WiFi battle 
 trade all over the world
  
  If you are a new comer this is a perfect place to start it will take a little getting used to so 
 just let it grow on you.
  
  This hands down the best in the series and im proud to own it
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minishdriveby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Alright well the next Pokemon game is out and its for the ds! I was pretty excited when I got it 
 but as the game progressed my excitement dwindled and dwindled.
  
  The game is like all other pokemon games, you get a starting pokemon in your initial town, make 
 a rivial, and then go out around the continent and capture pokemon; get badges, and then beat the 
 elite four. WELL there are a few complaints that i have with this one. First, this game has the 
 largest pokedex (total number of pokemon) but why is it that every single freaking route i go to 
 has the same 3 pokemon. then all the good pokemon are around three areas. Also they added the new 
 night system back but you can barely find any new pokemon except for hoothoot. Then when you get 
 your national pokedex you can barely find any of those pokemon. Fortunately they've added a couple 
 of new things like the ability to transfer your old pokemon from R/S/E/FR/LG to D/P but then that 
 kinda defeats looking for and catching all the other pokemon. I did this and now that i have almost 
 every single pokemon my exploration as dwindled down to just staying in the pal park area and importing 
 pokemon. Though if you do use pal-park to just obtain the pokemon that you cant get in D/P (legendaries 
 and starters from past games) , and some pokemon that you really used. Then you might be able to 
 expand the games time by two or three times. I've played for about 70 hours, which isnt actually 
 that much there is still tons of stuff to do, but i just got bored of it. Im not sure why, in ruby 
 i played for 250 hours and never got bored. The story itself will probably last you 20-30 hours.
 
  
  The review so far has been a little harsh but the game is still great, The new 2.5D graphics look 
 very good and the GBA pokemon games look ugly in comparison, they do have some unique locations, 
 like a flowery feild, which is also a town, and a windmill powerplant. They've also put the daytime 
 and night time system back in and their are tons of side quests and little things you can do, depending 
 on the time and the date!
  
  The sound, is kinda dull it may get on some peoples nerves, its rehashed from the previous pokemon 
 games though i think there maybe a couple of new tracks.
  
  There is alot of replayability, mostly because there is so much to do, but also because this is 
 the first pokemon game with WIFI! so that means you can battle and trade all around the world. 
 This is a nice feature if you want to test your skills or if you need a pokemon that none of your 
 friends have.
  
  All in all the main pokemon series is still going strong. Though its gotten little weaker then 
 previous titles; I highly reccomend the title, which will last you a very very long time. And the 
 kiddies eat this stuff up, this is all they talked about at summer camp (so if youre a parent pick 
 this up for youre kid espcially if they like pokemon) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choffy31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  When Pokemon Pearl was announced, my friend was ecstatic. When it was released, he got a DS just 
 to play the game. When he had his fun, he lent me the game, and let me tell you, he may never get 
 it back
  
  Gameplay ~ 9.5
  
  ~ I'm not going to go on too long for this one. It's a Pokemon game, and you know what to do. You 
 catch Pokemon, train them, and then battle them; what else is new? But you know what, it's still 
 as addictive as it was back in 1999
  
  Graphics ~ 8.5
  
  ~ This by no means, is eye candy. In fact, I think the game is pretty choppy (when I had to go 
 into my Pokemon Emerald, I thought it was alot smoother) , but, granted, this is the 1st 3D Pokemon 
 game, and it has it's few sloppy moments. But, it's a DS game, and the graphics are solid for a 
 DS game
  
  Sound ~ 10
  
  ~ I love the sound in this game. The soundtrack is absolutely wonderful (like always) , and I love 
 to turn the volume on my DS all the way up when I'm playing this. The Pokemon sounds are the same, 
 with little chimes and growls, and the old one's have been cleaned up quite well (almost to the 
 point where you can't tell a difference between the recent ones and the old ones)
  
  Value ~ 10
  
  ~ It's a Pokemon game. You know you'll be playing for atleast 30+ hours just 
 trying to beat it, while doing no side quests. But the real value here comes with from Nintendo 
 WiFi. You can trade, battle, and just hang out using WiFi. It's a GREAT feature, that will add 
 TONS of hours to your adventure
  
  ~ Bottom Line: If you've played a Pokemon game, and liked it, then you'll like this one. If you 
 haven't played one, then this is a great start 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavadias1981
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to go into too many details about the game as we all know the jist of how Pokemon 
 works. What I will say is that I would recommend it to anyone that wants a deep, addictive, time 
 consuming and overall great game. I have just hit something like 155 hours and i'm still playing 
 it. The visuals are really nice. It doesn't really matter at all about the fact that it has a similar 
 appearence to the previous games. It still works. Maybe adding a fainting animation to the pokemon 
 would have given it a little more realism. Instead they still just drop through the floor when 
 beaten!
  
  The music is excellent as always. I cant say a bad word about it. Pop some earphones in and turn 
 the volume up on the standard Pokemon trainer battle music. Wow!
  
  The touch screen faetures are very basic but that is all it needs. It's just used for selecting 
 attack moves and when making poffin.
  
  This game will last you well upto a month to finish properly. Even playing very often, it will 
 feel like it will never end. Great stuff.
  
  Overall I would just say to buy this game. You will not regret it. You may notice the odd bit that 
 could do with improvement but you wont notice them much as you will be having way too much fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elfin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  If you loved the other Pokemon games then you should also enjoy this one very much. This game has 
 all of the fun of the last ones from the series plus even more features. You can have some online 
 fun with some friends and do some stuff in game that can't be done alone. This is a really cool 
 feature, but it is also one of the features I like the least. Being a 41 year old gamer I don't 
 tend to have any friends playing these games so I can't do much of the online stuff.
  
  Having said that I still love this game I've played it for 48+ hours so far since early May and 
 it's still the only game I play when I get a chance to play my DS. All in all if you loved the 
 other in the series I see no reason why you shouldn't get this one. It is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  For all of those who loved my pokemon firered review, I am sure you are going to love my pokemon 
 pearl review twice as much. Lets start with what we all know. Nintendo added many new features 
 to pokemon pearl that all the past pokemon games didnt have before. First off the towns, and characters 
 are now 3D which is....... FREAKING AWESOME!!! I was getting tired of the old 2D graphics on a game 
 franchise that I personally thought should have always had 3D graphics from the beginning. Second 
 I love the story, some would say it's a story where others might think that it's more of a side 
 quest. To me it was a story because it just felt like a true story. It kept me drawed into what 
 team galactic was up to next Which brings me to the next thing, team galactic. I really love how 
 ninetendo brought in a new team of villians and how the new team played homage to the old team, 
 team rocket. I also love how pearl has new bottom screen actions. During battle the bottom screen 
 is how you choose between fight, pokemon, bag, and run and that I would say is my favorite new 
 feature. Also you have a new feature called a poketch which is awesome! You have a clock, a berry 
 finder, a step counter (I think) , and some other cool apps. The main improvement above all that 
 is that nintendo added 100 more new pokemon including the main one on the box which is a Palkia 
 (that I have) . Palkia is a cool ass pokemon, and it is extremely strong. My Palkia so far is a 
 level 55 and growing. To prove how much I love this game, these are my stats. I have played 43 
 hours and 25 minutes, I have 8 badges and on my way to the pokemon leauge (wow I dont think I spelled 
 that right but oh well) my main pokemon is Torterra level 63, then it goes Palkia level 55, then 
 quagfrie level 48, and a couple other that arent too high of levels. At but not least I have seen 
 138 pokemon. So thats it. Overall I love this game, I am highly addicted to it, I think any person 
 would be highly addicted to this game. And I am here to also set the record striaght, not only 
 guys like to play pokemon, girls love it too! I cant stop saying how much I love this game. I am 
 so addicted to pokemon that I am starting to play my fiancee's pokemon diamond. But whatever I 
 LOVE POKEMON! I suggest you all get it! Well this brings this to an end. I hope you all have enjoyed 
 my review and check in for my next pokemon review which ever that one might be. Thanks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luk3th
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  This IS another pokemon game... and all the games have given us that great turn-based fight system 
 and RPG experience we all love. This game is the best so far, diamond and pearl are the 1st pokemon 
 games for the DS and their only going to get better, but yeah... Pokemon Pearl (and Diamond) have 
 the biggest pokedex yet, i think 500 something pokemon, includeing the 151 new ones. These games 
 take place in the Sinoh Region. The game has many new features, including wireless trading+ battling, 
 these games also use the nintendo wi-fi feature to trade worldwide! My favorite new feature is 
 the underground, where you can dig for gems called spheres and trade them with people to get items 
 for you're secret base. These 2 games include pretty much all the features from previous games, 
 some are even re-vamped. I'm not used to seeing such 3-d graphics in a pokemon game, so it does 
 seem funny, but it's not like the graphics are hard to look at, overall, this game is great. I'd 
 definently suggest this game to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am not an avid Pokemon nut. I only played the originals blue and red so I was not 
 sure what to expect in this game. The graphics caught my eye first thing. The hand held department 
 has advanced but only a little; yet the graphics are still 3d making the game much easier on the 
 eyes. The game play was great and addicting as the originals, although i missed many not being 
 able to catch the old Pokemon too (I now know you can trade and trade Pokemon though from previous 
 games) . The sound is catchy, but nothing revolutionary. You got your city music, your exploring 
 music, and your battle music. The sound effects were definitely not good. They sounded the same 
 as the original aka a small high pitched annoying noise. The entire game was more difficult. The 
 starters are not that great in my opinion and the elite four have high level Pokemon (level 60+) . 
 The online addition was pretty sweet as I have no friends in real life to trade with, so trading 
 with real people using the wifi was a blast! Because I have no friends I have plenty of free time.... this 
 game was really easy to play all day without getting bored. I got the game on release date and 
 the game is still not boring and still not completed. The quest continues after you've beaten the 
 elite four. Ok, i've talked enough about this game.
  O ya, cons, wait, there aren't many... it's too addictive, people might make fun of you, and the 
 sound effects.
  thank you
  bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuusake
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are great games. They are easily the best since at least the original. 
 But you don't need both. They are basicly the same game with a few different pokemon. Just the 
 same as ruby and saphire, firered and leafgreen. Unless your a pokefreak you don't need both.
 
  This easliy gives you at least 40 hours of gameplay.
  
  Graphics 8.5/10- Pearl finally takes the game into 3D level, sort of. Most things are still 3D 
 but the buildings are. Sound 7/10- The sound isn't terrible. The music is pretty good but the pokemon 
 noises sound very outdated and choppy.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10- The storyline is basicly the same, but it works. You start off with a starter 
 pokemon and go collect badges. It's the same thing you've been playing for years- with must more 
 to do. Overall 9/10- Even if your not a pokemon fan, This is a great game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammerbrodude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, it turned out pretty good, but I personally think that emerald was better. Anyway...
  
  Gameplay: 9. It is just like all other pokemon games, but with nearly 500 pokemon, it may take 
 TOO much time. Or, I could just be really, really, lazy. Moving on...
  
  Music: 9.5. I like the songs in the game, but... they really could have been better. Not that they 
 are bad. They should have been more memorable.
  
  Graphics: 10. A wonderful step up for pokemon games. The only thing I don't like is that if you 
 want to catch em all, it costs about $200, and for event pokemon, that doesn't even count gas prices. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraSaint24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good thing for the already popular series. All the new Pokemon are great. The 
 3D graphics are smooth on the eyes. The Touch Screen innovation is very cool. The ability to Migrate 
 PKMN from the GBA games is very useful. The Wifi Trading, Battling, Underground, and Chat is the 
 most awesome thing in the Pokemon Series since Pikachu! The only things bad about this game however 
 is that you are not allowed to Trade with old GBA games, you can't Migrate until you see all the 
 Sinnoh Pokemon, and if your a Fire Type Trainer your out of luck because total there are only 3 
 Fire Types in the Sinnoh Region (Not Including Fire Arceus) . This is Still a very good game for 
 any RPG fan and is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Wade
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I am a long time fan of the Pokemon series on the hand-held, console Pokemon makes me sad, since 
 Red &amp; Blue. This is by far the best looking of the series and the vast number of Pokemon to 
 choose from makes trainers around the world drool. The 3Desque environment bring your adventure 
 to a new level. The large number of Pokemon is great, but with the one sided Pokemon you find in 
 the wild (water, rock, and normal for the most part, been awhile since I played however) making 
 it very difficult to raise certain Pokemon for your team. The combat system sadly remains the same 
 however, not truly taking advantage of the hardware its on. Which doesn't make the obvious grind 
 of all Pokemon games any easier but its still tolerable. All together its again a solid story, 
 nice to look at, but not taking full advantage of the DS hardware. The combat system especially 
 seemed lame for the DS but it works for a Pokemon game. Pokefans rejoice, all around best of the 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-a-holicman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  hi all welcome to my preview.
  
  The guys from Nintendo did a GREAT job with this new pokemon adventure.
  This time you start 
 of in Twinleaf Town. You and your friend/rival ''whatever you named him'' are going to lake verity 
 because there are rumors of a red Gyrados. At arrival you see the new professor named Rowan with 
 a girl called Dawn, they are talking with each other and when they leave you see a bag with 3 pokemon 
 in it: Turtwig (grass) , Chimchar (fire) and Piplup (water) . But then wil pokemon started to attack 
 you and you have no choice but to use the pokemon in the bag, from now on you will choose the pokemon 
 that will be with you for a long time. after you beat the wild pokemon the story begins. !!!! New 
 Stuff !!!!
  
  There are a lot of new things in this new pokemon game like the Pok&eacute; tch that has several 
 applications. you can see if your pokemon are happy with you and if there are any berries you can 
 pick up and 22 other apps.
  
  And again there are contest like in Ruby and Sapphire, but this time it is not only doing attacks 
 in front of a judge but now you have to dress up your pokemon and let him dance which i will explain 
 further in the review.
  
  What i like the most of the new things is that you can trade with everyone around the world and 
 fight with them using the Wi-fi connection. I use it myself too. I think this is a great way to 
 let pokemon trainers all over the world communicate which each other so they can see how good (or 
 bad) other trainers are. (With the online trading you can get other peoples ID-Numbers so you have 
 more chance to win the lottery) !!!! Contest !!!!
  
  in Pearl and Diamond are contest like in Ruby and Sapphire only in this contest you have to dress 
 up your pokemon's to let them look good. you can get different accessories by talking with people 
 or walking with your cute drifloon in amity square which gives you a accessory or a berry after 
 each 200 steps. Lets get back to the contest, after you dressed up your pokemon you have to dance. 
 First goes the 3 opponent pokemon, each pokemon has to perform a dance and then the other 3 has 
 to do the same as the performer so you are some kind off background dancer. and after the dancing 
 you have to perform your moves to the judges. You can choose to which judge you show the move off 
 this can adds extra effect on how much hearts you get. !!!! The legendary !!!!
  
  There are a lot of legendary pokemon in Diamond and Pearl. The first one you can catch is the Mascotte 
 Dialga (if you have Diamond version) or Palkia (if you have Pearl version.
  The other legendary are:
  Heatran Giratina
  Mesprit
  Azelf Uxie
  Cresselia Regigigas Darkrai 
 (event only)
  Shaymin (event only)
  Arceus (event only)
  
  After all, my conclusion is: If you have a DS then this game is a much-have for RPG-lovers !!
 
  
  greetz game-a-holicman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Fanboy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  The formula never changes but for some reason people never get tired of it. And with another game 
 out, will it start to get boring. The answer is no, and this is why. You start your quest like 
 all other pokemon games. First, you chose your gender, name, and your rivals name and the the game 
 starts.
  You then get to choose your starter pokemon, one that will be with you for the duration of the 
 game. Their is the water type Piplup, the fire type Chimchar, and the grass type Turtwig. After 
 your first battle your adventure starts as you go from gym to gym beating each gym leader to get 
 thier badge. Along the way you'll fight Team Galactic (the new team Rocket) and your rival many 
 times. But the one thing that sets this game apart for other pokemon games, is the online. You 
 can use Nintendo Wi-fi Connection to trade or battle people all over the world. So many people 
 think that pokemon is boring and repetitive. But they haven't played Pokemon Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl
  It won't cause the display of many pearly whites
  
  Presentation (10%) - 3.5
  Controls (17.5%) - 4
  Variety (25%) - 7
  Audio (7.5%) - 6
  Depth 
 (15%) - 8
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 6
  
  OVERALL - 5.95
  
  My Review Policy: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Previously played game in the series: Game Boy - Pok&eacute; mon Blue, Yellow, Silver; N64 - Pok&eacute; mon 
 Stadium
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is an RPG in which you take the role of a pok&eacute; mon trainer. A trainer 
 captures creatures called pok&eacute; mon and trains them for use in battles against other trainers. 
 Your goal is to become the pok&eacute; mon champion by defeating all eight gym leaders, the elite 
 four trainers, and then the champion.
  
  The battle system has you carrying six pok&eacute; mon at a time and fighting in turn-based battles. 
 Each pok&eacute; mon has up to four moves to choose from, each with an element (fire, water, etc.) 
 and a attack style (either physical or projectile) . Each pok&eacute; mon has a type itself, which 
 gives it strengths and weaknesses against types of moves (e. g. fire is weak against water) .
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 30%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pok&eacute; mon 
 is a very light RPG that doesn't require you to really devote yourself to the game. However lack 
 of tutorial and pertinent information means you'll have to search or figure out a lot of things 
 on your own or else the experience can be very frustrating.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 3.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl looks like Pok&eacute; mon. The game maintains that same angled top-down 
 viewpoint with sprite characters and vibrant colours. It mixes it up, though, using subtle 3D for 
 the overworld with great effect. The character sprites in the overworld feel a bit lifeless, though, 
 when compared with a game like Custom Robo Arena.
  
  Once in battle, the game also keeps in line with previous games. You see the battle from behind 
 your own pok&eacute; mon, and your opponent is at the top of the screen on some sort of weird platform 
 thing. This is where Pearl could have pushed the visuals much more. The backgrounds are a bland 
 smear of colours that have nothing to do with the environment and the attack effects and pok&eacute; mon 
 animations of the sprite blinking are becoming very dated. As a plus, the in battle sprite design 
 is excellent.
  
  Ultimately the technical aspects of the visuals matter very little with regards to pok&eacute; mon -- it 
 just isn't at all about eye candy. What it is about, though, is character and item management with 
 lots and lots of collecting. When it comes to the presentational requirements to go along with 
 that, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is an utter failure. The first thing to notice is the fact that you 
 are not provided with any information about pok&eacute; mon weaknesses. The battle system hinges 
 on the strengths and weaknesses of the different pok&eacute; mon and the game does nothing to explain 
 it. In the original pok&eacute; mon game, it was a bit easier to follow type weaknesses as there 
 were fewer types, as well as those type advantages having some semblance of logic (fire weak against 
 water, for example, is logical) . In Pearl, there are 17 different types, and I personally would 
 not come to the logical conclusion that steel is weak against fighting moves.
  
  Further, the towns are poorly laid out. The towns are larger than in previous games, but mostly 
 just a hassle to get around and are filled with houses of pointless NPCs. Amongst the mess of those 
 pointless NPCs, there are some important people, such as the Move Deleter, who allows you to make 
 your pok&eacute; mon forget moves you normally cannot, allowing you to make the most of your four 
 available move slots. The Move Deleter, however, is in an unmarked house that looks just like ever 
 other house.
  
  The most pressing issue, however, is the frustratingly slow pacing of everything visual. Enter 
 a battle and you have to wait for the opposing pok&eacute; mon or trainer to slide across the screen 
 followed by a pause, then if it's a trainer do a pok&eacute; ball throwing animation and have the 
 pok&eacute; mon come out. That pok&eacute; mon then does its annoying battle cry before you are allowed 
 to do your own pok&eacute; ball animation and annoying battle cry. Finally your menus appear and 
 you can do something.
  
  Oh, but if you have the utter misfortune of fighting in the fog, you will find out why it is the 
 single worst game mechanic ever. This lowers every pok&eacute; mon's accuracy, making moves a matter 
 of luck. If that weren't bad enough, after every single round of moves you have to sit through 
 an animation of fog on the screen followed by the caption The fog is deep... The same general thing 
 happens with all weather effects, including rain, hail, sandstorms etc. The fact that pok&eacute; mon 
 can temporarily generate these effects means that it does have to tell you whether it still applies, 
 but a simple icon would have done the trick.
  
  Everything in the game has a delay. Moving pok&eacute; mon, text (no option for instant appear) . 
 Saving takes a long time. Even if you turn off battle animations there is a second delay for the 
 move, then it still does every other animation. It is exceedingly aggrevating when you are passing 
 through an area of wild pok&eacute; mon in which after every single encounter you have to wait for 
 it to scroll across do it's cry, you throw your ball and hear your own pok&eacute; mon just so you 
 can press Run and take another five steps and run into another.
  
  The issues don't end there, however. The direction in the overworld is severely lacking. There 
 are instances in which you are given absolutely no clue as to where to go, which means trying to 
 get to whichever towns you haven't been to and seeing if the guy blocking the path has moved. No? 
 Well, time to wander over the next spot then. There's even one instance in which for reasons unexplained 
 you have to climb up a mountain to find an event.
  
  The presentation downright harms the experience, dragging it down and overall making the game less 
 enjoyable.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 4
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl would be better if it didn't use any touch controls. Pok&eacute; mon Pearl 
 would be even better than that if it used only touch controls. Pok&eacute; mon Pearl would be even 
 better than that if the developers showed even the slightest imagination instead of blindly copying 
 every possible aspect from previous games.
  
  It is immediately evident that touch controls were not going to be properly implemented as the 
 bottom screen is relagated to displaying the time. The Pok&eacute; tch is a device created to take 
 up the bottom screen with completely useless functions such as a calculator, a clock, what pok&eacute; mon 
 are in your boxes, a pedometer and so forth. But I guess there isn't anything useful that could 
 be put down there, such as menus instead of having to access them via buttons.
  
  In menus the touch controls are mostly ignored also. You have a screen to organize the six pok&eacute; mon 
 in your party in which the top screen shows all six pok&eacute; mon that you can choose the options 
 Summary, Switch, Item, or Cancel using the D-pad and buttons. On the bottom screen, there are six 
 pok&eacute; ball icons in that correspond to the top screen that allow you to view the Summary of 
 that pok&eacute; mon. So you have to pull out your stylus as you need two hands to navigate the 
 overworld, choose Pok&eacute; mon from the menu using the buttons, look at the top screen, remember 
 the relative placement of the pok&eacute; mon you want to see, then finally touch the bottom screen 
 if you want to use ONE of the THREE options. It's assinine.
  
  Similarly terrible is the Pok&eacute; dex, a Pok&eacute; mon index that you have. You have a rolodex 
 style view on the top screen that you can scroll through using the D-pad. Up and Down move through 
 each pok&eacute; mon very slowly, while pressing Right and Left scrolls through five at a time, 
 which is hard to see as it doesn't show many on screen at a time to begin with. If you want to 
 use the search functions or scroll at a different rate, you must then jump to bottom screen where 
 there are buttons for Search, and Check Pok&eacute; dex, as well as an awful scroll wheel. Search 
 works well and gives several sorting functions, although ironically not a search option. Once you 
 sort them, though, it's back to the top screen. Check Pok&eacute; dex is the equivalent of Pressing 
 A to view the entry. The scroll wheel pok&eacute; ball thing is unruly and useless.
  
  Your item bag has several categories of items in which you can choose the category via the touch 
 screen, but can only go through and choose items on the top screen with the buttons. Right. When 
 storing your pok&eacute; mon in PCs, as you can only hold 6 at a time, you have to deposit them 
 separately from withdrawing them, with an annoying second delay when switching back or into one 
 of said options. The touch screen is used for markings (useless) or switching boxes (useless) . 
 You also must sort the pok&eacute; mon separately when this could all have been done at the same 
 time just dragging and dropping with the touch screen.
  
  In battle you control with the option of your choice. The order of the options (Fight, Bag, Run, 
 Pok&eacute; mon) is not D-pad friendly, the better method is the touch screen -- this after the touch 
 screen being obsolete for the rest of the game. Easy to press and see icons make it quick and simple.
 
  
  The controls are convoluted and the combination of half-assed button and touch screen controls 
 makes the sum total less than the individual parts. The real insult is that dated mechanics, such 
 as depositing and withdrawing pok&eacute; mon are separate tasks, stubbornly remain.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 7
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  If there's one thing you can say about Pok&eacute; mon Pearl, it's that there's a lot of Pok&eacute; mon. 
 493, to be exact. Technically speaking, though, part of the Pok&eacute; mon series that remains 
 is the fact that there aren't that many in one version, as there are a few that are unavailable 
 unless you trade for them. Pearl feels the need to push this tacky concept even further to the 
 point that there are Pok&eacute; mon that you can't get unless you import them from Fire Red/Leaf 
 Green versions on the GBA, Emerald on GBA, as well as ones you can't get from anywhere but a Nintendo 
 event. To Catch them all has become absolutely absurd.
  
  Another way in which the sheer number of pok&eacute; mon goes to waste is the fact that you can 
 only carry six pok&eacute; mon at a time, and trying to develop many more that just means you'll 
 have to level grind constantly rather than fight even more than the already large amount of battles.
 
  
  The most frustrating part about how many pok&eacute; mon there are is the fact that you see the 
 same few pok&eacute; mon in battle and in the wild ad nauseum. Prepare to see countless Zubats/Golbats, 
 Bronzors, and Medichams. By the end of the game, it is quite plausible that you, just as I did, 
 will have seen fewer than 150 pok&eacute; mon. Actually, I did not encounter a single wild fire 
 pok&eacute; mon in the entire game, and I can only recall one possible instance of one in battle. 
 This could be a result of the overcrowded number of different types.
  
  In Pok&eacute; mon Pearl, there are seventeen different types of pok&eacute; mon. While this arguably 
 increases the depth of the game when it comes to training for battles between you and your friends, 
 it just confuses matters for anyone who wants to play through the single-player game.
  
  The number of moves is excellent, however, having many different great concepts and really making 
 you think about the combinations of moves you use for your four moves slots per pok&eacute; mon. 
 Additionally, there are Technical Machines (TMs) and Hidden Machines (HMs) that you can use to 
 teach your pok&eacute; mon moves rather than the normal fashion of them learning them as they increase 
 in levels.
  
  The overworld is fairly large and the environments have a decent variety. Battles get a bit stales 
 because of previously mentioned repetition of opponent pok&eacute; mon. The gyms that you have to 
 beat to advance provide solid challenges and solid puzzles. The puzzles get annoying, though, as 
 you have to fight several battles as you solve them, and unless you're so strong that you're walking 
 all over every challenger, you'll have to leave the gym to heal your pok&eacute; mon. As soon as 
 you heal, the puzzle resets and you have to do everything over again.
  
  The game is long, as I completed it in 35 hours, and it has a lot of content. However, the game 
 is artificially lengthened by tedious presentation and repetitious battles, and the value of the 
 many pok&eacute; mon is hampered by annoying concepts.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 6
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pok&eacute; mon is typically known for its lighthearted catchy tunes, but there is something inherently 
 lacking in the pep of the jingles in Pearl. Often the background audio fails to even really be 
 music, but rather is more along the lines of atmospheric for a non-atmospheric game. For actual 
 music, the music that plays everytime you get on your bicycle is rather annoying. It has a few 
 high points, but nothing really stands out.
  
  The main sound effects in the game are for the attacks and the cries/voices of the pok&eacute; mon 
 themselves, which both sound very 8-bit. The sounds of the pok&eacute; mon particularly should be 
 much improved by now, but remain the same staticky harsh square wave sounding messes.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 8
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The reason the pok&eacute; mon games do so well is that the formula, when done correctly, works. 
 The base of that is the battle system, accented by the methods of obtaining and training your pok&eacute; mon. 
 The numbers add up to a lot of great combinations of different pok&eacute; mon and moves. The advanced 
 techniques you can find if you get seriously into battles is amazing. Things are taken aback a 
 bit, though, as the type matches end up most of the time very overwhelming and it becomes mostly 
 about having the right type of pok&eacute; mon rather than strategy.
  
  The daycare is a wealth of potential unto itself, leaving the player with the option of breeding 
 different pok&eacute; mon, which opens up the door for altered stats and unique movesets unavailable 
 otherwise. The game does little to nothing to explain or encourage this, though, and it is little 
 changed from all the way back in Pok&eacute; mon Gold/Silver.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (without online) - 5.75
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  It's difficult 
 to understand how the same developers who created a quality series of games could just eventually 
 forget how to make a good game in that same series, but that's what Game Freak has apparently managed 
 to do. While in sheer time, the game is lengthy, it is stretched with repetitious battles and frustrating 
 overworld design that lacks ingenuity, imagination and quite simply quality. Even Pok&eacute; mon 
 Silver on the Game Boy has twice the number of gyms, which are the most entertaining portions of 
 Pearl.
  
  Although seemingly impossible, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl has managed to regress the quality of storytelling 
 in Pok&eacute; mon games. Where there remains the overtold plotline of an evil organization trying 
 to take over the world with legendary pok&eacute; mon at all costs, Pearl makes it unclear what 
 the organization is doing that is evil and even why they're your enemy. Even what their ultimate 
 goal remains in question the entire game. There is really no reason given for anything you do in 
 the game. You go gym to gym because it's a Pok&eacute; mon game. You deposit pok&eacute; mon in a 
 computer because it's a Pok&eacute; mon game. You fight people called the Elite Four and Gym leaders 
 who are supposedly the best trainers yet don't even try to become pok&eacute; mon champion, because 
 it's a Pok&eacute; mon game. And even the foundation of the game in catching pok&eacute; mon with 
 pok&eacute; balls bought from the pok&eacute; mart is apparently only explained by the fact that 
 it's a Pok&eacute; mon game.
  
  The battle system is slow but fleshed out. Winning a hard-fought battle is exciting and entertaining. 
 Unfortunately, those battles are few and far between, and when they do occur, it's only because 
 you're severely under-leveled. The AI remains horrible with its choice of attacks being apparently 
 completely randomly chosen. If the AI weren't terrible, that would mean you'd have actually difficult 
 battles and the game couldn't reasonably be lengthened through easy battles ad-nauseum as Pearl 
 does as is. Rather than a game structure that allows for tactical wars, you're given essentially 
 an oceans worth of fish in barrels.
  
  Running into a new pok&eacute; mon is an exciting feeling that is strangely rarer than it should 
 be. The excitement is also hampered by the fact that the number of pok&eacute; mon you can reasonably 
 juggle is quite limited. The concept of two-on-two battles which was introduced in Pok&eacute; mon 
 Emerald and remains in Pearl (which is perhaps the highlight of the game) could have been used 
 to make the game about having more than six trained pok&eacute; mon. As it is, training much more 
 than six stretches the experience points you get from trainer battles quite thin and will force 
 you to simply level grind for those extra pok&eacute; mon. Catching them all really isn't very useful.
 
  
  Once you complete the game, there's a place where you can battle series of battles using a team 
 of two or three in which items are banned and you face a much wider variety of pok&eacute; mon. 
 In order to complete the gauntlet you must win seven battles consecutively (you can save and quit 
 inbetween, though) , and your pok&eacute; mon heal after each battle. What this eventually comes 
 down to, though, is fighting six terrible opponents followed by one stacked opponent. So you have 
 to waste twenty minutes of your life to fight one battle in which your opponent may just have a 
 lucky combination of types that screws you outright and you have to start over. It's more fun that 
 most battles during the game, however.
  
  It's worth repeating that the biggest hinderance to the game is the how sluggish everything moves 
 and the repetiton of battles rather than a poor battle system of game formula. Using a timer from 
 the point that the random encounter music plays to the point that you can control your character 
 on the overworld (tapping the spot for run until it lets you) , it took 19.5 seconds. Additionally, 
 with a sample size of seven encounters, the average was one encounter for every 11 steps, which 
 is about a little less than the size from one side of the screen to the other. The menus are a 
 cesspool of monotony. Even turning off the battle animations still leaves a second delay for the 
 attack and leaves every other animation in tact, making the option virtually useless.
  
  On top of that, there are just stupid, stupid, stupid design choices. The fog is awful. Separate 
 deposit/withdraw? Really? There a section of mud in which you occasionally just get stuck and have 
 to move back and forth to become unstuck. You're not being attacked in this game, so this is pointless. 
 No wait, the point of this game seems to be to aggrevate the player, so it fits that purpose perfectly.
 
  
  Personally, the most annoying to me is that you still cannot forget HM moves. HM moves are TMs 
 that you can use over and over to teach a move to pok&eacute; mon who fit the criteria. HMs are 
 also special in the fact that they are used to perform tasks in the overworld such as fly from 
 town to town or cut branches from your path (thus allowing you to progress in the game) . Yet despite 
 the fact that you can reuse the HMs, you still cannot forget them normally. For a little history 
 for those who aren't familiar with the Game Boy games, there is a reason for this seemingly moronic 
 game mechanic:
  
  Since the first games were on Game Boy, there were some technical limitations including how many 
 items you could carry at a time (50) . Since you could only carry so many items, you could deposit 
 move into your PC (which is not an option in Pearl as you carry all your items all the time) . If 
 in Pok&eacute; mon Blue, for example, you deposited the HM Cut and went into an area that required 
 it to get in and out, then subsequently forgot the move Cut, you would be trapped. In Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl this is not an issue, therefor there is no reason to not be able to forget them at any time 
 (as a side note, I'd also suggest that you not have to teach them to a pok&eacute; mon at all) .
 
  
  What this does is essentially forces you to dedicate a placement on your team to a pok&eacute; mon 
 that you do not train but rather use simple for HMs (known to fans as an HM Slave) . I am hereby 
 speaking out against slavery! Free the slaves!
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (with online) - 6
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This is 
 an interesting category due to another aggrevating design choice from the developer. You cannot 
 battle random opponents online, only those with whom you've exchanged friend codes. I do not consider 
 this as additional value in my reviews, but if you have several people you can battle with through 
 this method, then this game may garner some additional interest.
  
  For those who aren't going to bother with the hassle of getting mutual friends, there are a couple 
 online features. The first and most prominent are the online trades. This works very well and allows 
 you to search for trades or put your own pok&eacute; mon up for trade. The way the system works 
 is that if you put your own pok&eacute; mon up for trade, you can list minimum/maximum level (although 
 limited to set groups of ten) and the pok&eacute; mon species you'll trade it for (limited to a 
 single choice) . For example, you can put up a Gyarados for a Chancey with a level of at least 40. 
 Additionally, you can search for pok&eacute; mon using those same two parameters and if you have 
 the pok&eacute; mon that the trainer with that pok&eacute; mon up for trade, you can offer it and 
 have the trade happen immediately. It can be difficult to find something by search, though, but 
 putting something up for trade overnight works very well. Due to Nintendo not wanting its servers 
 to crash, you're limited to putting up one pok&eacute; mon at a time.
  
  There is also a very strange online feature in which you can download data from other trainers 
 and battle their teams controlled by the terrible AI. It's really not worth explaining it any further.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall (without online) - 5.89
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  It's pretty common that fans of the Game Boy Pok&eacute; mon games are looking to get back into 
 the series with Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl, but to put it bluntly, Pearl is worse than those 
 Game Boy games. Those games did what the hardware allowed and the rest went to game design. Pearl 
 is lost in a sea of dated mechanics, poor design and trying to add new things that offer nothing 
 to the player.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is a mess -- a functional mess -- but a mess nonetheless.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall (with online) - 5.95
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  If you're 
 hardcore into pok&eacute; mon battling and building the ultimate team, you may be able to salvage 
 your money's worth using the online system by exchanging friend codes over the Internet. However, 
 I'd expect a frustrating experience trying to schedule battles. The online trading is a bonus, 
 but given how few pok&eacute; mon you can use during the campaign, it's not exactly a revolution. 
 I can't reasonably recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetralSobriquet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl, the 4th generation game to the Anime series, is a wierd game to review. I have been 
 forced into playing Pokemon, since I was a wee boy of only 8. But now, with new graphics, new pokemon, 
 and well... a new system to play it on, it should be better. And the question is - well is it?
 
  
  First, you load the game. Sometimes you watching the opening sequence, sometimes you don't. This 
 is a game that you don't. The anticipation for the first play of the game, is amazing. You feel 
 like you are back. Back to when you were young, when you had little worries. Then, you get to see 
 the new graphics. Once again, amazing. The graphics aren't 2D, but they aren't 3D. I probaly would 
 of sold it back to GAME if I had seen Animal Crossing-like Graphics, because Pokemon handheld will 
 always be 2D... but I liked the transtition onto the new system, making a more powerful game, which, 
 in all, is a vast improvement on the former games.
  
  So, you choose your starter pokemon, and then, as like as former game, you train it. And only it. 
 You get to the 3rd gym, and decide to catch some pokemon. The variation of pokemon in this game 
 is immense, there is nothing like it. In my first 30 mins, I had seen 34 pokemon. And the brilliant 
 thing is that you don't have to catch the pokemon. Seeing them is enough, and it counts it in your 
 pokedex. Then you come onto the storyline - Team Galatic, trying to make a brand new world full 
 of good [evil.] You have to stop them. Interesting, no? Stopping a frenzied team of fools that 
 are being brainwashed into doing whatever their leader says..... hmm... reminds me of Pokemon Ruby/Sapphire. 
 The elements are still there. But this time, the danger is much greater. Then, the cutscene. The 
 moment where you realise, this game is better than any other game on the DS. The moment you realise, 
 that you've spent &pound;70-80 quid for a DS, and it was worth it. You finish the game - but, unlike 
 Pokemon Fire Red, there is not a lot to do. Catching the new rares isn't that hard, and takes about 
 20 mins, if you have all your PokeTch apps. [PokeTch = PokeWatch xD]
  
  And then you finish it. What to do? Catch all the pokemon? Oh, you haven't finished. But unfortunately, 
 there is a let down. The lack of Gameplay... in this day and age, you need at least 30hrs, of doing 
 DIFFERENT things, not saving the world. And we would of LOVED to travel to the old places of Johto 
 and Kanto. For that, i'm taking away a half mark. But still, the game gets a respectable, well 
 deserved, 9.5. If you are looking for a game on the DS - buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  First, I'll give a little background info. My family is what you might call an anti-Pokemon family. 
 My mom has always said that she didn't like it, so of course we obedient little children didn't 
 get into it. At my friends request, I finally tried it, and I asked my mom why she didn't like 
 it. After getting an I don't know, I decided to go in full blast.
  
  The game plays very well and it wasn't long before beginner me was approaching the end of the story! 
 There are a ton of things to do other than battle, most of which include multiplayer, so the stereotype 
 surrounding the games is also false.
  
  The graphics are a stylized 3-d with two dimensional Pokemon. To get the most out of this game, 
 battle rev is required so that you can see the true size and scale of your Pokemon in 3-D.
  
  Sound isn't a winning factor, the music and effects are all about DS standered. But that isn't 
 saying they are bad either.
  
  Overall, I recommend that everyone at least give this game a try, your really missing out if you 
 don't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekky14
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  From the moment you start your journey in Twinleaf town to the capture of Palkia at spear pillar, 
 this game is great. it has so many places to explore, an amazing amount of out-of-game things to 
 do you wont get bored with the game until you reach that 100+ hours on the counter.
  
  one of my favourite parts of the game is the underground. people say its dull and dumb, but I betcha 
 they never played with friends! Ive played with 3 people at the same time, and it was fun. player 
 1 steals the flag from player 2's base and brings it to his base, where im waiting to snatch the 
 flag from him and put it in my base. it immense fun if you know how to decorate your secret base.
 
  
  I didnt like pokemon until this game came out, but now I do, and I even bought Leafgreen just so 
 I could see how it was! If you have a spare 40 or 50 bucks in you're pocket, and a DS, buy this 
 game! its one of the best games made for the DS so far! If you havent bought it allready, go to 
 you're local bestbuy/future shop/toys r us7 whatever the heck you want and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swat47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Great pokemon game. Hours of non-stop playing and many, many pokemon to catch. Wonderful wireless 
 and online play to play wiht your friends all over the world. Great when yuor on the road and completely 
 bored out of your mind, just simply great. What else can I say... the graphics 5 times better than 
 a normal game like on the gba, and it adds more taste to the game due to having a 3D world around 
 you. Trust me, It'll provide you with loads of fun. Including a few new things like the underground 
 wireless where you can dig with partners wirelessly and dig for things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokedasher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  One of the best in the series, Pokemon Pearl/Diamond. Very great although doing the same thing 
 could be boring but it's worth it. Great graphics, old-school gameplay, new pokemon, too much words 
 to describe it, A must-buy for die hard fans. Those new to the series, you better try this out. 
 It's best to play with friends and through wi-fi. GTS aka wi-fi trading and catching more legends 
 and more pokemon give it an incentive to play it more. More challenging, too, especially the all 
 new bosses (gym leaders, elite 4, villain) Everyone should get to know pokemon and to appreciate 
 it and to love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerdude666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Finally, after two years of waiting and rubbish spin offs Nintendo finally get round to releasing 
 two proper Pokemon games for the DS.
  
  Unless youve been living under a rock for the last 10 years its unlikely you havent heard of 
 them. Before 1998 nobody, except a few knew about it. By 2000 the two original games had spawned 
 a worldwide franchise including cartoons card games and a lot more.
  
  With the actual game, Game Freak seems to have gone with an if it aint broke why fix it approach 
 with these games. This could be seen as a good thing because the games are great already, and going 
 overboard with new game play twists could ruin what makes the pokemon games fun. Unfortunately 
 in my opinion theyve gone too far the other way and played it safe with this one. The story is 
 almost the same as every other game so far. (Start as a young boy/girl,. Meet a professor, get 
 a pokemon, catch more pokemon, beat 8 gyms, beat rival, catch a legendary do the Elite 4 ,the end.) 
 Another thing you notice when you first start playing is that the games graphics arent really 
 a big step up from Ruby and sapphire on the GBA. Although the graphics still remain cute and colourful 
 I was expecting N64 style Pokemon Stadium type graphics but instead we get more lame sprite battles. 
 The same can also be said for the sound. The tunes are nice although most of the pokemon still 
 sound more like a broken toaster rather than a deadly killing machine. So really diamond and pearl 
 arent a huge leap from the original games way back on the game boy in 1998.
  
  Despite everything Ive mentioned above this game still rocks! Firstly it is hugely addictive. 
 It combines most of the features from Gold/silver versions as well as ruby/sapphire to create the 
 best in the series so far. Ive managed about 60 hours in just under 2 weeks, which for me is insane. 
 Secondly this game is long. With most games youll do the story, do a bit of multiplayer and then 
 move on hardly playing it again but with diamond and pearl this isnt true. Even after done the 
 elite 4 youve still only scratched the surface as to what you can do with these games. For exemple 
 perfecting your ultimate team, getting the legendaries, gathering the poketech apps, doing contests 
 and more.
  
  For me the best feature on these games is the online. Before in pokemon games you were limited 
 to fighting people you knew directly which sucked. Now thanks to Wifi you can fight anyone in the 
 world any time of day providing you have an internet connection. Another feature is the global 
 trade station. (I think they should have called it pokebay) It allows you to trade a pokemon anywhere 
 in the world, which really helps if your one of those people who are gonna catch em all. If you 
 want to catch all 597 the old fashioned way you need to complete over 10 games ( Diamond, Pearl, 
 Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, leaf green, fire red, Coliseum, XD and even Ranger.)
  
  Graphics
  A huge disappointment. We all know the DS can do more! Take a look at Metroid prime 
 Hunters and then look at Diamond and pearl. Its weird to know their on the same console. Then again 
 improving the graphics would probably mean removing some of the games content so it is understandable.
 
  
  Sound
  You may have got away with robo grunts in the 90s but recycling the same noises in 2007 is just 
 lazy.
  
  Gameplay
  This is where the game shines. An absolute joy to play.
  
  Lifespan
  This game is huge. It could take months, it might even take you years.
  
  Overall
 
  An great game if your new to the pokemon series buy this. If youre a veteran buy it. These are 
 easily the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentOfLight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Hello. Review number whatever for me. Agh. Let's go.
  
  Pokemon is a game. A game where you meet lots of different animals presumabley from outer space 
 and catch them in capsules called PokeBalls . You can level them up and then defeat the 8 Gym leaders 
 and Ultimately take on the Pokemon League! You can find pokemon in tall grass or on the water. 
 The fact that each pokemon have their own moves and are weak/strong against one another is what 
 makes each one so unique!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Competitions in the 3rd town are avaliable and they have changed (they are now; dressing up your 
 pokemon for the visual, tapping on the screen in a rythmic patten for the dance and using your 
 pokemon moves for the acting. In the second city, you can get a mining kit from an old man in a 
 house who claims he's the first ever to go underground and when you get underground, you can dig 
 spheres out of the walls and bury them to make them grow and when they are a certian size, you 
 can exchange them for items for your secret base with sphere collectors underground. When you have 
 completed the story mode and gotteln all 150 pokemon, your pokedex gets upgraded to the national 
 pokedex where you have to see AND catch them all! There is also a GTS (Global Trade System) where 
 you can trade your pokemon for any pokemon you have previously seen. You can also trade with friends 
 over wi-fi for any pokemon.
  
  There's so much to do. GRAPHICS
  Best ds graphics next to final fantasy 3. These graphics are sort of manga-japenese style. Best 
 ever because they are so clean, crisp and clear. At some parts, there is also some 3-D. (Like when 
 you trade pokemon with in-game trainers and on wi-fi with friends)
  
  SOUND
  Ignore, as usual. My friend said it was rather cool, though not the best of the best. Each pokemon 
 has it's own cry but the gameboy ones retain their bleeps...
  
  VALUE
  It was worth the wait. Is it still worth getting? Yeah! I recommend it highly! Especially if you 
 haven't played the older pokemon games or get it even if you have!
  
  It's hard to rate a game thats like this. It's just so... Innovative. You'll never get bored of 
 it I can assure you that! You also get a free Palkia or Dialga stylus with it!
  
  Just. Get. This. Game. Rent first if you wish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Link432
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the best pokemon game so far. The graphics make it look like it has 3-D 
 feel to it outside of battle. Inside battle the sound is better than the last installments because 
 of the two speakers. Also the attacks look great. If you've played any other installment of pokemon 
 the time it takes to learn the controls should take about 3 minutes because of some new features. 
 Thats when you just begin the game. later when you get the national dex or beat the elite four 
 you can battle wirelessly thanks to the ds wifi connection. To do it from like far away (like with 
 the xbox live faraway) you need a usb wifi connector though. Also the palpark allows you to transfer 
 pokemon from your gba pokemon games into pearl. This really makes it easier to catch em' all in 
 this game. Also the new pokemon are cool too especially the legendaries they have. This game really 
 isnt much diffrent from diamond ecxept a few things like certain pokemon can only be caught in 
 one version, so you really wont have a hard time picking which game to buy. A lot of people have 
 bought a ds just to get this game. I've only played this game on my friends ds since i dont have 
 one. (prolly only kid in the world who doesnt currently have a ds or this game T~T) . So better start 
 savin if you dont have this game cause it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespoo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Well, i remember th days... like7-4 years ago when i was in year 3 to 6, we played pokemo, and i 
 was the king, then we all forgot about it, i tried coloseum, but thats boring, so i thought, pearl 
 is on a handheld, so is gotta be the old stlye i knew and loved, it is and its better.
  
  Graphics: major improvement, looks great, and so do the new pokemon (most of the names suck tho)
 
  
  Sound: great, some parts are monotonous tho =-&THORN;
  
  Gameplay: great story, but more or less the same old stuff.
  the gyms are harder, so's elite 
 4.
  
  touch screen: mostly useless, and underused for what its used for. If you like pokemon, buy it, 
 if you dont know, try it, if u hate it, dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 789shadow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: More than 100 new Pokemon; fantastic soundtrack; amazing new Wi-Fi features; great 3-D effects; long 
 and engaging; plenty of stuff to do after beating the main game.
  
  THE BAD: Basically the same as past games; most of the graphics could have been done on the GBA; cruddy 
 sound effects, a lot of which are recycled; no random online battles.
  
  Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl are doubtlessly the best Pokemon games yet, improving on most of the 
 aspects of the series while keeping the best aspects around.
  
  GRAPHICS: The most notable area of improvement is in the are of graphics. The environments are bright, 
 vibrant, and colorful to an extent that you will never tire of looking at them unless you've been 
 staring at the same image for 3 hours straight, which isn't likely to happen anyway. The new Pokemon 
 are really well detailed, and so are most of the new attack animations. The jump to the DS has also 
 allowed, for the first time,3-D. The game isn't completely 3-D, though. The core of it's graphics 
 are still relatively 2-D, with the 3-D put in for things such as buildings and windmills, and when 
 3-D is used, it's used really well. However, the more technical-minded people out there will look 
 at the 2-D part of the graphics equation and find themselves thinking, Why couldn't they do this 
 on the GBA???? Still, the graphics are really good, and definitely better than past games by far.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Once again, Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl delivers fantastic gameplay. Its essentially the 
 same as past games, but that is definitely not a bad thing. Its easy and basic enough so that anybody 
 can play the game through, but as Pokemon veterans know, if you look deeper its challenging and complicated 
 enough that you can spend hundreds of hours on it just tweaking stuff. And you'll probably spend 
 hundreds of hours anyway, because there is a landfill of things to do besides play through the story. Before 
 I go any further, though, the story is one of the let-downs. It's not a bad story, it's just that 
 people who have played a Pokemon game before will know what to expect. Basically, you're a kid from 
 an out-of-the-way hamlet called Twinleaf Town on a journey to become the world's greatest Pokemon 
 Master. Along the way, you'll have to stop an evil crime syndicate called Team Galactic from taking 
 over the world. Sound familiar???? It's a bit of a dissapointment that the developer's stuck with 
 the same old story when they could have gone in any number of directions with such a strong gameplay 
 system in place. Yes, the same great Pokemon gameplay returns. The crux of the gameplay revolves around 
 battling your Pokemon against wild Pokemon and other Pokemon Trainers .When a Pokemon defeats another 
 Pokemon, it gains EXP towards leveling up. When a Pokemon levels up, a number of things happen. The 
 number one thing is that your Pokemon's stats will increase, and this happens every time it levels 
 up. Another common thing is that the Pokemon will learn a new move. And some Pokemon, when they reach 
 a certain level, will even evolve into a completely different, more powerful Pokemon. The battle system 
 revolves around Pokemon types. Basically, a Pokemon has one or two types, such as Fire-types and Grass-types. The 
 moves Pokemon use are also divided into these types, and depending on what type Pokemon you use 
 it on, it can become more or less powerful. For example, a Poison-type move, when used on a Grass-type 
 Pokemon, does double the damage it would have done otherwise.
  
  SOUND: Now that i've bored you to death with my gameplay critique, it's time to move into sound. There 
 has been some improvement in this category, but it's not as noticable as the graphics. The music 
 has made great strides, as almost all the themes are great to listen to and fit their environment 
 well. However, the sound effects are where the game stumbles. There are a few good sound effects, such 
 as snow crunching under your feet when you walk through it, but the few good effects are pretty 
 much eclipsed by the bad ones. The biggest problem is that a ton of sound effects are staticky and 
 recycled from the first games, making them completely outdated.
  
  VALUE: Diamond &amp; Pearl will take you a good 40-50 hours to complete even if you try to do the 
 bare minimum of stuff you can do. The new online features, which include an Ebay-style trading station 
 for Pokemon called the GTS, add tons of hours of gameplay, and if you thought there was a lot of 
 stuff to do during the main game, it's nothing compared to what you can do after completing it.
 
  
  Basically, Diamond &amp; Pearl are the best Pokemon games yet, and if you've never played a Pokemon 
 game before, they make a really good case for jumping on the bandwagon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon adventure series is one of the most popular RPGs, gamers whom are not fans of RPGs 
 seem to enjoy the collection system which allows them to overcome the turn based battles. Diamond/Pearl 
 (here on I will use Pearl as thats the version I got) is a great addition because it combines all 
 the features from previous iterations.
  
  As usual you start in a small town that ironically has a pokemon proffesor and a lab. You simply 
 find you rival which always is present when not wanted, and the adventure begins in a small meadow 
 by the lake. You find a suitcase, it has 3 pokemon to choose from (as usual) and you pick yours 
 first then your rival picks the pokemon that can beat your pokemons type. Nothing new.
  
  What is new is there are more friends you meet and fight along side with, you somewhat interact 
 more with the AI characters.
  
  You go to each town solve some problems for any characters, fight the gym leader then move on. 
 There is now Team Galactic (no more Rocket, although we still have villians obssesed with space) . 
 They seem more devious then team rocket as they actually do stuff in this and they are more prominent 
 in the game.
  
  There are about 100 new Pokemon and lots of Pokemon from previous generations.
  
  The new 3D 
 rendered graphics make the game a little fresher then previous titles, the enviroment looks better 
 and there are more pokemon animations and theur battle moves look slicker.
  
  The sound FX are the same, but with DS quality. The musical track again is DS quality but the little 
 tunes are not as memorable as the ones in Blue/Red/Leaf/Fire titles.
  
  Gameplay is virtually the same, the bottom screen is used for your poketch, which holds a ton of 
 useless little doo-hickies that have no real point to the game itself. You can now use the stylus 
 to select battle options, and the buttons are placed more effectively.
  
  The featuers now give more enviroment effects such as snow, rain and more detailed pathways. There 
 is one contest hall which is like a mini-game all on its own and the usual large shopping center. 
 The pokemon breeders automatically will breed two of your pokemon simoltaniuously.
  
  Now, onto my personal perspective. Team Galactic is more annoying then Rocket, they somewhat ruin 
 the atmosphere of the adventure aspect. Why is it that a kid such as yourself is the only one taking 
 out some huge bad corporation when in the show they clearly have police, plus where the heck are 
 the gym leaders while some newbie trainer is doing all the work? That just does not make sense 
 to me personally. The game seems way more linear with all your new friends they meet you when you 
 first come into a town and they tell you right away what to do. The roads do not seem to have the 
 trainers lined up ready to train you up. Your rival is not as snotty as previous ones but he is 
 still as annoying.
  
  The new pokemon ARE TERRIBLE I do not know what they were thinking. I only like my starter Prinplup, 
 everyone else is pretty much lame carbon copies of previous pokemon but with stupider names than 
 usual. Don't get me wrong, some new pokemon are alright like the scorpion and some of the new steal 
 types. Fire pokemon and dragon virtually do not exist and Geodude and Ghastly are extremely overused 
 in certain areas.
  
  I was not impressed nor was I drawn in. Leaf Green and Fire Red are better in my mind. The graphics 
 are good and the gameplay is stable and just as good. I'd give it a 9/10 even though it has alot 
 of problems for me personally I can't make it personal and thus must rate it on its quality. A 
 deffinite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bart_Simpson2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The gameplay is very good because now that there are 450+ Pok&eacute; mon. But 
 there are still some mistakes. . . If you have the game you will agreed with me.
  When we first got the pokedex (to start the journey) the Professor tells us that we have to collect 
 info about Pokemon. . . But only if we catch the Pokemon we got the info. . . But after we see (not 
 catch) all the Pok&eacute; mons of the New Land ( Sinnoh) and we go to the PokeLab he will give us 
 the National pokedex (one of the few errors) . The graphics aren't bad because the cities and the 
 rest of it are in 3D, but there are still some problems on the battles that we have because they 
 still are old-fashioned from the Game boy. The attacks that we do are cool ( new stile) and they, 
 finally, resolved to put some differences between male and female Pokemon. The sound is from the 
 90's when they still made Pokemon games to Game boy Color. Yes, we still listen to the same stile 
 of musics that we used to listened. . . Ok there were some improvement but there's still a lot 
 to do in the sound system. To finish. . . The multipayer and wi-fi give to this Pokemon the title 
 of The game with the biggest longevity of all Pokemon games .
  So stay cool, and play a lot. . . (Recommended by Bart_Simpson2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the latest Pokemon game and is on the Nintendo DS. It takes place in the new Sinnoh 
 region, and, like in all the other Pokemon games, you must fill up your pokedex and beat the Pokemon 
 league. The gameplay in PP is great, you can use the touch screen for combat, and there are tons 
 of new Pokemon, and lots of extras like fashion competitions etc. The graphics are the best in 
 the series so far. The buildings are actually polygonal, and he game is very vibrant and detailed 
 in terms of battles and characters. The music is great, but alot of the sound is very crackly and 
 sounds like it was recycled from previous games. The game also introduces wireless mode, which 
 can let you trade and battle players all over the world. This is extremely convenient, seeing as 
 you dont have to find a buddy with a link cable to have fun with. In terms of Difficulty, this 
 game can be very easy in the beginning, but as you progress through the game, it can get fairly 
 difficult, especially on the last 5 battles, The Elite Four. Whether this is your first or last 
 Pokemon game, this is a must-have for the DS, and is probably the best on the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is a game that will infact be played for hours on end there is a long story and of 
 course there is the task of catching every Pokemon that makes the game so long! The newest game 
 is not the greatest in the series but it is well done and Pokemon fans will remember how hard Pokemon 
 can be! The game starts off where you and your Rival are going to the lake near your home town. 
 At the lake you are attacked by some pokemon and are surrounded. You see a bag with poke-balls in 
 them with pokemon inside and you and your rival each pick one poke ball and use the pokemon inside 
 to fend off the pokemon... And that is where your journey to be a Pokemon master begins... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Koopa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  As you probably read before you clicked on this review I think that this is the best game in the 
 Pokemon series and if you've never really got into Pokemon then this is definately the game that 
 should sway you over. If not because of the fact that it's online then perhaps because of all the 
 new features which have only been made possible because of the Nintendo DS hardware.
  
  Gameplay: This has a pretty simple gameplay system as if you have ever played an RPG before you 
 will instantly recognise the fighting and most of the adventuring. If you have never been near 
 an RPG before then Pokemon is one of the best places to start. The gameplay system in it's simplest 
 form is this, 'Capture monster, train monster, when monster is strong enough defeat powerful trainer, 
 unlock hidden move to progress to the next area.' When put in it's simplest form it does sound 
 about 6,000,000,000 times more boring than it actually is. The only problem I have with the gameplay 
 is minor, you can only walk in four directions.
  
  Graphics: On the surface it looks as though not much has changed since the GBA games except for 
 the buildings which are now rendered in 3D, it's not until you start noticing the minor tweaks 
 such as the new improved battle animations and that the characters now have more frames of movement, 
 I won't mention any more because i want you to discover the minor tweaks that add up to a frankly 
 major tweak.
  
  Sound: The overworld music is typically cheery for a Pokemon game. The new pokemon all have 'proper' 
 up to date battle cries, whereas the old Pokemon keep their old digitalised battle cries from their 
 original games.
  
  Value: Like all Pokemon games this has a long story but if you want to get that legendary 100% 
 and capture all the pokemon then i can guarantee that you'll be playing this well into next year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl Reveiw
  Pokemon has come so far from the 1999's red & blue on the Game Boy . Pokemon pearl is base in a 
 new regoin called Sinnoh. The is just like the other pokemon games you start as a rookie trainer 
 who goes around the world catching and rising pokemon. The good thing there are some new feature 
 that makes the game speiacl like the game is played on DS and the game tries to make use of that 
 by putting a feature called the poke'tch which has 22 features 25 with the speacil events. Plus 
 over a 100 new pokemon which are based off the 1st gen pokemon like Mr. Mine has a baby form & 
 Snorlax has one.
  
  The game use's the touch screen very well by put in the battle interface down on that screen your 
 able to click away at the attacks. But the thing is the still play like the old games which is 
 boring to play though 8 gyms, fight the elite four then become the champion they could of put something 
 like you can choose if your a battle trainer or ribbon trainer so you go around collecting badges 
 or ribbons.
  
  But overall pearl is a good game with a big story with lot of colours and effects. If your a frist 
 time pokemon trainer this would a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condog1702
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has outdone themselves. This game is by far the best game in the popular pokemon series. 
 Even better, it's for Nintendo DS! The plot is like the other games, beat the eight gyms of Sinnoh, 
 challenge the elite four, and beat Team Galactic. There are tons of new features for this game, 
 like the Poketch (short for Pokewatch) that is sorta like a watch, but with a lot of cool features. 
 There is a new world to explore, it is HUGE! There is a Sinnoh underground, where you can play 
 capture the flag with your friends or with Nintendo WIFI Connection. This is a wonderful game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnykilljoy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  this is a very, very good game. if you are a long timer lover of the pokemon game series or a first 
 timer you will have a blast. then when you complete the main story you can look for the legendaires 
 that still lurk around or if you have wi-fi go on to gts and trade or battle your friends (if they 
 have wifi and if you have their friend codes) . this is just a very good game so if you have some 
 spare money around the house and you wnat this game go get it! oh before i forget their is a new 
 program that isn't in the other games it's called poketech or something close it's a watch that 
 has many different and cool features for example the time, date, daycare watch, and a timer for 
 cooking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TleilaxuMaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl (along with its counterpart, Pok&eacute; mon Diamond) is the latest addition 
 to the ridiculously popular Pok&eacute; mon series. The franchise is known for its simple yet engaging 
 RPG gameplay, which allows you to gather and raise a team of creatures known as Pok&eacute; mon 
 and train them to fight against other Pok&eacute; mon. It's also known for being highly addictive, 
 as you will spend hours trying to catch 'em all or raising the perfect fighting team. Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl is no exception, but it also brings some exciting new features to the table.
  
  Not everything about Pearl is completely new, though. Don't expect to see anything groundbreaking 
 in the story. It's basically the same as it's always been: as a rookie Pok&eacute; mon trainer, 
 you'll journey across the land, catching and training wild Pok&eacute; mon, challenging other trainers, 
 earning badges from Gym Leaders, thwarting villainous Pok&eacute; mon organizations, and battling 
 your way to the Pok&eacute; mon League, where you will take on the world's greatest trainers to 
 earn the title of Champion. Sure, the plot is simple, but it's enough to keep the game moving forward. 
 Besides, the real focus of the Pok&eacute; mon series has always been on the gameplay.
  
  Each new entry in the series has added a brand new collection of Pok&eacute; mon for you to catch, 
 and Pearl is no exception. With over 100 new monsters roaming the Pok&eacute; mon world, you'll 
 have to work harder than ever before to fill up your Pok&eacute; dex. And with a total of nearly 
 500 different Pok&eacute; mon to choose from, and plenty of new techniques for them to learn, you 
 now have more freedom than ever in putting together a team.
  
  As in the previous games in the series, you start with only one Pok&eacute; mon. To get more, you'll 
 have to search through tall grass, explore caves, or fish for wild Pok&eacute; mon. When one is 
 found, catching it is simply a matter of weakening it and then throwing a Pok&eacute; Ball at it. 
 Once you've caught a good number of Pok&eacute; mon, you can put together a well-balanced team of 
 six to handle any opponent.
  
  Of course, any good team needs to be trained. As your Pok&eacute; mon battle against other trainers 
 or wild Pok&eacute; mon, they will gain experience and levels, and may learn new abilities. Since 
 a Pok&eacute; mon can only know 4 moves at a time, you'll sometimes have to decide whether to get 
 rid of a technique in favor of a new one. Some Pok&eacute; mon can even evolve, turning into new, 
 stronger Pok&eacute; mon.
  
  The turn-based battle system works in nearly the same way as in previous Pok&eacute; mon games. 
 You still have to take your Pok&eacute; mon's type advantages and weaknesses into account when issuing 
 commands. Additionally, in Pearl, attacks are further classified as either special or physical, 
 adding an extra element to consider when raising or battling Pok&eacute; mon. When you're not battling, 
 there are other things to do in the world of Pok&eacute; mon, such as entering Pok&eacute; mon contests, 
 harvesting berries, or searching for underground treasure.
  
  As the first game in the main Pok&eacute; mon series to appear on the Nintendo DS, Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl takes advantage of the system's online capabilities to allow you to trade and battle with 
 other players around the world. The GTS trading system is easy to use: you can browse through other 
 trainers' trade proposals to find an offer that fits your needs, or offer up one of your own Pok&eacute; mon 
 for trade. In addition, the ability to battle against other trainers over the Internet is a big 
 plus. Gone forever are the days when you and your opponent had to be tethered together with a Game 
 Boy link cable.
  
  When it comes to the DS's touch screen, things are... well, not nearly as exciting. Most of the 
 time, you'll see your Pok&eacute; mon Watch (Pok&eacute; tch for short) when you look at the bottom 
 screen. The Pok&eacute; tch can be upgraded to include a few useful features, such as a world map, 
 a pedometer, and a notepad that lets you jot down any important information you might come across. 
 You can also use the touch screen to browse through menus, select battle commands, or play the 
 occasional minigame (digging up treasure, for example) , but that's about it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks a bit better than the GBA Pok&eacute; mon titles. The 3D buildings and 
 terrain add a bit of depth to the world, and the battle effects look quite good. And, of course, 
 everything is very colorful. However, it just doesn't feel like the game is taking full advantage 
 of the DS's graphical capabilities.
  
  The music in Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is mostly inoffensive and, in some instances, actually pretty 
 good. The Pok&eacute; mon sound effects, on the other hand, are not as impressive. In fact, many 
 of the Pok&eacute; mon sound exactly the same as they did way back in Pok&eacute; mon Red and Blue. 
 It would have been nice if some effort had been put into updating these sound effects to match 
 the quality of the newer Pok&eacute; mon's sounds.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl will definitely keep you busy for a long time. The sheer number of Pok&eacute; mon 
 alone is enough to occupy any collector for countless hours, whether searching through tall grass 
 or caves, trading with others, or migrating Pok&eacute; mon from the older Game Boy Advance games. 
 You can also spend lots of time experimenting with different Pok&eacute; mon combinations or battling 
 online against trainers around the world. And, of course, there's the additional areas to explore 
 that open up once you complete the main quest.
  
  Overall, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is a worthy addition to the Pok&eacute; mon series. While the core 
 gameplay hasn't changed all that much, it's still just as fun as always, and the online capabilities 
 are definitely a welcome addition. If you're a fan of the series, you'll most likely enjoy Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl. And if you've never played a Pok&eacute; mon game before, Pearl is a great place to start. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raudeldormr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Awesome is one word used to describe this game but it barely makes the cut. Why? Because the new 
 Pok&eacute; mon D/P games are freakin' sweet . As soon as release was announced I could feel the 
 power once again. As I played through the gams I got more and more into the intense 3-D-ness . 
 The revamped sprites blew me away. 72 hours later I had finally beaten the elite four and decided 
 to tool around with the wi-fi junk. The GTS (global trading station) , which lets you trade across 
 the planet had me in its' mystical grasp. The underground spelunking activities ate also a hit! 
 Now for the bad news... most of the new Pok&eacute; mon stink, and are very boring to look at and 
 theres no Team Rocket. Besides those points the game is very sweet indeed, don't forget the new 
 music too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  The actual gameplay of Pokemon pearl (and diamond) is relatively the same as all previous iterations, 
 with updated moves, stats, and intact (but not entirely necessary) stylus control. As I am sure 
 you've already guessed, the game is based on catching, training, and battling other pokemon. This 
 is the same core game with different monsters and moves, and it works fine, but I think if they're 
 going to continue the franchise, it needs to be changed. You start off in a beginner town with 
 a rival and a mission, fill your pokedex. Along the way you'll uncover new beasts to capture and 
 train, and then test them on trainers. The trainers start becoming mundane obstacles pretty soon 
 and the thrill of finding new monsters, I regret, has become somewhat lost to me. That being said, 
 by regular standards, it's a decent RPG and above negativities should be cast aside if this is 
 your first pokemon game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The 3D elements added into the game are much appreciated and add to the realisticness of the towns 
 and buildings, but I think the series is due for 3D stadium-esque battling as well. And for the 
 monsters, it looks like the artist ran out of ideas long ago, because few of the monsters are very 
 interesting to look at, which started with ruby and sapphire. I would think that the pokemon would 
 look more interesting as the hardware advanced but older pokemon are much more interesting to look 
 at. Other than that, the DS delivers decent 2D visuals with a few 3D things added in.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  While I agree that some ofthe sound is interesting and entertaining, the same basic 
 tune has been recycled through since the first pokemon and it is becoming tiring. I hope if there 
 is another generation, the music won't be the same yet again. That being said, the quality of the 
 sound is what it should be and the tunes (however nostalgic) still sound good.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Diamond and Pearl has a wealth of DS-specific extras that provide plenty of fun 
 that couldn't have been ahieved in previous iterations. The global trade station, underground, 
 and wifi trading and battling has brought a sort of community-like feel to the series which was 
 a great idea. The main game itself is about as long as the others and should take about 12-15 hours 
 total to complete.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 8/10
  I was dissapointed with DP's likeness to other pokemon games. The gameplay was not entirely addictive 
 and became chore-like during some points. Despite that, it has a ton of added depth and content 
 that make it a decent game, probably worth getting, if you like this sort of game.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kriminoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  A game that most Pokemon fans have been waiting for. This is it, the Pokemon Pearl/Diamond series. 
 With amazing graphics for Pokemon games all new and improved and also giving a 3D feel to it, it's 
 a very nice environment to play in while traveling the Sinnoh Region (A Pokemon Continent) . The 
 new sounds and also music have been improved a lot and the Quality is pretty clear, heck I'd have 
 to say some of the tunes in the game get a little catchy! xD
  And as you guessed, a new stock of Pokemon, a lot more. The Pokemon are more creative then ever 
 in my opinion, new forms, shapes, and also sizes and also the legendaries are pretty cool looking 
 as well! This game is a MUST for all Pokemon fans and will most likely be the best Pokemon game 
 series ever.
  Also not to mention it's very cheap price of $35.00 - $45.00, cheap yet effective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm usually not interested in Pokemon, but my friend insisted I tried this game, so I did. Good 
 game for Pokemon!
  
  Gameplay (8/10) -
  Like I said before, it's great for a Pokemon game! Can keep you occupied for a few weeks! It's 
 also kind of cool that you can battle online now! Nice! =D
  
  Graphics (9/10) -
  The graphics on Pokemon look better now! Seriously! The graphics are with a blend of 2D and 3D 
 graphics! Nice!
  
  Sound (8/10) -
  Music has improved! Sound is kinda recycled!
  
  Value (8/10) -
  The price could have been a bit lower, but yeah! It's OK!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 
 (8/10) -
  Great Pokemon game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.2/10) -
  This is the greatest Pokemon RPG I have ever played! However, there are still some bad stuff that 
 have been recycled in Pokemon Pearl! But still a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I played all pokemon games (except pokemon XD) .. i liked them all... but this proved to be the best 
 one. The pokemon company really knew what they were doing with this game. EVERYTHING is great in 
 it ---there is more than 400 pokemon, rlly lengthy (i finished it in 30hrs) , nice graphics, nice 
 gameplay, Wi-Fi connection..... u can also 'migrate' pokemons from RUBY, SAPPHIRE, FIRERED, LEAFGREEN, 
 EMERALD to the game using the DS dual slot feature!!!! You can also trade pokemons with people around 
 the world!!!!...... All this features are MORE than enough to make it the best pokemon game ever.
 
  Its a game evry DS owner must have, unless he hates RPG games...
  If somebody likes RPG games and doesnt it... well.... WAKE UP!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstar2233
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  You first start off with your beginning pokemon at lake verity and you choose between Turtwig, 
 Chimchar, and Pinplup. I chose pinplup because I always choose water pokemon at the beginning but 
 Chimchar is the best in this case. The game is a little slower than the others since its 3D but 
 the environment has changed. At the beginning you might run into a trainer that has a bronzon I 
 think (psychic and steel) chimchar is good for that not pinplup. Right now Im training my party 
 (Palkia LV100, Charizard LV85, Salamance LV52, Tyranitar LV57, AERODACTYL LV55, Dragonite LV70.) 
 I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingkui12
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl uses the same formula as all the other Pokemon games. The game itself is fun and 
 it still has the got to catch 'em all idea. I will lay out the Good and the Bad.
  
  Good-
  New Graphics are nice but they are nothing to go crazy about.
  Great replay value.
 
  Long and will keep you interested.
  Many new Pokemon
  
  Bad-
  Trading online is not good at all.
  The game uses the same colors and buildings a lot.
  It 
 seems that game MAKES you look for cheat codes.
  Everything is still pretty much the same as far as Pokemon goes.
  The sound is horrible it just 
 doesn't match anything.
  
  Trading online is not good. If you were looking forward to it you will be disappointed. Most people 
 online are like, 0MG N00B 1 WANT 4 D30XYS F0R J0R P0K3M0N!!! It is all the same. Everyone online 
 wants a legendary Pokemon you get from the other games, cheat codes, or events. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomommaugly
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  i spent a lot of time playing but i played it so much that i got bored of it and its not perfect 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i loed it 
 the first time but it gets boring a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aaa a a and now i like it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok, time for my first thoughts!
  
  1 - Great graphics for the ds
  
  2 - Very addictive, you want to just keep playing.
  
  3 - Graphics have deffinately changed 
 since pokemon blue, red &amp; yellow
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So in the game you start off putting in your name and choosing boy or girl. There's a vast range 
 of new pokemon to collect and lots of new trainers and things to do. The game's graphics are great 
 and you seem to really see some new and better pixelated items like the big tv in houses. So like 
 you might know you get to choose 1 of 3 pokemon in the start. The pokomon are A fire monkey pokomon 
 [ CHIMCHAR ] , A grass turtle-like pokomon whose name i have forgotten, lol and a blue water bird 
 [ PIPLUP ] .
  I really would not like to spoil the game anymore so i'd just like to end on a good sentence ...
 
  
  My favorite DS game for 2007 because an rpg like this just is magical Diamond is better in my opinion 
 though because of the legendary and color change xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishprince214
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I have been following the pokemon series since blue and red. Looking back, Pokemon has continually 
 improved in every game. Graphics, sound, gameplay, story line, everything has changed for the better. 
 The adding of a whole new group of Pokemon puts up an even larger challenge just to choose your 
 favorite to finsh the game. Over all, best game for DS and I definetly recomend this game for anyone 
 who enjoys Pokemon or just a good RPG.
  
  I enjoy playing every one of them especially pearl. I can only wait for the next sequal. How many 
 more pokemon could there be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Tad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this action-packed RPG. This game is the most fun i've had in years! this 
 game had so many twist and back and forth moments that it was confusing at times but... it turned 
 out to be a supurb game! I really enjoyed it! As i said earlier this game is the most fun i've 
 had in years!
  I bought a DS just for this game. ( I don't like to buy game stations) That shows that it really 
 is good! I really liked the fact that I can customize and collect a lot more now! If you want a 
 new game get Diamond or Pearl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cow_Face
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I honestly think that this is the best Pokemon game out there! The graphics are great (presented 
 in 3D for the first time in hand held Pokemon history) , and the sounds fit very well. You can learn 
 it almost instantly, and master it quickly. For returning fans it is even batter because you can 
 go I remember that or that looks way better than it used to .
  
  Gameplay: Amazing! This game has a great story line, is addictive, and very fun to play. It takes 
 a while to complete, giving you lots of time to play the game, and ever after beating it, there 
 is a whole bunch more you can do. You also end up getting a feel for all the characters in the 
 game, giving it a lot more depth.
  
  Graphics: Now in 3D! The graphics are AMAZING for any hand held Pokemon game. The 3D gives it so 
 much more depth, and the game seems to move smoother and look sharper. Of course it isn't stunning 
 high tech graphics, but it is retaining it's classic Pokemon look.
  
  Sound: Very good! The sound in Pokemon pearl (and diamond) is spectacular. It sounds just like 
 all the previous games, just much clearer and better. It can be found to be a little repetitive 
 at times, but otherwise it is great.
  
  Value: Well worth it! This game is by far worth your money! Don't tell the stores, but I would 
 easily pay and extra 10 or 15 dollars for the game. But I think the price is perfect where it is. 
 Don't hesitate to buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berlindex
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Well let's start by saying that this is quite a good game period. But if you are a Pokemon fan, 
 like me, then this is all you have been waiting for! You get new pokemon (some of them really good, 
 others just plain uninspired) , you get the same addictive gameplay with some new touches that simply 
 make it delicious! Graphically its's the best looking pokemon game ever, with some pseudo 3D looks 
 in some of the environments mixed with a more worked 2D in the characters and pokemon sprites are 
 really good. After playing this for 20 hours i started my leaf green version and i couldn't stand 
 those graphics! As for the sound it's the same old pokemon sound, with those really crappy musics 
 that make us cry! So just as a conclusion to this small review, and not continuing so i don't give 
 you any spoiler, if you like pokemon don't think twice and buy the game RIGHT NOW. If you like 
 RPG's well give this game a try as it is highly addictive. And pokemon isn't a children game as 
 many may think, so before thinking that play the game and you'll see that you were plain wrong! 
 9.1/10 with no doubt about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnode
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  A month ago I would give this game 10, but recently I have relised that this game was a waste of 
 my time, ever since then I will never play Pokemon agian. I am not saying don't get it. It is still 
 a good DS game. The wi-fi was great I spend days on gamefaq forums trading and battling people. 
 I would recomend this game, but don't play to much or it is just a waste of time. The game has 
 a long ans fun storyline. Their is also a fun cloneing glitch that really works on the US version 
 witch was nice to have. If you are 13 or under I would recomend this game but if you are older 
 than that, it would be a waste of your time. Seiously there is better stuff to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersayan778
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The game has enough features and gun to last you a while. but the game lacks extra features.
  
  sure the wi-fi is great you can vs people around the world but its limited. you can only vs. 
 people on your friends list via. friend code.
  
  or by the battle tower which you just vs. the peoples pokemon on an npc.
  
  although this game 
 was ok it looks like its leading on to a better experience in pokemon that nobody can wait for 
 any longer.
  
  The simple twists to the new pokemon evolution's are kind of weird.
  
  a few new stones to evolve old pokemon, and new baby pokemon.
  
  but the weirdest pokemon need 
 to learn certain moves to evolve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  It's Pokemon Diamond and Pearl! The first Pokemon RPGS on the DS arrived in April. And while technically 
 this is the best game yet, the first two generations are still the best.
  
  Red, Blue, and Yellow started it all. Gold, Silver, and Crystal added time genders, breeding, and 
 allowed you to get 16 badges. Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald totally revamped the graphics and cleaned 
 up most glitches and gameplay. Diamond and Pearl add Wi-Fi support, but it could have been much 
 more. While online trading is fine, you cannot fight a random battle live. You have to download 
 your team onto a database and fight someone else's uploaded team controlled by a CPU. I hardly 
 ever use Wi-Fi anymore. The trading does make it easier to collect em all, though.
  
  Other than Wi-fi, all Diamond and Pearl adds is slightly better graphics and hidden technical modifications. 
 IVs, EVs, and Attack/Sp Attack has been altered, but this won't matter to anyone but die-hard fans 
 who read up on the coding of the game (like me) . The overworld and attack animations are very good 
 and 3D. They are very spiffy and are great for the DS. However, the sprites are still kind of pixely, 
 and the same sprites could be on the GBA.
  
  The sound is a good as ever, but the battle music for legendaries and the champion could have been 
 better. The champion music does not have that epic feel of the FireRed and LeafGreen champion music. 
 And legendary music isn't so epic either. The Deoxys music of Leaf Green, Fire Red, and Emerald 
 was fantastic.
  
  Of all the Pokemon games, Diamond and Pearl have the best plot. While RBYGSC had hardly any plot, 
 and RSE's was kind of iffy (oh no it is too hot we are all gonna die!) , this one seems straight 
 from a science fiction move. This game is also the longest, taking 40 hours to get so far as beating 
 the elite four. I beat RSE in less than 20. It seems the Pokemon games are adding less and less 
 and costing more and more. Even with a total of 493 pokemon in this game and the ability to import 
 pokemon from RSEFRLG, there could have been way more. Nevertheless, this is still a Pokemon game, 
 and Pokemon games are the best handheld RPGs you can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NefertariNami
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl and Pokemon Diamond bring you back to a whole new Pokemon world. With new Pokemon 
 and new events, this game beats the other Pokemon games.
  
  Although this game is very exciting and well thought out, I was disappointed with the GTS (Global 
 Trading System) and the Wi-Fi battling. For starters, you need to get a friend code to battle with 
 friends for the WiFi. If you want to battle someone else- you need to go on the internet and exchange 
 friend codes.
  
  This game is a must for all Pokemon fans out there and I would recommend it for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Patch360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I've never been that much of an RPG guy. The only RPG's I've really enjoyed have been 
 the ones made by Nintendo and a few Square games ( like Kingdom Hearts ) . The Pokemon games have 
 always been great. Well, MOST of them... but this one is easily the best. Gameplay: Pokemon D/P 
 shares the same type of gameplay experience as the previous titles. You go around catching Pokemon, 
 raising Pokemon, and battling. Surprisingly, all of that is VERY addicting. I can't stress the 
 would VERY enough. Hell, most of you probably already know what Pokemon is all about. The biggest 
 addition to the game is the new Pokemon and new moves. This makes battling deeper, and more strategic. 
 Some of the new Pokemon look like ****, but most are great. Battling in this game is great! Instead 
 of cycling around your moves with your tired thumb, you can simply tap the move you would like 
 to use. This makes things quicker and easier. However, battles in this game are longer than previous 
 games. Everything just moves slower. I'm fine with the slower pace, because it makes things more 
 realistic. Most of the time people play Pokemon if they have time on their hands, so don't worry. 
 You can save at almost any time ( a staple to the serious ) , but you can save during a battle. 
 New to Diamond and Pearl is the Poketch. Its a device you control using the touch screen. The Pokecth 
 acts as a watch, a timer, an egg counter, and TONS of other stuff. If you ask me, the best part 
 of D/P is online. You can hook up with Nintendo Wi-fi connection and battle trainers online. A 
 Pokefans dream...
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are good. They are very similar to the previous games in the 
 graphics category, but are different because they try to incorporate 3D. By 3D I don't mean full 
 3D, I mean slight 3D. It causes the game to look more up-to-date and again, realistic. There's 
 not much I can explain...
  
  Sound: Compared to the other Pokemon games, I was disappointed in the sound, but that doesn't stop 
 the music in this game from being masterful. Some of the tunes are just superb, others are completely 
 forgettable. The part I was disappointed in is that there is no advancement in the Pokemon cries. 
 8-bit is not acceptable...
  
  Reply: Do I even have to explain? The replay value in this game is ENDLESS. Raising your Pokemon 
 too high level is fun, but thats nothing compared to mastering EV'S and IV'S. If you want to know 
 what those are, I suggest you get th game first! There is so much to do. Catch all of the legendary 
 Pokemon, evolve Kanto Pokemon into they're new evolutions, grow berries, explore... the list goes 
 on.
  
  Buy, Rent, or Leave: If you own a DS, this game is a MUST! I've always hated renting RPG's, because 
 then when I have to take the game back, all of my data will eventually be erased by a 6 year old. 
 Some people will pass this masterpiece up, because they think Pokemon is kiddy. Its not. I bet 
 you money a 6 year old doesn't know what to do. It may seem kiddy because of that awful Anime series, 
 but its far from that. Pokemon is a REAL man game!
  
  Conclusion: Not only is this one of the best DS games, but its probably the best Pokemon game. 
 I can't urge you enough to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_lck
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  From the moment the game begins, its great to see that the sound and the graphics have been given 
 a major revamp. Having played the so-so pokemon ranger and pokemon rescue team, i personally felt 
 that they both failed to carry on the fun and addictive formula of the pokemon games of old. With 
 that said, pokemon pearl really ramps up the fun factor to nigh on gaming pleasure. Based on my 
 preconceptions when i saw the title i thought to myself, would this old classic stand the test 
 of time, and surprisingly its a hell yeah! With the number of little critters that you can capture 
 now reaching 400+, its safe to say that you are in for a real treat. And with the introduction 
 of new stuff to do in the game such as entering pokemon competitions, as well as building your 
 very own secret base and a heck of other cool things to do, this is set to BE the longest and greatest 
 pokemon journey for all you poke-freaks as well as for people who haven't given pokemon a spin. 
 Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game came out very good for the DS.
  
  It brought back the same feeling of the other pokemons on gameboy color for me haha. All the new 
 pokemon are very creative and fun to catch and trade. If you ever had a pokemon game before, you 
 know what to expect. Pokemon fans should really pick this up so they can catch em' all! All in 
 all though, the new 3D look to the enviorments came out very good, so the graphics came out awsome. 
 The story is very familiar, get the 8 badges, become leauge champion, face many side quest on your 
 path, level your pokemon, basically do whatever you want. The game is verry addicting and its great 
 for the DS for the poketch which is like a watch that has many applications for the bottom screen. 
 For example, the steps counter one, (counts how many steps you took) , and the current time on your 
 DS is even one of them. The people and enviorments are very fun to explore.
  
  I definetley recommend this game to people who want to raise, battle, and care for some new and 
 old pokemon. Very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majinstrings
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond Version and Pokemon Pearl Version are pretty much the same as earlier installments 
 but with much more meat on their bones. A feature that has returned after 5 games is the clock 
 feature. Different Pokemon can be found in the wild at different times of the day. Also certain 
 Pokemon evolve at certain times of the day. One Pokemon actually appears on a certain day of the 
 week. As you can see, the clock is used for much of the game's goal; collecting Pokemon. Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl introduce over 100 new Pokemon with all sorts of ways to obtain them. Some Pokemon 
 evolve into different Pokemon depending on their gender, some Pokemon evolve if they level up in 
 a certain location and some Pokemon evolve if you happen to have another certain Pokemon with you 
 at the time they level up. Another change is the appearance of Pokemon of the opposite gender; 
 for example: a female Pikachu is missing the tip of its tail while the male Pikachu is not. Some 
 differences are not so subtle; a male Hippowdon is brown while a female Hippowdon is black. Not 
 all Pokemon have diffrences in their appearence, though. The battling system has been changed a 
 bit but for some understandable reasons. First of all, in earlier installments, certain 'types' 
 of moves were classified as either physical or special attacks; for example: Fire, Water and Grass 
 attacks were considered Special Attacks ( the higher the individual Pokemon's Sp. ATK stat was, 
 the more powerful these types of attacks were. ) Fighting, Rock and Steel attacks were considered 
 Physical Attacks ( the higher the individual Pokemon's ATK was, the stronger these type of moves 
 would be. ) Now, attack classifications are determined on if the attacking Pokemon physically touches 
 the opponent ( or uses its physical strength by throwing something at the opponent, slamming the 
 ground; etc. ) or if the attacking Pokemon uses its mental powers or energy ( including fire or 
 water it shoots from its mouth ) For example: two fire type moves, Flamethrower and Flame Wheel 
 were bothe considered Special attacks but now Flame Wheel is a Physical attack because the attacking 
 Pokemon slams into the target. Secondly, some moves' range have been changed. For example, the 
 move Surf used to only affect both of your opponents in a 2-on-2 battle; now it also hits your 
 teammate. As for the touch screen, you can go through most of the game without using it. You only 
 'have' to use it while doing certain activities like making Poffins ( Pokemon food ) , applying 
 accesories to your Pokemon during contests and cycling through the different apps of your Pokemon 
 Watch. The Pokemon Watch ( Poketch ) has over 20 different uses. It's a clock, of course but it 
 also has a calculator, map, step counter, a kitchen timer and a memo pad; just to name a few. The 
 DS's michrophone can be used for a certain attack. The more noise you record, the better the move 
 is. One of the best new features in these games is the Wi-Fi capabilities. Now, you can trade and 
 battle with people from all around the world. This is very useful if you don't know anyone who 
 plays Pokemon and are finding it difficult to collect all 490+ Pokemon. There is more room in the 
 PC storage systems also. You have enough room for all 490 Pokemon plus the 28 forms of Unown, 4 
 forms of Deoxys, 3 forms of Burmy, 3 forms of Wormadam, 2 forms of Shellos and 2 forms of Gastrodon. 
 Unfortunately, you won't have much room for anything else. Another feature uses the DS's dual slots. 
 A lot of people spent a lot of time playing the Gameboy Advanced generation of the Pokemon games. 
 Well, you can actually transfer your old Pokemon from those games to your DS versions. You can 
 only transfer 6 Pokemon every 24 hours per game; for example, you can transfer 6 Pokemon from Ruby 
 and 6 Pokemon from Emerald in the same 24 hours. And don't worry, the Pokemon you transfer will 
 be exactly the same. If they are holding an item, infected with the Pokerus ( Rare Pokemon Disese 
 ) and are 'Shiny', they'll still be holding that item, be infected with the Pokerus and be shiny 
 when they get to the DS game. Before you transfer them, however, you must first remove any HM's 
 it knows at the Move Forgetter's house. Now, here are my complaints: A feature that has been left 
 out is the Player's PC . You were able to store extra items here. Now, you have to cycle through 
 a huge list of items just to find something you want to use. Something else I dislike is the fact 
 that there is no Match Call feature. In the Emerald Version, you could look up trainers who wanted 
 to battle you again; in Diamond and Pearl, you're stuck with the Vs Seeker, a horrible item that 
 was introduced in the Fire Red and Leaf Green versions. When you use it, every trainer on the screen 
 who wants a rematch starts spinning around. After you use the Vs Seeker, you must take 100 steps 
 before you can use it, again. This makes finding a trainer to battle very tedious and sometimes 
 frustrating. Another problem with the rematches is the difference in the opponent's Pokemon's Levels. 
 For example, you may use the Vs Seeker and get a rematch with 2 trainers standing within a few 
 steps of each other, fight the first one and his Pokemon are at Level 16-19. Fight the next trainer 
 and his Pokemon are at Level 55-60! You don't even get a warning. This led to my first loss. That 
 can be very frustrating when you're training a team. Also, in Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald, you were 
 able to use 3 flutes ( Red, Blue, Yellow ) outside of battle. Now you can only use them during 
 battles. Another problem is the fact that some Pokemon no longer learn moves that they used to 
 learn. For example: Vaporeon used to learn Acid Armor; not any more. Overall, Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pearl are the best Pokemon games yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 987654321y
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is probably the most revolutionary game in the pokemon series, only second to the 
 g/s/c series. This game has day/night features, a feature not seen since G/S/C. It doesn't use 
 the touch screen to it's fullest, but It has lots of touch screen functionality. It doesn't have 
 the Pokenav (first seen in ruby and sapphire, then reintrodused in emerald) but it has something 
 called the poketch, which is short for Pokemon watch (Don't ask me how) . It takes up the touch screen 
 for most of the game. Some things redesigned for the the DS's touch screen is it's Pokedex, now 
 somewhat resembling a DS also. It uses the touch screen to scroll. another thing changed is it's 
 bag. It has a scroller on the bottom also, but there are button's on the sides of it, and a button 
 in the scroller. It takes almost no time to learn, but it might take a few minutes to relearn the 
 buttons to use it for returning fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  its been 20 years now of pokemon the japanese monster battling game on handhelds and systems.
 
  pokemon peral is the greatest handheld pokemon game ever with 493 pokemon in the pokedex this 
 game is the gta on the ds.
  
  pros of the game
  it has about 2/3 of all 493 pokemon actually in the game itself the rest have to be transfered 
 to pal park from the gba games.
  it has early morning theme on screen all dark still then it has morning theme and a afternoon time 
 and then night time then late night so it has time of day changes and they also put random weather 
 in the game to sometimes if u play for 2 hours and go to a spot is raining and other times its 
 sunny.
  wifi trade battle wireless battle trade, gts trade
  gba slot transfers to ds slot nice.
  u can run in buildings now.
  
  cons
  the touch controls 
 look like they were rushed in really fast overall thats about it.
  
  difficulty is actually easeir then the other games.
  learning curve 10 mins
  time spent playing 
 over 100 hours
  classification best in the series
  the gameplay is amaizing
  the graphics are a improvement
  sound needs alittle work the pkmn crys sound like my red version 
 lol
  value must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl are the latest entries in the handheld series, and bring plenty 
 of new content to the table, while still giving players the same Pokemon theyve experienced time 
 and time again for the past ten years or so. The most notable additions to the series are touch 
 control, voice chat, about 100 new Pokemon, and of course, online battling and trading over Nintendo 
 Wi-fi Connection.
  
  Lets start with the basics, though. The graphical style of Diamond/Pearl is essentially the same 
 as its always been; an overhead view of the world map with the player and his/her surroundings. 
 But, with the hardware of the DS, the developers were able to add a few 3D items into the mix. 
 For example, youll be walking through a field of grass going about your adventuring routine, and 
 youll pass in front of some windmills. You, and the grass, will all be in 2D, but the windmills 
 blades will be rotating and will seem to pop out at you. This is a very nice feature and works 
 remarkably well on the little handheld. A few other 3D pieces include trees, houses, and skyscrapers.
 
  
  During battle, (Theres plenty of battling, as with all the traditional Pokemon games) , all the 
 fighting will be displayed on the top screen, while the menus and such are located on the bottom 
 screen. You have the option of touching to select everything, or using the D-pad and buttons. All 
 of the Pokemon have new sprites and animations. All the old moves have new animations, and of course, 
 there are plenty of new battle techniques, all of which look very nice. My only gripe with the 
 graphics is that sometimes pixels will the misplaced and things will look a bit choppy. This is 
 mostly on the 3D textures, but isnt really all that noticeable.
  
  That brings us to the sound. There is a bit of new music, and some old music. Most notably there 
 are new arrangements of old songs, which are very well done. All of the Pokemon have their own 
 distinct cries that youll hear in battle or you can listen to in the Pokedex, although this brings 
 up some good and bad aspects of the sound. All the new Pokemon have cries that are smooth, and 
 sound good, but all the old Pokemon have their same cries from the GameBoy Color games. This isnt 
 too big of a problem, though.
  
  The story isnt anything new. You collect and battle Pokemon to become the best trainer in all 
 the land, while meanwhile and evil group tries to take over the world, or in this case, create 
 a new one. Team Galactic are trying to capture the Pokemon of Time and Space to harness their power 
 and create a whole new galaxy. Its basically the same as the other games, except with a new group 
 and a new objective. Although it can be interesting at times, its not very deep and not all that 
 important, either.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as its always been. You get a starter Pokemon, you run around 
 collecting, battling and trading, eventually rising to the top and becoming the Pokemon League 
 Champion. The Gym Leaders serve as the bosses in the game, but youll also battle your rival every 
 now and then. In this installment of the series, you get a Poketch (Pokemon Watch) that gets displayed 
 on the touch screen. Its a handy device that serves as a little PDA. It has few applications right 
 when you get it, but youll receive more as you progress through the game. Not all of them are 
 completely useful, but some are kind of interesting like the Move Tester, which lets you see which 
 type of attacks work well against whatever type of Pokemon.
  
  Probably one of the coolest new features of these games is the ability to upload your Pokemon from 
 any of the GBA Pokemon games by using the DS dual slot capabilities. The most anticipated feature, 
 though, is the ability use Internet functions for trading and battling. You need friend codes to 
 battle, but if you trade with a random person over the Internet, their data will be added to your 
 Friends List automatically.
  
  The Global Trade Station lets you trade Pokemon over the Internet with random people. You can search 
 for the one you want, and if you find one itll display the trainer who has it and what type of 
 Pokemon they want for it. Its very easy to use and very helpful. The online battles also work 
 very well. Theyre very fluid and easy, but can lag if you or your opponent doesnt have a strong 
 connection. The game also keeps record of your wins and losses.
  
  After you beat the main quest, which can be up to about 45 hours, theres a ton of extra stuff 
 to fill your time like competing in contests, fighting in the battle tower, or simply just trying 
 to collect em all. The extra content might not change the core gameplay much, but is a lot of 
 fun and will take up a good deal of your time. These games serve the series justice and are great 
 additions to your collection, so if youve ever been a fan of the series, or are completely new 
 to it, this game will most likely satisfy your RPG needs for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaasz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the famed Blue and Red versions on the Game Boy in 1998, Pokemon has 
 been a wild success. The popular license has spawned card games, television shows, spin-offs, and 
 sequels to the original games. Its been a good two years since anyone has had a true Pokemon experience, 
 but with the release of Diamond and Pearl on the Nintendo DS the wait is finally over.
  
  Taking on the role as a male or female trainer in the brand new region of Sinnoh, you set out to 
 become the best trainer in the land. But thats not without some roadblocks in your way. Youll 
 need to clear eight Gyms all with their own Gym Leader, fight rivals, and deal with a new menace 
 by the name of Team Galactic who desires to reface the surface of the world. So grab your Pokeballs 
 and fire up that Pokedex, its time to become the best and save the world while youre at it.
  
  Lets face it, the Pokemon franchise is not known for its story so expect more of the same. 
 While Team Galactics part, especially their leader Cyruss, makes for a pleasantly menacing background, 
 they dont do enough with it. Its over before you know it and just as in previous titles, youll 
 find yourself pushing through the rest of the Gym Leaders in a very uneventful manner. Though that 
 endeavor can last you well over 60 hours, it would have been nice if they added more spice to an 
 otherwise stagnant and forgettable story.
  
  As expected, the core gameplay for Pokemon has not changed. You carry around a max of six Pokemon, 
 every type has a certain weakness to another, and each can have up to four moves in their arsenal. 
 Pokemon also still evolve and gain new abilities as they achieve experience from battling. While 
 it can be fun for a time, it all ends in tedium. Pokemon still learn absolutely useless moves and 
 unless youre a Pokefreak its almost impossible to understand how some Pokemon evolve unless you 
 look it up online. For example, there are kinds who only evolve if you have a specific Pokemon 
 in your party, level at a certain time of the day, or are given a special item found in the world. 
 While this sounds deep and intriguing it can be downright frustrating.
  
  One major catch is Pearl and Diamond introduce over 100 new kinds of Pokemon, making the grand 
 total close to 500. It also introduces a day/night cycle and certain Pokemon can only be caught 
 during those times. Each version also has Pokemon exclusive to it, so if youve gotta catch em 
 all youll need to trade via the new Wi-Fi system. This new online functionality is a welcome 
 addition to the series and makes for a fun time battling or trading with people all around the 
 world. Its pretty easy to set up but its bogged down by the increasingly annoying friend codes. 
 If you dont already know, friend codes are a unique set of numbers that identify you. No one will 
 be able to connect to you unless they have your unique code, but at least you can still trade anonymously 
 with the public.
  
  Graphically, Pokemon isnt too impressive. The visuals are noticeably upgraded, but they retain 
 much of what they looked like on the older hand-helds. Fortunately, the sound fairs better with 
 some great new tunes along with old favorites. Unfortunately, the noises Pokemon make are all recycled 
 from the original games. This doesnt have an effect on the overall gameplay, but youd think the 
 next generation of pokemon would sound a bit better than they do.
  
  Innovation isnt what Pokemon gives us, but the second screen does add a few fun aspects including 
 the somewhat useful tool called the Poketch. The Poketch is a watch that comes with a slew of different 
 applications youll discover during your adventure. While they arent all incredibly useful, some 
 are decent additions (portable map, battle weaknesses) that make it useful to have around. But 
 since the Poketch cannot be displayed in battle, the second screen allows you to see and select 
 all your Pokemons abilities and items via the stylus. Thats around the extent of the DS touch 
 features. Though theyre not exactly ground-breaking, it does add a flavorful new taste to rather 
 old insipid gameplay.
  
  While Diamond and Pearl bring a variety of new Pokemon and touch features to the series, it cant 
 hide the fact that the game hardly differs from previous titles. Even so, its lack of innovation 
 and change wont stop Pokemaniacs from gobbling it up. As for the rest, if youve caught them all 
 before, theres really no need for you to catch them again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's been a long 3 years since the release of FireRed and LeafGreen versions for the Game 
 Boy Advance, and it's not a surprise that Gamefreak decided to go with the Nintendo DS in making 
 the new Pokemon game. With the huge memory the DS games can handle, it's perfect to add tons of 
 new Pokemon and to make the biggest Pokemon Region around. In total, 107 Pokemon were added to 
 the game making the grand total reach up to 493! Some might look a little familiar because Gamefreak 
 has made even more evolutions to older Pokemon to make them even more powerful. The area you play 
 in this time is called Sinnoh. Sinnoh is definitely the biggest Region of Pokemon yet, beating 
 out Hoen which used to be first in line. They added tons of new elements to the game like Time 
 of Day, Snow areas, and even muddy areas. Not only is Sinnoh huge, but it looks fantastic. All 
 of the buildings are now in a cool-looking 3D, and it looks fantastic. It actually looks like a 
 real building now, and some cities, actually look like cities. But what else is new in these games? 
 Many more: there are new touch screen mechanics like virtually every DS game has, and there's also 
 battling and trade locally with friends, or on Wi-Fi over the internet. So one might ask, Is Diamond/Pearl 
 the best Pokemon game yet? And I would reply with, Yes. Yes it is. Simple as that.
  
  Wait, let me answer your first question, Is this story like all of the other Pokemon games? And 
 my reply is, Yes. Yes it is. But whoever said that the story in Pokemon games were bad? Well, 
 they're not, and it's no different here. Your a trainer ready to set off on an adventure, you can 
 chose to be either a male, or a female, but there is no big difference other than looks. You can 
 also name yourself, and your rival who lives next door to you in the small village called Twinleaf 
 town. You start off by watching a television show about how a team of unnamed personnel are trying 
 to catch a so-called Red Gyarados, who is a Pokemon in the game. After you finish watching it they 
 tell you to search for the Red Gyarados, but it really isn't important later on. When you can start 
 to play, you walk downstairs and your mother will tell you that your rival (whatever you named 
 him, so I'll call him Rival) wanted to see you but she doesn't know why. So you head over to his 
 house, and he runs into you at the front door. He tells you to go to Verity Lake with him, so you 
 must go there, but he forgot something in the house, so you have to talk to him in the house before 
 you can go to the lake. Once on the way there, you meet up with him and he tells you that he wants 
 to go to the lake to search for the Red Gyarados, so you go there with him. Once there, you see 
 an old man, and a young girl. Once they leave you go up to the small grass on the shore of the 
 lake and you get attacked by 2 wild Starly's! But the old man left his suitcase behind with Pokemon 
 inside of them! So you can take one of the 3 starter Pokemon: Chimchar, Piplup, or Turtwig. Which 
 ever Pokemon you chose, Rival takes the Pokemon that has the advantage over yours. In this case, 
 I took Piplup, so he took Turtwig. Grass beats Water. So after you beat the Starly you must meet 
 with the old man, and he tells you that his name is Prof. Rowan and he'll let you and Rival keep 
 the Pokemon you took. After this is all done, you start your Adventure to, yes, battle all 8 of 
 the Gym Leaders, and beat the Elite 4 at the end to become the Pokemon Champion. On the way though, 
 things happen with a team called Team Galactic, who were the group who wanted the Red Gyarados 
 and are trying to take over Sinnoh. The story can get a bit wonky here and there, but all in all, 
 it's still great.
  
  Pokemon games have never been known for its graphics, but in Diamond and Pearl, they look absolutely 
 fantastic. The overworld is pretty much the same as the Gameboy Advance Pokemon games, but instead 
 of 2D buildings, Gamefreak decided to make all of the buildings and landmarks into 3D which look 
 unbelievable. The battles are sadly still in sprite form with pretty average battle scenes, but 
 the whole upgrade with the buildings and environments are awesome and look fantastic. All of the 
 Pokemon have new sprites, even the old ones, so there's still a fresh new look to them. The menus 
 are pretty simple, like all other Pokemon game, but on the touchscreen, Gamefreak made a great 
 decision to make all of the buttons thumb-friendly, which means that they're all pretty big, so 
 you wont press anything by an accident. All of the items in the game have a picture, but some of 
 the items just look stupid. For example, Arceus needs certain plates to change it's typing, but 
 the pictures of the plates are just square and different colours, and they look pretty lame. All 
 people in the world are sprites, just like old games, so while the buildings look super-fantastic, 
 the people are still sprites, so it looks kind of odd. But seriously though, while playing Pokemon 
 Pearl, I found absolutely nothing horrible, and it never, I mean never, takes away from the experience.
 
  
  What Red, Blue, Yellow, Gold, Silver, Crystal, Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald made totally famous 
 has returned in Diamond and Pearl and has evolved. The battling and basic gameplay is still the 
 same, but things have been added, and things have returned. You walk around with the Directional 
 Pad, and while walking, you can use B to run faster. A is action, the menu is with X, and an item 
 you have set to the Y button is used by pressing Y. There's a new item called the Poketch, which 
 is the watch that your characters wears, which is on the bottom screen while you're running around 
 in the overworld, and it does a bunch of different things. There are a ton of different channels' 
 on the Poketch. Some of the these channels include: the time, a calendar, a timer, and a step counter. 
 Some of these channels can be really useful for certain things like the step counter for hatchings 
 eggs. When in battle, there are tons of things to do. You can attack, use items like Potions and 
 Pokeballs for catching Pokemon, and run from wild Pokemon. The battling is still the turn-based 
 RPG style and it still works perfectly. All Pokemon have 6 stats: HP (hit points) , Attack, Defence, 
 Special Attack, Special Defence, and Speed. All Pokemon have different stats, and what moves you 
 teach your Pokemon will reflect on what stats your Pokemon have. For example, Hitmonchan has massive 
 Attack but very low Special Attack, but if you teach him moves that use Special Attack, it will 
 do barely any damage to the Pokemon you're fighting. Each Pokemon has either one type, or two. 
 There are 24 types total, and they all have their weaknesses and effectiveness. Water beats Fire, 
 Fire beats Grass, and Grass beat Water, and so on. If your Pokemon uses a move that corresponds 
 with its type, then it will do even more damage. While in the overworld you can run into wild Pokemon 
 in tall grass, water, and caves. You can also get caught by a trainer and you have to battle them. 
 The battles are never too hard, so you can usually beat them easily. After you beat them you get 
 Pokedollars which you can spend on items at the shop. If your Pokemon get too hurt, you can heal 
 them in a Pokecenter which is always in a town no matter where you go. There are many items you 
 can use in Diamond and Pearl. Items can repel wild Pokemon, heal your Pokemon, make your Pokemon 
 stronger if you make them hold the item, and special items that let you battle old trainer, and 
 ride a bike. The touch screen works perfect in the battles. There are big buttons on the touch 
 screen you can use for attacking, using items, changing Pokemon, and running from wild Pokemon. 
 You can also use the directional pad to chose the things you want to do, but the touchscreen is 
 really, really easy to use and it way better than the d-pad. Your Pokemon gain experience after 
 defeating a Pokemon and they gain more if they defeat a more powerful Pokemon. After a certain 
 amount of experience your Pokemon will level up, and it can learn certain moves on certain levels, 
 and it can evolve into a more powerful Pokemon. Diamond and Pearl have perfect gameplay, which 
 make it a game you will play for hours on end.
  
  Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl have tons, and I mean TONS of things to do even after you have beaten 
 the Elite 4 (basically the last boss) . You can try to collect all 493 Pokemon by inserting your 
 old game into the GBA slot of the DS and migrating them to Diamond/Pearl. Once in the game, you 
 have to go to Pal Park, and retrieve them by catching them with Pokeballs. This is a great addition 
 because people have trained their Pokemon in other Pokemon games, and now they're able to still 
 use them on the new game. There's also the ability to battle people online by getting their friend 
 codes and setting it up in the basement of a Pokecentre. You can also trade Pokemon online too, 
 but it must be with friends. But you can also trade Pokemon in the Global Trade Centre in Jubilife 
 City. In the GTS, you can search a Pokemon you want and if people are willing to give them up, 
 you must give them what they want. You can also post a Pokemon up for trade, and people can take 
 it if they meet what you need. There's also a Trainer Tower on a huge island you can go to after 
 you beat the Elite 4 which you battle people over and over but your Pokemon don't gain experience.
 
  
  Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl are without a doubt the best Pokemon games ever made. And to tell you 
 the truth, they're the best games on the DS yet, just beating out Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. 
 From the 40 Hour + main story, to the 3D buildings and landscapes, to the new touch screen controls, 
 to the Wi-Fi battling, Diamond and Pearl have it and simply work perfectly. Also, the ability to 
 transfer your old Pokemon over from past games for the GBA make it a must buy for a Pokemon fan, 
 and even a must buy for any human being that owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I just want to tell you that I am not a pokemon fanboy. Everything in this review is totally unbiased. 
 Now I would like to say that this is the best pokemon game, absolutely no doubt about it, that 
 has ever been ever released.
  
  Gameplay (10) : The first pokemon game came out 'bout 10 years ago. Today the gameplay is exactly 
 the same as it was back in the hayday of pokemon. Very few things have changed. Some of the things 
 are the touch screen controls, the newer puzzles, and the new region.
  
  Graphics (9) : The graphics have been enhanced in every possible way. They are in 3-D. Or... at 
 least the buildings, landscape, and some cutscenes. The graphics weren't polished much so it gets 
 a little buggy in some places. Otherwise they are great.
  
  Sound (9) : The sound is extremely catchy except it sounds a lot like a polyphonic cellphone ringtone. 
 Besides that the sound is really good.
  
  Value (10) : The game is a nice $34.99. The game is also going to last an extremely long time whether 
 you want to catch 'em all, beat the main game, win a pokemon contest, decorate your secret base, 
 search for buried treasure underground, and much more. You can even try to do the m all. (I was 
 just going to beat the main game but then I saw a pokemon that I wanted a lot so the game lasted 
 another week or so for me. Now I decided that I'll try out everything.
  
  Tilt (10) : This is the best pokemon game out to date. 'nuff said.
  
  Anyways I can not emphasize 
 and express how much I reccomend this game. It's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockhopper_45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Come one and all. This game is easily my second favorite pokemon after G/S/C years. With migrating 
 you can finally ( huge sigh) catch them all. However the story was way to easy. It took me one 
 time to beat the elite four and my highest was only level 53. What makes this game great is that 
 now with Wi-fi you can truly become the best trainer. If you have Wi-fi than you should have pokemon 
 diamond or pearl. Train your pokemon and join one with that pokemon game so you can battle in tournaments. 
 New or ld to the series this is a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karven11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  in this new version of pokemon there are 109 new pokemon to catch and train with a lot more new 
 legendarys. the game is based of the goal to be the pokemon master, and now that it is on the DS 
 the old methods of getting together with your friends to trade and battle has now been made easier 
 with the help of the DS's wireless capability.
  Using that combined with the internet it is now possible to trade and battle with people world 
 wide. even with old friends who have moved away.
  There is a new feature called the GTS which stands for Global Trading Station, and using the GTS 
 you can now scearch for a pokemon you have seen and get it for your pokedex. you can even offer 
 pokemon that other people might want and ask for a rare pokemon in return.
  for those who have played the old pokemon games battleing has been made easier with the touch screen, 
 so that now it is harder to make mistakes and choose the wrong attack. the touch screen is now 
 also in the pokedex so if you want to scroll down just use the stylus and you'll be there in a 
 second.
  the pokemon contests that used to be only about the moves it had and the pokeblocks that you fed 
 it have now been improved and now consists of three sections, the visual, dance, and acting competitions.
 
  in sinnoh there is a place called the under ground and it is a whole other place.
  in the under ground you can build secret bases and dig for tresaure, there is also a little game 
 you can play where you can steal the flag of your friends secret base and take it to yours.
  useing the DS internal clock the game changes from day to night so that cirtan pokemon can be evolved 
 or caught at cirtan times
  i have been playing for over 200 hours now and it still hasnt gotten boring.
  after you beat 
 the elite four there is still a ton of stuff to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesuspr89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  good games lots of fun many thing to do through out the game. graphics are ok you cant really expect 
 much for a ds handheld the 3 D enviorments look pretty desent for the handheld. good story line 
 goes at a fast pace and doesnt really drag on . the game can get a lil confuseing at times and 
 may jump around at some spots and points in the game with could mix you up a lil bit. great length 
 to the game there really aint any ending to it. the online mode is a fantasic feature for the handheld 
 and the game helps wit many things and is head-set compatible so you can talk to people from all 
 over. its a must get game there really aint much of a different between the two games only really 
 the poke'mon that you can catch more or less i own them both but its not really much of a differences. 
 so get this game if you really into the whole poke'mon world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wima5ter-134
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I thought it would be fun but still have that boring Pokemon feel (you 
 know, going from town to town can get pretty boring and redundant) , but when I started playing, 
 it sucked me in and I couldn't stop playing. It still starts out the same, you just went out with 
 your friend when a group of Pokemon attack and you have to grab one of the three Pokemon starters 
 (fire, water, grass) and then because you fought so well you get to keep it and end up going on 
 a quest to get all of the badges, beat the Elite Four, Stop the evil team (team galactic in this 
 case) , and, well, catch em all . One of the best parts about the new game is the choice to access 
 the underground. The underground is a system of tunnels spread all across Sinnoh (underground) , 
 and when there, you can dig for spheres (underground currency) , evolution stones, and fossils. 
 You can also create your secret base and steal your friends flag when both going down at the same 
 time (not Wi-Fi compatible) . Another thing that is good about this game is that because it is on 
 the DS, the graphics are better and it actually looks like the buildings are buildings and not 
 giant stickers slapped on the ground. But what happens in one of the latter installments of this 
 series is that a lot of the sounds are recycled and does not sound as crisp as it could have been. 
 But don't get me wrong, the music for this game is amazing. The music in Sunyshore is so inspirational 
 and fun to listen to, I went into the city and just listened to it for a really long time. One 
 of the new things that happened in this game is the national dex. Once you see every Pokemon in 
 the Sinnoh dex if you talk to the professor for this game Professor Oak comes (he is from the first 
 game) and gives you the national dex. This dex has a spot for every single Pokemon in the whole 
 series. But how do you catch them all if pearl only has Sinnoh Pokemon you ask, there are three 
 ways. 1. Pal Park: If you recall this game is on the DS and the DS has a GBA slot. So if you put 
 Fire Red, Leaf Green, Ruby, Saphire, or emerald in and go to the Pal Park, you are able to migrate 
 6 Pokemon every 24 and then go in and catch them, what makes it even better, you automatically 
 catch them! 2. Online trade: In Jubilife City there is a place called GTS. Inside you can start 
 up Wi-Fi and ask for a Pokemon, this results in a group of trainers from around the world appearing 
 and you can talk to them and see what Pokemon they would like for the one you want. There is also 
 deposit, which is where you deposit a Pokemon and check back later to see if someone has made you 
 and offer on it. 3. Battle Island? An area that is only accessible after beating the elite four, 
 the grass and water holds Pokemon from other games. One of the things that is really dumb is the 
 Event Pokemon. There are 3 legendary Pokemon that need special Nintendo events to capture. This 
 is a really stupid way because it means that you can only catch them all if you somehow find a 
 way to get something that is almost impossible to get. Even so if you are a fan of Pokemon or just 
 want to get a good game for the DS that is easy to rack up over 100 hours, get Pokemon Pearl of 
 Diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Back when i was a lad, poke-mania hit me with all its japanise might! i bought cards, games, cartoons, 
 stuffed animal and anything that had Poke in it. After many years, i got over it but still try 
 to play the MAIN games [not the spin-offs or stadiums] . Pokemon Pearl brings a non spin-off type 
 game to the DS and all its internet goodness.
  
  You begin with your avatar watching TV on the lakes in Shinnoh and going to the lake near you town 
 with your friend and than you do what in every pokemon game you do, catch them all. There is little 
 changed in the story but i feel its better than just being the best trainer. There is a orginization 
 called team galactic which wants to create a new universe and they end up summoning a Deity and 
 you stop them. Told you nothing changed....
  Except for the New pokemon [which are the most creative since gold and silver.] and the all new 
 online play [im not shelling out 40 bucks! no freaking way!]
  
  Basically its pokemon on the DS! Always relieable and good buy if you like the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty340
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is a very fun game, that goes back to the true roots of Pokemon. No more Pokemon 
 Ranger or Rescue Team! It is very fun and has a high replay value. I already have 90 hours played 
 on mine and i still play now and again. I really like how they made it old school, put some 3D 
 graphics in there, made some new pokemon, new moves, and more! Also the new added twist of trading 
 and battling using wi-fi is a geat idea. Now u can get all three starters very easily! It is truly 
 a good game that all pokemon fans must get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's extremely popular Pokemon series has been around for a decade now, and in that time 
 there have been about 13 traditional Pokemon RPG's on the Gameboy/Gameboy Advance and now the Nintendo 
 DS. The 12th and 13th games, Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl are the first to grace the Nintendo 
 DS, the first to have Wi-Fi support and as a result, the deepest, longest and best game (s) in the 
 series.
  
  The game follows a nearly identical formula to the previous Pokemon games. Your a young Pokemon 
 trainer who aspires to become a Pokemon Master. When the game begins, you'll meet your Rival and 
 Dr. Rowan. Dr. Rowan will of coarse let you choose 1 of 3 Pokemon to start your quest with, and 
 of course, your rival will chose a Pokemon too. Anyone who's played a Pokemon game before should 
 be familiar with how this works out. The game also features Team Galaxy, basically what Team Rocket 
 was to Pokemon Red and Blue and of coarse, it'll eventually be up to you to foil their evil plans. 
 Sound familiar? If you've played through a Pokemon game before it probably should.
  
  As a matter of fact, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl feature the same core gameplay featured in previous 
 Pokemon titles, so anyone who has played a Pokemon game will know exactly what to expect. There 
 have, however been some fundamental changes to the games battle system, that may seem insignificant, 
 but can actually make a big difference during some of the tougher battles during the game.
  
  As with before, Pokemon battles are still turn based battles where the two Pokemon will attack 
 each other until the other loses all of its HP. And of coarse, the Pokemon's strengths and weakness' 
 will play a big part of how the battle turns out (for example, attacking a fire type Pokemon with 
 a water type move will do 2x the attacks normal damage, but if you attack a water Pokemon with 
 a fire attack, it will only do 0.5x its normal damage) . But now Pokemon attacks have been split 
 up into two different kinds of attacks - physical and special. Basically, as you level up your 
 Pokemon, they gain stats (Pokemon stats include HP, Strength, Defence, Speed, Special Attack, Special 
 Defence) . You'll notice that most Pokemon will have a significant difference in 'Attack' and 'Special 
 Attack' stats. This is where the two different kinds of attacks come into play. Before, suppose 
 you used an fighting type move, the game would automatically consider that a physical attack (and 
 therefore the Pokemon's 'attack' stat would influence the amount of damage done by the attack) , 
 but now that there are two types of attacks, some fighting type moves are classified as 'special' 
 attacks (and in that case, the Pokemon's 'special attack' stat influences the amount of damage 
 done) . Additionally if a Pokemon uses an attack which is the same type as the Pokemon (e. g., a 
 fire type Pokemon using a fire type move) , the attack will get an additional boost of power.
  
  These seemingly small changes can make a surprisingly big difference during some of the harder 
 battles in the game (such as the Elite Four) and especially when fighting online against other 
 people.
  
  Speaking of battling online, for those who don't know, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the first 
 Pokemon games to feature full Wi-Fi support, allowing you to trade and battle against other Pokemon 
 players all around the world. The trading comes in handy especially if your planning on collecting 
 all of the 493 Pokemon (actually, its nearly impossible to collect them all without a cheat device 
 or Wi-Fi support) . But trading online isn't quite as effective as you'd think. Not because of any 
 technical flaw of the game, but you'll find that if you search for a Pokemon, most of the people 
 that have it want a level 100 legendary Pokemon or something like that for it, which can really 
 get annoying.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are easily two of the best looking games on the Nintendo DS. They don't 
 push the DS hardware in any way, but the stylized graphics style combine with the amazingly vibrant 
 and colourful colour palette in the game to create a really nice looking game. You'll also notice 
 that buildings and other solid structures are polygonal which actually adds a lot to the games 
 presentation. It helps make the game not look as flat as its GBA predecessors.
  
  Similarly, the audio in the game is nicely varied and generally has a nice sound to it. You'll 
 notice that different areas, towns and even some Pokemon battles have different sound track behind 
 them. The audio is however, hampered by the sounds the Pokemon make, which sound ugly (if that 
 makes sense) and really... not Pokemon like. Still, overall the sound compliments the graphic style 
 pretty nicely.
  
  If your expecting to collect all 493 Pokemon, complete all the side quests and unlock everything 
 there is to unlock, plan to at least spend about 220 hours in this game. There is a startling amount 
 of things to do in this game. Apart from capturing all the Pokemon, there are Pokemon contests 
 for you to take part in, items to unlock, berries to find (which help out with the contests) ect.
 
  
  So overall, if you've played a Pokemon game before and liked it, theres pretty much no way for 
 you to not enjoy Pokemon Diamond or Pokemon Pearl. The series core gameplay remains the same, but 
 with enough changes to it to make it interesting enough for long time players to come back to. 
 If you've never played a Pokemon game before, no matter how old you are, as long as you don't hate 
 RPG games or something, you should play this game, there is a reason Pokemon games are the 2nd 
 highest selling games of all time after all y'know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  When referring to Pokemon each and every person falls into one of the following four categories: 
 The first being those that have never actually heard of Pokemon and if thats the case then give 
 yourself a sharp smack on the wrist for living in a bubble for the past twelve years. The second 
 being those who have no interest in it whatsoever and if thats the case then I dont want to keep 
 you, please take this escape rope and make your way quietly to the exit. The third being those 
 that label it as kiddy and childish and its these people who need to be double slapped by 
 a Jigglypuff because thats plain ignorance. The truth is that the Pokemon games are anything but 
 childish and probably boast more battle strategies than a grand chess master, its just a darn 
 shame that some people cannot look passed its cuteness and see it for what it really is  a full-on 
 RPG. The fourth and final group is of course the Pokemon fans themselves, the people who have been 
 eagerly awaiting the releases of both Diamond and Pearl for the best part of two years. Hoping 
 and praying that the latest additions not only live up to the mammoth classics that have gone before 
 them but surpass them by making full use of the DS and its capabilities. One thing I can tell 
 you for certain is that theyre a whole lot better than the mess that was Pokemon Ranger, the game 
 were you had to draw large rings around wild Pokemon in order to catch them. Theyre also a whole 
 lot better than those idiotic Pokemon Dungeon games in which you took on the role of one of the 
 little critters (whoever thought up that idea needs firing) .
  
  You begin your adventure in a region known as Sinnoh and just like each of the games before it 
 youre required to make a vital decision between three starting Pokemon almost immediately. Unsurprisingly 
 you have a choice between grass, fire or water and each one is pretty well balanced, although arguably 
 Piplup the penguin has a slight advantage as it evolves into a Water/Steel type and a tough one 
 at that. Soon after you bump into Professor Rowan who will give you the task of scouring the region 
 in the hopes of completing his Pokedex, this isnt necessarily as hard as it sounds but will require 
 you to uncover every single area the game has to offer. Once thats done and all 150 are logged 
 safe and sound youll then be provided with the National Dex and thats where the real challenge 
 begins, well unless you dont consider catching 493 Pokemon a challenge of course. Dont fret though 
 because if you still own a copy of Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Fire Red or Leaf Green and have it 
 placed in your GBA slot you can trade all of your hard-earned Pokemon over via Pal Park, you are 
 limited to trading just 6 a day but the good news is theres a 100% catch rate with every one you 
 encounter.
  
  Aside from your Pokedex which can take literally 100s upon 100s of hours to complete you should 
 finish the main story in around 40 hours, although most fans will tell you this is the point in 
 which the true game begins. This is the point where you start team building in the quest for ultimate 
 supremacy over your friends, just remember that finding the right balance between brute force and 
 carefully marked tactics is most definitely the key to success.
  
  Apart from a few new features the gameplay hasnt seen a radical change, probably the most notable 
 addition is the ability to battle and trade via Wi-Fi. Unfortunately though nothing can be done 
 without the use of friend codes and if you cant get your hands on them then your online experience 
 is going to be pretty limiting. The game also implements a device called a PokeTech that fills 
 the lower of your two DS screens as you play, these have several different add-ons which can be 
 used in a multitude of ways. At first you will receive pretty basic applications such as a watch 
 and a calculator but the further you progress the more useful they become, some of which include 
 a step counter to help with the breeding and the hatching of eggs, a berry map to help you keep 
 track of all your various plantations and a screen that indicates how content your party are which 
 is sure to help with those pesky happiness evolutions.
  
  The graphics do a solid enough job without ever really breaking the boundaries, yes the buildings 
 look a whole lot more impressive than they once did but thats only a small segment of what could 
 have been achieved with the hardware available. The two-dimensional grid that youre pinned to 
 just doesnt cut it anymore, neither do the cloned character models that youre repeatedly bumping 
 into around every corner. Perhaps one of the biggest disappointments for me personally though are 
 the actual battle scenes themselves, while they have been improved they still feel like theyre 
 stuck in the past.
  
  The audio also leaves a lot to be desired, the individual calls for each Pokemon were fine a decade 
 or so ago but now they feel horribly outdated, like they came from a time when Wham! were still 
 cool and slipper socks were the in thing. Thankfully the music holds steady and even though it 
 can get a tad grating after prolonged periods of play it adds to the overall feel.
  
  Despite their lack of progression Diamond and Pearl are both great games and welcome additions 
 to the Pokemon series, with potentially 100s of hours worth of Gameplay, over 100 new Pokemon 
 and the added bonus of Wi-Fi theyre not only a must for fans of the series but also DS owners 
 alike.
  
  Gameplay - Apart from a few new features the gameplay hasnt seen a radical change, probably the 
 most notable addition is the ability to battle and trade via Wi-Fi.
  
  Graphics - The graphics do a solid enough job without ever really breaking the boundaries.
  
 
  Sound - Individual calls for each Pokemon are disappointing and outdated, the music does a good 
 job but can become repetitive.
  
  Value - Aside from your Pokedex which can take literally 100s upon 100s of hours to complete 
 you should finish the main story in around 40 hours, although most fans will tell you this is the 
 point in which the true game begins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many gamers to wait outside their local game stores to get this game on release 
 day... and wow, this was by far worth the wait. The graphics have been improved alot since the 
 previous handheld installments, now having pseudo-3D look to them. The music has been upgraded 
 alot and sounds much better than the prevous games. The pok&eacute; mon cries sound the same, and 
 most people complain about it... but how can you? The pok&eacute; mon cries and the pok&eacute; mon 
 cries... you can't change how they sound 10 years into the series. It's a fairly long game with 
 plenty to do once you complete it. The Wifi is a nice touch... but the upcomming Pok&eacute; mon 
 Battle Revolution for the Wii really takes advantage of the Wifi Connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilQ8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has finally brought a true Pokemon title to the DS handheld and boy does it deliver. I 
 am positive that there needs to be no introduction for this landmark franchise. Without further 
 ado, lets jump straight into the review.
  
  Pokemon Pearl takes place in a brand new region named Sinnoh. As expected, Sinnoh has nearly all 
 the terrain types to adventure through and find rare Pokemon. Whats even better is that Pokemon 
 Pearl finally introduces a chance to trek through the snow as players search the Tengan Mountains 
 and its snow-white environment. f players are looking for a new story to play through, youll want 
 to look elsewhere. Pokemon Pearls storyline is basically the same from its predecessors. Players 
 start off picking a boy or a girl and, of course, are in charge of naming their character. After 
 that, its time to meet the professor and deciding between three Pokemon to start off with. From 
 there on out, the storyline uses the basic plot device of a Pokemon rookie advancing forward to 
 take on the Pokemon gym leaders and the League Champions. Of course, Pokemon Pearl contains the 
 typical bad guys that will appear as an obstacle. This time around, Team Galaxy shows up as the 
 baddies that will be chilling like a villain around every corner.
  
  The aspect of Pokemon that always creates addicts out of gamers is the collect-a-thon portion. 
 Dont get me wrong  the eight gym leaders are fun to combat, the League Championship is always 
 the overarching goal, and that darn rival always gets on my nerves enough to look forward taking 
 him down  but collecting Pokemon has always been the heart of the game. Altogether, Pokemon Pearl 
 has 493 Pokemon to collect. With all the new Pokemon introduced, there isnt one new Pokemon type 
 established. Its something I can live with, but I would have enjoyed at least one new Pokemon 
 type to factor into my battles.
  
  Outside of collecting Pokemon, there are always pageant contests to put your Pokemon through to 
 pass the time. Though, maybe breeding Pokemon is more your type of thing? If so, just take a male 
 and female to the nursery and in the morning there will be an egg awaiting your return. If those 
 both arent enough to satisfy your attention, there are Technical Machines (TMs) and Hidden Machines 
 (HMs) to find. These both go along the lines of collecting, but isnt that what Pokemon is all 
 about? Wait, sorry. I forgot that they officially no longer use the Gotta catch em all! slogan 
 for Pokemon. What should be the most attracting feature for Pokemon Pearl is the Wi-Fi connectivity. 
 Yeah, of course the use of the touch-screen is a nice addition, but online gaming is what every 
 Pokemon fanatic craves. Up to eight trainers can battle and voice chat with each other on a local 
 wireless and/or using their friend codes. Theres also a Global Trading Station to find new Pokemon 
 online or put your unwanted Pokemon up for adoption.
  
  The touch-screen functions on the other hand are helpful, but not required. The stylus allows players 
 to pick their Pokemon they want to battle with. Navigation through the menus no longer has to be 
 done with the D-Pad as the stylus permits players to touch their selection. The touch-screen functions 
 pale in comparison to the Wi-Fi addition.
  
  As for new gadgets to factor into your repertoire, theres a wristwatch to find hidden treasure 
 on the maps. I remember when I was younger and found out about a hidden treasure across the map 
 from a friend and I had to take fifteen minutes of my time traveling from city to city to find 
 the darn treasure. Now, the wristwatch introduces the ability to find hidden treasure. Plus, it 
 will be keeping time for players too. Who would have thought a wristwatch would be used to keep 
 track of time? Crazy, I know!
  
  Speaking about time, the games time is set in real time. What does this mean to gamers? It means 
 they have to wait around for a specific time of the day to catch a particular Pokemon. My suggestion 
 is for players to just adjust the time accordingly to the Pokemon they are searching for.
  
  Back on topic about the gadgets; the Pokedex has a fresh look to it with new functions to aide 
 Pokemon trainers. New details include: comparing Pokemon and their weight to another, taming Pokemon 
 and where you met them, and the personality of the creature. In total, the Pokedex has been fleshed 
 out and is extremely helpful for extreme Pokemon collectors. The last tidbit about gameplay is 
 that there are tag-team matches where youll face two trainers working in tandem. The tag-team 
 matches are more of a rarity, but that makes them that more enjoyable when you run across them. 
 Tag-Team matches arent entirely new, but they have been improved on for Pokemon Pearls release. 
 Though the DS isnt a graphical powerhouse, the graphics of Pokemon Pearl are better than what 
 I had originally imagined. When traveling through the Tengan Mountains, snow flakes continuously 
 fall to accentuate the area. Taking use of what power the Nintendo DSs does have, the colors and 
 character sprites are much improved over the Game Boy Advance counterparts. A Pokemon title hasnt 
 ever looked this good on a handheld. Sadly, the battle scenes are monotonous and uninspiring still. 
 Dont get me wrong, I enjoy Pokemon to the fullest, but the battles need to be spruced up. The 
 same tactics should still be applied if you want to catch the Pokemon the easiest  wear their 
 Hit Points (HP) down before throwing a Pokeball. The new selection of Pokeballs includes Dark Balls 
 and Heal Balls. Dark Balls should be used at night to assist in catching Pokemon in dark areas. 
 Heal Balls will heal the Pokemon you capture so you dont have to run back to town or use potions 
 to get them to full health.
  
  Pokemon is not a big departure from earlier games. This should please long-time fans who may be 
 worried about the possibility of innovation. I am all for innovation and would like to see the 
 Pokemon franchise take a few steps towards throwing in brand spanking new ideas. If you already 
 are a fan of Pokemon and like your Pokemon one particular way, Pokemon Pearl offers leaps and bounds 
 of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterfulGamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  With pokemon having a bad name now, this is exactly what the franchise needed to get started again. 
 This new game has everything that made the good pokemon games fun and more. While the online battling 
 sucks, because it is not live, there is an even greater reason to continue playing even after you 
 finish the main story. Online trading.
  The online trading is simply superb. There is practically at least one of every pokemon up for 
 trade on the server. However, you must have the pokemon in your pokedex to be able to see it available. 
 While this is unfortunate, especially for those who only have Pearl or Diamond, the online trading 
 is plenty fun. And now with the Pokemon Battle Revolution coming out for the Wii, there are even 
 more reasons for you to continue leveling your pokemon. If you haven't ever played a pokemon game 
 before, pick this up and enter the offline sensation before we all murder you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camh91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the most interactive pokemon game to date. It is a step up from all of the others. I 
 really like the wifi capablites. this game really put the old pokemon games oput of play id say. 
 and the even better thing is that they are even slightly backwards compatable with the the old 
 GBA titles. DEFINITELY BUY IT! :]
  id have to go ahead and tel you that the pokedex has expanded by about 100 or so pokemon too! the 
 new legendaroies are just basically awesome!. and also many of the old pokemon have eveloutions 
 that were no previouisly available! SO definitely if you dont own it, GOTO the store right now 
 and BUY!! :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Pokemon since day 1, and I will not lie...2nd Generation was definately the 
 best. When Ruby was released I was pleasantly surprised while completely dissapointed at the same 
 time. My complaints on this game are far less, read on.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : If it ain't broke, don't try to fix it. Game Freak stuck to this formula for the 
 most part and it does this game justice. The basic fun is still there. You choose from 3 pokemon 
 as your starter and then amongst 150 different Pokemon you are able to choose from you must create 
 a good team to face and defeat the Champion with. Of course there is some actual story that goes 
 along with whatever cartridge you bought (Pearl is about the dimension bending Palkia and Diamond 
 is about the time controlling Dialga) , but Pokemon still lacks in the story department. I will 
 not lie, the story is MUCH better than previous installments and there are times when you will 
 be immensely interested, but over-all the story just leaves you wanting more, and only tickles 
 your taste buds.
  
  Still, it is a big step for the series and I liked it, made things more interesting. The collecting 
 aspect is still there and with 493 Pokemon to collect now, there are plenty of choices and trading 
 to be had here. The dialogue is well done and oftentimes you will be given the freedom to take 
 multiple paths and to get to the same area and may not even realize it until later. This game also 
 doesn't hold your hand as much as far as figuring out where to go, as past games in the series 
 do. That is good because it allows you to feel more in control, which is really what these games 
 are all about. They are meant to make you feel like you are a Pokemon trainer trying to become 
 the best and this generation does a great job of this.
  
  There are all sorts of events brought back from the first 3 generations, like the contests from 
 3rd, time-based events from 2nd, and most everything from 1st. My main issue was that the time-based 
 events, though there, are not nearly as interesting as Gold/Silver's were, but the day/night system 
 does look nice. Overall you are still playing the same game as before, but the addition of the 
 new Pokemon (I don't know how they are STILL able to be so creative and make such interesting Pokemon 
 after all this time) and the Wi-Fi options make this game a very pleasant sequel to the series.
 
  
  Another thing that bothers me that is worth mentioning though, is that they could at least make 
 your starter follow you around, like Yellow version's Pikachu. There is an area where you can walk 
 around with a select few 'cute' Pokemon, which is obviously an homage to Yellow, but it just isn't 
 acceptable anymore. With all the power they wasted that could have been used with the DS, they 
 could have AT LEAST allowed your starter to follow you around. I should also add that there are 
 a bunch of new features, like double wild-battles and partnering with NPCs in certain areas... not 
 to mention the overall better interface. There are also these little applications which show up 
 on the lower screen. There are over 10 of them and each of them is fairly useful in its own right 
 (I specially like the clock) . This isn't a good balance of old and new, but there is just enough 
 new to make the game feel fairly fresh.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Overall this game does not really make full use of the DS. The overworld actually 
 looks pretty acceptable, being full of vibrant colors and nice use of 3D and 2D integration. The 
 battles still look almost the same and are dissapointingly underwhelming, though many of the attacks 
 look a lot better than they used to. A lot of the Pokemon animations a merely the Pokemon shaking 
 back and forth, and they could have been a bit more creative with that, though I am glad the animations 
 is now standard, and not a special edition exclusive (previously only in Crystal and Emerald) . 
 Still, this series has always been about being vivid and simple, and this game is in no way different. 
 You don't really notice how much better the graphics are until you actually play one of the GBA 
 games again. Even though this game does not make full use of the DS hardware, it DOES look significantly 
 better than the 3rd generation.
  
  Sound (9/10) : This is the largest noticeable improvement. The sound effects of Pokemon and stuff 
 are still mediocre to laughably horrible, but the music really shines in this game. It still sounds 
 almost GBA quality, but they managed to make a much wider array of tunes and they all sound magnificent. 
 I especially enjoy the music that plays when fighting a Legendary, fighting Palkia/Dialga and fighting 
 the Champion. Kudos to the composer for doing it right this time.
  
  Value (10/10) : Like every Pokemon game, most downfalls are made up for by replay value. First of 
 all there is a lot to do in the game itself, with around 50 hours of just the campaign... and then 
 there is all the capturing and team building you can do. There is also quite a bit to do after 
 you 'beat the game' (meaning become the Champion) which is nice, something many RPGs seem to lack. 
 There is also the Battle Tower which is a nice challenge, and you can even transfer data from champions 
 around the world to try to compete with. Speaking of around the world, the Wi-Fi in this game finally 
 makes this series as community based as it was always meant to be.
  
  You can use the GTS system to put up a Pokemon for trade and then ask for a certain Pokemon in 
 return. You can check the GTS regularly to see if you got what you wanted and you can also seek 
 for others who wish to trade. Granted, most of the time when you seek people ask for ridiculous 
 offers (imagine being asked to trade a Mew for a Rattata) , but for some reason when YOU put up 
 an offer, I find that you usually get what you want within 4 days (at least that is how it has 
 been for me) . There is also the Wi-Fi battle and trades you can do with others, which is loads 
 of fun. There is even a new function that automatically raised your pokemon to level 50 or 100 
 so you could just give them the moves they need then use this option to make the playing field 
 even. The friend code problem still exists, but thanks to the internet, it isn't that hard to find 
 somebody to battle or trade with (see GameFAQs) .
  
  There is more though. As far as local wireless goes, you can mix poffins (same as Pokeblocks) , 
 battle, trade and mix records like in past games. The Union Room makes a return with some more 
 useful functions and you can even customize your look to suit your style so that you aren't always 
 the generic male or female trainer. The options aren't too diverse, but it is much more than there 
 used to be, which was none. There is one new wireless function that stands out though, and that 
 is the Underground. This is a complete maze-like map that is as large as the overworld, and down 
 there you can do digging for all sorts of rare items by yourself or with friends. On top of that, 
 this is where you can put your Secret Base. There is an added funness to the Secret Bases though: 
 Capture the Flag. You can now go to other peoples' bases and steal their flag to put in yours. 
 It isn't nearly as fun as CTF in say Quake III, but it is a very nice and pleasant distraction 
 to the rest of the game, not to mention immensely fun when you have 3 or more people to do it with. 
 It is unfortunate that this function is only wireless and not Wi-fi, but it is still fun.
  
  I didn't know where else to put this, but I wanted to mention the touch screen before I said 
 any final thoughts I had. The use is very minimal. You use it for digging in the Underground and 
 for Poffin making, not much else. You can direct battles with the touch screen or buttons, otherwise 
 there isn't much real use for it. I will say that the usage seems to be there more for convenience, 
 and at least it isn't overused or used in boring or lame ways, so there isn't much to complain 
 about there. I don't see how the touch screen could have been used effectively anyway. There is 
 one last complaint though: and that is migrating Pokemon from the GBA games. It is simple and painless, 
 but you can only do 6 per day, and that is immensely annoying, but at least you CAN do so.
  
  That being said, this game is truly a shining star in the Pokemon franchise. It gets almost 
 everything right that it had wronged in the past, and manages to throw in a decent amount of new. 
 The addition of Wi-fi and the cool new Pokemon is a HUGE plus. The game looks pretty good, sounds 
 great, plays great, and is best where it is meant to be best: with friends. Even if you don't have 
 Wi-Fi and friends with this game, you will find around 50 hours of fun to be had from this game, 
 which is a good amount. Last point to mention is that now, with Wi-Fi, we may finally be able to 
 acquire those special event-only legendaries that we couldn't get in the past since they were focused 
 to 3-4 places in the world.
  
  So should you buy it? Definately. This is a great place for new players to begin and will not dissapoint 
 veteran players either. There is a reason why the Pokemon franchise is the best selling video game 
 franchise of all time (next to Mario of course) . Definately buy this. Enjoy.
  
  *NOTE* Version differences are minimal, so I am merely going to copy and paste my review for Pearl 
 to Diamond. Also worth mentioning is that with the GTS system, it is MUCH easier to get those exclusives 
 that could be difficult to get in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracometeoslash
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon franchise comes back again in Pokemon Pearl. This game features incredible but mundane 
 3-d features, new catchy tunes, characters and adventures to be introduced to the protagonist. 
 In this game, the protagonist makes their way through all the cities and towns, defeating gyms 
 and learning moves that will help them reach new heights, like the regular formula for the Pokemon 
 franchise's success. This game includes never before used features, such as the connection between 
 prior Gameboy Advance Games, which can be linked to Pokemon Pearl, thus expanding the adventure 
 and weaving in more versatility. Pokemon Pearl is an excellent and addictive game, full of fun 
 and cool sights. With infinite possibilities, you just gotta catch 'em all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar311
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  this game keeps u a rolling alon at at at at at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome 
 i love it i played it and neew gamed it and played it and new gamed ittttthis game keeps u a rolling 
 alon at at at at at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love it i played it 
 and neew gamed it and played it and new gamed ittttthis game keeps u a rolling alon at at at at 
 at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love it i played it and neew gamed it 
 and played it and new gamed ittttthis game keeps u a rolling alon at at at at at at rattatatat 
 it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love it i played it and neew gamed it and played it and 
 new gamed ittttthis game keeps u a rolling alon at at at at at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo 
 cool and awesome i love it i played it and neew gamed it and played it and new gamed ithis game 
 keeps u a rolling alon at at at at at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love 
 it i played it and neew gamed it and played it and new gamed ittttttttthis game keeps u a rolling 
 alon at at at at at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love it i played it 
 and neew gamed it and played it and new gamed ittttthis game keeps u a rolling alon at at at at 
 at at rattatatat it is soooooooooooooo cool and awesome i love it i played it and neew gamed it 
 and played it and new gamed itttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  i tjink this is one of the best pokemon games ever i have been playing for over 100 hrs and i just 
 got it some weeks a go. the gameplay is simply awsome and you will never get bored of playing this 
 awsome game. the whole nintendo wifi feature just make it even better i think that 34.99 is a good 
 price for this game if you are looking for any pokemon go to the G. T. S. wich you all know what 
 it is and if you dont know just buy the game and find out. what i am simply trying to say is that 
 if you want to buy one of the best pokemon games out there buy either diamond or pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I play this game 8 hours everyday . I always carry this game with me to everywhere . Killing the 
 boredness , Fun and more . I used to play all the Pokemon games From Pokemon Red and Blue to Pokemon 
 Pearl and Diamond . I have never played a game like this before in all Pokemon games ( More Actions 
 and Adventures ) . This game is the best game I got on my DS until the next generation Pokemon 
 Game ( Hopefully In 2009 ) there is will be Pokemon Light and Pokemon Dark ;)
  
  Have a nice time .... ( If only you get game this game ! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdude747
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is a great game and it lives up to the previous games. I haven't finished the game quite yet 
 but from what ive played its a lot of fun the 3-D a nice touch and gives the game a nice look and 
 really gives some areas a different perspective like the first gym ( but i wont give anything away 
 ) .
  If you like cutting edge graphics and dont like anything 2-D then i don't know why you got a DS 
 but this game i would consider one of better or best games for the DS. this game has all new tm's 
 that give the game a new fealling like emarld didnt give you. Some of the new pokemon i admit look 
 really dumb. but hey you've never seen them before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefly07
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  The game starts out like all the rest of the games. Your a young boy or girl about to set off on 
 a journey to catch every pokemon and become the champion of the pokemon league. So you must travel 
 from town to town beating the towns gym leader. This is where I had trouble I kept getting lost. 
 I would get lost in the marshes and forget what town i was going to. The developers have taken 
 full advantage of the 3D capabilities of the DS by adding new moves and refining old ones and making 
 them look just stunning. But that is in battle, out of battle the world looks pixel-ated and messy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlocked4Life
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I'm sure many hardcore gamers out there would agree that Pokemon games definitely aren't just for 
 kids. Sure, you see them on Saturday morning cartoons and lunch boxes, but tried and true gamers 
 know that Pokemon is one of the deepest and most addicting gaming experiences on the market. I 
 feel that with this latest installment, Pokemon is still a game that can entertain all ages. With 
 the inclusion of new features such as online battling and trading, the Big N has made this game 
 the community experience that it has been striving for all along.
  
  The premise of the game is simple and it basically fallows the regular Pokemon story arc from the 
 past installments. You start off as a male or female trainer out to grab the 8 pages from the region 
 you live in. On the way you fight off a malevolent organization called Team Galactic . Ok, so the 
 story doesn't exactly dress to impress, and by no means will it leave you in awe or even wanting 
 more, but hey, it does what it needs to do to keep the player in the action with something to do. 
 I have to give props to the writers and translators though, because the dialogue in this game (especially 
 one that is more catered to young adults) is surprisingly sharp and amusing. These characters don't 
 talk like Saturday morning cartoons, they talk with an air of wit about them, and this installment 
 showcases that more than any of the previous ones in my opinion. So, you know the drill by now. 
 You travel around the game world pimping out your Pokemon collection and plowing your way to the 
 Elite Four. All of that solid collect and fight gameplay is intact (along with a few so-so minigames 
 that are thrown in there for good measure) . This time around you can 480 (or thereabouts) of the 
 little critters on one save file! By trading with Leaf Green, Fire Red, and Pearl/Diamond you can 
 have the biggest Pokemon collection yet to be assembled in a single game. It's an extremely daunting 
 task to be sure, but through the incorporation of online trading via Wifi, it certainly isn't out 
 of reach. You can put any of your Pokemon on the virtual market and ask for any other Pokemon you 
 have seen. You don't have to wait around either, just log back in a few hours later and your trade 
 will most likely be complete (as long as you keep your trading guidelines reasonable, that is) . 
 This brilliant trading system truly makes the Pokemon community come to life, and it means that 
 no Pokemon is unattainable. The main quest will keep most of you busy for around 25 or 30 hours 
 (the Pokemon veterans could plow through it in less most likely) , but once you beat the Elite Four 
 a ton of new things open up. This game has more legendaries than any other Pokemon game, and a 
 ton of those difficult critters become accessible once the credits roll. Also, an entire massive 
 island becomes navigable as well, and to top it all off, once you complete your initial Pokedex 
 you get an expansion from good old Professor Oak (remember him?) and all of a sudden hundreds of 
 the old school monsters as released upon the game world. So after you beat the game you can easily 
 put in an additional 50 or more trying to wrap up your collection and at the very least, try to 
 catch all of the legendaries. There is more incentive than ever to try to assemble a powerful and 
 varied team, because now you can take them to the online arena and do battle with people from all 
 over the world. The action isn't there just for kicks though, and you can get some nice rewards 
 for doing well online. I would say that online fighting is the one piece of the puzzle that puts 
 this game head and shoulders above its predecessors. I do have a few minor gripes with this game, 
 however. First of all, the fact that you need a friend code to do any sort of online battling all 
 the way up until you beat the game is a major annoyance. Many people don't have friends that own 
 the game, and random online battling would have been nice to have right from the get-go. Secondly, 
 the graphics engine needs a serious overall. Sure, the new critters still look very inventive (and 
 the short animations before each fight don't hurt) , but the actual game world still looks like 
 it's stuck in the last generation of gaming. Nintendo does throw in some nice 3D models, but if 
 anything, that just helps to emphasize the fact that the rest of the game is in very plain and 
 very boring 2D. I'm hoping that the developer makes the jump to 3D the next time a Pokemon game 
 rolls around. Other than the graphics, the presentation is top notch and the musical score is as 
 catchy as ever.
  
  So in conclusion, if you're a DS owner and you've ever had the slightest of inklings that you might 
 like role playing games, you need to check this one out. Look beyond the childish appearance and 
 you'll find a game rich with strategy and wit that will keep you coming back for more for months 
 on end. This is what handheld gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  For about a decade now, the Pok&eacute; mon phenomenom has kids gone mad with Pok&eacute; fever 
 while torturing parents with all its merchendise that the kids want. Whether it be games, lousy 
 movies, tv shows, toys, or all other things in between, Nintendo has made a ton of money marketing 
 their Pok&eacute; mon franchise. Quite frankly, the only thing I care about Pok&eacute; mon are the 
 main games. The rest of this behemoth sickens me.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Pearl (and Diamond) are the first real entries of Pok&eacute; mon for the DS. Much 
 of the game is still more of the same old thing you've done if you played subsequent versions of 
 the game. You're a child who somehow must become a Pok&eacute; mon master by capturing all known 
 Pok&eacute; mon (strange monsters that you catch, raise, and battle, like cock fightin) in the world 
 of Sinnoh. I don't even think that I have to explain all the details as you should know by now 
 the flow of the game. Your character does not talk outside of battle, the encounter rate is still 
 to high, combat is still rock paper &amp; scissors, the story still blows, there are 8 badges to 
 get, unique Pok&eacute; mon per each game, etc. While the game has a severe case of deja vu, what 
 it offers in quantity is a completely dfferent story. Pearl/Diamond are by far, the biggest versions 
 of Pok&eacute; mon to date. Over 480 Pok&eacute; mon are yours to catch, about 105 of them are new 
 to the series. Insert your GBA versions on to the second DS slot and you can transfer your Pok&eacute; mon 
 to the DS game. The biggest addition to the game is the inclusion of online play (many DS sequels 
 add online play as the most noteworthy addition) . And it's not just some halfbaked addition. Pok&eacute; mon 
 P/D sports some of the most robust online features out there. If you make arrangements outside 
 of the game and trade friend codes, you can play matches online. For the first time on the DS, 
 you can talk with your opponent through the DS's built in mic. Talk smack against your opponents 
 or just enjoy free long distance calls. The voice quality sounds like talking on the phone. Another 
 great new addition is the GTS system where players worldwide can trade Pok&eacute; mon online. Post 
 your own Pok&eacute; mon that you're offering, pick which one you wantfor your trade (what you want 
 is limited to what's on your Pok&eacute; dex) , Post your request and check back ifanyone traded 
 with you. If someone did, the next time you log online, voila! The Pok&eacute; mon you want is yours. 
 As long as what you offer is fair (not trade your weak Rattata for a lv 100 Dialga like what a 
 lot of stupid kids do and never get any result out of it, idiots) , you should have a good trading 
 experience. Moving on to the DS hardware should have resulted in better graphics, but that is hardly 
 the result here. The graphics look boring, lack detail, and are quite ugly. Even in combat the 
 game still have those lifeless character portraits for the Pok&eacute; mon. The only mildly modern 
 thing about the graphics are those quasi-3D buildings. It's trully shameful that Game Freak was 
 so lazy with this game.
  
  The music happy and cheery. Energetic Pok&eacute; mon anthems fills the soundtrack with melodic 
 themes that fit the mood. On the huge down side, returning Pok&eacute; mon still use the same sound 
 effects that Game Freak has used for years. Pok&eacute; mon P/D will last you quite a while if you 
 still are hooked to how addictive the game can get. The game's biggest flaw is that the game feels 
 lazilly put together. While that old feeling of gotta catch em' all! is still here, it's just that 
 Game Freak has not taken huge risks to make the game more relevant and refreshing. The addition 
 of online play is what gives this game legs, let's just hope that the next new installment revolutionizes 
 the series. This is still a good game, just not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eosmera
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I last played a Pokemon game (ahh the memories of my old GBA with Sapphire 
 in it... good times, good times) . With a plethora of Pokemon games plagueing us in the past couple 
 years Nintendo has finally released one that gets back to the gameplay we all know and love.
  
  Story:
  
  The story in Diamond/Pearl (D/P for the rest of the review) is the same story 
 we've heard since the original on the original GameBoy back in 1998. You are a novice Pokemon trainer 
 who stumbles into recieving a free Pokemon from a professor (Rowan in D/P) you then embark on a 
 quest to fill a thing called a Pokedex for the professor (hmm... sounds like free had some baggage 
 with it) while simotaneously becoming the most powerful trainer in all the land. Along the way 
 you will be stopped by various characters and asked to help them with their own problems before 
 you can advance any furthur. Also along the way you meet your rival (who is you best friend in 
 D/P) and battle with him/her. One more nusance in the game is the evil gang of Pokemon theives 
 (Team Galaxy in D/P) whom you single handed defeat by the end of the game.
  
  Well the story has never really been award winning material, but hey you aren't playing Pokemon 
 and expect a Metal Gear Solid story-line. Even thought you finish the little plot about three-fouths 
 through the game you never really feel like you accompolished much (except for catching *hopefully* 
 a legendary creature) .
  
  My one hope for this series in the future is to mix up the story a bit more, give me characters 
 to care about, give the characters some more feelings, flesh them out. I want to know why I live 
 with only my mother, I want to know how I came to live in the smallest town in the region? These 
 things are all just ideas for the future.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The core gameplay for Pokemon hasn't changed throughout the series lifespan, and it's no different 
 here. You will be walking (running) around, throwing balls, leveling up, gambling, collecting badges, 
 fighting trainers, and all the other stuff you could do before. D/P does little to touch the gameplay 
 that the series has come to adopt.... and that doesn't bother me one bit.... this game came packaged 
 with nestalgia. Even though I knew I could have the same experience with one of the older games 
 I stilled played D/P... and I still loved it like I have have in the past. They added a little bit 
 of touch-screen functionality in the form of the Poketch, a watch that can be upgraded with new 
 apps that you collect through the course of the game and range from a map to a daycare checker 
 to a berry locator. Battles are played out on the top screen with you touching commands on the 
 touch-screen (you can opt to play it OldSkOoL if you really desire to) .
  
  Another thing that they've added this time around is WiFi functionality. There are two ways you 
 can go WiFi, one is with friends to battle (via friend codes) , and the other is randomly to trade 
 your hard earned Poke-critters with one another to truly Catch 'Em All. The one thing that would 
 have been nice with the random trades would be the ability to battle randomly or aquire the trader's 
 Friend Code, other than that the WiFi is pretty useful and fun.
  
  One more way to have fun is in the new place called the Underground. You and several friends via 
 wireless play (or you can go by yourself) go down here and do a couple of fun little things, there 
 are mini-games, digging, and setting up hidden bases. This part of the game is really boring if 
 you don't have anyone to play with because it spans the ENTIRE map, so if your alone it can get 
 exreamly boring.
  
  The only thing that I have to say that I miss (and I have missed it for a few of the past games 
 now) is the ability to go back to the old regions and play there collecting gym badges and fighting 
 their elite four. That addition to the old game gave it a lot more play time than any other Pokemon 
 (maybe even Gameboy) game ever. I really wish that in the next one you can go back to ALL the old 
 regions (just think how long of a game that would be ^_^) . Overall though I am very satisfied with 
 the gameplay offered here, they have a tried and true formula that they have followed for years 
 and it still works great.
  
  Technical:
  
  Well I could split this up into sound and graphics, I decided to bunch them together so this review 
 doesn't go on forever. The graphics of the Pokemon games have all been very, very, very similar 
 over the years with little fine tunings here and there. Well this game tunes them a little more, 
 but they are still basically the same 2D sprites running around that I played with a few years 
 ago. The major upgrade this time is the environment you run around in, it is a mixture of 2D and 
 3D, or, as I like to call it, pseudo-3D. Another thing that they now have is differences between 
 male and female Pokemon, be it one having more spikes on its back, or having a longer mane than 
 the other. The sound that comes from Pokemon games has always been pretty good, the music is very 
 recognizable and adds to the nestalgia I was talking about earlier. The Pokemon themselves still 
 sound the same as they did 9 years ago, still as annoying as ever, but there is one specific Pokemon 
 that mixes it up and lets you have a little fun at the same time. The Pokemon I speak of is called 
 Chatot, it has a move that lets you record a saying and have it say that as its call (be it a little 
 distorted) . Overall the technical stuff really didn't bother me, but the one thing I would definatly 
 change in the future would be the BGM, I'm not asking for a full orchestral score, but I would 
 like something that at least doesn't sound like a computer made it (I don't care if it is the Pokemon 
 'style' I think it needs to be changed) .
  
  Value:
  
  At close to 35$ for D/P, you can't really go wrong with picking up one of these, they will last 
 you a VERY long time (I've logged in 50 hours and I just finished the elite four) . There is just 
 so much to do in this game that if you really wanted to you could play this for more than 200 hours 
 and still find stuff to do (which I wouldn't recommend) . Also a couple of months after you do finish 
 playing it, you might feel like coming back and playing it all over again (I know it's a scary 
 thought but it has happened to the best of us) .
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  
  Pokemon games have come and gone, and with the arrival of D/P many people will have their Pokemon 
 pallets wettened. Hopefully they will make some much needed changes in future releases. All in 
 all, this game is a Pokemon game through and through, from the battles, to the collecting, to the 
 repetitive battles with little birds, and you will be enjoying every minute of it wether you are 
 a veteran Pokemon player or a nOob who hasn't even touched a Cheri Berry before.
  
  SCORE: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best Pokemon game to date I mean with 493 Pokemon, enhanced graphics, more multiplayer, 
 and just many more things to do. The gameplay is the same gameplay that many have been grown to 
 love but with a touch screen twist thats all. Also theres the underground which is controlled mostly 
 by the touchscreen by basically just tapping it a lot. Other things there are to do besides story 
 and underground is baking poffins and Pokemon contest but I suck in those so I'll move on. The graphics 
 got a little upgraded since RSE but not everything like buildings still look the same as well as 
 the grass, trees, people, and the battles too. The sounds are better too I mean who doesn't like 
 hearing brand new Pokemon music especially because they're all amazing. After the game is over 
 there's still lots to do so expect at least 100 more hours after your done and if your trying to 
 get them all then expect 200 more hours. So in conclusion I say that this game is amazing and that 
 it definitely shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustah
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Playing through the first part of the game, the new pokemon game is similar to the older games. 
 You go somewhere, find wild pokemon, you get a pokemon, battle it and win. Nothing new, nothing 
 great. The graphics of the game is best in the series but it doesn't mean that its mind blowing! 
 The animations are similar to the previous ones. The new pokemons look wierder and wierder. Their 
 names becoming more stupid. The touch screen control during the battle is pretty neat. It makes 
 the gameplay better.
  
  Basically, the Pokemon Pearl is a new game to the series. There's nothing great about it. Pokemon 
 has definitely outlived its hype. Pokemon Pearl is a good game to buy for the DS but its not an 
 outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyh23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon follows the same basic formula from the original games: You go around catch your cute little 
 killing machines, and have them fight each other until one is knocked out. It's really the same 
 game as the others, except it has a longer storyline, and it makes some uses of the touch screen.
 
  
  So as usual you are a new Pokemon Trainer trying to rise to the top and become a Pokemon Master. 
 But before you get your Pokemon you get invited by your best friend to look for an extremely rare 
 pokemon in the lake not very far away from where you live. At the lake you see a Pokemon Professor 
 and his assistant, who's gender depends on what gender your character is which is chosen at the 
 start of the game. So the Professor leaves and leaves behind a suitcase which contains three pokeballs. 
 As you and your friend approach the suitcase a wild group of pokemon attack you and your friend. 
 This is where the action starts.
  
  You and your friend reach into the suitcase and grab a Pokeball. Each Pokeball contains one of 
 three starter Pokemon; Turtwig, the grass type, Chimchar, the fire type and Piplup, the water type. 
 After you and your friend use the Pokemon the Professor's assistant finds you and takes you to 
 the lab where the Pokemon Professor is located. After that the Professor sends you off on a journey 
 to get data about each and every pokemon in the region. He also tells you to collect Gym Badges 
 from the Gym Leaders, powerful trainers who specialise in one type of Pokemon. Once you beat all 
 eight Gym Leaders you can fight in the Pokemon League against the Elite Four. That's about all 
 I can tell you without severely spoiling the story. The gameplay has evolved, giving multiple hours 
 of playtime, new areas to explore, new Pokemon, and new Pokemon moves. But the battle system really 
 has not changed at all. The only two differences in the battle system, is how you control your 
 attacks with the touch screen, and how special attacks are seperated from physical attacks.
  
  The best improvement from the old games to this game is online battles using Nintendo WiFi 
 Connection, which really does add to the gameplay. The only bad part about the WiFi battles is 
 the friend code factor; a twelve digit code that you and the person you're battling/trading with, 
 which gets really annoying having to type in someones code online.
  
  After you've completed your data on every Pokemon in the region you are able to transfer your original 
 Pokemon from the past games via Dual Slot, so you do't have to say goodbye to your old critters 
 from the older games.
  
  I really recomend that you get this game if you are looking for a good RPG on the DS, or if you're 
 a complete Pokemaniac. It's a nice solid RPG with loads of play time and kid-friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFull_MetalX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl/Diamond is the latest installment in the worlds second largest selling videogame 
 series. Firstly each game features two different legendary that is version exclusive. There are 
 few differences between each game other than a few Pokemon such as Stunky and Glameow.
  
  This time your start your journey in the new land of Shinoh. Here you being the game and choose 
 either a fire, water, or grass starter naturally. Chimpchar, the fire starter, has great attack 
 and speed stats and is a easy choice for the game out typing most gyms. Tortwig, the grass starter, 
 has good defensive stats and decent move pool; you may even find him useful in competitive play, 
 and pay off in the long run. Piplup, the water starter, has a unique typing giving it some good 
 defense but lack a good move pool and speed to be very good. The game has a steady pace but can 
 be difficult at times. Expect to run into this versions game of Team Rocket, Team Galaxy. Most 
 of the gym leaders are challenging but can be over come with good type matching. The Elite four 
 are also as challenging as ever but can be a breeze depending on what starter you choose.
  
  This games true value lies on Nintendo Wifi. There you can battle friends across the globe 
 using the friend code system. Along with battling there is a place called "The global trading station" 
 where you can put a Pokemon up for trade and request something to get in return for your offer. 
 Although this sound likes a good idea most of the trades are very unbalanced.
  
  Overall Pokemon this generation is a must buy for all DS owners. Even if you don't like the little 
 critters this game may re-kindle your love and you may find yourself addicted to it like so many. 
 Check it out! Bidoof!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErnestoBananez
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Not one step forward, and not one step back. This new Pokemon game continues the series in the 
 same tired and true way. I mean tried and true. Wait, no I don't. My single biggest problem with 
 this game is that you can't get ANY good Pokemon until you near the elite four. The types of Pokemon 
 you can get until then are extremely restricted... in fact, the ONLY fire Pokemon that you can 
 get before the elite four is the starter fire Pokemon and ponyta. This means that you will need 
 to raise weak Pokemon and then just throw them away when you finally get access to the Pokemon 
 you want. By that time you'll probably have beaten all the trainers except for the elite four, 
 so you'll have to fight weak wild Pokemon in order to level them up. BORING.
  
  Other problems: HMs. They tick me off. You have to teach these 8 or so moves to your Pokemon in 
 order to progress through the game. Problem is, most of them suck, and they prevent your Pokemon 
 from learning good moves. Yet if you don't teach them to your main party, you'll have to switch 
 to a crappy Pokemon every time you want to go through a cave or swim. Random battles. I thought 
 they stopped making rpgs with random battles in them five years ago. They happen just as often 
 as in the last few Pokemon games, and they just annoy me. Why should I have to either waste money 
 on repels, which I have to keep using when they run out, or else just run from every battle I get 
 in, which wastes 30 seconds of my life? Having to choose to break a rock or swim. These should 
 be automatically used if a Pokemon in your party has the necessary ability. What does the game 
 think, I DON'T want to break a rock that's right in front of me? Just break it with one tap of 
 the a button, don't make me wade through needless dialog.
  
  There are no surprises. The storyline is exactly the same as every other Pokemon game, just with 
 different people, places, and Pokemon. After playing three other games just like this, it gets 
 boring. There's a team blank (rocket, galactic, whatever) 8 gym leaders, 4 people in the elite 
 four, and oh, you have to fight your rival at the end. How many more freaking bird Pokemon do we 
 need? Make some cool new fire or grass Pokemon, we have more than enough bug, water, flying, and 
 normal ones. Why are geodudes, machokes, and zubats still the ONLY Pokemon I see in caves? It's 
 been like that for a decade of games, and it annoyed me back in the first one.
  
  The only interesting things happen after the end of the game. Enough said.
  
  The graphics 
 are an improvement upon the previous games, but considering that the game is on the DS, they stink. 
 The overworld graphics have been semi-updated and are now kind of 3D, but that doesn't even matter. 
 The area in which they should have updated the graphics is the battles. Surprise, surprise: they 
 didn't. It still looks the same as on the Advance, with a little higher resolution. This shouldn't 
 come as a surprise, considering the first Pokemon game to be made on the gameboy color didn't even 
 fully colorize the game, it just colored the outlines a little.
  
  This game got a few things right, like not giving every single trainer you meet 6 weak Pokemon, 
 adding a few new diversions, having pretty good music, and just generally fixing a few of the gripes 
 from previous games. I can't really think of anything else. Remember, this is still Pokemon, and 
 they haven't made the game itself any better. Considering that it's been ten years since the first 
 Pokemon, that is inexcusable. It may be good enough for some, but not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juju313
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I throughly enjoyed P-mon Pearl. It was a fun game, with cool rare people.
  It isnt as good as P-mon Leaf Green/Fire Red
  But it was pretty tight.
  With some cool extra 
 features like the competitions.
  The E4 were the easiest E4 made to date.
  This game was a easy completion.
  
  The graphics were good for a hand held
  
  The sound 
 was not the best, i did not enjoy the songs/themes.
  
  I thoroughly hated the Mud where u can get stuck in and the Snow which u can get stuck and move 
 as slow as a snail
  
  Overall the game was pretty good.
  
  I'd recommend it to new P-mon fans worldwide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swudeson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  With this latest installment of Pokemon, I have noticed many different things. I'm not talking 
 just about the game, but in real life. At my high school, many people have picked this up and used 
 it to pass time after they were done with their finals! This game almost never gets old, and if 
 it does, a new Pokemon installment will come out.
  
  Graphics are looking better than ever, especially in the moves the Pokemon use. The smooth and 
 sharp-looking moves make battles even more entertaining.
  
  Another change being added: Wi-fi. Simply go to the bottom floor of a Pokemon Center, talk to the 
 lady at the counter, and bingo you are online and able to trade with THOUSANDS of users. At first, 
 you might be overwhelmed and wonder how on earth you can find your friends. Don't worry, you can 
 easily locate your friends by getting their Player ID #, and then locate them with your PalPad 
 given to you in-game.
  
  This franchise is still growing! I am looking forward to the next game they bring to us. This is 
 a MUST HAVE for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is another great addition to the Pokemon franchise. Much like the other games 
 in the series, it instantly pulls you into a world of magical little monsters, known as Pokemon, 
 that you can catch, train, and use for battle against other wild Pokemon or fellow trainers, whether 
 in the game or across the world. The game has very in-depth mechanics and to become a true Pokemon 
 Master will take anyone, and everyone, time and a little effort. Trainers may choose from around 
 100 new Pokemon, all together totalling 493 different Pokemon, each with there own moves and, for 
 many, evolutions. The game consists of running around and catching these different Pokemon, then 
 making a team of up to 6 which you can then use for battle and eventually fight your way through 
 the games 8 Gym leaders and then the Elite Four. The new graphics in the game are well-done and 
 involve the interaction between 2-D and 3-D. Unfortunately, the battle animations for the Pokemon 
 are still 2-D, but it isn't really a bad thing because it still stays true to the original formula 
 without making any tried-and-failed sacrifices. The sound is good with the usual jolly Pokemon 
 songs, such as riding your bike, and holds many relatively memorable, yet recycled, sound-effects 
 from past games. All in all, with new places to explore, new Pokemon to catch, and new on-line 
 capabilities, Pokemon Diamond/ Pearl is a must-buy game for any RPG lover or Pokemon fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:   I know I usually don't just blatantly say it like 
 that (I tend to keep it more professional) but this game is a gem that really shines. Revamping 
 old gameplay and taking the pokemon franchise a step into the future. I can count at least 20 of 
 my geekiest friends who went to the store just to pre-order this game. May'be not this version 
 but there isn't a huge difference.
  
  The question is: Why did they go an pre-order it, I mean aside from being geeks? Well even if your 
 not a pokemaniac you still will get hooked almost instantly. There have been so many spin-offs 
 to this classic game that have given pokemon an outdated look but pearl/diamond was able to enstill 
 all of this back into our hearts. XD
  
  Now onto the real review. You start out just as you have done every pokemon game (with the exception 
 of the numerous spin-offs) as some dude who goes from zero to hero which can happen in a matter 
 of hours. You go around collection these cute or ugly little monsters that you can use to help 
 you in battle with other wild or tamed monsters a. k. a pokemon. When you get deeper into the story 
 you realize that you have to stop team galactic ( the new gang in town) from destroying everything 
 you once loved.
  
  In addition to saving the world you go around beating the trainers who are the best of the best 
 of that town to earn badges a. k. a gym leaders. Some of them can be quite challenging considering 
 the team that you assemble as well as some can be downright ownage considering the team you have 
 made up. After beating the gym leaders and team galactic you go on to the elite four who are the 
 most elite trainers in all of Sinnoh ( the country you are in ) . When you beat them basically the 
 sky is the limit as you have officially beat the main questline but oodles of goodies await you 
 if you plan to catch em' all or duke it out with the best online. Major changes to the game are 
 not very notable as none have been made instead minor ones have been made that contribute to the 
 overall gameplay. Aside from being a small 100 new pokemon to capture you are now given a pokeketch 
 which is like a mini PDA. It can do a number of things depending on the programs you have stored 
 on it. Although it is not essential it can be useful for catching certain pokemon.
  
  New moves have been added to the already numerous pokemon abilities and show of the new graphic 
 abilities of the nintendo ds system. It shines in some of the most basic things for instance the 
 windmills in the game, as well as the colorful lights displayed at the spear pillar. The numerous 
 new key items make the game have even more explorable options to it. Of course since the gameplay 
 stays mostly the same way as its predecessors it cant get a high score gameplay wise. The new Wi-Fi 
 features make for an interesting way to play as you can go underground, bury and dig up treasure 
 making a few extra hours of gameplay.
  
  This game has probably the highest replayability of any game ever made as you never truly complete 
 the game until you catch all the polemon which now are more than ever but with these new pokemon 
 you are given a lot more options to explore. One thing an earlier version did to make the main 
 storyline longer was to bring back one the older regions which is notably gone from the sequel.
 
  
  Not that this is a big setback but it makes the game easy to beat as I beat it in less than 8 hours. 
 Also the storyline lacked the finess of the other games and it does seem that the villian storyline 
 is fading from amazing to good. Of course for the most part it was o. k. If your a true pokefan 
 then you'll realize the problem but if you havent picked up a pokemon game before (I HIGHLY doubt 
 that you havent) then you will find it adequate.
  
  The sound at times can be very good besides having different tunes for each town even your bike 
 has a nice tune. The only place where the sound suffers is when you use moves like sunny day and 
 hail then the sounds start to agitate you more than pump you but the effort put into it makes it 
 more than solid.
  
  It if definetly worth the money, in fact I bought my nintendo ds lite just to buy this game along 
 with it so as you can already tell i sympathize with this game a. k. a I tilt fully towards it. Believe 
 it or not people playing it for the first time are going to have a harder time understanding all 
 the concepts but enjoy it probably even more than the veterans will.
  
  I grew up with pokemon so although this game is designed for the younger group even after 10 years 
 it still makes me feel like a kid. Even once you finish this game in its entirety you might find 
 yourself willing to do it again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond and pearl are 2 well rounded ds games. They weill last you for a long time and 
 are god if you are going on a long trip.
  
  The game starts off like all pokemon games. You pick your starting pokemon and visit the professer 
 and mom but nuthing really suprising there. There are about 109 new pokemon added to the mix to 
 make a total of about 495. The wifi is also great but you have to have friend codes. Also the underground 
 thing is fun if you got a friend to play with.
  
  I really recomend anyone to add this game to your collection. It is worth every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluesDude9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game keeping the classic Pokemon gameplay of catch and train. Everything was stepped 
 up a notch to make an incredible playing experience. The new Pokemon are great and original but 
 even better is that more than 100 new moves were created along with 50 new TMs and 1 HM. Although 
 it lacked in the use of the touch screen the wifi play makes you not notice. Being able to trade 
 with people all over the world is awesome. Your new pokemon could be from Mongolia for all you 
 know. If you buy this game dont expect the core gameplay to have changed but with amped graphics 
 and online play you WONT CARE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Being a very big craze since it was known as Pocket Monsters in Japan, Pokemon still sweeps the 
 world at now nine to twelve years. The latest installments to the second best-selling video game 
 franchise, called Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, has sold over five million in its first day. Pokemon 
 veterans should have a good idea what the story is about: youre a Pokemon trainer beginning in 
 a small southwestern town, whose main objective is to become a Pokemon master. To do so, however, 
 you need to get eight badges, beat the Elite Four, fully fill up your Pokedex, and, if you can 
 do it, catch em all. However, youll also be a hero trying to save the world from Team Galactic, 
 who are using Pokemon to rule the galaxy.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: To start off, Pokemons simple yet addictive formula is still in tact here. Your main 
 objective, for people not familiar, is to catch and raise a maximum of six Pokemon, each with a 
 maximum of four attacks or moves that can be learn through growth or by finding some around the 
 region (known as Sinnoh) . But, thats why there are manuals, tutorials, and demos; let me tell 
 you about the core gameplay. The new installments are still basically the same, but on the other 
 hand, not a lot of RPGs actually change how the game plays, such as its battle system. But, the 
 question is: whats new about the latest Pokemon batch of games? The answer: pretty much every 
 use that the Nintendo DS has is used on Diamond and Pearl. For example, the coolest new feature 
 in the game (s) is when you are allowed access to Pal Park. After you see all Pokemon in the Sinnoh 
 region, you will have the power to migrate non-hidden-powered Pokemon from your Pokemon Game Boy 
 Advance games (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Fire Red or Leaf Green) in your GBA Slot, each game having 
 a 24-hour limit, through Pal Park. Another new feature is the Poketch, which is found on your touch 
 screen. It can do a lot of things, such as tell time, draw pictures, find out which is more or 
 less effective against Pokemon types, a map to track rare Pokemon, a map to find berries to find 
 invisible items, etc. In short, some are useful, and some just arent. But, of course, the main 
 feature on Diamond and Pearl, I believe, is the multiplayer. One of the highlights for multiplayer 
 this time around is simple: no more link cables. The wireless capability of the DS works well on 
 this game. Also, the DSs Wi-Fi feature is included in both versions of the Pokemon games, so that 
 makes Pokemons renown handheld multiplayer even better. What makes things even neater is the fact 
 that you can also trade your Pokemon via Wi-Fi. All you have to do is get hooked up online, auction 
 the Pokemon you want to trade, and wait for someone to offer that trade. Another form of multiplayer 
 is the Underground feature, which you can access after you get the Explorer Kit. This place is 
 used for mining fossils and such, making bases, and also entering bases of friends or others nearby 
 that happen to be Underground too, as well as torturing them with your traps and such. Some might 
 have some fun with it; I personally go Underground just if it can help me find Pokemon. Other features 
 include stuff thats been in previous Pokemon games, such as Ruby/Sapphire/Emeralds Contests (this 
 time with use of touch screen) , and the day-night mechanic only featured in Silver/Gold/Crystal. 
 But these features are all for a second thought. The main drawl for the gameplay is what you mainly 
 do in all the other Pokemon games: explore the world; catch and raise Pokemon. The game may not 
 be original, but, you know how the saying goes: if it aint broke, dont fix it. Its still as 
 addictive and fresh as it was back when the first Pokemon was released. The games most likely 
 going to be easy for the people that are considered veterans in the Pokemon universe. Overall, 
 Pokemon Diamond/Pearl Version has a bunch of interesting features in the game, but the games great 
 RPG design and formula is the usual, but is what makes this game fun. Its an improvement over 
 the Pokemon games that has been on the Nintendo DS, and is the best Role-Playing Game on the handheld.
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: Though Pokemon Diamond/Pearl still has the look of a 2-D, top-down Role-Playing Game, 
 it looks even better, thanks to the DSs hardware. This time, the game has the same little sprite 
 characters, but this time, with 3-D, cel-shaded-like environments. This time, elevating up dungeons 
 actually makes you feel like your climbing up a dungeon Even the sprite characters look better 
 Otherwise, everything essentially the same. Those battle animations have even more animations, 
 but everything is mostly stiff during battle (and really, I cant say that I dont like that) , 
 and environments look only slightly better than what they did in the GBA games. But, all in all, 
 the graphics truly gives the game an appealing and charming look.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: Pokemons main sound has been declining for the past years; however, Diamond/Pearl has some 
 great stuff going on with the sound department. The music has vastly improved, now with new re-mixes 
 of past usuals of Pokemon (such as the Pokemon Centers catchy tunes) . The music is kind of soothing 
 for some moments, such as the Pokemon Center, some cities, dungeons, etc. The sound effects of 
 the returning Pokemon, I think, still sound the same when they were first appeared in the Pokemon 
 universe. Its not bad, I just wish some would sound a little more clear. But generally, the sound 
 has improved greatly.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: The past Pokemon RPGs has always been the center of addiction for the Nintendo portable 
 systems, and still is here. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl takes around 40 hours if you want to go through 
 it quickly, but if you want to take your time, then it will take you well over 50 hours. Theres 
 also a lot of side quests during and after the game for you to go, and youll also have a lot of 
 hunting if you want to fill up the National Pokedex. Multiplayer will be something to even go back 
 to more, especially since you can find people as skilled as you easier, thanks to Wi-Fi. Pokemon 
 is one of the most addictive games Ive ever played, and Diamond/Pearl still has the same sort 
 of addiction I get from the others, but better. The value is flat-out perfect.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Anyways, to move on with this review, like all of the other main Pokemon games, there are 
 different versions of the game, one named Diamond, the other named Pearl. The only difference between 
 the two games is the fact you can get Pokemon you wouldnt see in the other game (the main example 
 being the legendary Pokemon on the cover; in Diamond, you can get a Dragon/Steel-type Pokemon known 
 as Dialga, where in Pearl, you can get a Dragon/Water-type Pokemon known as Palkia.) Now, if youre 
 the kind of guy thats (sigh...) hardcore enough to buy both versions (which happens to be like 
 me) , then you can go ahead. However, if you only want to buy one, then I believe it depends on 
 which exclusive Pokemon you like better (such as the legendary ones on the cover.) But, the question 
 is, is this a buy for you? Well, for Pokemon fans, then definitely (youve most likely bought it 
 anyways) . People new to the franchise or even RPGs, then give it a try; I believe that Pokemon 
 is a great starter for those wanting to try out RPGs. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl Version is by far the 
 best Role-Playing Game yet for the Nintendo DS. Its the same old Pokemon people have come to either 
 love or hate, and thats all I personally wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  ah... this game does bring back memories from the past times when Pokemon was full of hype and 
 everyone wanted one and to battle one another.
  
  Sound is solid it doesn't leave a lot to be desired, but it does have some of its downsides.
 
  
  The graphics are fairly well detailed all the characters don't seem confusing when you see it from 
 the back and then see it at the front side and the effects that some of the techniques that are 
 performed generally fit what they are named and are meant to do.
  
  The game has a great length to it making those who want to Catch 'em all and make them level 100s 
 adds more to the game's feel.
  
  well im out of words so ill leave off with all this and thanks to those who decided to read this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky_ninja
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Pokemon pearl introduces many new pokemon and a new region but it is still lacking. If none of 
 your friends own the game then it will get really boring. After you've cought all of the legendary 
 pokemon, beaten the elite four, and won all of the pokemon super contests, all there is to do is 
 complete the national pokedex (which is very boring) . Game freak added alot of new things to the 
 game such as the underground (litteraly the underground not an underground cult or gang) and the 
 global trade station (GTS) but those things revolve around multiplayer. If you have nobody to play 
 this game with and you don't have wifi then I recoment playing some of the old games instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This Pokemon game is great. There are 493 pokemon, 8 badges, and more, so you will prabably be 
 spending plenty of time with this game. The graphics are great and much better then all the other 
 graphics of the other games. The music is amazing though sometims it gets old its still amazing 
 music for DS. The storyline though isnt as great as the older games but its still good. The gameplay 
 is the same great gameplay thats been in all the other games but is enhanced with some new touch 
 control features. The game is definitly worth 35 dollars and will keep you busy for a while. This 
 game is revolutionary for pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Wanna_Brawl
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I think it; s the best one so far, it has 3-D, all these new pokemon, they did it right this time. 
 Well On the up-side, nice presentation, a whole lot of new pokemon. I love the new contests, the 
 poketec, and bascially everything in this game. On the bad-side, the recordings suck, they sound 
 like there still from Yellow. And the guy looks alright, but not the best. All and all, it's a 
 good game. But anyone who hasn't tried the series, this would be a good one to start with. Also 
 Pokemon Battle Revolution is coming out in about 4 weeks (USA) . So this will just add more fun since 
 you can fight in full 3-D. Can't wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labaom
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl was just a solid game. You are warmly welcomed by the outstanding graphics it has. 
 The gameplay is the same but the Shinnoh region is very cool. Although it was cool, after your 
 done beating the game, THATS it nothing really else to do unless your a freak and want to SEE every 
 pokemon on your pokidex. I mean it is just as good as Emerald but I feel its just solid. You play 
 the game then its over. I suggest IF YOU CAN, borrow Pearl or Diamond from a friend for one week 
 then beat it because for a game you will beat then just stick in your closet isnt really worth 
 the money. I fortunatly have a friend that let me borrow the game and I beat it in one week. So 
 if you are a pokemon fan this is the game for you just another cool adventure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EBEnthusiast
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the newest part of the two game Pokemon franchise (the other being Pokemon Diamond) . 
 The games are basically the same, however, so it's not like theres a difference between either.
 
  
  The story is cookie cutter, to be honest. You're a trainer, and you have to catch them all as you 
 beat the eight gyms, go through the treacherous Victory Road, and finally, going to the Elite 4, 
 defeating them, and facing the champion. While a little change might have been nice, it's fine 
 for what it is. Presentation is excellent. The graphics may appear the same, but they have 3D elements 
 that make the game feel different. The music excels; each song fits into the surroundings of the 
 game, which is varied. One town is covered in sand, the next is covered in a sheet of snow.
  
  The biggest addition to the series is online play. Trading and battling online go off without 
 a hitch, but there are some problems. Trading issues can surface when someone is not careful by 
 checking the Pokemon's stats before you trade. The GTS system is also flawed. The GTS is designed 
 to trade a Pokemon so you can get a Pokemon of equal value; the problem is that people are asking 
 for ridiculous trades, such as the level 100 legendary Pokemon Dialga for a level 10 Murkrow- which 
 is absurd. So many trades of these nature plauge the GTS, and destroy the entire purpose of the 
 system.
  
  Overall, Pokemon Pearl is a great time waster. It will take forever to beat the Elite 4, and once 
 you do that.. well, there's plenty of more game after that. If you loved the Gold/Silver series, 
 I reccomend this entirely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digxxbitty
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  It's finally here, a real Pok&eacute; mon RPG for the DS. DIAMOND &amp; PEARL have a familiar feel 
 from past Pok&eacute; mon RPG's, and it makes great new use of the touch-screen and online capabilities. 
 It can be enjoyed by Pok&eacute; Vetrans back from RED &amp; BLUE or Pok&eacute; Noobs experiencing 
 this amazing series for the first time.
  
  GAMEPLAY: D&amp; P follow the classic Pok&eacute; mon format we know and love. You come from a small 
 town on mission to become a Pok&eacute; mon Master, with your Pok&eacute; Pals at your side. The 
 battling is unchanged, a turn-based style to deplete your opponents Health Meter. The touch-screen 
 makes the battling convenient and quick. You have a variety of options at the tip of your finger. 
 The touch-screen also proves useful in other elements of the game, while free roaming, it houses 
 your Pok&eacute; mon Watch, or Pok&eacute; tch. As you progress, you will acquire useful applications, 
 such as a clock, map, friendliness checker, pedometer etc. You also use it to cook Poffins, tasty 
 treats made from Berries. The majority of the game is spent traveling the new region of Sinnoh 
 and strengthening your Pok&eacute; mon. It's fun and extremely addicting, racing to new cities, 
 navigating through complex buildings or watching your Pok&eacute; mon grow.
  
  GRAPHICS: Pok&eacute; mon has always had decent graphics, but with D&amp; P, it's like WOW. The world 
 is very 3D, unlike the previous games. The Pok&eacute; mon sprites have been redone, and are looking 
 sharp and fresh. You can't complain, the world is lush and you won't be confused, wondering what 
 things are or how you can move in the game.
  
  SOUND: I have always loved the Pok&eacute; mon Soundtrack. The music is always jolly and pleasant, 
 fitting the setting well. You will hear different tunes as you walk, ride your bike and enter different 
 towns. The battle music is great, perfectly setting the mood. I always play with the sound on, 
 and I put the headphones in when I play late.
  
  VALUE: You can play the game at your own speed, deciding what Pok&eacute; mon to catch, which ones 
 to raise and by how much. You'll usually defeat your foes without trouble, but it will require 
 some training. To become a master, you'll have to work with Pok&eacute; mon Natures, and things 
 such as Effort Value training, which can become quite complex. There's more than just battles though, 
 Sinnoh is quite large and diverse. You'll find yourself trekking through forests and wandering 
 through caves. Beating all the areas in the game can take you anywhere from 40-80 hours. If you 
 think you're done after the Elite 4 though, you're sadly mistaken. New areas, new options and new 
 side missions are waiting for you. There's plenty of legendaries for you to track down, probably 
 a few key items you're missing and of course, the ever ominous mission to catch 'em all. In order 
 to acquire all 490, you'll have to either Pal-Park and trade over GTS. Pal-Park allows you to transfer 
 you're old Pok&eacute; mon from earlier games to D&amp; P. Simply insert your GBA pack into the bottom 
 slot of your DS with D/P in the top and you can send them over. This way you can get your cherished 
 LV. 100 super-lineup that you've worked so hard on in previous games. GTS (Global Trading System) 
 allows you to trade with Pok&eacute; Fans all over the world via the internet. So far I've put in 
 over 100 hours and I know I'm far from done.
  
  TILT: Pok&eacute; mon was, is and will always be my favorite series. I've loved it from the beginning 
 with R&amp; B and this new installment only improves the great game with new features and new Pok&eacute; mon. 
 It's hard to put down.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon is an addictive series with great replay value, and D&amp; P raise the bar once again 
 as an instant classic. I definitely recommend it if you're looking for a light, fun and long game 
 to enjoy for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is the fourth generation Pokemon game (fifth I guess, if you want to count 
 Fire Red/Leaf Green) . It's perhaps the most hyped game (s) on the DS, and people have eaten' the 
 game up. But is it for good reason?
  
  Gameplay: Diamond/Pearl doesn't stray far at all from the original formula Red and Blue set. Actualy, 
 to be completly honest, it does nothing at all to set it's self apart gameplay wise from Ruby/Sapphire 
 version (s) . You can carry a party of six critters to do turn based battles. The battles are kinda 
 done in a rock-paper-scissors fashion. For example, water type Pokemon douse fire types, fire types 
 scorch grass types and grass types just kick water type butt. Beyond this theres really nothing 
 else to explain about battles. You'll once again go adventuring around, collecting badges, catching 
 Pokemon and beating the crap out of evil neferious team rocket like baddies. And once all is said 
 an done, you wont find that you've done anything you haven't alredy done in past versions.
  
  Graphics: It looks like a GBA game..... Which isn't really impressive at all. The only thing 
 that really stood out were the semi 3d buildings. And it's got a decent artsy colorful look to 
 the characters. Save for the buildings, this looks dead up like a GBA game though. Also, while 
 there are over a hundred new Pokemon, alot of them pretty poorly designed compared to the last 
 three batches.
  
  Sound: The Pokemon cries are weak. All the older Pokemon carry their old cries from past games (even 
 from the Gameboy color) . The music is nice though. There are some really catchy tunes here. But 
 technically, the music quality is no different than Ruby/Sapphire's.
  
  Value: While this game makes not break throughs at all in gameplay, audio or graphics it still 
 strong in one area. Replay value. It'll take you around fourty hours just to finish the main quest. 
 After that the game gives you a little bit of extra land to explore. You can also work on capturing 
 the vast amount of Pokemon (over four hundred) . You can breed, and just train your Pokemon. Theres 
 also alot in the way of multiplayer here, with trading and battling with your friends. And you 
 can even do it online this time. And the secret base from Ruby/Sapphire makes a return, with alot 
 of tweaks made to the whole thing.
  
  Bassically it comes down to this. If you didn't like past Pokemon games, there is absolutly nothing 
 here that will make you want to get this game. If your a Pokemon nut, probably wont even read the 
 reviews before buying this. And if your a casual Pokemon fan, odds are, your going to be disappointed 
 in the lack of changes made here. And if your new to Pokemon, this is the best of the series you 
 could possibly get and it's woth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  In the wild world of Sinnoh, you dont need guns, knives, or other intricately perverse tools to 
 defend yourself. Instead, with your trusty Poke ball, a few wild berries, and a slight sensation 
 of confidence at your belt, traveling through the weeping tall grass of Sinnoh is (quite literally) 
 a walk in the park. But dont feel inclined to travel alone  make friends, and the best friends 
 you can make in Sinnoh are Pokemon. In this case, you can choose among three starter Pokemon - 
 Chimchar, Turtwig, and Piplup  all of which are exclusive to Pokemon Diamond/Pearl.
  
  Yes, its THAT Pokemon Pearl. The one where friendship conquers above all else. The one where eight 
 gym badges stand between you and the Pokemon League. The one where many of the passed down mechanics 
 from early on in the series have been refurbished to feel fresh and nostalgic at the same time. 
 The one where losing battles, money, and even your Pokemon can be solely responsible for your destructive 
 demise as you scamper helplessly to the nearest Pokemon health station, praying that youll outlast 
 the next few hours until you suddenly collapse and see no more!
  
  Deep breaths, Tish. Deep breaths!
  
  In a nutshell, thats how Sinnoh plays out, save for maybe 
 the constant flutter of drama round every corner (sorry about that) . But more importantly, thats 
 how Pokemon Pearl plays out, Nintendos latest addition to the long-standing Pokemon trilogy. If 
 youve been following the series ever since its incipience, youll recognize many of the aspects 
 within Pearl: theres wild Pokemon, TMs and HMs, trainer battles, and also thrown in the mix is 
 a new cast of villains  Team Galactic  attempting to take over every Pokemon in the known universe. 
 Wedged among these familiarities are new traits, such as online play, allowing you to trade, battle, 
 and converse with your friends via Wi-Fi and friend codes, and touch screen controls, allowing 
 you to manage your Poketch, a watch that makes even a Rolex seem plastic.
  
  The story itself plays out similarly to prior games  you travel all over Sinnoh, catching new 
 Pokemon, collecting gym badges, competing with a rival to become the best trainer ever, and defeating 
 other Pokemon owners in the process. The Pokemon you brandish will level up, learn new abilities, 
 and occasionally evolve. Propagated across the map are TMs and HMs, machines taught to Pokemon 
 as an extra incentive. Some youll come across, such as Cut or Rock Smash, are required if you 
 wish to complete the game, while others are simple amenities that can be dished off for some extra 
 cash. Most of the money youll earn comes from winning trainer battles, allowing you to buy Poke 
 balls, status healers for Pokemon, and other, more redundant items, such as an escape rope to quickly 
 exit a dungeon, or the super repel to fend off those nasty wild Pokemon.
  
  While were quite acclimated to these facets, theres an exceptionally big list of new Pokemon 
 added to the national Pokedex, altering the central story significantly. Sinnoh is an immersive 
 region that maintains many aspects of previous game maps, such as lakes, mountain peaks, temples, 
 gyms, and even the Pokemon Mansion, albeit mostly everything is compiled in a different format, 
 somewhat similar to how The Legend of Zeldas primary locations will trade places on the map in 
 different games. The battle sequences are merely recycled attributes from past adventures. The 
 most notable discrepancies are the enhanced visual effects  brighter appearance, more polish pixel-wise, 
 and really neat-looking attacks. As bothersome as reading what your Pokemon did may appear, it 
 works quite well to the extent of keeping battles from being too over-the-top. Sometimes, however, 
 it can be enough to make your eyes roll to the back of your head when your foes Pokemon faints 
 and the dialogue says, Its not very effective Obviously it was if the dang thing collapsed.
 
  
  A great way to earn experience points is by training against other Pokemon wielders, whom can be 
 found all over the map at any time and corner. Youll come across some pretty bizarre name recognitions, 
 such as Youngster Tristan, Aroma Lady Liz, Ruin Maniac Brian, and Roughneck Kirby (if that isnt 
 an oxymoron) But theyre a great way to gain new levels, techniques, and raise some cash for that 
 cute sweater you wanted your Snorlax to have. And the Elite Four this time around is probably the 
 toughest to ever surface in a Pokemon game.
  
  There is so much stuff you can do thats optional  join contests, take pictures, fish, shop, buy, 
 sell, and a whole lot more. But probably the most interesting option is trade via online play at 
 the Global Trading Station in Jublife City. As long as youve seen the Pokemon in the game, you 
 can trade for it at any level and gender. First you must put a Pokemon up for offer, search for 
 the one that you want, and wait patiently. Its quite an ingenious new component exposed to the 
 Pokemon world. You can also chat, trade, and battle your friends with friend codes. With these 
 characteristics, one would think Pokemon Pearl is perfect for the DS hardware.
  
  The graphics are easily the best any hand-held Pokemon game has ever experienced. Sinnoh is rich 
 in vibrancy and color. One thing that is quickly recognizable is the alternations graphically that 
 switch from 2-D thoroughly to 3-D in different perspectives. Everything appears flat until you 
 see it in a divergent viewpoint. The texture is depicted in massive configuration on mountainsides 
 and the water drawn towards it. Every aspect nature feeds off is so illuminating and detailed. 
 The battle scenes are layered with radiant patterns and colors depending on the setting, and perfectly 
 blended with stimulating visual effects committed by the Pokemon that are battling. Overall, the 
 basic qualities of the graphics are pretty close to that of the Nintendo 64, which elucidates just 
 how powerful this hand-held console is.
  
  When it comes to audio, Pokemon Pearl has a knack for annoying you with uncharacteristically antagonizing 
 sounds derived from certain Pokemon. Just when you thought a Geodude couldnt sound anymore like 
 a dying elephant, or a Zubat sounding like the consoles speakers are frying up, they still do. 
 Even worse, when you run into something, the speakers blare out something that resembles the passing 
 of gas. It can get exuberantly frustrating when you miss the door to the building and have to hear 
 that noise over and over again. The music changes in different regions of Sinnoh, and most of it 
 is pretty fitting to the mood. The tune played outside of Sandgem Town kind of sounds like Super 
 Mario 64s credits song at the end of the game, but otherwise the music has a nice tone all throughout 
 the story.
  
  Surprisingly for an RPG, Pokemon Pearl has a ton of replay value, primarily because youll want 
 to go back and check out some of the Pokemon you missed, or maybe perhaps some of the TMs and HMs 
 that got by you. Methodically speaking, the game never ends, even after you beat the Elite Four. 
 You can still catch all kinds of Pokemon, trade them, battle them online, and raise their levels 
 to their peak. Its a routine cycle that allows you to continue playing for years to come. Even 
 if youre not a die-hard Pokemon fan or the fad doesnt appeal to you at all, Pokemon Pearl is 
 an excellent addition to any gamers collection.
  
  Over all, Pokemon Pearl stands up to be one of the greatest role-playing experiences the DS has 
 to offer, and maybe one of the best Pokemon adventures ever. Whether youre familiar with the series 
 or not, Pokemon Pearl is a must-try.
  
  -Tish- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enral
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for anything new in this new pokemon series, you'll be disappointed as the new 
 stuff they add is not of any importance. However, this game, like the rest of the series, is fun 
 to play with.
  
  Pros: 1) Long lasting game that can last for more than 50 hours.
  2) Interesting game factor that keep you interested.
  3) New watch-tech with many functions.
 
  4) World wide multiplayer.
  5) New pokemon to catch.
  6) Better overworld graphics. (polygon buildings)
  7) Compatibility with most of the other gameboy 
 advance/ds pokemon games.
  8) Replay value.
  
  Cons: 1) Graphics have minor and almost non-noticeable changes compared to the past pokemon advance 
 series.
  2) Like the rest of the game series, this game uses the same mechanic and similar story line.
 
  3) Unlike pokemon silver/gold, this game have a smaller world.
  
  Therefore, whether you've played the past series or have never played before, I recommend that 
 you try at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenoomega
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  When boiled down, it's just another pokemon game. The graphics were sharpened, and a WHOLE lot 
 of new pokemon were added, but it is basically just another pokemon game. The one thing that does 
 stand out in this incarnation is the online features. A solid trading system and batleing system 
 makes it very satisfying. But the lack of touch screen (or even dual screen) functionality detracts 
 from the game. I have yet to finish it, but so far, I am definatly enjoying it. And as always, 
 theres a lot packed into the game. You can get an incredable amount of gameplay out of this one 
 little game. But over all, it really is a good, solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing in gameplay. But it still lacks graphics like the PSP. This game gives new 
 pokemon and there are so many legendaries. The fact that there are so many legendaries is a bad 
 thing. I dont really call them legendary if there are so many of them. But this game is really 
 long and it is challenging even to some of the older players. But if you want a game that is different 
 than the other pokemon games in battles then i must say that you should go find another game. This 
 game i think is still great though and is a great addition to the pokemon series. Oh and if you 
 are looking for a game to use an action replay on then this is the one to get. Well i hope this 
 has helped you and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Pokemon games were always the reason to own a handheld Nintendo game and this game proves it. Since 
 I'm reviewing Pearl, I'll talk about it. Still the same concept. Start out in a town in a new region. 
 In this case, Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region. There are new Pokemon to see and catch. You start 
 with Chimchar, Turtwig or Piplup. It's sort of the same concept. You go to cities, battle trainers, 
 battle gym leaders, same old, same old. A new team called Team Galactic whose mission is to capture 
 Dialga and Palkia because they control time and space according to Pokemon mythology. Dialga and 
 Palkia are the Pokemon in the cover of Diamond and Pearl. In the Diamond case, you'll see Dialga, 
 Pearl has Palkia on the cover. One great thing about these games is that you can migrate Pokemon 
 from the GBA titles. Ruby, Sapphire, FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald. This game takes advantage 
 of the GBA slot and other features of the DS like the touch screen and Wi-Fi. My only complaint 
 is the friend codes though. It's good you don't need it for trading at the GTS (Global Trading 
 Service) in Jubilife City, but at the basement floor of the Pokemon Centers, you need someone's 
 friend code to battle him/her online. I really think this game should've been open to the online 
 community when it comes to battling. Another compaint is the Battle Tower and the reducing Pokemon 
 to level 50. I thought that was pretty dull. Especially if they are at level 100 or above 50. Other 
 than that, it's still a good game to play and there should be more of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally the Pokemon games we've all been waiting for are here, and this main question everyone 
 is asking is, are they any good?
  
  Well yeah, in fact Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the best Pokemon games since Gold and Silver. 
 What you get new is a whole new world to explore, along with over 100 new Pokemon along with returning 
 Pokemon and all kinds of new features such as the Wi-Fi mode.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's still the same core formula, but it works great. That's not to say the battles won't get repetitive 
 though. Graphics: 8/10
  While not overly impressive for the DS, for a Pokemon game it looks great. The 3D effects add a 
 lot and the animations and sprites have improved a bit too. Sound: 8/10
  The music comes in pretty clear, and it's pretty good if not memorable. However, the Pokemon still 
 make those bad sounding cries, which are improving but still sound terrible.
  
  Value: 10
  The main quest is around 30-40 hours long if you decide to train all your Pokemon 
 during the quest, if you only train one, only about 20 hours. Either way, there are still tons 
 of extras, minigames, the new underground feature and plenty of Wi-Fi stuff to do.
  
  Wi-Fi: 8
  Easily the best Wi-Fi on any DS yet, you can trade, battle and do underground online 
 or with local sharing, in addition to that there are plenty of options and it never really gets 
 boring.
  
  Overall, Pokemon Pearl is a great game that's a must have if you have a DS. In fact, it's the best 
 Nintendo DS game out there as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The pokemon series has helped Nintendo handhelds from the beginning with it's easy to play nature 
 and childish undertone; and Pokemon Pearl and Diamond are the latest games in the series, and although 
 the formula hasn't changed at all since the first games for the original GameBoy, the few new additions 
 manage to make this one the best overall experience to date.
  
  The gameplay is the same as it has always been, which is a good thing, because the gameplay has 
 always been great. the major additions to the game are some new 3D graphical elements and and functional 
 online mode. the game features about 100 or so new pokemon to catch as well as connectivity to 
 the previous games for the GBA as well as the upcoming game for the Wii, in fact, the game comes 
 with a miniature poster for Pokemon Battle Revolution for the Wii.
  
  The connectivity to the GBA games isn't direct though, you first have to beat the game and have 
 seen all the pokemon in the game, then you need to permanently transfer you GBA pokemon to a Poke-Park 
 in the game and re- catch them there.
  
  The online mode is like most other DS game out there, requiring you to know the person your trading 
 with or battling, so it's not the most useful or the most convenient online mode, but thats to 
 be expected from a DS game. You can anonymously trade pokemon you've seen before with random people, 
 which is a nice addition, but you have to have at least seen the pokemon you want to even look 
 and see if anyone has it up for auction.
  
  In addition to the nomal online mode, it has a neat online mode called The Underground that lets 
 you run around in a scavenger hunt style mini-game to find things like fossils, rare rocks and 
 stones, and items for you secret base, you can play with a friend or multiple friends, but you 
 need friend codes for that.
  
  the before said 3D graphics come from the buildings and other scenery that have a slick polygonal 
 look to them, and although they have no real impact for make a difference in gameplay, there nice 
 to look at and it kinda weird to see 3D stuff in a largely 2D world.
  
  the DS only functions come in a obvious way, using it in the fighting sequences to chose moves, 
 this sounds like it does little to effect gameplay, but it makes fighting smoother and generally 
 less time consuming. You can also use it with the Poke-watch, a little item that will fill in the 
 bottom screen when your just walking around the overworld, you can make it more than just a clock 
 by finding aps for it to make it more useful, and eventually you will be able to do things like 
 check the time, to searching for underground and unseen items in the area.
  
  Like every other game in the series, you gonna need both versions of the game or a freind with 
 the other version to get the most out of it, because, being the marketing geniuses they are, you 
 need to have both games to get everything there is to offer form this game, and, if my predictions 
 are correct, you GOING to need at least one of these games to make the upcoming Wii game worth 
 buying.
  
  Overall, this isn't going to change your mind on the pokemon series if you already don't like it, 
 but the changes are good enough to make it seem fresh to veterans of the previous games, and it's 
 the best game to pick up for newcomers, dispute the anime series and the countless marketing ploys 
 to target children, this game is good enough for all ages, for children to teens, and even adults. 
 If you don't mind the the simplistic nature of the pokemon series, then you find that there is 
 a good amount of depth in this games, and it's long enough to keep you playing for weeks. if you 
 love pokemon, then get this game, if your not sure about the series, then by all means try this 
 one out. but it won't change the minds of those who have already made up there minds. However, 
 It's hard not to recommend this game to anyone with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperNofriendo
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, I am a pretty die hard pokefan but. I was sadly dissapointed. The game itself is fun! I thought 
 it was pretty darn good. I liked the graphics gameplay etc but there was just one thing that sorta 
 bugged me. The new pokemon are just sorta.... lame...
  It's still a great game! but i expected it to be more like ruby/sapphire. I thought of it like 
 totally new region, tons of new guys everything. but to me it just seemed to lack as many new guys 
 as i thought. I remeber i got sapphire not knowing any of the new guys and seeing lots of new pokemon 
 watching them evolve and having fun. There were still a couple old guys but it was ok.
  
  But in this game I just felt like the new guys were kinda lame and I thought that there were quite 
 a lot of past pokemon and not enought new ones. But overall it was a fun game and if your a fan 
 of the series you won't be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jz9999
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  For a long time pokemon had become a obsessive craze through out elementary schools and other places 
 where the smaller ones in the crowd tred. While the games had become an absolute phenomenon, they 
 were a lacking set of games for the teen through adult gamers. when all hope was lost, there was 
 a light that showed that pokemon had not become all as sucky as we all thought, called diamond 
 and pearl. The very minute you get your hands on it you will feel the sensation you got when you 
 played red or blue, just this time it is better. The control system was not a big overhaul as i 
 expected, but it is very nice. The environments look beautiful, considering past games and their 
 blocky, old school look. Unfortunately the game does not take full advantage of the DS's power 
 and capability. The story has it's nice little upgrades here and there, but nothing special. After 
 fighting megatons of grunts that look like they have a mental condition, you find the boss abusing 
 some rare pokemon and then you catch it. After that, not much really that much happens. The world 
 is huge and there are many things to do while try to complete the main quest. Not only is there 
 alot of pokemon, but other things too. With an underground, expanded areas and plenty of treats, 
 it will keep you searching up and down for hours.
  
  Personally my favorite feature, and most brand new and exciting feature is WI-FI. We all know that 
 nintendo is still getting used to internet gaming, but i salute them for their work with this game. 
 Trading your monsters is just as exciting as catching them, because there are millions of users 
 and millions of rare pokemon you could have your hands on!
  
  All in all, pokemon diamond and pearl are a must buy for old time fans and older gamers who are 
 new to the series. I say you should pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey93
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  i think that thi game is awsome and that u should get it... this thing has to be at least 100 words 
  
 GJHF, CJG, JHS, JCH AG, SJVF, MD VC, HC, AMHBVDFC, JASHD ,HAV M, SHM VADV, H VD, MHCV, AJSVHDFMANVE, JEHA... 
 i think thats a hundred.. watever.. just get it.. nope ok  
 kjefh fkjsdahf kfh akjfha kfjehw flakjhflsd kjfha fkjh ds fksdhjf lkjahsf kh djhsf kjfh sdkfjhalkj 
 shfkjsdahf khfjksd hfjhf kjfh dfjhlakshfkjehf ds hfkdsh flksdhfkhalweiuhfkjhd slfkds kfdhsfkj hdskljfh 
 ldskfhkdfniuahekjnfjfh kf hfkjah ieuhakj healkfeshkufh kjfh lkfeh uhf lkjfahlkeufhsdbkjasebfm, sd 
 hffh  fhdskj fkalyfh akuhf  
 rkauhgv kjh  laksjehf lksfhd laksjfhd aksjdfh .k asdf. kdsh akjashv 
 ,kah, vzjkh, vfj kdh djhfl  jdah sadhfkuasfkjhak fhkfj dkjf 
 ak fkds ds jhflakjsbc, kjzshdf dsu.. .i forgot to space ti last time.. o well this is ut now.. and 
 dont forget GET THE GAME ahahhhahah.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcbx3
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  hey people I love this game so I might exagerate a bit but here goes
  
  this game has got to be one of the best games on DS and here are some reasons why new pokemon for 
 all you die hard poke fans, touch screen control, great graphics, perfect local play, and WI-FI
 
  
  Touch screen: in this game the touch screen was a little under used like in the PC you still have 
 to use face buttons and D-pad. I also think that movement could be used for movement like in animal 
 crossing. Also in the GTS ( global trade center ) I would make it so every thing was touch controll 
 rather than jus touch trade partner which makes you switch for sylus to buttons really frequently 
 which can get annoying after a while. In battle is when you will be using it the most I love the 
 fact that I can use the touch screen for selecting battle items and battle moves it makes things 
 go quicker which is great for online battles. The touch screen is also used to pick which item 
 in the bag to use and scroll through which makes things go really really quickly. Graphics: The 
 cities and towns look great in this game because the are rendered in 3D so you really look like 
 you have a birds eye veiw of your character and things around you. Although the character are still 
 in 2D they have made improvements on the 2D figures so they look much better than that of and of 
 the past games. Since the DS has more screen room and a better graphic engine the game looks like 
 a totally differnt game because of the many improvents they have made. In battle everything looks 
 kinda the same except everything you choose is on the bottom screen which is only menus of what 
 to do next. the top screen is where the battle takes place verything in battle is still in 2D but 
 the back ground varies depending on the place and time, for example if you are battle somthing 
 whil surfing the back ground will be blue with white on top the blue being the water and the white 
 the sky. Along with its many improve ments they have brought back the night and day system now 
 there are 5 differnt times early morning, morning, day, night, and late night. During and out of 
 battle it will show at night building lights will be on and every thing will be kinda dark, and 
 early morning looks like a dark blueish color and no lights on during evening every thing will 
 be a dark reddish color beacause the sun is setting.
  
  The local wifi: The underground is a new feature this is where your secret bases are located along 
 with your other friends bases that are under groung with you. Your secret base in this can be upgraded 
 depending on the amount of flags you have stolen from friends the more upgrades you have the better 
 you base is because you can move the giant bolders that are in your way of putting decorations. 
 the amount of decorations allowed also depend on how many flags you have stolen from friends. The 
 union room is the place to go if you want to do anything this includes: trade, battle, register 
 in pal pad, draw, talk, and mix records in other word if you have friends in the room go there 
 to get aquainted trade a few pokemon the only downside about the union room is that your pokemon 
 have to be under lvl 30 to battle in the union room. Thats when the colessum comes into play this 
 is where yuo can set up battles of any kind here single, double, muti and with those you can choose 
 certain restrictions such as light pokemon, heavy pokemon, baby pokemon there are plenty more but 
 I cant remember right now.
  
  Wi-Fi: The GTS as I mentioned earlier is the place you go if you need a pokemon this is the global 
 place to trade which means you will be able to get pokemon from japan and other countries you may 
 only receive pokemon you have seen on your poke dex which sux becase this limits you greatly on 
 the pokemon you can receive. the way this works is you can put a pokemon up for offer and you input 
 the pokemon and the level you want in return for the pokemon after that is is sent to the online 
 place where it stays until some one accepts you offer then the next time you get on you will receive 
 the pokemon you have put. You can also search the pokemon that have been put on offer you can only 
 veiw the ones you have seen on your pokedex if you like and have what they want for the pokemon 
 you want the pokemon you want will be sent to you and the pokemon he wants will be sent to him 
 next time he gets on the GTS. The basement level of the pokemon center is where friend codes come 
 into play donw here you may voice chat, trade, and battle with those you have register in your 
 pal pad and no one else its really not that bad because we have gamespot to trade friend codes 
 and things like that.
  
  Overall: if you liked any of the other pokemon games you will love this one the most even thought 
 the plot is the same beat the gyms beat the elite 4 the way you do it on this one makes it the 
 best ever kudos to you nintendo for the first great pokemon RPG game on the DS I hope I have helped 
 in the deciding getting the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been into Pokemon since the original Red/Blue/Yellow days. However this is also my very 
 first Pokemon review... go figure.
  
  Well a game is coming out for the Nintendo Wii soon by the name of Pokemon Battle Revolution .
 
  
  And what better way to get ready for it than to buy, if you have a DS, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl?
 
  
  Pokemon Pearl seems like a very complete game, and more advanced than the last iterations of the 
 series.
  
  The graphics are nice and crisp for a Pokemon game, and as you know, it is in 3-D!
  
  And they 
 did add some nice animations for the pokemon during battle.
  
  The music in the game is pretty nice as well, as are the new pokemon sounds. Now they do have recycled 
 sounds for say an Alakazam. Alakazam sounds like he did in R/B/Y. But if your a hardcore pokemon 
 fan like me, it shouldnt bother you.
  
  The gameplay is what it always has been, but why fix something thats not broken?
  
  Also if 
 you have a past GBA pokemon game (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, FireRed, LeafGreen) then you can transfer 
 pokemon from those games into D/P.
  
  Not only that, but if you have one of those inserted while playing then you can capture pokemon 
 that wouldnt be in the game otherwise.
  
  So it does add more to look forward to.
  
  I do have something against this game though... not really the game more Nintendo themselves.
 
  
  There are exclusive pokemon you can only get in events. They are Shaymin, Darkrai, and Arceus.
 
  
  They are legendaries, and Nintendo wants you to go to events that take place in maybe one or two 
 places out of the entire world.
  
  People cant jump on a plane and fly to Japan to get a pokemon, thats why people use cheat devices.
 
  
  And until Nintendo is a bit more fair concerning event pokemon people will continue to use cheat 
 devices.
  
  Other than Nintendo, this game is really worth getting so have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scootergogo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl are the best pokemon games ever! It destroys all the other games. If you 
 didnt like the previous games this one is so much better. It is very fun. My friends and I play 
 capture the flag underground. I also enjoy the wifi. You can post which pokemon u have and what 
 you want for it. You can also battle your friends over wifi as well. For those who do not know 
 wifi lets you play with your friends over the internet while talking into the small built in mic 
 in the Nintendo DS. Good job Nintendo. I cant wait to get and play the next one. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextgen2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/ Pearl is the first installment of the popular Pokemon series for the DS. It is 
 a solid RPG that is fun even for the most casual of Pokemon fans, or fans that have never even 
 played the series before. The 3D graphics are absolutely beautiful. The great advancements in the 
 DS's technical ability of the previous game boys really allow the Pokemon series to shine. As a 
 purist of the series, I was extremely hesitant to buy this game when I heard it had a 3D makeover. 
 However, my fear were put to rest when I saw the beautiful shapes, movements and colors of the 
 character. There is one problem with the gaphics though. Occasionaly (and I mean very occasionally) 
 the camera view switches from a high-angle, almost completely overhead view to a low-angle far-behind-the-shoulder 
 view. When this occurs, any object (such as a tree or building gets in the way, and you will no 
 longer be able to see your character. But this happens very rarely. The story has not changed from 
 the previous games. You play as a young boy/girl from Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region. You obtain 
 a pokemon from the local pokemon professor, and he sends you on your way to gather research for 
 him using a Pokedex. The battle transitions in this game have been completely redone, and add a 
 new depth of immersion in the game. Battle animations themselves have not changed much, as have 
 the sounds of battle attacks and hits.
  
  The touch screen controls are unimpressive and sometimes get in the way. You really dont need them, 
 for most of the game, but if you happen to have 3 hands, you will enjoy them the way they were 
 intended.
  
  Now, if you happen to have a Wi-Fi connection, the game will take you into a completely new, immersive 
 world. Using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, you can trade pokemon, battle or chat with registered 
 friends in any town's pokemart. But if you have no registered friends, you can go to the Nintendo 
 WFC building in Jubilife City where you will be able to battle and trade with anyone in the world! 
 You can put pokemon up for trade, and they can be traded even while your DS is turned off. Overall, 
 this is the greatest pokemon yet. I cant wait to see how Nintendo uses this fantastic game to interact 
 with the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamanu
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 19, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for the DS. If you have any taste in rpg you would know that the Pokemon games 
 never dissapoint. The graphics didnt wow me, but the gameplay definatly made up for it.
  
  The graphics definatly werent impressive. I mean they were great compared to the past pokemon games, 
 but if yo uwere to compare them to any other 3-D DS game. I understand that they had to make an 
 extremely large amount of sprites for the game but they could have made them 3-D and delayed the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay does balance out the graphics problem though. The gameplay is very well done. Using 
 the top and bottom screen well. In battle the top screen is used to veiw your active pokemon and 
 the opposing pokemon. While the bottom screen is used to show your active pokemon's attacks, or 
 the rest of your party. Now, while outside of battles the top screen is used to show your character 
 and where he is walking and the bottom is used to show your poketech.
  
  The poketech is a gadget used to show various things. There are add on applications for it giving 
 it new uses. But the primary use is a clock. It also is capable of other useful features such as 
 a step counter, a recently obtained pokemon record, and a application that shows what level your 
 pokemon are at while in the daycare center.
  
  The battles are turn based and are quite entertaining. There are also double battles. Battles vary 
 on the enviroment. For example; in some snowy areas it hails, and damages all non-ice type pokemon 
 every turn. Once you beat the game you can battle people all over the world with a wi-fi connection. 
 Beating the game is pretty easy, but there are plenty of things to keep you occupied after you 
 beat the game, like completing your pokedex by seeing 150 pokemon, catching legendary pokemon, 
 or training so you can beat your friends.
  
  So all lin all I highly reccomend this game. With its ok graphics, and great gameplay this game 
 is very easy to reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PPNSteve
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The lack of advanced graphics and seemingly haphazard/not-so-seamless presentation, regarding the 
 GUI in particular, seems to be a sore point for reviewers. If you ask me, the fact that they are 
 keeping the games old-school favor is brilliant. The graphics are definitely a little more than 
 slightly updated and the interface is probably cleaner, sleek, and more user-friendly than it 
 has ever been. Id say this is the epitome of classic Pokemon action in a more polished, complete 
 package. I found it very intriguing how they used 3D graphics in this one without taking away from 
 the grass roots feel of the game, a thing that I think retro and old-school gamers alike really 
 appreciate. Of course, itll only be so long before they budge to the pressure and put in some 
 real eye candy. Itd be nice to have real Pokemon sounds, instead of the screeches, though they 
 have grown onto me *mumble*
  
  Pokemon STILL rocking worldwide!
  
  The launch of Pokemon Pearl &amp; Diamond for the Nintendo DS marks the beginning of a new era 
 for Pokemon, a franchise that has over ten years under the belt. With the launch of these milestone 
 games comes the new cartoon and the soon-to-come Wii game. As expected, these games have been tightly-integrated, 
 showing Nintendos dedication to their loyal fans. The cross-platform support is quite seamless 
 except for the fact that, once again, you have to collect friend codes before you can really tap 
 into the online Pokeverse; fortunately, this is an inconvenience that we have all become accustomed 
 to, hence why many Nintendo DS Friend Code Lists have started up! Whatever your feelings for Pokemon 
 may be, this is all the buzz in hardcore gaming communities worldwide.
  
  I will reiterate that the reviews have not done the game much justice. They mostly make it seem 
 like it is like the preceding games but with slightly better graphics and gameplay. Its a lot 
 more than that. This is easily the most-immersive Pokemon experience on any platform. For those 
 that have been dismayed by the lack of [substantial] storylines in the Pokemon Stadium, Pokemon 
 Colosseum, and soon-to-come Pokemon Battle Revolution (Wii) games, rest assured: this one has more 
 of a story. The story should be very familiar for seasoned Pokemon trainers but there is enough 
 new content to keep things fresh!
  
  From the onset of the game, you are sucked into action-packed duel after action-packed duel. Your 
 buddy and friendly rival, I named him Butters (yes, after South Park) , joins you for some battles 
 then runs around, trying to beat you on your quest to catch them all - its your job to make 
 sure youre the first one to become the best trainer in your town and all of Sinnoh! In this game, 
 your starting Pokemon selection is quite distinct. No Charizard, Bulbasaur, Pikachu, etc. in this 
 one, at least not to boot. Fortunately, if you happen to have Pokemon Sapphire and other previous 
 games, you can import your Pokemon once you obtain the National Pokedox - that means your previous 
 efforts were not wasted!
  
  Here are some of the features that I think really stick out in this release: * Compete in new types 
 of contests including the new dance competition! * Dress up your Pokemon, take photos, and share 
 with friends! * Movie cameo monsters now debuting on the game: Lucario, Munchlax, Weavile, and 
 more!! * Over 100 new Pokemon join the roster in this installment. * Pokemon Ranger players can 
 unlock special content What, I dont knowbut it must be good!!! * Trading and playing with friends 
 is now better than ever with Wi-Fi play modes!!! * Pokemon now have more than one type, adding 
 more depth to the game. * New special moves have been added to the game as well as retooled favorites! 
 * Pokeblocks have been replaced with Poffin, though they accomplish about the same thing.
  
  Many of the jaded gamers say that the game falls short of expectations because it doesnt push 
 the systems limits and it has that been there, done that feel to it. I can understand the frustration 
 but I think that the goal here was not to be lazy or rush the project but, rather, keep the game 
 as true to the series as possible - this game brings everything around full circle! For the eye 
 candy and moving tunes, we can turn to the Nintendo Gamecube and, soon, Nintendo Wii installments 
 in the Pokemon series.
  
  If you look at the sales numbers, it seems that Pokemon Diamond is selling more than Pokemon Pearl. 
 Most will tell you that the games are exactly the same except for the ultimate/ultra rare Pokemon 
 you can capture. The truth is that the version you own changes how often certain Pokemon show up 
 and, in some cases, where they show up. For this reason, I got myself Pearl since most of my friends 
 have, you guessed it, the Diamond (people sure do like those shiny things) version of the game. 
 This should make for some good trades in a few weeks or so, depending how much my work schedule 
 allows me to play!
  
  Believe me, I was apprehensive when my friends insisted that I simply had to get this version of 
 the game. I mean, I still play Pokemon Sapphire and enjoy it just fine. Horror stories about Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon made me skip out on a few tempting DS titles. The good news is that this game can 
 definitely hold your attention, even if you are not nine years old; of course, if you suffer from 
 ADD, ADHD, or whatever they want to call it today, you may want to skip this game. The grind of 
 the core RPG mechanics can never be completely avoided but, fortunately, there is enough content 
 - stories, side quests, contests, and other diversions - packed into the game to break up what 
 could become very monotonous gameplay.
  
  One of the very neat additions to the game is how they expanded upon the secret base concept from 
 previous games. You can still decorate your base as you did before but, now, there is are play 
 modes that revolve around your base. One of the modes involves you setting up traps to keep people 
 from getting to your base while you search for the secret bases of other nearby trainers. It is 
 a more complex game of hide-and-seek. As juvenile as it may seem, I know a few twenty, thirty, 
 and even forty-somethings, myself included, that find themselves charmed by the deceptively simple 
 gameplay. I think IGN puts it well in their zero hour Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl review: For 
 a game thats literally sold countless millions of copies over the past ten years, its pretty 
 amazing to discover gamers who have yet to experience what Pokemon is all about. Under its kid-friendly, 
 thick sugary coating lies a deceptively deep and addictive design that encourages players to create 
 collections of highly marketable creatures of various species.
  
  If you havent tried Pokemon in the past, possibly because some fanboy or annoying kid ruined it 
 for you, give it a whirl. Ask around and see if any of your friends have the game or are willing 
 to get it; after all, the online play gives you more features to enjoy. With the Wi-Fi features 
 that have been packed in, this one is all about replay value. If you own a Nintendo Wii, the coming 
 game will be integrated heavily with Pokemon Diamond &amp; Pearl so its worth the investment!
 
  
  Nintendo Power in a language you probably can't read!
  
  Back to the story! The storyline in this installment is a little different than in previous Pokemon 
 games. Instead of dealing with Team Rocket and their incessant efforts to steal the best Pokemon, 
 including your own, you are up against Team Galactic. It seems that they have discovered a connection 
 between Pokemon and alternative fuels, so they are looking for specific Pokemon in order to corner 
 the market and overthrow the government. Well, perhaps I made up some of those details but you 
 get the point!
  
  One thing I like about any good video game is the addition of easter eggs, side quests, and non-linear 
 content. Easter eggs are those little hidden treats that make us feel very fulfilled when we discover 
 them without the use of a strategy guide, spoiler, or anything of the sort. What makes this the 
 deepest Pokemon game yet is the ability to take on random challenges, play online, and interact 
 with your Pokemon on different levels. Surely, if you are just in it to beat all the gym teachers, 
 you will get around 80 hours of pay time, at least. If you want to build up unique Pokemon, unlock 
 the secrets, catch them all, and interact with live trainers, theres tons the game has to offer 
 you.
  
  A few words of warning regarding the Wi-Fi play: as I already alluded to, this game is like many 
 other DS titles in that it does not allow you to interact with random gamers. In Pokemon Diamond 
 &amp; Pearl, you cant even enter Nintendo WFC without a friend code in your roster. Fortunately, 
 they make it worth your while by adding voice chat and an optional headset peripheral (sold separately) , 
 but it can still be annoying trying to exchange all those friend codes. This quirky approach to 
 online gaming is exactly why there are countless sites for sharing Nintendo WFC Friend Codes (read 
 on for more information on that - we list some sites at the end) .
  
  I have much more to uncover in this game but, from what Ive enjoyed so far, Id give this game 
 a score of 9.5 out of a possible 10 because, as cliche as it may seem, I am hooked and I simply 
 cant think of really bad things to say about the game! The content has been enough to keep me 
 up in bed for hours on end and even has motivated me to pick up Pokemon Sapphire again (it was 
 collecting dust for a while) . Driving gamers to play from game to game is a key strategy in keeping 
 this franchise thriving. One has to wonder what more they can do with the game and I think the 
 first major Wii installment will soon answer those questions. Thats quite the tall order to fill
 
  
  (c) 2007 PPN, Yogizilla. Originally appeared on http://duelpassonline. wordpress. com/ and used with 
 permission. Check them out if you are a YuGiOh! fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest additions to the Pokemon series. The game features many new Pokemon 
 and moves. The new startes are awesome and the game is of course life sucking and totally worth 
 it. The game starts off very nicely and I progressed through levels very easily. The badges and 
 characters you meet are very cool, especially the way you meet them. For many of the earlier Gym 
 Leaders, you see them or save them from a dangerous situation and then you receive items. Also, 
 the legendaries are awesome in this game, Palkia is friggin sweet!! Well, I am recommending this 
 gmae ot any DS owner and of course anyone who has played Pokemon before seeing as how it is the 
 best Pokemon game to this date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyb2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellant addition to the Pokemon series! For starters, it's in a more detailed, 3D-like 
 environment, because it's for Nintendo DS, rather than Gameboy Advance. The pokemon moves have 
 detail in them, the towns are creative, and there are even different types of grass! It's also 
 pretty cool to be able to not only use the buttons for actions, but also the stylis/touch screen. 
 There are a ton of all-new pokemon in this game! I really enjoy being able to experiment with the 
 new pokemon, rather than have the same ones with a couple new ones splashed in here or there... 
 I haven't gotten very far into this game, but I already love it to pieces! Definitely should get 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothSyZtem
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is yet another entree into the Series of the well known pokemon.
  The games length is quite outstanding considering the hardware its on and the 120 MB size limit. 
 Whats even more of a feat is that the game is only around 68 MB.
  This aside lets get into the game play shall we? The game is on DS hardware yet it still caters 
 to the GBA hardware way more. Really though pokemon games havent changed since Gold and silver. 
 Proof of this shows as the L and R buttons on the ds never even get used. This is more of an annoyance 
 then a real problem because it just shows the laziness of the developers. Also some of the designs 
 of the pokemon of just plain pathetic this time aroundYes, a few of the pokemon you will run 
 into in this game are just circles or squares with eyes. This brings in yet another problem of 
 having to got to catch them all it almost makes you not what to waste you time catching them. 
 Since the game is in a sudo 3d now the frame rate is a little slower then in pokemon Emerald, this 
 doesnt get to be a real problem though is another little tid bit of annoyance. Nintendo events 
 are back. This is somewhat neat and somewhat. well.. just stupid, Nintendo basically makes you 
 go to toys r us to pick up a special item to get a very rare pokemon, its kind of neat and then 
 its kind of not because if you are busy the day it happens you are just out of luck and have to 
 wait until who knows when. The final complaint I have about this new pokemon is that the story 
 is so awful! Really its hard to cal this a story, the people in pokemon feel more like road blockers 
 to get the main legendary more then anything else.
  All this bad stuff aside pokemon does have a ton of great things going for it. A huge huge open 
 main quest, it takes anywhere from 40 to 45 hours to complete it. As well once you have done this 
 there are tons and tons of side quest for you to start when you feel like it.
  Aside from the side quest you have a total of 493 pokemon you can catch witch will take you more 
 time then I would care to even talk about. You may just find doing things for other people in real 
 life just to try and complete you massive pokedex. Pearl has now added Wifi into the mix of the 
 game witch I probably the biggest improvement of all the other ones out so far. With wifi there 
 is this global trade system that ind of works like an ebay system. You post you pokemon online 
 and tell others what pokemon you want for it in exchange. You can even ask for a specific level! 
 Neat! Its a Useful feature that I never really found myself using to much. When you go online 
 if you do not want to use the eaby globe trading system then you have to find other peoples friend 
 codes in forums and such. Nintendos online has always been a pain in the rear with its friend 
 code feature, but there is no way around it so youre just stuck with it.
  The game follows very closely to its predecessor's.. So closely in fact, its a little eerie. Sometimes 
 you might even feel like you are playing pokemon red and blue. The funny thing is though its not 
 a bad thing. Pokemon red and blue where quite possibly the greatest Game Boy games ever made. Sure 
 a little of the flair has been lost over time but when you put it all together, Massive map to 
 explore, tons of pokemon, pretty graphics, long main quest, and a multitude of side quest.. its 
 very hard to go wrong.
  
  Pokemon was and epic back in 1996, and its still great in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 12, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is the best game on the DS. It has so many things to do. I'll try braking this 
 down.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The same as always. Not a bad thing at all though. The gameplay still works great through the many 
 years of Pokemon. Of course, many new attacks, and Pokemon were thrown into the mix. Also attacks 
 are now divided into physical, special, or other. Physical attacks are attacks that affect Defense, 
 and Attack. Specials affect Special Defense, and Special Attack. Very handy now. Many Pokemon benefit 
 from this change. Graphics:
  
  Very good. It looks more life-like than the GBA games. The buildings, and people all look amazing. 
 The color is beautiful. But during battle, it's still 2-D. Not really a big deal, but it'd be nice 
 to see 3-D Pokemon. Content:
  
  There are also alot of little things to enjoy. Berry blending, planting, and eating is in here. 
 There are also honey trees where spreading honey on them allows you to catch Pokemon that are unobtainable 
 in the tall grass. Pokemon Contests, and the Casino are also here. There is also a park where you 
 can walk around in with certain Pokemon. NIght and Day is back, and so is breeding. You can even 
 go underground and do some crazy stuff
  
  Even after beating the game there is still lots to do. WiFi is in the game, so yeah, go crazy.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds beautiful. 'Nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  The next real pokemon game to hit shelves unlike the others of pokemon ranger and such. This game 
 follows the same pattern as of all pokemon games with 3 beginners some crazy event for you to grab 
 one and fire, water and grass lets go pokemon! So your off with your new beginner kicking trainners 
 buts along the way! With 8 gyms to thrash and the pokemon league to spit on through shame! As more 
 bad guys attack society through some crazy event to do something nasty to the world! Yah I know 
 sounds like the same thing right? Well it is deal with it. So if you loved it before love it again 
 if not well your out of luck. The game offers around 120 something new pokemon to catch with alot 
 of them being pre or evolutions of older pokemon. The game offers several new attacks to alot of 
 pokemon including tons of older pokemon learning a whole new tree of attacks. Theres also been 
 a split from physical to elemental attacks making not all like water based attacks a special attack 
 but some attacks like waterfall can be based on attack power! This gives all pokemon a running 
 chance if there states don't follow there type so much like before games. The game offers events 
 after the league but not so much as pokemon emerald did. Its still fun and all though but expect 
 to be playing online more then the bonus 1 tower you get to choose. Online play you must have a 
 wi-fi connection and friends codes in your DS to battle online. Its all cool and all but can be 
 annoying as even friends on the internet can be hard to find sometimes. Most of the time you need 
 to talk over first before you battle so you could end up with alot of useless codes. Besides that 
 the graphics looks awesome of the DS. Compair this game to the gba ones and you can tell the huge 
 change. The touch screen is barly used but has some effects such as telling you time, find treasure, 
 how many steps you have walked, a coin toss and so on. The music is preety catchy all the way through 
 with some nice soundtracks from importent battles. Value is kickass as this is pokemon so its an 
 endless adventure. People are tough online so don't except to have a let down if the PC is to easy 
 for you anymore people online well theres the crazy people like every game right? If you got a 
 DS pick this game up its top notch fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinky_bomb
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  this was a good fame i realy liked it and everyone with a ds should get it. somethings in this 
 game were bad though like
  - to short - the things to do after you beat the elit four arnt very amusing - new pokemon names 
 are stupid - the 3d is cool but makes it look like it has worst grafics than it should
  -elit four is the same thing
  
  the good things - the moves actualy hit the opponintes pokemon 
 - onlie battleing and tradeing
  - the game is slitly longer than the other pokemon games
  - has the best scean in all of the pokemon games in the worl when you meet diagla/ pelcia (dont 
 know how to spell them )
  
  this is a good game and i reacomend you buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  PokeMon was the biggest craze back in 1998. Grade schoolers had to have the game, the gear, the 
 knowledge, the cards, everything. Then the fad began to die. Of course, all fads fade, but most 
 loose interest because of their lack of quality. Easily, PokeMon Diamond and Pearl do not, in any 
 way, lack quality. Even though the game remains the same from the original Red and Blue versions, 
 all the small additions of PokeMon, items and side quests makes the game much more fleshed out.
 
  Being that PokeMon hasn't changed it's general formula, there is no need to explain the basic 
 gameplay. Additions include a berry system, fashion system, item holding system, Competitions and 
 an underground fossil section. The combat system is the same, turn based with random rolls. It's 
 incredibly addictive, especially after a 7 year hiatus from the series. The underground system 
 works with a simple touch of the stylus, allowing you to dig up rubies, gems and fossils. While 
 the change is purely artificial, the added side quest makes PokeMon seem that much more involving. 
 The berry system allows you to cook food for your PokeMon, making you spin the dough around on 
 the bottom screen. You find berries in the environment, all which have different effects and can 
 be used at will, and depending on the speed of your spin and how consistent you are with spinning 
 (leave it too long and it will burn) a special treat will be created for your PokeMon, called a 
 poffin. This helps with the competitions, which are pretty much talent shows ripped from Nintendogs. 
 The item holding system allows you to give your PokeMon berries, the poffins or any other item 
 to keep them on their toes during battle. Berries allow you to heal or cure a status when near 
 death, and other items can let your PokeMon dodge weaker PokeMon while traveling or increase attack. 
 It just depends on which item you use, and how you use it.
  The graphics are very nice looking, especially for a DS game. While most of the world is made up 
 of 2-D sprites, the pseudo 3-D environments give depth that was missing from the previous games 
 in the series. It is much easier to spot items and see correct paths in town. The 3-D also allows 
 for bridges and other inter-highway like systems between the towns, making travel a bit nicer. 
 The bicycle is available once again, and proves to be a welcome additions after a few hours of 
 walking. Running shoes are a new addition, but these basically just hold you over until you receive 
 your bike.
  The sound is great in the game. The music is revamped from the original tunes, and is made with 
 what seems to be MPEG2 quality midi files. The dynamics are superb, and just hearing the old tunes 
 gives fond memories of hours lost to the previous games in the series. The sound clips used for 
 the PokeMon are pretty much ripped directly from the GBC games, and its nice to see that Nintendo 
 isn't so crazy about changing the past. The sounds don't pale in comparison to the new PokeMon 
 either, so it proves to be a good decision.
  The one huge addition to the game is the inclusion of Nintendo WiFi Connection. This allows you 
 to battle and trade with your friends from the comfort of your home, or a local WiFi hotspot. The 
 lag is minimal depending on your connection, and no features are really cut from the local multiplayer, 
 so the WiFi definitely is welcome. What is also great is the fact that over 100 new PokeMon had 
 been added, bringing the total count to 482. If you thought 251 was a crazy number from the Gold 
 and Silver Days, now there is pretty much double that.
  Nothing else can really sum up Diamond and Pearl. The first game for DS is great, and is awesome 
 enough to bring me out of PokeMon retirement. I'm only about half way through the main story, so 
 I have yet to really crack the surface of what Diamond and Pearl hold, but I can rest assured that 
 the game won't let up at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay speaking, this game is no different than any of the previous Pokemon RPG games, and why 
 should it? It is still addicting as hell to play. Do I really have to explain what you have to 
 do in this game? You start off in a small town with four houses in a fictional land where creatures 
 called Pokemon are the animal equivalent of we have here on Earth. The only difference is that 
 these Pokemon can be captured using 'Pokeballs' and you train them by entering battle scenes and 
 you try to become the best Pokemon trainer by beating other Pokemon trainers. As your Pokemon level 
 up, they can learn new moves, or even evolve into a different, but stronger shape. This is what 
 makes Pokemon games so addicting, catching them, making them evolve and trying to catch every Pokemon. 
 What makes the game even more exciting is that Pokemon can evolve in different ways. The regular 
 way is by levelling up or you can trade, make them happy, or give certain ones stones. A new method 
 introduced in this game is levelling up in a certain area of the game. Also worth mentioning, Pokemon 
 have different types such as fire, water, grass, electric, and it is always good have a balanced 
 set of six Pokemon, because every Pokemon has their set of strengths and weaknesses against other 
 types, with a few exceptions.
  When you're not in a battle scene, the graphics may not be that good, but they aren't that bad 
 either. when you ARE in a battle scene, you can see your Pokemon in neat detail and some of the 
 moves have cool animations. (Fire Blast anyone?)
  Pokemon Pearl/Diamond proves that Pokemon is still popular, as much as for teens as for younger 
 children. It has plenty of replayability and hours of fun battling, trading, evolving, searching, 
 and catching those Pokemon. Gotta catch em' all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Long adventure, Wi-fi, Tons of things to do after beating Elite Four, Brings back day 
 and night feature
  The Bad: Doesnt use DSs features to full effect, No true online random matches
  
 
  Hi once again, Im going to be reviewing Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for the Nintendo DS. Pokemon 
 DP are great games, but they could have been better in some aspects. The games are still great 
 and it just goes to show you that Pokemon will be able to stand the test of time, the games anyway. 
 :P
  Pokemon DP dont stray far away from the old Pokemon style, but then again that isnt really a 
 bad thing. This time you will find yourself as a beginning trainer in the Sinnoh region. As with 
 every Pokemon game (minus Yellow) you get to choose between three starter Pokemon. You get to choose 
 between the grass Pokemon Turtwig, the fire Pokemon Chinchar, or the water Pokemon Piplup. After 
 that you start your adventure to beat the Elite Four, fill up your Pokedex, and become the greatest 
 trainer out there.
  Now then, Pokemon DP dont change the Pokemon battle formula much. You still have turn based battles; 
 there are still 8 gym leaders and the Elite Four, items, etc. The biggest change in the battle 
 scene is the new command buttons. To control your Pokemon you can use the d-pad or the touch screen. 
 All the action will take place on the top screen. There are four command buttons: Fight (which 
 takes up 70 % of the screen) , Bag, Run, and Pokemon. They are all self explanatory really. The 
 new system makes everything more assessable and I liked it.
  Okay so we now how the battling is, how is the overworld? The overworld is in 3d now; but it keeps 
 the look of the 2d Pokemon games so you dont really notice the difference that much. The overworld 
 is all on the top screen. The bottom screen shows you Poketech. The Poketech is a device that you 
 get early in the game that has helpful tools to use on your quest to become the Pokemon Master. 
 The Poketech can act as a clock, calculator, notepad, map, and more. And as you progress through 
 the game you can keep adding to it to make it more useful. But there are some annoying things about 
 the Poketech. First off some of the applications are useless. For example you app you get is a 
 counter; all it does is count how many times you press a button on the Poketech. What is the point 
 in this; do you think I cant count or something Game Freak? Another annoying thing is that you 
 can only switch apps by pressing one big button on the Poketech. Its annoying having to flip between 
 over 10 apps later in the game.
  Pokemon DP are trying to retain a lot of what the GBA Pokemon games had, this is good and bad. 
 On one hand it keeps the addictiveness of the past games. And it takes past features, such as Pokemon 
 Contests, and expands them. But on the other hand it seems Game Freak forgot it is working on a 
 DS game. Minus the 3d overworld the game could be made on a GBA. The animations are nearly the 
 same as the GBA games. And the touch screen is hardly used, or used poorly. For example, using 
 the touch screen on the overworld menu is sloppy. The menu is on the top screen so you control 
 it using a scroll wheel on the touch screen, which is a bit finicky. And then there is the music 
 and sounds. They arent bad really, but they could have been so much more.
  Besides some annoyances the game is great. The game will last you a solid 50 hours to beat the 
 Elite Four alone, and thats not even touching any of the optionally features in the game. 50 hours 
 is not only great for any game, but being a handheld makes it even more impressive. It also adds 
 new features such as the underground area. Here you can dig for treasures (such as evolution stones 
 ;) ) , hang out with people, set traps, and more. And now you can collect over 400 Pokemon, over 
 a hundred of them are new. And you can transfer Pokemon from your GBA games to help, which is awesome. 
 The games have tremendous replay value; you will be addicted to Pokemon DP for quite some time. 
 One of the best new features of Pokemon DP are the new online components. You can go online in 
 a multitude of ways. First you can go to the Global Trading Station (GTS) and you can trade with 
 anyone from around the world. What you do is send the Pokemon you want to trade to the Nintendo 
 servers and you choose a Pokemon you want (can only be a Pokemon youve already seen) . Then you 
 can leave and come back later to see if you got any offers. Its a great way to trade and get new 
 Pokemon. The second way to go online is to trade friend codes with someone. Once you both add each 
 other you can battle, trade, or just talk to each other using the DSs mic. And after you beat 
 the game you can go to the battle tower. Here you upload your Pokemon team to the servers so other 
 people can battle your team. It is sort of disappointing that you cant actually battle random 
 people instead of simulated AI of the person, but you wont really notice the difference. Overall 
 the online is good for a DS game, but some times the voice chat is a little hard to understand.
 
  Overall Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are great games are should be in your DS collection ASAP! Its 
 one of the longest DS games out there and you will be hooked to it. They dont change the Pokemon 
 formula much, but the new additions are worth the $35. And being the first online Pokemon game 
 makes it all the better. This is a great game that you should not miss if you own a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  It's been four years since last we got a true Pokemon game. True, we did get FireRed and LeafGreen 
 in 2004 and Pokemon Emerald in 2005, but they were merely remakes and sequels. And let's not even 
 mention Pokemon Ranger and Pokemon Mystery Dungeon- disastrous attempts at something different. 
 
  
  Well, four years later, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are launched amidst a lot of hype and fanfare. 
 Finally, after a long wait, the latest Pokemon games are here. Are they good? Oh yes, defintely. 
 True, they offer nothing new, but what they do offer is a nice and addictive forty hour adventure.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY (SCORE- 9/10)
  The same formula of the past three generations of Pokemon games- wander about in a gigantic overworld, 
 talk to people, gather hints and clues, solve mysteries and puzzles and battle different creatures 
 in turn based battles- has been used here as well. And its a testament to the formula's strength 
 that it still holds up well after over a decade.
  
  Also, it's worth mentioning here that the difficulty level of the games has been considerably beefed 
 up from the past games. From the very first gym itself, you face an onslaught of attacks that places 
 you in pretty tight positions indeed. You may win- but it'll be a close win.
  
  GRAPHICS (SCORE- 10/10)
  A few gaming sites, particularly IGN, have been whining and cribbing 
 that the quality of the games' graphics is not up to par. I differ on this. I believe that the 
 graphics are perfect, giving you a nice psuedo 3D feel, thereby retaining the classic 2D nostalgic 
 feeling of the earlier games, but upgrading themselves enough that nobody can waggle a finger at 
 them for being stuck in the past.
  
  Also, in some places, particularly gyms, the games abandon all pretense and adopt fully 3D graphics, 
 N64 style. It's really cool to see, and you'll waste a lot of time just admiring the sheer level 
 of detail in these places.
  
  The one place the graphics could be better is the battle scenes. Here, it feels as if they haven't 
 evolved all that much from the days of Ruby and Sapphire. I'm not complaining though. I like that 
 nostalgic feel.
  
  SOUND (SCORE- 9/10)
  The sound in these games is unlike any other Pokemon game. Its slow, symphonic and its very gothic 
 in places. Its also catchy (especially the battle tunes) not to mention the facts that the old 
 tunes have been remixed particularly well, especially the Pokemon Center, Pokemon Mart and Pokemon 
 Gym themes. The only problem I feel is, the tunes in the beggining of the game are slow, and thus 
 considerably reduce the excitement of beggining a new Pokemon adventure, one feeling that was particularly 
 present in Ruby and Sapphire.
  
  STORY (SCORE- 9/10)
  Surprise, surprise! Story actually gets a score of 9! This is so because the motives of the sinister 
 Team Galactic are so mature, so unlike Pokemon, they could have featured in other RPG's known for 
 their story telling, like Final Fantasy. Plus, the small reasons for side quests given at the very 
 beggining of the game make it seem more well rounded and polished than the previous Pokemon games.
 
  
  REPEAT VALUE (SCORE- 10/10)
  The adventures are so deep, so well rounded, so well made that you can replay them infinite times.
 
  
  FINAL SCORE- 9.2/10
  These games may not be the best in the series- that title still remains with G/S/C- but they are 
 the best Pokemon games to have been released since G/S/C. An engrossng adventure, enthralling storyline, 
 catchy sounds, nostalgic gameplay and graphics all make this one of the best Pokemon adventures 
 to have come out since 1999-2000. Definitely recommended to all fans and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360-gamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the funnest and most exciting rpg ive EVER played. You start off as a little 
 boy... some of u guys may know..... u have a friend and u and him get lost in the woods..... then 
 u use pokemon ... they become urs... u guys know the rest. Anyways, there are more that 500 pokemon 
 and they are amazing.. the graphics are a lot better than the ones a few years ago (fire red, emerald 
 saffire, ruby, leaf green.... yah) Once u finish the 1st gym leader, the game suddenly turns SUPER 
 ADDICTING. U will be able to catch a lot more variety of pokemon, a lot more cool battle items 
 and the BEST part is....., u can dress ur pokemon!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet, the new Pokemon i think are a lot better than the new ones introduced into 
 pokemon ruby and sapphire. The gym leaders are the toughest ones yet (according to levels) , and 
 so are the elite four (according to levels) . The new world is great, a lot of area to explore, 
 a lot of new legendary Pokemon, and a lot of side quests to do. the graphics are fairly decent, 
 and the music is spectacular. I also like that you can upload Pokemon from the game boy advance 
 versions onto there, and that they introduced wi-fi. I also like the new Poke balls added to the 
 game, and the fact that you can customize them and make your own. The bad things about the game 
 is, that if you upload Pokemon to this game, that you cannot take them back or you cant upload 
 a Pokemon that has a hm move on them. Also, some of the legends (like arceus, darkrai, and shaymin) 
 can only be caught by either going to a Nintendo event or by hacking into the game. Also, catching 
 some of these legendary Pkemon are either very annoying , or they are very tough to catch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I own each generation of pokemon (red, chrystal, ruby, Fire red, and now Pearl) . I think this one 
 was a let down. Obviously they spent entirely to much time on all the wireless and wifi connection 
 options, which there are a ton of, instead of on the core gameplay. SOME of the graphics were enhanced 
 like the environment. Battle graphics are still 2d and even though they touched up a few things 
 its still as boring as ever visually. The initial pokedex for pearl is 150. Take into account that 
 most of those are repeats and alot of the new ones come with mulitple forms and you only get left 
 with a handful of actually new pokemon. Some of them are very kool and others are incredibly lame. 
 The game has an awesome new minigame/mode now called The Underground Its a system of tunnel under 
 the whole continent and you can go down there alone or with other people wirelessly (not over wifi/internet) . 
 You get to make a secret base down there and dig for treasures and items. Digging is alot of fun. 
 However i think rest of the game is pretty boring and difficult. The pokemon in the wild and on 
 trainers is really limited, which is stupid since there are over 480+ pokemon now. They make you 
 fill out your pokedex which involves beating the game and hunting down legendaries before you can 
 transfer pokemon from GBA pokemon games, which is stupid if you wanted to use pokemon from those 
 games to beat Pearl. If you had wifi or lots of friends who also owned diamond/pearl it would probably 
 be alot funner but to me it was pretty boring and I actually lost interest in it. I did go back 
 and beat it just so i can move on to other games guilt free though. I dont think im a pokemon fan 
 anymore, the battle system and stat improvement system are just to dumb and boring now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Pokemon game.
  I really could stop there, but I think I should go on considering that this is a review and not 
 a single-sentence opinion.
  So, then, let's get into WHY this is the best Pokemon game.
  This game doesn't start out too different from any other Pokemon title you've played before. You're 
 a ten year old kid living in an out-of-the-way town where life is, frankly, pretty bland. Through 
 a series of events involving a rival with some serious ADHD, and a Professor with a fire, grass, 
 and water pokemon for you to start out with, you become a Pokemon trainer, and your goal is to 
 get as many Pokemon on your Pokedex as possible (wordplay not intended) , and also beat all the 
 gym leaders to get their badges. Neither of those things would be possible, of course, without 
 your trusty Pokemon!
  
  + The new Pokemon are awesome, some of the best old ones make appearances, The combination of 3D 
 and 2D in the graphics makes for an interesting look, the game is loaded with extra content, oozes 
 personality, from the Pokemon themselves to the trainers to a rival character with such a strong 
 case of ADHD that you can't help but love him, multiplayer is fun and easy, the real-time feature 
 makes a great comeback
  - The DS's capabilities could have been made better use of: too many menus are on the top screen, 
 and while the music is memorable and the Pokemon growls are cool, the sound quality is at GBA level 
 on a system that WE KNOW is capable of high quality sound, Re-uses a lot of the content from older 
 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game 3 days after it came out because i preordered it but it took a few days past launch 
 to arrive at my house. I havent really stopped playing this game since. My total play time is well 
 over 60 hours. It takes a long time to beat all the gym leaders and get to the pokemon league, 
 but when you manage to beat the elite four, there are still so many things you can do, especially 
 if you got the national dex. I love the wi-fi on game too. You can trade at a place called the 
 GTS which stand for Global Trading Station ( I think) I don't use it that much considering the crazy 
 offers by some of the people up there. For example someone who is putting up a level 5 weedle will 
 go and ask for a lvl.100 lugia!! I mean come on! most of the people who play emerald dont get the 
 nintendo event to get the pokemon like lugia, ho-oh and deoxys. You can also battle and trade over 
 wi-fi too.
  
  The thing that I think is REALLY cool though, is the fact that you dont even need to buy that headset 
 for the nintendo ds to talk on this game. You can talk into the microphone on the ds, and the other 
 person will hear it through there speakers! Its really a cool thing.
  
  Now the sound is another thing. It's pretty much like the other games so its not that great. I 
 mean considering its coming from a small thing like the DS, it's ok. But it's definitely nothing 
 special.
  
  The graphics on this game are pretty good too. I like the 3-D effect. It makes the waterfalls, 
 hills, and windmills really cool looking. And the area of the screen while playing the game is 
 larger than the others. I know this because I just bought fire red a few days after I bought pearl, 
 and I turned on fire red on the ds, than turned it off. Then I turned on pearl and the screen does 
 indeed shrink when you play the older ones for the GBA. So thats another good thing about this 
 game.
  
  The new pokemon are great too. I think theres around 107 new pokemon. There really cool too, and 
 I like the new legendaries. But once you get the national dex, you can get over 450 pokemon which 
 you probably will never get but if your that dedicated you can probably do it. But be prepared 
 to spend weeks trying.
  
  There are also a array of new moves. One of my favorite new moves are for infernape and possibly 
 some other people, i'm not sure, but its called flare blitz. Its his last move and really strong 
 along with pretty cool looking. When you get further in the game, if your starter pokemon really 
 love you, you can teach it the ultimate move . (MOVE SPOILERS) I only know infernapes (chimchar 
 last form) , and torterras (turtwig last form) ultimate moves. Infernapes is call blast burn. Its 
 just like hyper beam accuracy and power wise, except that its a fire move not normal. And torterras 
 ultimate move is called frenzy plant, which is just like blast burn and hyper beam, except its 
 a grass type move.
  
  I think that this game is definitely the best in the series. I really liked the others because 
 I love the classics but pearl and diamond take pokemon another step up. I still play the others 
 like fire red, and even further back like yellow. But this has been sucking up my time for a long 
 time.
  
  I definitely dont regret buying this game at all, and I recommend this game to any pokemon fan. 
 Oh, and one last thing, the $34.99 price tag for most places is definitely worth the price tag. 
 I think its worth more than that actually. So once again if you like pokemon, you will totally 
 LOVE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE POKEMON... the games that is. But i feel other people dont like it as much as me and to 
 be fair i will review the game for what it is.
  
  Gameplay: The game is the same old song and dance from the previous pokemon games. it has everything 
 the old games had. Evil coporations bent on world destruction, new pokemon to catch, strangely 
 addictive gameplay, and a pretty big sized world. Theres over 100 new pokemon making it well worth 
 a purchase, but if your like me and already love the pokemon games then your probaly already playing 
 it. For those who dont, your going to play a game where you capture cool looking monstors, grind 
 them to high levels by battliing trainers, or wild pokemon, progress the story and be the best 
 pokemon trainer ever. The game uses old school grinding monstors but uses it in a new way. you 
 get to watch your pokemon evolve and that is one of the best parts of it. To watch your little 
 flower turn into a kick @ss pirana plant thing. To progress the story to get better and stronger 
 pokemon is great, the story is pretty forgetable but thats always the case in these games.
  
  Sounds: its sound..... its not bad its not amazing its just good
  
  Replay: Depending on 
 how long it takes you to play through the main quest is how much you'll get. its a blast while 
 it lasts, and can be replayed over and over again depending on how addicted you get.
  
  Graphics: nice 3D enviorments are a great change up from the old stuff we saw way back when. NIce 
 graphics make it look very finished.
  
  Overal: Poke people you got what you wanted, and it couldnt be better for you. If your just coming 
 into this, you may find a addictive game, if you dont like it for whatever reason, then you will 
 never like any other pokemon games ever. one of the best DS games out there, if not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 2, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Diamond and Pearl may not be the greatest game ever made. Actually its far from it but it is a 
 very fun and addictive game. You start as a normal kid who goes out to the lake to meet his rival 
 and then the rivalgets attacked. Thats where you come in kimd of steala pokeball and fight with 
 it. That may seem firmiliar. Actually it is, it is pretty much the begining to R/S/E (Ruby, Saphire, 
 and Emerald) . Anyway the proffesor then gives you the pokeballs and your adventure begins. Well 
 its not revolutionary, it has the same gameplay as the others with some new features. Most notably, 
 the Poketch which is quite a helpful device. They also throw in gender differences, new contest 
 features, and wifi play. If you are a fan of pokemon, this is heaven. If you are nota fan its still 
 a very fun game. Its not the best Pokemon game but I still enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viet_senior
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrific. Diamond and Pearl are the greatest Pokemon games so far. Graphics are better 
 than ever. Contest are very unique but the outfits could use some work. The idea of migrating Pokemon 
 is exellent and it would be so much easier to catch wild Pokemon from either the Honen region and 
 etc. The value was a bit high at most places but the gameplay was alright. Sound was okay but could 
 have been better. It's highly addictive and you learn a lot from it. On average people must play 
 this around 1 to 3 hours a day or higher. Overall it's a great game and people would enjoy it for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Following in the footsteps of its Pok&eacute;-brethren, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl and its sister game 
 (or brother, if you prefer) , Pok&eacute; mon Diamond, have arrived and have already taken the world 
 by storm. It's been quite some time since we last had a brand new adventure to pour hours of our 
 lives into, and the fact that both Diamond and Pearl come fully equipped with all of the standards 
 plus tons of DS extras (complete touch screen compatibility, etc.) just proves that the people 
 at Game Freak really know how to please fans of the now decade old franchise.
  
  Even though both Diamond and Pearl share most things in terms of gameplay and storyline, they do 
 differ in the variety and availability of some of our imaginary Pok&eacute;-friends. Since they 
 are so similar, it should be known that this review would function similarly for both games, but 
 for the sake of argument, I got my hands on the Pearl version for this outing in the new land of 
 Sinnoh.
  
  Starting as most Pok&eacute;-RPGs do, you begin your adventure as a would-be trainer assigned by 
 professor Rowan to scour the countryside and all other regions of Sinnoh in an attempt to fill 
 your Pok&eacute; dex (think of it as a notepad with a brain) with data about all of the pok&eacute; mon 
 there are to be seen. But to help you find pok&eacute; mon to capture/study you obviously need one 
 of your own and are given a choice of three: Chimchar the monkey, Turtwig the turtle and Piplup 
 the penguin.
  
  Your in-game rival (whom you get to name) will pick whichever of the three that yours has a weakness 
 against. For instance, if you choose Turtwig, the grass pok&eacute; mon, your rival will pick Chimchar, 
 a fire type, since flames can easily burn leaves, grass, etc. There are many other pok&eacute; mon 
 types ranging from ice and steel to poison and flying, and it'd be in your best interest to become 
 familiar with all of them if you plan on becoming the next Pok&eacute; mon Master.
  
  One of the biggest aspects of the game apart from the catch 'em all tagline is the battling system, 
 which allows you to not only battle and train against other trainers but also catch new additions 
 to your lineup. Pok&eacute; mon gain EXP and levels through battling, with battles becoming much 
 more difficult as you progress through the game. You will spend about half of your total gameplay 
 time in such battles; so don't feel bad if you don't understand the weakness system at first. Just 
 know that most of the weaknesses are pretty straight forward - water is stronger than fire, since 
 it is used to put them out, and flyers are stronger than bugs since they would rather eat them 
 than play nice, and so on.
  
  Strategy can be taken either simply or complexly in battles. If your pok&eacute; mon is at a far 
 higher level than your opponent, you may only need one strong move like Thundershock or Bubblebeam 
 to take them out. However, gym matches and other boss battles often take numerous rounds to complete, 
 which makes the weakness, immune, etc. qualities have a lot more bearing on the overall game.
 
  
  Gym matches are those that find you challenging the leader of eight gyms (one at a time, of course) 
 in a battle against pok&eacute; mon of their specialty. For instance, Gardenia, the gym leader from 
 Eterna City uses grass pok&eacute; mon, so you would need to plan accordingly and use either flying 
 or fire based attacks. After defeating each gym leader, you earn a badge which not only grants 
 you respect from your in-game peers, but also makes stronger pok&eacute; mon look up to you longer, 
 even as they grow in level.
  
  Another great thing about gym battles is that they seem to offer a much higher reward after completing 
 each round of play. This extra EXP comes in very handy when it comes to evolving your pok&eacute; mon. 
 Similarly to humans, where we are first considered a child and then an adult, so too do pok&eacute; mon 
 grow, only instead of calling them child and adult, they change form completely (IE: Piplup evolves 
 in Prinplup) . Most pok&eacute; mon evolve after reaching a certain level, but some require magical 
 items to do so.
  
  Just like choosing the pok&eacute; mon you currently have on your team, the game offers much more 
 in the way of game customization. Some of this comes in the form of TM's (technical machines) and 
 HM's (hidden machines) that allow you to teach certain techniques to pok&eacute; mon that they otherwise 
 wouldn't learn on their own. Where HM's are more basic moves like Fly (fast transportation from 
 town to town) and Cut (clear paths easily) , the TM's are more specialty techniques like Taunt and 
 Rock Slide. If and when you use these machines is up to you, and this fact alone allows for an 
 almost infinite number of outcomes, depending on the strengths and weaknesses of the ultimate team 
 of six you plan to form.
  
  But if the game were solely about battling, it would be easy to get frustrated by the lack of variety 
 in gameplay. Luckily, there are dozens of side quests at your disposal, most of which concern taking 
 down a certain Team Galactic and stopping their plan of using pok&eacute; mon for their own evil 
 deeds. While some of these quests do still require an occasional battle, there are some aspects 
 that are completely violence free.
  
  For the future fashion-istas out there, there is an extensive dress up aspect of Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl that allows you to literally dress up any number of pok&eacute; mon and enter them in beauty, 
 acting, and coolness contests, among others. Other options for battle-free fun include gardening, 
 mining, cycling and spelunking. These are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to all of the 
 different activities available to you in the land of Sinnoh; I could go on forever describing them 
 all.
  
  But since I don't have forever, I'll go onto what makes this DS version of Pok&eacute; mon so special. 
 The touch screen has been implemented in practically every aspect of the game. During battling, 
 instead of having the bottom of the action cut off by the menu, instead the battles now take place 
 on the top screen with all of the options like Fight and Run now taking up residence on the touch 
 screen. Likewise, when you open your bag of goodies (Pok&eacute; balls, healing potions, TM's, HM's, 
 key items, etc.) , symbols for each category appear on the touch screen which allows for rapid navigation 
 to the exact place you want to go, unlike in other games when accomplishing much of anything seemed 
 to take forever.
  
  Other improvements come in the form of an upgraded Pok&eacute; dex which is now a lot easier to 
 search through, and the fact that the night and day system last seen in Pok&eacute; mon Gold has 
 once again returned. In a nutshell, this means that certain pok&eacute; mon, like Hoot Hoot the 
 owl, are only going to be around at night, with the clock running in real time.
  
  Other differences from past games include an extensive Wi-Fi community that allows you to battle 
 against and trade with friends and strangers from all over the world. Since some Pok&eacute; mon 
 only evolve after being traded to another person, the Wi-Fi world of Pok&eacute; mon Pearl makes 
 completing that section of your Pok&eacute; dex that much easier. If Wi-Fi is something that still 
 eludes you, take solace in the fact that you can also trade between any of your old GBA poke games 
 (Fire Red, Leaf Green, Emerald, etc.) as well, through the GBA slot on your DS.
  
  As for the more technical aspects of the title, the graphics and sound departments both perform 
 superbly. Dialogue in the game is through text bubbles, but the flowing and constantly changing 
 background score makes up for any annoyance that that fact may cause. The sound effects in battle 
 are pretty standard for a handheld title, but are far from a disappointment. Likewise, the graphics 
 are also far from disappointing, and seem to have received one of the biggest upgrades of them 
 all.
  
  Buildings and landscapes are crisp, bright, and colorful, and the angled overhead view offers a 
 unique 3-D environment to players. The pok&eacute; mon themselves are easily identifiable, even 
 when looking at their miniature versions when they are in storage. Now just remembering all of 
 their names becomes the hard part.
  
  All in all, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl doesn't completely revolutionize the Pok&eacute; mon universe; 
 it simply improves on a system that has been proven to work. With thousands and even millions of 
 copies already flying off of store shelves, that much is apparent. Even after beating all eight 
 gym leaders and completing the main storyline, the game never truly ends. With a National Pok&eacute; dex 
 that allows you to document every pok&eacute; mon ever created, you could literally spend a lifetime 
 trying to complete everything, especially if this is your first outing with the franchise.
  
  Overall, Pok&eacute; mon Pearl is another fantastic game that should be in every Pok&eacute;-fan's 
 collection. Be prepared to catch 'em all, because this game will make you want to do just that.
 
  
  Review part of grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pokemonpearl 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 1, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have pokemon diamond and pearl. They are not all that I expected them to be. Their online 
 is weak, the gameplay is the same thing, and there is no real new stuff you see except for a whole 
 new setup of pokemon (which you expected anyways) . Aside from being the same annoying game as the 
 last one, it has its good side. The new online is alright, but it requires a friend code, so you 
 can't just go on and play any random person. Also, its 3D draphics make me somewhat happy. The 
 touch-screen relieves the pain of your fingers that die-hard pokemon fans may have gotten while 
 playing the old ones. Overall, its a fun game to play when you don't have another one to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amansk8_volcom
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  An Awsome game i had to write this late so I can get all the information of it I played blue , 
 red , yellow , silver , gold , crystal , sapphire , ruby , emerald , leafgreen , firered , and 
 the best of all Pearl. I recomend it you will love it. They finnally have cool staters ( a good 
 grass starter for once ) the wifi idea of pokemon awesome but dissapointing due to friend code 
 it still is fun though the bike now can switch gears from fast to EXTREME SPEED and the new legendary 
 cool! ( exept heatran ) . Oh and GTS smart idea an awsome idea actualy. They took advantegeof the 
 touch screen some of the new pokemon are sorta... gay no offense like purugly and glameow and licky 
 licky but some are really cool like  Giritina, mime jr. 
 , Garchomp, gible ,Gabite and much more. well its a good game. The Charector are weird the is ok 
 but the guy blurp mom hteres throw up on the floor. an ugly scarf a gayass hat. I am not gonna even 
 start with the rival. THAT ALL FOLKS
  
  
  By Ayman Shehadeh credit Thanks to the creator of pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillafan868
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Great overall game; the online play is immersive especially with voice chat with friends. Biggest 
 downfall is need of friend codes, but other than that the game has been great and this is by far 
 the best in the hand held RPG series. The music even though recycled still sticks to the original 
 music. Especially with the pokemon sounds, you don't a pokemon that sounds normal in one version 
 and changes in another. The graphics are great, especially because your able to see the buildings 
 in a 3-D kind of view. And when your character is walking the buildings change view a bit so it 
 looks even more natural. The new 107 pokemon just add to the excitement and make it even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat1Joker
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  The game is AWESOME fun... it just seems so repetative too me. Luckily the graphix new moves, and 
 need to come up with new strategies seems to have brought this game into a fave in my heart. Although 
 its great, it still reminds me SO much of the other past games.... but with new engine. on a bright 
 side, when they do that, they are usually (game companys) using it as a beta of sorts and release 
 a remake or new game with an improved version of the improved version.... YAY! Not only that... but 
 the fact that you can import past pokes from cros gens is way too cool. I cant wait to build my 
 dream team and FINALLY go online and battle to Im crowned NUMBER 1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Once again, Gameplay lives up to its predecessors with the same battle system and such... but 
 thats alright! Although if they added more to the battle system, it woulda been much better, but 
 right now, its the same old battles that its predecessors gave us! In battle, you take place in turn 
 based fights as you take turns in attacking.. there is healing too with items, and items can hold 
 items that can change the tide of battle like a sitrus berry, or items that upgrades Fighting attacks 
 like the Fist Plate.. been like that since pokemon Red, Blue, and Yellow! You start out as a Guy (Girl) 
 Watching TV about a red gyarados in a lake.. you just follow your friend to the lake to see if you 
 can find anything similar, then you see two people talking about the lake.. They leave and then they 
 forget their suitcase... you check what it is when suddenly pokemon attack you! you send out a pokemon 
 and fight the pokemon off, then later you get a pokedex and a pokemon (like its always been) . Edit: (Continuation 
 of review) Pokeblocks are now called pieces of bread called Poffins which is odd, but making poffins 
 uses the DS Touch Systems much more efficiently. The Game is harder then Ruby, Sapphire, and (i think) Emerald, but 
 you will get a challenge from this great game. Right now, i clocked in this game over 100 hours since 
 its so addicting, and its so fun catching all these pokemon! I cannot review all of what Pearl has 
 to offer, because i have no wireless router, so i cannot explain how good it is when using Wi-Fi 
 but im sure its good. Whats better about D/P is that you do not need a link cable anymore! Just 
 bring your DS to your friend's house and bam! Battle and Trade as much as you want! Overall: Gameplay 
 is still the same as always, but with a few upgrades and this makes it only slightly better then 
 a few of the games such as Ruby... although i do not know why Game Freak won't let you go back to 
 previous regions! In Gold/Silver you could go back to Kanto! Why not go back to Hoenn?
  
  Graphics: These graphics are a big upgrade since Silver, Gold, and Crystal! Seems like Game Freak blended 
 2D graphics and 3D graphics, and the results came out pretty well! the looks of old looking attacks (like 
 Hyper Beam) look significantly better, and the shape and look of buildings in cities have been upgraded! The 
 Graphics on the looks of pokemon are still quite the same, nevertheless these graphics are quite 
 good! Environments are as good as ever! Sound: Although not a huge update, sound effects from attacks 
 have been slightly upgraded, but what amazes me more is the much more catchy soundtracks! music 
 is enjoyable to listen to, and battle music fits the Battle itself pretty well!
  
  Value: Been playing since Blue version.... been watching the show since i was 5... (I don't watch 
 it much now, but i watch it sometimes including the Show of this game) so basically... I LOVE THIS 
 GAME!!!! Tilt: Pokemon Fans will be delighted by this game, and newcomers beware, you may not like 
 this game... or will you? I highly suggest this awesome game to mostly Turn Based RPG people, and 
 Fans of the Series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  For those, such as myself, who spent countless hours reading strategy guides on best ways to catch 
 Mewtwo and the Elite Four and buying Game Shark to get Mew to have a complete pokedex ; Pokemon 
 Pearl (and Diamond) will be what you love in a game with a DS twist.
  
  Over the years Pokemon has gone from the (somewhat easy) obtainable 151 , to 251, then a harder 
 to get 386 and finally an almost impossible 493 Pokemon collection with different variety of types 
 and moves to make having a perfect team more and more difficult. WIth the new DS installments, 
 the overall story hasn't changed much (guy wants to be pokemon champion, gets badges, beats elite 
 four and champ and then side options after) which to hardcore pokemon fans will run a little dry 
 but still keep them entertained for hours. The story does seems to be a bit longer because of all 
 the running around you have to do in order to get the first few badges. The overall look of the 
 game is spectacular because of the new move looks, pokemon entrances and overall display of the 
 cities and routes. Battling hasn't changed for the most part, but the game has a good variety of 
 Double Pokemon battles and single battles to appease anybody who prefers either. The battle tower 
 used from Saphire and Ruby is a nice touch and the wireless connection makes playing with friends 
 easy. Elite Four seems much harder this time around as is the Champion. If you don't have any friends 
 to play against after the main story is done, it can get boring after a few hours of challenging 
 the battle tower and finding pokemon.
  
  One of the best parts are the numerous Legendary Pokemon that have been added. There's the now 
 traditional exclusive pokemon for each version and then three other in story pokemon. After the 
 elite four and champ is beaten, there are numerous other legendary pokemon that can be caught, 
 though you'd probably have to look online to know exactly how to find them unless you go to every 
 house and every route again.
  
  Though the new addition is amazing and filled with new things that will keep any fan playing for 
 hours on end, it isn't without flaws. Story isn't origional which can be important for people and 
 once your pokemon are high enough levels, battles can get repetative if not playing against a live 
 opponent. You can also probably beat the game by just leveling up your starter pokemon the whole 
 time and using him and your legendary pokemon.
  
  The largest dissapointment is that for those who are looking to get all 493; you'd have to attend 
 a lot of pokemon live events and be fortunate enough to get your hands on special items required 
 to get about six legendary pokemon. You also are required to get many other games such as Pokemon 
 Ranger and the gamecube versions which can get really pricy if you don't already have them. You 
 can still get next to all the pokemon but if you just own either Diamond or Pearl you'll fall about 
 300 pokemon short of a complete pokedex.
  
  Both games are very well done and whether you're a new fan of pokemon or somebody who has been 
 playing since Ash overslept and had to have Pikachu as his starter; you'll find this game a joy 
 to play and a good way to spend countless hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Arguably, there hasn't been as rampant a gaming craze since the early Pokemon days. Selling millions 
 upon millions of copies every release, the Pokemon franchise continues to endure, though its lack 
 of progression makes me wonder how it manages to. Pearl and Diamond does what Pokemon is known 
 for, delivering a solid and original RPG experience (outside of itself, anyways) , but it also lacks 
 a clear direction and becomes bogged down in its repetition.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  If you've played any of the previous Pokemon games, you'll feel right at home. Everything is arranged 
 near exact to the way it was before and the touch screen is a nice incorporation to handling menus. 
 Just to relieve fans who might be getting antsy and ready to pounce on me, the game's formula still 
 holds true. It's still fun and endearing. However, the gameplay really gets struck down with very 
 poor incorporation of the DS's touch screen. The Poketch apps start off as a very promising idea, 
 but the lack of vibrant color on the lower screen and the management of the Poketch really slows 
 down the efficiency of handling menus. Plus it looks very tacky with a giant military-time clock 
 always present on the bottom screen. True, you can change the clock to a different app, but each 
 of them is as equally poor. They're not pretty, they're not helpful, and they just take up space. 
 In battle, the touch screen functions fine, though you can just use the traditional D-pad and A-button 
 to choose your commands, but it's just not well handled. Online gameplay is solid and currently 
 the competition can get very fierce. Friend codes are still annoying, but that is the fault of 
 the DS moreso than Pokemon, so can't really blame it for that. Sadly, the pace of play is slower 
 than Emerald and R/S, which is surprsingly unusual and disappointing. Where the touch screen does 
 get some love, though, is in the series of mini-games you can play using it. Personally, I found 
 them very repetitive and obnoxious, though I can see how some may take a liking. Overall, nothing 
 that was already here before is broken. It's all very familiar from the get-go, but expecting the 
 DS to make Pokemon a much more revolutionary franchise is delusional and illogical. Pokemon is 
 what it is and if you want to jump through hoops to get all your previously owned Pokemon into 
 the newest version so that you can Catch em all , you're going to have a blast. Still, it's starting 
 to waltz the line between familiarity and total rehash.
  
  OVERALL...........7.5/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The top-down approach works very well yet again and though everything is rendered 
 to look 3-D, it still feels as 2-D as it always has. Now, this is probably a good thing, seeing 
 that the Sinnoh region wouldn't quite be the same if you had to fully interact in a three dimensional 
 world and the DS just isn't suited for that type of processing. The Pokemon, though there are a 
 few that seem very, very irrelevant and useless, are well drawn and well depicted, including every 
 move that is cinematically brought to life. It's a great looking game as far as the Pokemon standards 
 go, but not something you'll be gaping in awe at.
  
  OVERALL............7.5/10
  
  SOUND
  
  If anything is awkward with the Pokemon franchise, it has to be a few of the sound 
 effects. They're still the same, which is where I find myself to be very critical. I suppose I 
 understand the technical limitations and burdens Nintendo is under with the SD format and the DS, 
 but blackboard-scratching shrieks from worm-like creatures makes you want to tear your hair out. 
 The MIDI soundtrack is alright. Doesn't get you very excited, but doesn't make you want to flick 
 the volume off. All in all, it's okay and could, if Nintendo is willing, see a substantial amount 
 of attention in the future.
  
  OVERALL.........7/10
  
  VALUE
  
  Now, this is where Pokemon gets good. With a brobdingnagian list of Pokemon to choose from, you 
 can go hours on end solely try to fill out the Pokedex. Or, if collecting isn't your thing, you 
 can go about battling other trainers. If you don't like that, go participate in a contest or two. 
 Sick of that? Well wander into some union rooms and chat it up with other Pokemon users. The list 
 goes on and on and the amount of content and things to do in the Pokemon world has become so vast 
 that even though many are tedious, it definitely appeals to a large number of people. Anybody can 
 find something they like in Pokemon and the DS brings all those features and all that content straight 
 to the forefront and makes it priority number one. If you wanted to, you could spend as much time 
 on Diamond and Pearl as you've spent on Elder Scrolls Oblivion. I was going to say World of Warcraft, 
 but reason got the better of me. OVERALL..........9.5/10
  
  TILT
  
  Granted Pokemon is on the decline from its glory years, it still stands as a very powerful franchise 
 and the most prominent in the handheld realm. It's still addictive and still wildly entertaining, 
 but coupled with a burdening stylus, a slower pace, many useless and tacky features, and the overall 
 experience is a mixed bag. Adding Online is a welcome adoption as well as Global Trades, but it's 
 arrangement and execution hits a sour note when struck. The formula works, but it's just that some 
 of us want more than just the formula and the proposed features are novel ideas, they just don't 
 execture properly, which is a shame since they initially have the potential to really shine. Diamond/Pearl 
 are monuments to the once glorious legacy to what Pokemon was and has hints of that greatness in 
 it, but like Nintendo stresses, innovation is what is important. Sadly, Pokemon is a hypocritical 
 notion to Nintendo's philosophy.
  
  OVERALL.......7/10
  
  You're certain to have a good time with Pokemon, but it's not the kind of game that will floor 
 you. Everything you expect is going to be there, but hoping to find something new in Diamond/Pearl 
 as far as useful features and novel ideas go, you'll be sorely disappointed. It's a great addition 
 to the Pokemon formula, but formulas can only keep one entertained and enthralled for so long before 
 the formula becomes a chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sehperioth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Just got this game 2 days ago and cant keep my hands off of it. usually when i play a game like 
 this i can get tired easily but when i play this game i can stop thinking about it. even at school 
 when i am sitting here writing this i cant wait to get on the bus to play, thats how addictive 
 it is. when i first got it i was amazed by the new graphics. even though its a new game the sound 
 kinda sounds the same as like ruby or sapphire. The game itself is pretty long i say about 30-40 
 hours, even though i have'nt fully completed it yet, but all together it is a really good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  ok, so i was getting this game hoping that there was going to some new things in the game, i was 
 partly wrong. ok, when pokemon red and blue came out, it was awesome because pokemon games were 
 like top peak for the original game boy... here we are 5 SYSTEMS LATER, ITS STILL THE SAME THING!!! 
 you would think that at least if your attacking, it could at least perform the attack, not just 
 the picture moves towards the other pokemon and a little picture appears, this is the nintendo 
 DS, i know its not alot, but lets make some inprovements from the game boy...3D adds a cool feature, 
 i like how they use the touch screen. I think its just that the makers have gotten lazy... make 
 a better game... if they make another game like this... i wont be buying it... at least make it a 
 little more animated i mean come on. Also... why are they still repeating sounds, you can tell there 
 from the old games, so get some new noises, its not that hard. all in all, it was ok, and as always, 
 there is great replay value in ALL of these games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Keeps the same, great, classic material that the previous Pokemon games have had, improved 
 visuals, some new features including Wi-Fi enabled online play against other people, and touch 
 screen controls, and some new interesting Pokmeon and a new exciting region to travel through. 
 The Bad: Some things could have been a bit more improved, not that many new features to enjoy, 
 and touch-screen controls are hardly used.
  
  Two more versions of the classic Pokemon RPG series were just released -- Diamond and Pearl. And 
 they are just as amazing (actually, even a bit more amazing) that the previous Pokemon games. All 
 Pokemon games are simply masterpieces, and, and Diamond and Pearl improve, though not greatly, 
 on an already extraordinary formula. When playing Diamond or Pearl, the first thing you will probably 
 notice is the graphical improvements (Some better, refined colors and effects, and a bit of 3-D 
 is thrown in as well) . So, the visuals are great, and are probably the best-looking out of all 
 the previous Pokemon games. Unfortunately, the graphics seem to be the only major improvement. 
 Everything else is pretty much the same (regardless of the new region or Pokemon) . But, in my opinion, 
 I thought that nothing really needed to be improved -- Diamond and Pearl are based on the same amazing 
 formula that we've seen in previous Pokemon games over the years, and I think that it is a formula 
 that does not need to be improved -- it's just excellent. What I'm trying to say is the fact that 
 there was not much improvement in many ways at all is an extremely minor, unimportant issue. The 
 formula never gets old. That's why I think that its a good thing that Diamond or Pearl do not have 
 that many improvements. In my opinion, Diamond and Pearl are as good as it gets, and this means 
 that they are arguably the best in the entire series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion_blaze
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I read ironsolomon's review and i am sorry but i would not recommend that review for anyone. he 
 keeps saying that nintendo had the market for red and blue and then went down hill. i have to disagree 
 with that. if you think that the new pokemon pearl and diamond games are worse then pokemon red 
 and blue then you have some serious thinking to do. ironsolomon is probably a kid who cant beat 
 the pokemon games because he doesnt want to try or something. i hate people like that. just because 
 they beat a game they say they hate, its to hard, and its the stupidest game made. a gamer is someone 
 who can withstand alot of pain and suffering of a long speech and then beat the game after that.
 
  
  Now that i am done with that.. on with the review.
  
  This game is the best of the series as alot of people have said. i have to agree. great storyline 
 great sound, graphics are nice and tidy, value is great becasue you still have to get all those 
 pokemon, i still dont know what tilt means so i give all games a 10 tilt... breaking down time:
 
  
  graphics: great graphics if you think about it. this is a handheld game system that has a 3rd person 
 look to it not a next generation game system.
  
  gameplay: i admit that begining is always the same but how else would you start a game like this? 
 you want to know everything first instead of unraveling the story which is not what pokemon is 
 made for.
  
  sound: great sound, makes you feel right at home and you can actually connect with the game because 
 the music suits that part of game you are in.
  
   i think it means camera angle so ya its perfect.... it 
 doesnt change much but that would be awkward. a first person pokemon game? that something to aim 
 for.
  
  value: you still have to catch pokemon but this time there is over 480 pokemon which will take 
 you forever but it will be a bit easier thanks to wifi. but then again who will trade you a rare 
 pokemon to you for a crappy lvl 5? but there some japanese people who want their pokemon to have 
 english naems so they will trade for no reason at all.... use that to your advantage...
  
  so overall this game surpasses all other pokemongames by a freaking landslide. buy it, beat, {well 
 try to} review it, recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Wow~
  
  I never expected Pokemon Pearl/Diamond to be so good!
  
  New Pokemon, and new gameplay! Wi-Fi!!! Go underground in secret base and set up traps! My friend 
 set up a trap for his sister, told her to go to it and she listend &gt;.&lt; lol.
  
  But anyways, it's longer than other Pokemon games, and the Elite Four is much easier, for some 
 reason, or maybe I just have the handicapped version of Pokemon Pearl/Diamond (o. O) . But anyways, 
 a GREAT game. I love it. It's one of my favorite games of all time, so I highly reccomend anyone 
 buying this game, even if you dislike Pokemon, it's a classic RPG that shouldn't be left at the 
 store.
  
  Warning: The game won't depreciate in value: EVER! ^.^ You really might as well buy it new since 
 it's going to be $35 'till the end of time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 092093
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is as good as ever and if you'd ever played a Poke; mon game you know what 
 I'm talking about. Includes all main poinnts from older version including badges, legends, and 
 an opposing team that slow your process of becoming Poke'champ. There is I think about 100 new 
 pokemon which is obviously greaat. I haven't had the chance to play wi-fi yet but I assume it is 
 wonderfully fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, in my opinion are the best of not only handheld pokemon games but also of 
 any DS game to date. Reason being the brilliant color and a nice 3-D effect wit the building you 
 walk by.
  
  Sound: I'm I can't really comment about the sound because when I play I am usually in our living 
 romm and the obnoxious beeping really irratates my family. lol.
  
  Value: This game never feels cheap!!! It is of the highest quality out of all 5 of my DS games 
 including Mario Hoops 3-on-3, Pokemon Ranger, Legend of Spyro a new beginning, and New Super Mario 
 Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commachoice
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  ~As a note, I am totally biased by my Pokefanism, but also bound by my strong sense of constructiveness 
 to give this a good review, so it will probably be a clearly biased review, trying to hide its 
 biasedness behind 10 crystal-clear figurative windows. Thank you.~
  
  Game Freak claimed for this game to be the Ultimate Pokemon. Ultimate Gems, Ultimate Communication 
 with the entire world wide. Ultimate Pokemon games. I'm not so sure... but while I couldn't call 
 it that, it's pretty frickin' good! So, on that note, let me be ironic and start with the bad.
 
  THE BAD*gasp*:
  1) It sounds like promotions could still be a pain in the a**. Without the E-Reader, the possibility 
 of recieving the promotions through mags is almost impossible. And I'm not traveling to NY to get 
 frickin Darkrai. Maybe they'll have EB set up a one-day Halloween download booth or something 0_o.
 
  2) Its a step closer, but my dreams of an RTS 3-D Pokemon have still not been fulfilled. 3) The 
 music has gotten a step too complex, to where I just have to sit there listening to the muisc to 
 take it all in. (both good and bad)
  4) There are a lot of new Pokemon, but a lot of them are evolutions. Some of those that aren't 
 have already had their species used before.
  5) You need to see 150 Pokemon to upload ur R/S/E/FR/LG teams.
  6) Cave battle rates are still 
 extremely annoying.
  7) I often feel very lost, like I might've missed something, a feeling I've really never felt from 
 Pokemon before.
  THE GOOD*eats yogurt*:
  1) The new region is very large and complex, for many playing hours.
  2) They did a great job 
 of making team Galactic look gay.
  3) The underground adds hours of extra fun.
  4) There's lots of new type combos and moves.
  5) There's a monkey.... on fire...
  6) The touch 
 screen is integrated excellently.
  7) The music is very orchestral and deep now.
  8) They kept everyones favorite save-ping, allowing you to turn off your game without even sparing 
 a passing glance.
  
  So it isn't ultimate. It made me very satisfied, let's just hope it satisfies me for the 2 years 
 till the next comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroXraven
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok so yeah this game is alot like the old games, even at first glance but it's not. There is a 
 ton of multiplayer, Ton of pokemon, and a new addition wich is the 3D. The 3D environments make 
 u feel like ur truly playing a next Gen. game in my opinion. The last Pokemon game I owned was 
 Silver and It used to be my favorite game of all time but after all these years of not even caring 
 if another pokemon game came out I finally have found a DS game that will last a half year atleast. 
 When I first preordered it I was so excited..... Mainly because I didn't read a thing about it and 
 it is a way of making me supprised when I play something and I defintley was.... Everything that 
 was in Silver is here and even more.... I know this is not much of a review and I am bored of typing... I 
 wanna play it right now haha so seeya guyz... Oh yeah BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jloaded55
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  There are some series you grow up on, transformers, power rangers, teenage mutant ninja turtles, 
 and then there are some series that you yourself lived for. And one of those is Pokemon.
  
  Know I myself loved the series, cards, games, religiously unfortunately around the time high school 
 hit i fell out of it pretty quick. But as my friends aged and learned how to appreciate a game 
 for its quality and not for it's pretty colors, we decided to give the new edition of pokemon a 
 shot.
  
  And I love it. It's absolutley mind boggling how they fit all that stuff into a tiny card. There 
 is an abundance of pokemon to catch and trainers to be fought, and even when you think WOW I JUST 
 COMPLETED THE POKEDEX there is still a whole other one for you to complete. The core gameplay, 
 although not much different from red/blue is incredibly solid and addictive.
  
  Now the graphics in this installment is what is interesting every building is a 3d model but it 
 seems as though it's straight from a snes game. I think it's amazing how they could stay so close 
 to that retro feel while still moving to 3d.
  
  The sounds.... not as hot, they are what you would expect. Squeeqy and sometimes annoying but not 
 to say there isn't a tune you will be humming for weeks on end.
  
  value 44.99 (canadian) = 100 hours of gameplay (for completionists)
  
  And tilt ill just give 
 a 9 because i love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jose619
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I go to EB Games to get this sexy game and I got it. As soon as I started playing... OMG!!!!!!!! 
 this game is sooooo damn awsome. Nothing beats it. The gameplay is awsome although the touchscreen 
 isn't used much. But it still rocks. Pokemon animations, new moves storyline. The Underground with 
 the digging fossil and bases. its all soo much and so fun. it feels great to start over a new world. 
 Of course this pokemon game is just so nice because of wi-fi. This will be uber pwnage for all 
 the noobs out in the world. lol other than that diamond is a nice game. awsome addition and can't 
 wait to see if they try and remake a new pokemon game for the ds series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  By far the best Pokemon game I've played, the game brings new life into the vast world of Pokemon. 
 In this game, you play a young girl or boy who has begun an amazing adventure: their goal is to 
 catch all 493 Pokemon. The new starters are Turtwig, a leaf turtle, Chimchar, a fire monkey, and 
 Piplup, an adorable penguin. From the moment you meet your new poke-pal, you begin an adventure 
 like no other. All the landscaping has been done in glorious 3-D, a feature I've been awaiting 
 in Pokemon games since Emerald's release. The new legendary Pokemon, the space god Palkia, (Diamond 
 gets a time god, Dialga) are beautiful, powerful and most of all, difficult to capture. But one 
 Pokemon so far has been a helpful ass-kicker on my team: Lucario. Lucario is a jackal-like Pokemon 
 with amazing fighting abilities, and its trademark move, Aura Sphere, is one of the strongest moves 
 in-game. Plus, there are more TMs than you can throw a Sudowoodo at. This game is worthy for anybody 
 to play, especially us Pokemon Masters who've loved Pokemon since `98. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game to the point that im actually playing it. By that i mean im actually playing pokemon 
 and im 16!!! This game has almost everything, good rpg battling, new and exiting pokemon world, 
 new pokemon, and new cool techniques. What more can you want. The graphics are ok but not much 
 has changed. The difference now is that the buildings are 3D. The sound is good but it could of 
 been better in my opinion. No more using cables to trade with you friends or battle with them so 
 im really happy about that. Im not yet done the game but i could tell you right now that i am having 
 a blast and i hope it stays that way (im sure it will) . A must have game for the DS and also one 
 of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aman27deep
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is a great game. Unbelievable Graphics, Cool music, and it has Every thing a Pokemon 
 game should have. It brings the old functions of Pokemon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald and combines them 
 to one great game.
  The graphics look way to better then the GBA games, it gives a 3Dish feel to the game. Still some 
 of it is 2Dish. Nintendo makes great use of the NDS touchscreen. You can use it for the poketch, 
 a pokemon watch. It's used to contol battles and contests.
  The game also has a Brother Game, Pokemon Diamond (i have also written a review for it) . The games 
 bring 107 new pokemon so it adds up to 493. Three Cool starters are also there. Turtwig, Chimchar 
 and Piplup are one of the Best starters of all time. The last pokemon of PokeDex in this Game, 
 Arserus can be converted to any type. The Day/Night from GSC returns. Like Pokemon Crystal, Some 
 Pokemon only appear on certain times or certain days. This is cool because it's more realistic 
 then ever. The Sinnoh region looks great. There are also many types of Wheather in this game, like 
 Somewhere it will snow and somewhere it will rain (like Pokemon Emerald) . There is a mountain in 
 the center of Sinnoh called Mt. Coronet, here you'll be able to catch Palkia the legendary pokemon 
 from Pokemon Pearl.
  There is also an underground section which let's you build your own secret base and play games 
 over DS wireless.
  Also new is the Wi-Fi connection where you can connect with friends all over the world. You can 
 also trade and Battle with them .
  
  So i think that Pokemon Pearl is the Best Pokemon game ever. it looks good, the music's good, the 
 game is The Best Pokemon Game Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblazinballax
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game really fine tunes the whole pokemon experience. it just makes everything old and new 
 feel awesome. like how they implement tha touch screen well so that battles tend to go by much 
 faster, since ur only tappin on screen demands. all the new pokemon fit in well with the old roster, 
 the graphics are clean and have a nice 3d look to em, and after all these years...... ITS STILL 
 FUN!! definitley a DS must have
  
  plus its awesome for those of us that have emerald and leaf green and those otha gba games to be 
 able to trade our pokemon from thea with no mess!! haha, gotta love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha262
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I started playing pokemon when it first came out with red and blue. I continued playing all the 
 way up to gold/silver/crystal, then pokemon just vanished from my memory, and i forgot all about 
 it. Then one day I read about Diamond and Pearl, and it seemed intresting to me, so i decided to 
 preorder, and i pondered on why i ever stopped playing pokemon. Gameplay: Still same old pokemon 
 formula, that still stands tall to this day. Works great, almost flawless, but has its bugs and 
 anoynces here and there. Nice touch with the Wi-Fi additions to the series. Now its even easier (and 
 also harder at the same time) to catch em all. Graphics: Characters and battle animations look 
 the same as in Emerald basicaly, with some touch ups here and there, but the enviorment, and battle 
 attacks look nice and updated. The buildings are in 3d and look uber coolio! :P Nice and crisp 
 colors throughout, so the game is easy on the eyes.
  
  Sound: A lot of it is recycled from other games in the series, with a kind of remix to them, and 
 the new tracks are pretty catchy. So the music is fairly nice to listen too, would have liked to 
 see more new tracks though.
  
  Value: Games major shining point, is the value. I have only about 16 hours in the game so far, 
 and ive only got 3 of the 8 badges, and havnt realy scratched the surface of this hugh game yet! 
 Trust me guys its a big long game, that dosnt get old though, if your looking for a game to last, 
 this is it!
  
  Tilt: What can I say, I love this game so far! I'm so addicted, its becoming a problem with my 
 health, lol! All in all, this game makes for a great RPG expierence with tons of stuff do do and 
 even more monsters to catch and train. If youve been a fan of the series, this wont dissapoint, 
 and if you've never played, or havn't in a while, now is the perfect time to pick up and start! (im 
 not finished with this game yet, so ill be back to edit my ratings, but for the most part, i think 
 i got a good impression on what the games total rating will be: 8.5!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaskD
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Diamond and Pearl are the newest installments in my all-time favorite video-game franchise Pokemon. 
 Diamond and Pearl include the traditional and addciting formula of Pokemon along with some changes. 
 There are 107 brand new Pokemon for more customization, contests that are very improved over Generation 
 3's with 2 new rounds that use the DS touch screen, the return of the Day and Night feature from 
 Generation 2 where certain events and Pokemon only occure during certain times making it feel more 
 realistic, awsome stage designs. To make things even better, later in the game you can transfer 
 your hard trained Pokemon from Ruby, Saphire, Fire Red, Leaf Green, and Emerald into your Diamond 
 and Pearl. The best part is that this is also the first Pokemon games to use Nintendo Wi-fi connection. 
 While online you can trade Pokemon and battle Pokemon with a friend, try to take on high scores 
 in this area called the Battle Tower, and chat with friends. You can also store up to 32 friend 
 codes. Be warned that there may be some issues getting online due to the games popularity (just 
 like with MKDS) . Battles also contain a new rule. Physical and Special attacks are now determined 
 on what the attack really is instead of type. While this may not sound like much it actually is 
 a major change for battle. If you're a die-hard Pokemon fan like myself, want to get into Pokemon, 
 or getting back into Pokemon after giving it up sometime ago I strongly recommending getting Diamond 
 or Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aBathingApe_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. I must say, a 3-D Pok&eacute; mon adventure had me excited like a school boy in the 
 girls locker room, but it lived up to all my expectations and more. It makes valliant use of the 
 touch screen in great ways, moreso with the Pok&eacute; tech than anything else. I've gotten one 
 badge and am just training up for the second and man oh man, I can already tell that it is great. 
 I can't wait to go throughout the game and find all the little ins and outs; because there are 
 ins and outs. Various great additions to the already perfect formula. I recommend Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl to ANY casual gamer, because it is just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaggotBroc
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  We all know the pokemon gameboy games use the same thing over and over... thats not what botherd 
 me... its the selection of pokemon.... the first part of the game its the same pokemon over and over 
 maybe 3 or 4 new ones by the 4th badge... on the other one's you had a massive selection of what 
 party you wanted to form... like most ppl you grab the coolest and strongest... in this case... you 
 and your friends normaly have the same pokemon with 1 or 2 different ones..... theres barly any 
 fire pokemon till the end of the game... with the acception of ponyta.... which is one of the worse 
 fire pokemon the game has shown so far.... I've beaten most of it my first day playing... the story 
 was good the graphics were nice (specialy cause DS dosnt run to many games that worked as smooth 
 as this one did) im not saying this game isnt worth buying im just saying it could have been so 
 much better. (yes I do know about pal park... but thats toward the end.... and then your just tired 
 of seeing the same thing every time your see a wild pokemon) ( I can only stand seeing starly and 
 its evolutions so much) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foonugget
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Amazing. Incredble. Just a few words to discribe how im felling about this game. Truley remarkable. 
 Who wouldve thought that after 150 there are now far over 300 pokemon. The graphics are just what 
 are to be expected. Some art is a little shady but that can be delt with by the amazing outside 
 ( morning, afternoon, dusk, night) scenes. I was a little worried about this game but my fears 
 have been put aside.
  
  The only things that i think are a little shady are the massive amounts of pokemon and your rival. 
 There is now some 450 pokemon. That may just be a little to much. And the rival could use a little 
 Ridilan please bahahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0ntagi0us
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Handheld Pokemon game since Blue/Red/Yellow hands down. Heck, might even be the 
 best handheld game since then if you are a pokemaniac. Everything has been redone, revitalized, 
 and rewired into a pokemon game that just like the first pokemon games but updated to perfection 
 on almost every level. This is a pokemon game that works, period.
  
  Biggest New Thing : Poketch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilg911911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  All pokemon games have been great but now pearl/diamond come out. These games are amazing I have 
 pearl and I am so impressed. There is so much to talk about, there are new 3d graphics, great animations 
 and longer, much longer. Previous pokemon games could be beaten in 7 hours, this time the game is 
 longer. There is also a new nation named SHINNOH. You get a pokewatch wich is fun. It is more like 
 fire red than saphire. There are contests, online and much more features. I can't say all of them 
 there are so many. Rent or buy the game to find out all the features. The game starts slow and boring 
 but when you get your first badge it starts to get good. When you finish the storyline, the game 
 is still not over. You can collect legendary pokemon, train your pokemon, find secrets and play 
 online, all these fun features make this game easily one of the best pokemon games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlmoore
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Ok this is totally just a 9 outta 10. The only thing about it that I don't like so far is the little 
 notepad app, 'cause it erases quickly. THAT'S IT THOUGH! It's really fun and the DS pimps up the 
 whole fighting thing. I'm not a gek, dweeb, nerd, or have ever been close to it, but this might 
 be a game that I can understand obsessing over. It was easy to understand as usual and included 
 the same enemy= your best friend deal which, all right, did bring down the score to me. If you 
 got 50.00 spending money this month, and a DS, I suggest you take a look at this game. Be careful, 
 it may not be there because of them damn nerds taking all the Pearl and Diamonds. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the current DS killer app. The battle scenes are improved from previous games, 
 and the graphics are truly amazing, and show what the DS is capable of. The battle scenes may be 
 a little slower, and little tidbits of lag are present in the game, but it doesn't bother me, it 
 just let's me sit there and appreciate this game that much more. I have played and owned all of 
 the previous Pokemon games, and this looks like it is coming close to the originals in quality, 
 as it is currently the best selling Pokemon game ever to be sold in Japan. Diamond and Pearl are 
 true upgrades to the series and shall be cherished. I highly recommend this game to people of all 
 ages and previous fans of the series.
  
  Verdict: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggywade
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Another cut and past pokemon game for the most part. I had such high hopes for this installment 
 too! I really dont see much new with this installment. Sure they have lots of new pokemon but that 
 doesn't impress me. It shouldn't impress anyone for that matter. There are a couple of them that 
 are cool sure, but most of them are just absurd looking (what is up with Infernape) . Every installment 
 the Pokemon look less and less like Pokemon and more like strange alien creatures.
  
  What is with the sound, BLEH! Horrible and I mean horrible. The graphics are 3d now which is nice 
 but they really could've cleaned it up. The gameplay and interface are only slightly upgraded, 
 obviosly not taking full adantage of the hardware the DS is packing! I am a firm believer in graphics 
 do not make a game, but come on, this is just as pixelated as any other pokemon game. The battle 
 system, yet another cut and past aspect of previous pokemon installments. They just stand motionless 
 and silly graphics come up to represent attacks.... this is what we've been waiting for on the DS? 
 THIS is the first Pokemon on the DS?? We cant even get pokemon actually moving for their attacks, 
 not even a facial expression change when they get hit with an attack?
  
  I'm tired of the people at Game Freak destroying this franchise when it has so much potential, 
 UNTAPPED potential. When did gamers get happy with this kind of sequel? We owe it to ourselves 
 as Pokemon fans to let GameFreak know that this is not gonna fly, let them know we want some innovation, 
 some style, some... creativity!
  
  I dunno what 'super' version of the game the rest of you got but could you let me know where I 
 can get it? Because the version I'm seeing is well.... Uninspired, Overrated, Disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljio14
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  its the most anticipated game for the ds since its news of development. it taks the ds handheld 
 to a whole new level and pushes the ds to its limits. This going to be the greatest game since 
 grand theft auto or bioshock. I expect it to be the greatest hit on the ds system and the best 
 seller. This is the first time since the original R/B/Y games that I've had the desire to catch 
 'em all... Wireless trading will greatly help those of us who couldn't trade before. I picked up 
 both versions and I've already traded with myself to get all the starters for both games. this 
 is a realy great game wifi new pokemons good gameplay and it`s not to long but also not to long 
 perfect relatively. only thing I change is grafics good but not perfec an in a summary is a must 
 buy even if you think you are too grown for pokemon you are wrong maybe to watch pokemon cartoons 
 you are too old but never for tha game is a great experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best Pokemon game since the series has started it is so good. They finally 
 came into 3-D and it looks good on the Nintendo DS i highly good acheivment I think. Also the gameplay 
 is fun i have put it down since midnight. Also this gmae is fun for all ages you can be young or 
 old and still injoy the game. The WI-FI in the game is also nicely used I like how you can trade 
 your pokemon with people all over the world. Also you can battle with them two. The best part of 
 the game is that you can play for hours and still have things to do that is why a give this game 
 a 10.0 out of10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  After Spin off Pokemon games galore on the nintendo ds Pokemon Dash, Mystery dungeon, Ranger, and 
 Trozei. The DS has finally gotten the Real deal Pokemon Game Pokemon Diamond And Pearl. I have 
 Pearl my brother has Diamond so thats why this is on the less Popular Pearl. This game basically 
 is like all the other pokemon games with tons of added and DS twist. This game starts as a red 
 Garyados i seen and you take a look then you pick a starter and then the journey begins. Much like 
 any other pokemon game you deal with a lot of the same stuff. But really that is not bad. The story 
 works and has been working so why fix it? now its team galactic who is the Antagonist. The game 
 has some new stuff such as new Pokemon, Different battle system, Physical and Special attack, Pokeball 
 maker, New contest stuff, and much more. The battle system is different where you have the action 
 on the top screen and the bottom screen is where you pick your move or what you want to do. it 
 works really well and it honestly it works better then any other Pokemon Game before it. the buttons 
 are huge so if you lost your stylist its thumb strap friendly! This game also has a very long story 
 like all the other pokemon games. it will take you about 40 hours give or take how much you want 
 to explore and level up your Pokemon. And even when your done the elite Four its a whole lot more 
 to do in the game. New areas whole new dex with even more New pokemon. Plus you can also transfer 
 your old pokemon to your new game via Park Pal. they keep everything (trainer name number level 
 color nickname hold item etc) and the park pal is impossible to not catch even if you transfer 
 a Pokemon like Mew or Deoxys. It also has a underground feature where you can dig for items, Make 
 secret bases, collect fossils and much more. its just another thing that make this game super sweet
 
  
  Overall this game is a lot like the other games but all the other games are so good and work so 
 well that you don't wan to change it if its not broken don't fix it and pokemon still feels refreshing 
 with the new regions pokemon etc.. so pick this game up ASAP!
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: It works flawlessly just like every other pokemon game before it its so fun even after 
 so many years
  Graphics: This game feels like a pokemon game and does not try to do so much graphically it does 
 not need to 3-d world makes the game feel right for the system its main point was to make a good 
 game not a good looking game its all about gameplay and fun
  Sound: Great music like any other pokemon game and the tunes are so catchy you'll start to hum 
 some of them by accident
  Value: This game can hold you for a very long trip and so long after. Prob. could spend 100 plus 
 hours on this easy
  Overall: this game fits all my needs on my Favorite system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krypto74
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Music, graphics, faux 3-D feel, 100 awesomely cute new pokemon. And a cameo in the start of 
 the game that will make you GSC fans laugh with joy.
  
  Con: Raised the price of the old GBA games I haven't got. The girl gets the better looking pack, 
 but a stupid looking head sock thingy. Stay near the power supply. Throwing pokeballs is a bit 
 more work. and I'm not sure how to change the height and weight. I'm not 4 foot 8 in and 87 pounds... 
 haven't been since the 70s. Wow. As an old fan, and I do mean that literally, I can honestly say 
 that I've been waiting for my Pokemon to be upgraded for years, and finally I can say Satisfying. 
 The music is worthy of leaving the DS on and running while you type about how cool you are to have 
 caught over 14 pokemon in the first day. The graphics are upgraded to show off all the capabilities 
 of the DS, and it keeps time when you explore so you know how long you've been addicted. The new 
 Poketch (Pocket monster watch) is a perfect use of the lower touch screen with Real time, a calculator, 
 visual status of your party monsters, a pedometer (no more aimless circling the trees on the bike 
 untill the egg hatches, reset the pedometer and play!) The Gym Leaders are colorful, the bad guys 
 are bad, the pokemon are new and improved. Everything is skittles and beer, as my grandpa says.
 
  
  But...7 hours of game time on the clock and here's a few nits I'd like to pick.
  
  The pokedex has a height and weight comparison chart... but I can't figure out how to customize 
 it. Capturing pokeon is a procedure involving 4 stylus inputs, that's a lot to do. Remember when 
 webmasters said no more than 3 links deep? Well, even though I like all the info and the space 
 and all, 4 clicks is a long process. Click to open the bag, click to choose the pokeball pocket, 
 click to choose which pokeball, (I like the heal balls and the premier balls open up cool) then 
 it tells you about the ball, and you click to use it. A lot to do in the heat of a battle. Did 
 I mention 7 hours in? My DS is hot and my red light has come on 3 times for recharge. LOL, this 
 thing uses more juice than any other game I've played except possibly a wi-fi Starfox meelee. I 
 can't wait to see how fast it runs out of juice when I use the wi-fi. Oy! It is very addictive, 
 I love the flower city french style tune, and it's very pleasing to the senses. This is the Pokemon 
 game I have been hoping for... At least until they decide to go MMORPG with the next one. And God 
 I hope they do. Ooh ooh, 15 now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameman66
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  well, i rated it at 9.8, but i prefer to put it up. i w8ed outside Game Crazy for 20 min, and i 
 was 1st in line, so i just had to get it and the stylus. and, it is the best in the series. if u 
 chose the Fire starter pokemon (chimchar) , then u need to get him to lvl 14 b4 the first Gym, but 
 its smooth sailin from there on out. i found out that he actually evolves at lvl 14, and im just 
 thinkin 2 more lvls then he evolves. i face the boss, and whoop him. then comes the grass leader... 
 EASIEST... LEADER... EVER!!!! And it just keeps gettin more fun, so just get the game if u r deciding 
 on Pearl, Diamond, or to w8 for somethin else to come along. go with Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiener1234
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  i just got it today at 8 in the morning and i already have 4 hours on it. Im not even at the second 
 gym yet its so much going on and the funnest game very addicting. It stays true to the pokemon 
 series. Also the WI-Fi is great i already did it with my cuzin wen i was still lvl 5. The value 
 of the geame is great and it should take alot longer theen the others. The one thing im w8ing for 
 is the transfer of my fire red pokemon too it then ill be unstoppable!!!!! hi how are you i need 
 to wriet random stuff to have a review so i like pokemon and hte new pokemon are great very true 
 very true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrunner89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing the graphics are fantastic. The new Pokemon are alot better than the new ones 
 that were introduced in R/S/E. They are far more original in this generation. The new things that 
 have introduced into are help alot, like the poketech, this has many figures to it. One of the 
 most helpful figures that it has is the ability to show you your pokemon that are in the breeding 
 center, and there levels so its no longer a guessing game. It has a step counter and many other 
 useful figures. I could go on forever about how great this game is but you should just get one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  1. Much easier way to surf through menus
  2. New region, more pokemon.
  3. More exitement to the whole series
  4. The Wi-Fi feature
  5. Mass amount of legends to capture.
 
  6. New GBA &gt; DS feature that lets you transfer hard trained gba pkmn to your D/P.
  
  Cons
  1. Having your folks confuzzled cuz they dunno how you could play such a game.
  
  The 
 story goes, as an ordinary pokemon game, you set out on your journey, collect all the gym badges, 
 vice versa. BUT, you run into a evil gang call Team Galaxy whom has a plan to take over the world 
 or something in the lines like that.
  
  The controls are nice and spiffy. Everything is done via touch screen. Simply touch a command, 
 in order what you wanna do in the battle. It is that simple! And much easier to use then the old 
 games. And surfing through menus have never been so much fun!
  
  The graphics are awesome for this game. They added in 3D buildings and what not unexpectedly. And 
 that equals making the game a tad more nifty than it was expected from gamers around the world 
 to be.
  
  The sound is different from most games in the pokemon series. It seems to go with the situation, 
 and what not like that. Also, the pokemon cries in this game are alot more clear then they use 
 to be. Maybe that is because this is a DS title.
  
  The wifi in this game makes everything alot more enjoyable then all of the others. You can't just 
 trade with others with friend code sharings. There is a new feature in this game called; The GTS. 
 This feature allows you to trade with people with them on your friend list, and without them on 
 your friend list. Ans yes, this is around the world as it usually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Brandon-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The Next Pokemon game is here, on The nintendo ds! With alot of updates!
  including, graphics, New pokemon, and Wifi! The game has great graphics, And Its Worth the wait 
 if you don't import it. &gt;.&gt;
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great for a 2nd game with some 3d graphics put into it!
  plus they updated the 
 looks of the old pokemon and items! ;)
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are great! plus with the Great sound with the ds it makes the sounds much better.
 
  
  Value:
  The game is worth to buy/or import! If you import it, it will cost around $45, $50 USD, in the 
 usa it currently $34.99 USD.
  
  Other stuff:
  The games great! Plus with the wifi after you get bored with battling with normal pokemon you can 
 ask for someone's friend code and battle em! ;)
  
  The game is Worth Buying, If your A hard-core pokemon fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game on eBay for &pound;29.99 in Hong Kong, When it was realised, It took 1week to 
 get to me and I really loved it, Great 3D graphics, Great Animation, Amazing interface and tons 
 of interaction with the touch screen bottom. The only bummer is that its in Japanese languages, 
 really hard to understand the story when you speak English, but besides from that, you can understand 
 whats going on the screen, if you have played the pokemon series before, than it will take you 
 around 30mins to an hour to understand whats going on in the game.
  
  My advise would be to look up on the guide or walk through if you do have the Japanese version 
 of the game if you cant wait that long for the English version. I think its one of the best RPG 
 that the Nintendo Gameboy DS has brought out, keep it up Nintendo, I wish to complete the next 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wolfen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played it yet... but I do know it is like the old pokemon games, I say it is a great game, 
 any pokemon one is... of course. All the others were great... fun, and awesome. Once I buy this game... I 
 know I will play it for a long time, there are new Pokemon... a lot of new stuff. I sure hope there 
 is the ancient pokemon, like Mew and Mewtwo. Or the new ancient ones, I am not sure of their names, 
 but they are awesome. Just think... the old Pokemon games were a huge success, and these are new 
 ones, with better Pokemon, better things added to it... it will be one of the greatest game ever 
 hitting the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanatos11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Its finally here! The next chapter in the long running series of Pokemon games. Pokemon is entering 
 its 4th generation of true games and Pearl/Diamond are able to capture the feel and essence of 
 these historic games.
  
  Making its first venture onto the DS in its original formula. Pokemon Pearl is jam packed with 
 upgrades, small tweaks, and minor additions that will compound on the overall experience.
  
  The touch screen is effectively used as is the dual screen setup, and the DS's power is pushed 
 to achieve what is one of my favorite looking games on the console yet. The visuals are crisp and 
 able to maintain the quality of the sprites better than before. The sound in the game is also improved 
 immensely and you will easily be able to tell the difference between this and the older GB, GBC 
 and GBA games.
  
  I would recommend any fan of Pokemon to import this (especially if you have an understanding of 
 Japanese) and if you aren't ready to being it over from th Land of the Rising Sun, then definitely 
 get it once it comes out in your country.
  
  A+ Material!
  
  EDIT: I would like to also point out that I DO NOT read Japanese. As such I barely understand the 
 inner workings of the story and names of pokemon aswell as options and such. Im just trying my 
 best to get through and I stil beliee everything I said in this review. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
