-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonblue/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Story is well written and can easily consume 20 hours.
 No shortage of rescue missions to attempt.
 Interesting connectivity options between the two versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic dungeon hack with Pokmon characters slapped on.
 Dungeons recycle the same background tiles and enemies.
 Random dungeon layouts don't always turn out sensibly.
 Nothing to do in the overworld except shop and save.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: ChunSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 18, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The injection of Pokmon characters and aspects hasn't done anything to improve ChunSoft's oft-copied 
 dungeon hack. 

  Lovers of all things Pokmon are bound to be disappointed by Pokmon Mystery Dungeon, as are those 
 looking for a role-playing game to play on their preferred Nintendo handheld. For starters, it 
 isn't even a true Pokmon game. Nintendo and ChunSoft have simply taken a dungeon hack that ChunSoft 
 has produced for numerous other publishers in the past and integrated the Pokmon franchise's characters 
 and a few of its key concepts into it. The real kicker, though, is that ChunSoft's game wasn't 
 that good to begin with, and the injection of Pokmon elements hasn't done a thing to change that. 

          Pokmon Mystery Dungeon is all about fighting monsters in randomly generated dungeons and 
 bringing back loot.     

  ChunSoft has been churning out Mystery Dungeon games for various publishers since the early 1990s. 
 Although most were published only in Japan, a couple have made their way to North America, including 
 Chocobo's Dungeon 2 and Torneko: The Last Hope, both for the Sony PlayStation. Like those games, 
 Pokmon Mystery Dungeon has you exploring randomly generated dungeons and fighting the monsters 
 inside them in a manner that combines real-time movement with some of the nuances of turn-based 
 games. In a nutshell, every time you take a step or perform an action, the enemies in the dungeon 
 also take a step or perform an action. You command a party of as many as four Pokmon. You have 
 direct control over the lead Pokmon's actions, but the CPU controls the other characters. For 
 the most part, what happens in the dungeons is all of the usual stuff that you'd expect from a 
 dungeon hack. You can perform close-up or ranged attacks, throw rocks and iron scraps at enemies 
 from afar, and pick up any items that happen to be sitting around. Pokmon become stronger and 
 learn new attacks as they gain experience, various items can be collected and used, and gold can 
 be collected for later spending in the village. Also, like every ChunSoft dungeon hack, this game 
 has a hunger meter. If you don't occasionally eat an apple or a seed, you'll faint and leave the 
 dungeon.  

  Suffice it to say, Pokmon Mystery Dungeon has more in common with a litany of dungeon hacks than 
 it does with any of Nintendo's traditional Pokmon role-playing games. Whereas a typical Pokmon 
 game has a large overworld with multiple environments populated with hundreds of villagers and 
 Pokmon, this game has only a single small overworld village populated by a few chatty Pokmon 
 and a handful of useful shops. Everything of note, whether it's recruiting additional Pokmon or 
 fighting legendary Pokmon, happens in any of the game's 16 or so dungeons. The game explains away 
 its deviations from the usual Pokmon blueprint through its story. You assume the role of a human 
 who has been transformed into a Pokmon and whisked off to a disaster-plagued continent populated 
 by wild Pokmon. After arriving in a tiny forest, you are greeted by another Pokmon and you both 
 decide to form a rescue team. The purpose of a rescue team is to help other Pokmon that have somehow 
 become trapped in dungeons. This serves as all the excuse the game needs to constantly send you 
 into dungeons, as Pokmon are constantly delivering mission requests to your mailbox. The overall 
 story, which can take anywhere from 15 to 20 hours to complete, also pulls you into dungeons to 
 quell legendary Pokmon to get to the bottom of why the world is currently falling apart.  

          Elemental strengths and weaknesses function the same way they do in traditional Pokmon 
 games.     

  Key Pokmon aspects have been incorporated into the game to varying degrees. Since there are no 
 trainers around, you can't add new Pokmon to your team by capturing them. Instead, the wild Pokmon 
 you defeat in battle will sometimes offer to join your rescue team. In a traditional Pokmon game, 
 the Pokmon in your party evolve once they have reached a certain level. Here, evolution isn't 
 even an option until you finish the main story. And once it does become an option, it's simply 
 a choice you can make by visiting a specific cave. The major share of evolved Pokmon can be recruited 
 during the normal course of the game. The process of teaching Pokmon new attacks, on the other 
 hand, works almost exactly as it does in standard Pokmon games. Pokmon learn new attacks when 
 they reach certain levels, or you can use rare TM items to teach them attacks whenever you like. 
 This game also lets you link multiple attacks together during a single turn. Rounding out the list 
 of key Pokmon aspects that made it into the game are elemental affinities, which also function 
 much the way Pokmon veterans are familiar with. Water Pokmon are strong against fire Pokmon, 
 ghost Pokmon are strong against psychic Pokmon, and so forth. In some dungeons, weather conditions 
 can also hinder or help your Pokmon.  

  While the inclusion of characters and aspects from the Pokmon franchise serves to give Pokmon 
 Mystery Dungeon a familiar and friendly atmosphere, it doesn't do much to address the weaknesses 
 in ChunSoft's original dungeon hack. Chiefly, the design is overly simplistic and gets old really 
 fast. Each dungeon typically has anywhere from 10 to 30 floors, which all recycle the same bland 
 background tiles and contain the same three or four wild Pokmon. Although you can perform four 
 different attacks, in practice you'll stick to the same reliable move and watch the same battles 
 play out over and over again. There's a tinge of strategy involving the orientation of your Pokmon 
 in relation to the enemy during battle, but what this boils down to is that it's best to have an 
 ally next to you so you can double-team enemies. Wild Pokmon aren't aggressive as it is, and they 
 don't do much to exploit obvious weaknesses. Making matters worse, the CPU has control over the 
 backup Pokmon on the team, which takes yet another layer of control out of your hands. In some 
 cases, particularly boss battles, you can let the CPU do all the work. Dungeon hacks are repetitive 
 by nature, but this one takes sameness too far. Incredibly, aspects that would have made the game 
 more interesting, such as traps, the ability to dig, and the ability to choose leaders, are in 
 the game, but they don't become available until you've already completed the main story. Other 
 flaws, such as randomly generated layouts that place an exit right next to your entry point, or 
 the glitchy CPU artificial intelligence that sometimes sends your allies prancing off in the opposite 
 direction, don't help.     

  Nintendo and ChunSoft also didn't do much to spruce up the game's production values. Not that any 
 Pokmon game has ever pushed a system's hardware, but the graphics and audio in this one fall somewhere 
 between the Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance in terms of quality. The small overworld village 
 and friend areas, where you spend hardly any time, are lush and colorful and flaunt animated water 
 and haze effects. By contrast, the dungeons, where you languish for dozens of hours, are put together 
 with repetitive tilesets that employ barely any color or animation. The Pokmon themselves aren't 
 very animated, except for footsteps and some choppy attack motions, but at least they're colorful 
 and cute. As for the accompanying audio, it's nothing special. The different tunes are upbeat, 
 but they loop incessantly, and the sound effects and Pokmon cries have a static buzz that makes 
 it seem like they were ripped out of the original GBC Pokmon games. About the only thing developers 
 got totally right in terms of production value is the story, which is charming and mushy like Pokmon 
 stories are supposed to be. On the whole, the game feels dated. Worse, since the DS version contains 
 all of the same graphics and audio as the GBA game, it seems downright ancient compared to games 
 that have been developed exclusively for that system.  

          A human has been transformed into a Pokmon.     

  As it often does for Pokmon games, 
 Nintendo has produced two corresponding versions of Pokmon Mystery Dungeon. This time around, 
 however, one is available for the Game Boy Advance, and the other is available for the Nintendo 
 DS. The story and characters in both games are identical, although each version contains a half-dozen 
 Pokmon that aren't readily available in its counterpart. If you plan to get the game and have 
 a choice of Blue Rescue Team or Red Rescue Team, you should opt for the Blue Rescue Team version 
 on the DS. It doesn't look or sound any better than the GBA game, but the system's twin screens 
 and touch-screen capability make it easier to stay informed and navigate the various menus. Health, 
 status, and item indicators are constantly visible on the DS's top screen, while the lower screen 
 displays the same top-down dungeon viewpoint and map overlay as the GBA game. The DS game also 
 lets you open menus, make choices, and select enemies simply by tapping the stylus in the appropriate 
 spots on the touch screen.  

  Two features exclusive to the Nintendo DS version are the dojo visit and the unknown dungeon modes. 
 The dojo visit mode takes advantage of both cartridge slots in the DS to let you import the team 
 from Red Rescue Team into the Blue Rescue Team version for battles at the dojo in the village. 
 Unfortunately, this isn't a true multiplayer function, as the CPU controls the visiting team. The 
 other DS-exclusive mode is called unknown dungeon. It works just like the bark mode in Nintendogs. 
 Selecting the unknown dungeon menu item will place your DS into a low power state and have it search 
 for other Blue Rescue Team games nearby that have also been put into the unknown dungeon state. 
 When your DS gets close to another DS containing the Blue Rescue Team game, your Pokmon will automatically 
 visit dungeons in the other person's game and bring back rare items.  

          Instead of capturing monsters, you recruit them by defeating them in battle.     

  
 Nintendo, of course, would prefer that you pick up both versions or convince one of your friends 
 to pick up the version that you passed on. The incentive is that people with both games can take 
 advantage of various connectivity features, such as the ability to share items and trade missions 
 that unlock the few Pokmon that are normally exclusive to a particular version. The only way to 
 recruit all 387 pocket monsters is to trade between the two versions. You can also call a friend 
 for help or answer your friend's call for a rescue. Indeed, when your team is knocked out in a 
 dungeon, you have the option to send a rescue request to your friend. If your friend accepts the 
 request, he or she can journey to the corresponding spot in his or her game where you were knocked 
 out and revive you with all of your loot intact. After the rescue, your friend can even choose 
 to give you a Pokmon to fortify your squad. Friends can send and receive rescue requests and items 
 in a myriad of ways. Two copies of the DS game can initiate a wireless link, two copies of the 
 GBA game can initiate a cable link, the DS and GBA games can share data when both versions are 
 plugged into a single DS, or you can use passwords to send items and requests between any two versions 
 of the game. Passwords are a pain to input, though, since they're a whopping 54 characters in length. 
 Sadly, the game doesn't appear to interface with any other Pokmon games.  

  No matter how much you claim to love Pokmon, you should probably skip Pokmon Mystery Dungeon. 
 It may contain plenty of recognizable Pokmon creatures and incorporate some of the franchise's 
 key concepts, but it's nowhere near as diverse, slick, or fun as the canonical Pokmon role-playing 
 games produced by Game Freak. Odds are that even staunch fans of the dungeon hack genre will find 
 this game far too simplistic and repetitive for their tastes.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (141 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheyCallMeTsch
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  When you first start, you answer a slew of questions and the game picks you character for you. 
 I would have preferred to pick my character myself, but I guess I can't blame them for trying something 
 new. Next you pick a partner that will go with you into dungeons on rescue missions. Right away 
 you begin your "work." You learn that caterpie is lost in the Tiny Woods and you need to rescue 
 him.
  
  Anyway, you go through the game as whatever Pokemon the game picked for you and the partner you 
 picked, completing missions and adding members to your team. All 1st-3rd Gen Pokemon make an appearance.
 
  
  After completing the main-story you're free to roam around, recruit legendaries, evolve, whatever 
 you want. At this point I lost my incentive to play because I completed all the goals. I may pick 
 it up again someday, though, it was a fun game.
  
  I recommend this game to any of the remaining nostalgic Pokemon fans, current Pokemon fans, and 
 that's probably about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  Any Pokmon fan worth their salt knows all about the core, 'proper' Pokmon games. We're talking 
 about the likes of FireRed and LeafGreen, Gold and Silver, and Ruby and Sapphire. With the next 
 'proper RPG' Pokmon game still a considerable way off, fans of the competitive critters are left 
 to look elsewhere. Pok-nuts will have to make do with the release of Pokmon Mystery Dungeon, 
 a warm-up to the main event. Well, we say 'warm-up', but the fact is this strange twist on the 
 Pokmon formula left us a bit cold.
  
  The game kicks off with a personality test which asks you a number of silly questions ("a human 
 hand comes out of your toilet! What do you do?") . These somehow determine which sort Pokmon you 
 are, and therefore which one you'll be controlling in the game (by choosing to shake hands with 
 the hand in the toilet, we became Psyduck. Fair enough) . 
  
  
  The story goes that you've woken up as a Pokmon. Before you can figure out what's going on you 
 meet another Pokmon (your choice of eight or so) who becomes your partner and decides to set up 
 a rescue team to help other Pokmon. This involves travelling through dungeons until you get to 
 a certain floor, then finding the distressed creature and helping it out, either by touching it 
 and warping it out of there, or giving it the item it needs. And that's about it.
  
  Mystery Dungeon's main gameplay feature is the fact the dungeons randomly generate every time you 
 enter them (hence 'Mystery Dungeon' we suppose) , which means if you leave and enter again it'll 
 be a different maze. You and your partner will have to walk through the maze until you find the 
 staircase to take you to the next level, all the while randomly encountering wild Pokmon who'll 
 want a fight. 
  
  Beastly Battling
  Battles are sort of turn-based with all the action happening on-screen instead of cutting to a 
 separate battle screen. Fights are frustrating though, mostly due to the poor intelligence of your 
 partner who'll pick his own moves and, in later dungeons, tend to exhaust his special moves before 
 you reach the harder levels. 
  
  After you've given a wild Pokmon a kicking, your defeated enemy may ask to join your team, meaning 
 it's not uncommon for three or four Pokmon to wander about as a group. This makes battles even 
 more annoying, since they'll tend to be a case of you facing and fighting your opponent with your 
 three buddies standing behind you, doing nothing because you're in the way.
  
  
  
  This is the sort of game that screams out for a two-player co-op mode, but no such luck. Instead, 
 you're stuck with your thick-as-mince computer-controlled mates who are more of a hindrance than 
 a help. Add to this the fact that the action's extremely repetitive with countless missions asking 
 you to perform identical tasks, as well as useless stylus controls that will have you using the 
 D-pad within five minutes, and you have a game that quickly becomes a chore, even for some die-hard 
 Pok-fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowchronicle
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I enjoy the game , but I think the pokemon team ccould add more features. The music is not quite 
 as good as other pokemon music. The graphics should of been a little better expected since its 
 cartoon like. The story isn't that deatiled or anything but creative to make a game like this. 
 I think the physical attacks should of been a little more powerful. The game can be addictive but 
 as soon as your addicted to the game you could probably find a better game. I'd say the pokemon 
 on game boy advanced is better. I think the game should of had better music, and they should try 
 making the music a little more of the 2006 music. I was interested at first it may be tear shedding 
 at the end but i thought that was the est part. The story is okay but my opinion making a tv shaow 
 out of this game is not going to be great obviously.
  Total score - 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKnight50
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The game was pretty interesting at first. But then as you play the storyline just dramaticly falls 
 and rises up.
  But what i like about the game is that you have something to do after you beat the game. And it 
 had a really good ending. 
  What i didnt like about the game is that the * ranked mission are pretty much out of the players 
 league. I remeber i stayed up till 3:30 in the morining trying to get to mewtwo (99stairs) , its 
 not worth it. And you have missions saying "get me an oran berry, im at buried relic B90". It makes 
 you wanna say: "go get it yourself you lazy bum!". 
  Okay this one bothers me the most. Recruiting pokemon is hard. i cant recruit any pokemon in my 
 level. In fact, your chances are put in %. depending if you have a good rank, and good level pokemon, 
 and i got both.
  i can recruit flygon (level 50- i think) but i end up recruiting shuppets. i have a level 70+ blaziken 
 that can 1hit KO the salamnce but can recruit them.
  I expected more..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustavos4
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  After reveiwing the disappointing sequel, I decided to do this game. There's one reason and one 
 reason only to get this game. To have a breath of fresh air from the regular Pokemon formula, and 
 not sit in awe by how stupid you were to get a spinoff pokemon game. The DS and GBA versions aren't 
 different except for controls. But no touch screen controls are in this game, just get whatever's 
 cheaper.
  
  I found the plot to be very interesting. You wake up one day and find that you're a pokemon with 
 no memory of being a human, but think you were. I have often imagined what it would be like if 
 I was a pokemon many times as a kid. Though I'd rather Pokemon just be real instead.
  
  Anyway, it would take very long to tell how many things make this game different. All the side-concepts 
 take long to get used to. But you'll get used to it. I really liked the test at the beginning that 
 tells you what you're like, and what Pokemon you'd be. I'm a Charmander, and I love it.
  
  This game has an interesting and well developed story to go with the plot. The ending made me cry 
 and there was never a time when you didn't have enough motivation to keep going. Except when the 
 dungeons start to become boringly hard. You can die without much warning easily. And leveling up 
 is unbearably long to do.
  
  Extra Comments: This game has many flaws that may seem unfair, but overall it's a good game. Definitely 
 worth playing for all Pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exterminator25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is basically you as a pokmeon with a parter pokemon helping other pokemon. I am enjoying 
 it and i hope it gets better. I am a pikachu and my partners a bulbasaur. so far, i've gotten past 
 the bit where team meany steals your mail, a few missions after. I know what happens bewcause i 
 read the manga of the game. I just hope that pokemon mystery dungeon explorers of time and explorers 
 of darkness are just as good. I don't really like the personality test, cos i had to do it a few 
 times to get to be the pokemon i wanted to be. I just found out i have to write at least 800 characters 
 for this review to make it. 800 characters? 800? woah! anyway, i liked when i get the magnemite 
 to join my team, but why do i have to go to him whenever i want him on my team  why can't he just 
 follow me around like saur? (i nicknamed my partner bulbasaur "saur" like outta pokemon special) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  In the game you answer questions and if you answer the questions correctly then you will be one 
 of the starter Pokemon. And you can also pick your partner and your partner wakes you up at the 
 very start and you two save a caterpie and you two form a rescue mission. That is when you adventure 
 begins. The game never ends and it is a amazing game. There is also this thing called wonder mail 
 where you can type the code and if you type it in correctly then you get the mission. Some of the 
 missions give you alot of points and some of them don't. You are going to be a better rescue group 
 if your rescue level is up high.
  
  The good of this game that the gameplay and the story are amazing.
  
  The bad of this game 
 is that some of the rescue missions are very bad. 
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10. If you are going to get this game you should it is amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemkaiser17
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out to get boring then it begins to get awesome when you get to the post game. 
 This game is a great game. The people who created this website rated it 5.2. But it really be like 
 at least a 7.5. So if you like building teams and you love long adventures is a must have game. 
 Also there are a few VERY LONG dungeons in the post game. This game starts out asking you some 
 questions to determine what pokemon you will be. Then it asks are you a boy or a girl. Then you 
 choose what pokemon is going to be your partner. You realize the pokemon you can pick are the starter 
 pokemon of the kanto, johto, and hoenn. You can also choose pikachu and machop. But partner cannot 
 be the same type as you. For instance you can't do charmander and torchic. So that's my review. 
 Hope you enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fredman333
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  i think that the graphics could inprove and the gameplay is fun the missions are fun to go on to 
 level up your pokemon and recruit but u dont get xp fast enough but my friend travis is being a 
 about this review i like that their is not that movie every time u run into a pokemon in the grass 
 in the original games basically its super good in the pokemon games i like how u can get all the 
 pokemon from fire red leaf green saphire ruby and emerald the last dungeon is the best to level 
 up on and the funnest so enjoy it is very very very very very very very very very v ery very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very veryu very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very good good gooooooooooooooooood good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boondocks123
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  The first time i picked up this game it was pretty bad, because since I have played almost all 
 Pokemon games (emerald version and below) I was excited to play as any pokemon i wanted. Sadly 
 I found out you have to beat the main storyline. This is a highly addicting game that should last 
 you around 50-infinite hours of play. There are dungeons to explore, friend areas to buy and a 
 wide variety of pokemon to collect and play as, but there as many moves as previous games. And 
 leveling up is hard after you beat the game. I believe this because when you play the main storyline 
 the bosses have a ton of experience, like 600-2,000. There are a lot of missons to do and wonder 
 mails are just amazing because if you need to get an item like a brown gummi just put in the code 
 and you get the misson to get a brown gummi. This is very addicting and fun Pokemon game but small 
 problems stop it from being perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  You are now a Pokemon! You have been sent from the human world to the Pokemon World to live as 
 a Pokemon in the DS game, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team. You have a partner, and together 
 you start a rescue team to save other Pokemon in need. In this world, Pokemon can use human speech 
 and they can talk to each other. You, the former human, have no memory of your past life before 
 becoming a Pokemon. And you, the Pokemon, will stop the evil gang known as Team Meanies and save 
 the Pokemon World from destruction! You will train at the Makuhita Dojo to enhance your skills! 
 You will stop the untamed angers of Pokemon by defeating in battle. You were sent down from the 
 Human World for a reason, to rescue the Pokemon World. If you are brave enough, if you are strong 
 enough, if you are good enough to venture into the Pokemon World, you might just save its life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_unknown11
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was a different Pokemon game than the normal ones. For starters you walk around in turns 
 and can find pokemon and battle them right there and then. At the beggining of the game you take 
 a quiz to decide your personality and what pokemon you are. After that you get to choose your partner 
 and then you go out and perform missions to get your rescue team points and you can get different 
 rankings. You can get other pokemon to join your party. Even the legendary pokemon can join you 
 if you impress them enough. You can also eat gummis to increase your pokemon's iq so they can do 
 different abilities. The bad about the game is you have a party size maximum which can ruin ideal 
 teams. There are also some iq abilities that don't seem to work at all. This would be an ideal 
 game for anyone who is looking for a different style pokemon game then this would be the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Blue Rescue Team. A great game. You wake up as a Pokemon, next to a different 
 Pokemon. From the back you're like, "What's going on?" It just sucks you in. The game really just 
 taps into your emotions. I remember the part after beating Rayquaza where you start to leave, no 
 matter how hard I try I cry every time I see that. And then even after you beat the game, there's 
 plenty more to see, more Pokemon, more dungeons, and more mysteries. This game is only slightly 
 lower than Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. This game still rocks out loud. Anyone who likes Pokemon, 
 mysteries, or exploring should buy this game. It is just that good. The graphic are great, and 
 realistic, and the mysteries really get that old noodle working hard. It's just plain fun. Thank 
 you for reading this. See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Nobody can deny the universal appeal and popularity of the Pokemon series of video games. While 
 there have been a few bad eggs among the lot (Ruby and Sapphire immediately come to mind) , there 
 have also been a number of incredible games -- Gold Version was my favorite game for the GameBoy 
 Color. But unfortunately, with a great series comes a lot of little spinoff games. And when the 
 series it dealt with by a company other than the original developer, the results can be disastrous. 
 Case in point: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team for the Nintendo DS.
  
  I'm a self-proclaimed Pokemon fan, so I had no qualms about picking up this title shortly after 
 it was released. I was hungry for a fun new DS game, plus recent announcements regarding Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl left me wanting a Pokemon game. So, I took the plunge, scrounged up forty bucks, 
 and picked up Pokemon Mystery Dungeon next time I stopped by at FYE.
  
  And man, was I disappointed. The game was actually relatively fun at first -- "at first" being 
 categorized as "for the first twenty minutes". Strangely enough for a Pokemon game, the best part 
 of this game is its premise and plot. You, the main character, wake up one day only to find out 
 that you're a Pokemon -- this is where the whole "mystery" part of the game comes from. The process 
 by which you're cast as a Pokemon is also pretty cool, as your forced to answer a number of questions 
 to determine your personality, and a Pokemon is selected with the same or similar personality.
 
  
  The game unfolds, essentially, in a convoluted attempt to find out exactly what happened to you. 
 You meet up with another Pokemon (you get to decide what Pokemon it is) and decide to start up 
 a Rescue Team. These teams are groups of Pokemon that have banded together to help others in trouble, 
 a need provided by the fact that a number of natural disasters have been occurring recently.
  
  It's weird, really, because the main plot arc has nothing to do with the gameplay premise. 
 That is to say, the Rescue Team doesn't have anything to do with the real intrigue of the game. 
 That said, though, the story is pretty well-told, and the characters (Pokemon!) are well-developed, 
 if only one-dimensionally. Still, the storytelling is surprisingly good for a Pokemon game, which 
 is a nice little surprise.
  
  Another surprise came in the way of the gameplay, but it wasn't a good surprise. I was expecting 
 something relatively fun, perhaps not incredibly deep, but at least as addictive as the regular 
 Pokemon games. I was disappointed, though, and in a very big way. To begin with, the whole gameplay 
 premise of the game is absolutely pathetic. The idea is that you, as a Rescue Team, accept missions 
 from other fellow Pokemon. You'll go to the dungeon specified in their help request, then complete 
 the quest.
  
  The first problem that the game has is that the quality of the missions themselves is very poor. 
 There's no variety whatsoever -- the majority of mission objectives pretty much are "rescue my 
 friend", "take me to see such and such", or "get this item for me". The missions, no matter how 
 they're disguised, are pretty much the same: they all just involve trudging through dungeons trying 
 to get to the designated floor where you can complete the level. And even more pitifully, that 
 last mentioned type of mission type doesn't even require you to go to a dungeon; as long as you 
 have the requested item, or even if you just go buy it at the store (more on that later) , the quest 
 can be completed.
  
  The dungeons are actually kind of interesting and deserve a bit more discussion. See, what keeps 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon from boring players out of their minds (or does it?) is the fact that every 
 time you play a dungeon, it changes. The dungeon floors are randomly generated each and every time 
 you enter them, ensuring that you never play the same way twice.
  
  The battle system, however, is where this game really meets its maker. Of course, Pokemon games 
 have always thrived off a good bit of repetition; battling wild Pokemon to gain levels, battling 
 trainers, and the like. However, never has repetition been defined quite so exhaustively as it 
 has been in Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. If you can tap the A button, you will do well in this game 
 -- oh, and you also need to have mastered the complex intricacies of the D-pad, as well.
  
  See, attacking is a simple matter of pressing A -- this initiates a basic attack, dealing a decent 
 amount of damage. The battles take place in a weird sort of real-time/turn based hybrid. You can 
 move freely, but in between the time that you move, opponents in the dungeons move as well. When 
 you actually engage in a fight, the turn-based aspect of the system becomes much more pronounced, 
 because you can only perform an action when it's your turn.
  
  Simply hitting the A button is enough to do plenty of damage for a standard attack, and then your 
 partner moves. What's wrong with this? Well, the whole meat of the game, battling, is simplified 
 to hitting the A button. I don't care if you're catering to casual gamers: this sort of laziness 
 is absolutely inexcusable. Yes, there is a standard moveset for each Pokemon, but you've got to 
 navigate a number of menus just to get to it. Plus, there's no sort of hotkey system that would 
 allow you to, say, assign a specific attack to a certain button.
  
  There are some other aspects to the gameplay mechanic, but to be honest, they just don't matter. 
 The battle system is so terrible that the pure boredom and monotony that it features will completely 
 overshadow all other aspects of this game. There is a party-building mechanic present in the game; 
 sometimes after you defeat an opponent, he'll want to join your party. If you consent, he'll be 
 available to take with you on subsequent missions. It's a handy sort of feature, especially as 
 the game gets a bit more difficult.
  
  There's also a little Pokemon town that's the hub of your life as a Pokemon. This is the place 
 where you accept missions, interact with other Pokemon, and perform a variety of other mundane 
 tasks. There's a bank for you to store all your Poke (currency of the Pokemon world) , which is 
 important because if you lose a mission, all your cash on hand will disappear, an item store to 
 stock up on stuff for your missions, and a little item storage area, where you can store items 
 that you don't think you'll immediately need. It's all pretty standard and all fairly forgettable 
 -- there's only enough in that "town" to make sure that you can scrape by in the game.
  
  In addition, there's also a Move Linker in the town. This Pokemon will link two moves for you for 
 yourself, your partner, or anybody in your party. Linking moves involves connecting two moves so 
 that when you use one, you use both. While it may seem kind of lame or useless, it actually implements 
 a bit of strategy. A good idea is to combine a defense lowering move with a strong offensive one, 
 to serve as a knock-out blow to any foes. It's fun experimenting with this linking idea, and it's 
 a fun way to imbue the game with a bit of strategy.
  
  The game does have a surprising difficulty level, but it's not the type that's good. A lot of games 
 are tough just because they'rewell, though. Not the case with Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, though. 
 Instead, this game is tough because it's kind of cheap. Defeating an Pokemon is pathetically easy; 
 as I already mentioned, this involves simply tapping the A button a few times in a row. So, to 
 make the game tough, the developers just cram more enemies into the dungeons. Being overwhelmed 
 by Pokemon and then losing and having to start all over again is immensely annoying, and it kind 
 of feels like the game is cheating. It's really annoying, and will likely just cause you to leave 
 the game once you get far enough into the game.
  
  In terms of both graphics and sound, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon fails miserably. This is essentially 
 a GameBoy Advance game pretending to be a DS game, and it does a poor job of disguising itself. 
 The graphics are absolutely horrendous; they look like early-GBA era visuals. It's absolutely inappropriate, 
 after seeing how graphically powerful the DS really is, to have graphics this poor for a DS game. 
 The music, also is poorly done. The tunes themselves are repetitive, boring, and forgettable, and 
 the audio quality is terrible.
  
  One surprisingly unique aspect of Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is the Friend Mail system. If you fail 
 in a dungeon, you'll have to start over. However, if you're too far into a dungeon or you just 
 don't want to have to go through this hassle, you can take the Friend Mail code, given to you by 
 the game, and give it to somebody else. That person can then enter the code in their game and come 
 to your dungeon. If they succeed in reaching you without dying, then you'll be revived and able 
 to continue through the dungeon. It takes the place of multiplayer, but it's a very cool way to 
 interact with other gamers without even needing WiFi play.
  
  Overall, while it does have some decent aspects to it, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon just fails to impress. 
 It seems to start out strong, with a well-done plot. However, as you play the game more and begin 
 to perceive the incredibly repetitive nature of the game, it'll quickly get on your nerves. There's 
 plenty of game time potential here, but I'd bet money that you'll quickly become too bored with 
 this title to want to play it for very long. It's unimpressive in terms of presentation, and is 
 overall a big disappointment. Perhaps if you're purchasing for a young child who doesn't have good 
 motor skills, then the simplicity of this title would be good. Otherwise, though, there are plenty 
 of better RPGs or strategy titles for you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisman101010
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  gamespot i have respected you and your reveiws but this is insane! giving the game a 5.2, and giving 
 the gba a higher score i mean comon! okay but back to the game, you have an awesome dungeon which 
 most people in america have not had the ability to play dungeon games so theres a point for pokemon, 
 and they have pokemon which is an automatic extra point, thats 2 for them, awesome story, thats 
 another part, another point. the only point that game spot would get is that it dosent have much 
 of a replay value, you play it once or twice then your done. so the total tally is pokemon 3, gamespot 
 1...... pokemon wins!!!!!!!! so hahah gamespot. also the game may not have the best graphics but 
 its the kind that makes you wanna just hug it till it dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyekenvort
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  If you are a Pokemon fan, and a Zelda fan also, chances are that you'll love this game. When I 
 bought it, I was thinking that this game wouldn't be much of a thing... how wrong I was....
  
  What can I say about this game is that it is SOOOO ADICTIVE!!! God, when I start playing it, 
 at 2 PM, and when I stop, it's already 11:30 PM! That happened to me once, and I got late at school 
 on the following day. You can recruit almost every pokemon known, from caterpie to MEWTWO!!!
  
  Seriously, I highly reccomend this game to Pokemon and Zelda fans. This game is, without a 
 soul of a doubt, One of the Most Underratted Games of All Time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  despite what the critics say, I think that this is a very good game. It is really cool because 
 at the beginning you take this personality quiz that decides what pokemon you are going to be. 
 I am a mudkip and proud. My cousin is a pikachu. but anyways you go through the game doing missions 
 saving people and competing with the other resque team and then the towns people figure out that 
 you are a human that turned into a pokemon and you are forced out of the town with your partner. 
 you also have to face all three legendary birds! Zapdos, Moltres, and Articuno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the rpg gameplay, it's a very unique rpg style for pokemon. The 
 story is pretty good, a kid did something and the next thing, he woke up as a pokemon and he/she 
 has to find out how he/she turned into a pokemon and find out how to cure it. The quiz to detirmine 
 what pokemon you are is really awesome and the pokemon you can be is really cool, you got the 9 
 starters, pikachu, and some other pokemon like machop and psyduck, and many more. There are many 
 places to explore in this game from caves, to ocean deeps, to grasslands, and icy areas. The bosses 
 are really cool, they are legendary pokemon, you fight the 3 legendary birds, rayquaza, groundon, 
 and many more. The quests are really nice and they are pretty self-explanitory, but some are tough 
 to do so it adds a little challenge to the game. The bad parts of this game is that it can get 
 repetitive, you do these random quests and that is mainly it until you fight the boss, then you 
 keep going on with the same. Whenever you die, it is really annoying you can revive but you'll 
 die in no time from waiting for your h. p. to heal up and a pokemon attacking you at the same time, 
 but when you die, you go back to your camp and you have to go all the way back. Overall, this is 
 a good game, but not one of the better ones for pokemon or on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Well... i went off to gamestation to buy my first DS game... and i came across PMDB at a good price... n 
 i thought.... YAY a new kinda Pokemon game but with a different stratergy.... so i bought it n shoved 
 the cartrige into my DS.... The game starts with you answering a quetionaire however it claimed 
 i was Psyduck so i had to redo the whole thing about 3 times till i got a nicer Pokemon, torchic. 
 Then you have to pick and name your partner... so i chose Mudkip.... the game starts with you rescuing 
 a Carterpie from the forset... and basically continues in the rescue my friend and i will pay you 
 fashion.....
  
  THe Pokemon level up r-e-a-l-l-y s-l-o-w-l-y, much slower than the usual pokemon games (diamond, 
 emerald etc.) and i ended up buying another DS game and playing that instead... so now my PMDB 
 cartrige is back in its box... on the shelf.... awaiting an aeroplane journey or lonnnngg car trip......
 
  
  But the graphics are good.... n the sounds are alright... and watching the pokemon use their moves 
 is also an experience ^^ So buy it... try it.... and try n complete it too hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamfotp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  This game has a base storyline starting with you waking up in an unfimiliar town as a pokemon. 
 at least 3 days of gameplay! the multiplayer option is for rescuing other players. and on the main 
 menu, the unknown dongeon. its really a mystery. try it out with a friend. also there is a duel 
 slot option. if you own red rescue team (gba) you can interact with the two games. ingame choices 
 like do you want someone to join your team? or do you want to rescue him/her always fun! but sometimes 
 you can make the wrong decicion, so watch out! Overall thumbs way up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I recently got this game for DS cuz my aunt Yuilree said that I need to use my brain more and playing 
 a dungeon game was a way to do it. Apparently, it's not bad. Why? Find out here!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  Like I said previously, not bad! Great storyline and gameplay cuz it lasts 
 really long with infinite rescue missions for you to complete! Bad thing is that when you faint, 
 you lose all your stuff! And in the later levels of the game, there are invisible traps that you 
 can step on and they decrease your PP, make one of your items sticky and unusable until you leave 
 the dungeon, make your food grimy, and any other annoying traps! That problem can be solved with 
 IQ skills you can obtain my eating Gummis in the game, but until then, that is a huge problem.
 
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Great graphics! Not bad! At least that's what I think! But some dungeon's layout are repeated! 
 Completely repetitive with dungeon layouts! But other than that, it's plainly OK!
  
  Sound (8/10) -
  Sound is pretty much OK. Music is pretty cool and all but can get repetitive.
 
  
  Value (9/10) -
  Good value! Worth your money!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) -
  Great game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.8/10) -
  This game has a great storyline and is very interesting 
 and different from other Pokemon games! However, it can get frustrating on the traps and the fainting 
 mentioned earlier! And the sound and music is repetitive! Not too bad at least! Buy it but if you 
 are a complete Pokemon fan you might not like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persianlink
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I t starts not bad. You have to answer a few questions about your charakter and after that you 
 become the Pok&eacute; mon with a similar charkter . You have to choose a Pok&eacute; mon as your 
 partner. With this two Pok&eacute; mon you are ready for your first opponents. You meet a Pok&eacute; mon 
 that tells you about its friend who is lost in a forest. You have to go in the forest, to fight 
 against a couple of opponents and to find the lost Pok&eacute; mon. If you find a lost Pok&eacute; mon, 
 it will be warped out of a dungeon. Then you could choose to warp out of the dungeon or go through 
 the rest of it. After you have finished the first dungeon, you go to a little village where you 
 get a headquarter. Now you will get the most missions from a black board. In the village is also 
 a shop, a bank, a storehouse, a training camp where you could train in a few easy dungeons and 
 a shop where you could buy areals for Pok&eacute; mon you have beaten and want to be in your team. 
 And now you will train your Pok&eacute; mon in boring dungeons, try to find new partners, do nearly 
 always the same rescue missions and wait for the missions which you need for the story. Sometimes 
 you wait too long for those missions. One time I waited nearly endless because I had a too full 
 letterbox. You see it's not a very varied game and besides the opponents are very weak and the 
 touchscreen is used quite bad. I think you'll play it 30, maybe 40 hours then you have finished 
 the game or it's too boring to play it still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMaster7991
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  As one of the first spins offs for the handhled (if you don't count the card battle games or the 
 picachu keychain game) it was good. Since I first saw pokemon andp layed the video games i always 
 wanted to play a game where you are the pokemon not the trainer. The really good parts of the game 
 is that you do a personality test to determine who yo uare gona be (though this also has a anoyying 
 bad part to it) and the idea in genreal is cool plus the whole GBA game connecting ot the DS one 
 is cool. What was bad was alot of things. When you begin you start out with tackle. The common 
 Pokemon games start with Tackle and growl like this too but in this game the tackle is less strong. 
 so you will be pressing A enemy after enemy even later i nthe game until you get moves and even 
 then repeative. Plus alot of the dungeons are ate same thing floor after floor with the stale battle 
 system adds to a anoyying game. It was a good try and even thouhg the battle systme is bad it's 
 fun at the begging. The story is good though. The whole mystery how the main charcter (you or the 
 name you put) went from a human to a pokemon and whats going on. But this was bassically a bad 
 hack and slash but it was fair. A decent game. If you wana try it I suggest rent it. Oh and another 
 thing I didn't like was you don't even evolve until the ending of the game! That isn't whats suppose 
 ot happen. Pokemon don't evovle from a place ( the collseum game for the GC was had this too but 
 they made it good) but the fact you don't evolve means you won't be that or well how pokemon are 
 suppose be until you beat the game!! Overall thsi was a siappointment but if you cna get through 
 certai nthigns you might like it (oh and it can be fustrating) ut the reputation elements and story 
 makes it a cool experince just need alto fo work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioDude1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Game Informer was right about this game: it is fraught with bad design choices at every corner. 
 Of course, I mean literally. Because the only bad design choice was that the dungeons are random! 
 The rest, is as good as, if not better than, the other Pokemon games. The area of effect part of 
 attacks is a great design choice, adding more strategy to the gameplay, and the ability to find 
 items inside dungeons makes for more convenient healing, and the bosses are toughened up from being 
 regular Pokemon to be like fully-fledged bosses. My only complaint other than the random dungeons 
 is that ghost Pokemon are extremely powerful, as they can go through walls and attack you while 
 you can't attack them. In fact, if you encounter one and you don't have the special items required 
 to defeat them, you're pretty much dead. Other than that, if you're looking for a different Pokemon 
 experience and you've had it with crap like Pokemon Ranger, look no further than Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360_darkness
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  this is a good game. The games story revolves around your chosen pokemon being a human transported 
 to a pokemon world, transformed into the pokemon of your choice. Your selected partner wakes you 
 up, and after a bit of a discussion and naming your character, a Butterfree requests that you rescue 
 her baby Caterpie. After this tutorial mission, your partner gives you somewhere to stay, and proposes 
 that you start a rescue team, helping other pokemon around the world.
  
  Gameplay is exactly the same as most other dungeon hacks. You must eat apples and plain seeds to 
 restore hunger in a dungeon to avoid your healthbar depleting, and you can carry with you up to 
 around 20 items, whether they be healing items, hold items or TM's, to assist you in your adventure. 
 And to recruit pokemon, you must have brought their friend area from the Wigglytuff in the city 
 Town Square, which acts as a huv and an area with shops such as a Move Linker, Storage, a Bank, 
 the Friend Area merchant and the Kecleon brothers, who sell recovery items and TM's, along with 
 food and orbs, which have certain helpful effects against enemies in the dungeons. Pokemon randomly 
 join your team after their defeat if you have their friend area, and they will retire there if 
 they survive your current adventure. Also, you may take an extra pokemon along with you and your 
 partner, with the fourth member slot free for recruiting, as you cannot take 4 pokemon into a dungeon, 
 sometimes not even 3.
  
  Graphics are a low point. They're exactly the same as the GBA Red Rescue Team game, yet they're 
 slightly clearer due to the DS' power, and they weren't terribly awful to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Okay I be frank (don't know what that mean) but when I heard about a game where you were the pokemon. 
 I amited I was happy. I got the game and it was alright not perfect but it land on the Meh zone
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is kinda confusing bit you pick your attack etc. Like the regular pokemon 
 expect your small and the attack animation isn't that great
  
  Graphics: I'm sorry to say this but WOW it look very small and crummy. The good thing is I can 
 actually see them
  
  Sound: Sound is catchy but aware Nuff said
  
  Value: I don't about you but with me. When I beat it there was nothing left to do.
  
  So yeah 
 this game was fun, great story it just does have the Pokemon game feeling it should have. I hope 
 when they make Pokemon Mystery Dungeon 2 it fix somethings up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nectheunholy
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Pokemon games since they came out. You will probably hear me say this at the 
 beginning of all Pokemon related reviews, but than you have to realize my age group was the original 
 target in North America.
  
  Now, I was interested to see this game in stores one day when looking for a game to purchase. I 
 hadn't really seen much publicity for this game, and certainly didn't see any reviews. Yet, being 
 a pretty loyal Pokemon fan, I bought it without hesitation. I thought it would be a nice change 
 to play an Adventure RPG Pokemon than a straight up RPG we have been playing since Elementary. 
 I'm going to be honest here when I say this game isn't going to win any awards, let alone the hearts 
 of many loyal Pokemon followers, but it actually wasn't that bad. At times I found myself asking 
 why I was randomly traveling around random caves to rescue lost Pokemon, but I found the story 
 was what kept me playing for hours in a row at times. I wanted to figure out what happens to your 
 character, as the plot twists unravel and you progress towards that goal. To quickly sum up the 
 story, you awaken in the world of Pokemon. You go on to preach that you're a human, and can't remember 
 how you got here. After that, you get straight down to business. You make friends, and the story 
 is really fuzzy. Overtime things carry on, and you learn more and more about why you became a Pokemon 
 and where you fit into all that is going on. Now, even if people couldn't care about this game, 
 I don't want to ruin their experience by revealing story.
  
  [Gameplay]
  The gameplay is pretty easy to learn, and your basically asked to do the same things over again 
 minus the few boss fights. You basically take rescue jobs and get rewarded for rescuing or escorting 
 Pokemon to a friend. In return you get a prize, and while in a dungeon you can gain valuable items. 
 Beyond doing rescue missions, there is little to do. In town you pretty much can only save at your 
 rescue team base, go to the main market area and buy/sell items, store items, store money, and 
 buy more friend areas. Friend areas can also be won as a reward from missions. Now, your probably 
 wondering what a Friend Area is, so I'll explain. Sometimes when you're in a dungeon, you will 
 beat a wild Pokemon and they will ask to join your squad. In order for them to join, you must have 
 the corresponding friend area for them to hang out in. So beyond traveling thought dungeons and 
 fighting Pokemon that are in your way, the minimal boss fight here and there, you really have little 
 to do. This really drags down the experience for players, and can easily reflect the poor reviews 
 and sales.
  
  [Graphics]
  The graphics department is pretty dull in the sense you will always see the same designs every 
 time you enter a dungeon. Even then it isn't anything to get excited about. Quite a few sprites 
 aren't accurate and look really crummy. However, one thing I liked about the Graphics was when 
 characters talked, the little window with their face and how the expression reflected what was 
 going on. That was done really well considering the graphics overall. It isn't too pretty to look 
 at, but some of the environments were done well such as Friend Areas and Town. Yet, it just simply 
 lacks what the DS could have done in this department. Luckily, the story saves the game once again.
 
  
  [Sound]
  I personally played most of the game without sound, but I played each area long enough to hear 
 the sounds that represent it. I personally think the only time sound/sound affects were used well 
 was cut scenes that either helped advance the game or before a boss fight. Than again, most music 
 I find in Pokemon games gets quite repetitive if you focus on it for too long. I suppose for this 
 game, they could have improved upon it, but it was decent enough to be average overall.
  
  [Value]
  Considering I paided under $25 dollars for it, I didn't complain for how long I played 
 it. It certainly will be a game in which I'll play a few times to try and beat my time for completing 
 the main part of the game. Although most people will tell you to pick it out of the bargain bin 
 if you can, to me it has some replay value which will allow some players to keep it in their collection. 
 I don't know if it would be worth paying over $25 for, but if you enjoy it, you will get your moneys 
 worth and time out of it.
  
  [Tilt]
  Even though it received mixed reviews and thoughts, overall it hasn't half bad. You certainly won't 
 find it on any greatest games of all time lists, but for those who enjoyed it, let them enjoy it. 
 It has its own level of fun to discover, for those willing to risk playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luis-Fox
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Gamespot says 5.2. I say 10. Gamespot thinks its Just another one of those games WELL ITS NOT! 
 This game is actually very good. It has multiplayer, it has a VERY wide range of passwords, and 
 you can rescue your friends!
  
  This game is very very addictive and i still havnt quit. Trust me this game is very good.
  
 
  It goes on for a long time and when youve beaten Rayquaza youve only done 1/3 of the game.
  
  (Rayquaza is final boss in main storyline)
  
  But a 5.2 from Gamespot! Puh-lease!
  
 
  Gamespot probably thinks: This game is too simple 
  
  Simplicity is the best type of game! Think about Four second Fury and Four second Frenzy! Theyre 
 really addictive and you operate with only the arrow keys and spacebar!
  
  If you havnt bought this game, buy it.
  
  If youve got this game, its very good isnt it.
 
  
  If you refuse to buy this game, you dont know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colerainesupers
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is a nice simple review which is to the point =] . Cool game when you start playing it at first 
 then you get to thinking um... is anything going to happen which isn't obvious? It is a good game, 
 bit of variety compared to the other style but it could have been done so much better. It's an 
 average game with the number of dungeons adding to the average quality. Overall: Cool game but 
 not really gripping and it doesn't keep you on the edge of you seat (As any good game should do, 
 and any good game should keep me playing for at least 100 hours) . I am not however saying don't 
 get it but what i am saying is that it starts off good but by the end it just doesn't entertain 
 [a bit like Spectrobes] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This is a nice simple review which is to the point =] . Cool game when you start playing it at first 
 then you get to thinking um... is anything going to happen which isn't obvious? It is a good game, 
 bit of variety compared to the other style but it could have been done so much better. It's an 
 average game with the number of dungeons adding to the average quality. Overall: Cool game but 
 not really gripping and it doesn't keep you on the edge of you seat (As any good game should do, 
 and any good game should keep me playing for at least 100 hours) . I am not however saying don't 
 get it but what i am saying is that it starts off good but by the end it just doesn't entertain 
 [a bit like Spectrobes] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloX5
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Great game im still playing it so some bits are harsh but it still a fantastic game like lugia 
 you have to scale a 99 floor dugeon (silver trench) and it very unlikely so you probally wont even 
 get it which sucks most of the legendarys wont join your team easily.
  The idea of the personality test was good and the range of pokemon is great though they do miss 
 quite a few.
  A game that will simpily keep you going for weeks on end, im still playing it, so gamespot i disagree 
 with your review most pokemon fans like this stuff and i say that the pokemon company did a good 
 job this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZobe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  this game is smooth and fun, good sprites and... its just a good game... it can get boring after 
 you've finished the storyline, i loved this game, the amount of time I believe spent on this game 
 must have been amazingly huge, the amounts of sprites, levels and programming, AND it looks good, 
 its a long game, the only other bad point i would have to say is the lack of multiplayer. In cinclution 
 (my god its like an essay) this game is worth getting, and its much better than the red version, 
 trust me. um... yeah, it has good coulours and everything... MY GOD ISNT THIS 100 WORDS YET IM DONE 
 RANTING ABOUT HOW MUCH UI LLOVE THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic3333333
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  GameSpot says that this game reuses the same tiles over &amp; over. Go get your GBA and copy of 
 Zelda: Links Awakening. Notice anything? The same tiles reused over and over. the dungeon hack is a 
 great one, because it makes the game ALMOST Impossible to write a guide for, and no maps.
  In Mystery Dungeon, there is one flaw: There is 1 Pokemon you cant understand. I wont tell you who, but 
 ill give you a hint: Destiny Bond, Counter, Mirror coat.
  You can buy orbs and TMs at a Kecleon Shop, Buy Friend Areas (which are needed for recruiting pokemon) from 
 a Wigglytuff, store items with Kangaskhan, and store money with Persian. A training center Is run 
 by Makuhita, and a Whiscash gives you advice, and Pelippers deliver your mail, allow you to leave 
 for freind rescues, send A-Ok mail, and Receive Thank You Mail. While we're on the subject, the game 
 has one VERY Conveinent feature.
  The SOS Password System.
  Why?
  Because of websites like these.
  The SOS passwords allow you to get help from people on the boards, and 
 after getting an A-ok password, reviving y our team exactly where you were when killed.
  however, this is not infinite.
  you only get 10 chances to complete a dungeon. after that, you have 
 to try it again from thr beginning.
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi1993
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Pokemon Mystery Dungeon I was excited, and who wouldn't be? You got to play 
 as a Pokemon! I was very disappointed with the results the storyline took me about 1 day to finish. 
 All the dungeons are the same thing, sure there are differences in the pokemon and dungeon floor. 
 Essentially this game is a repetitive chore. If you are just starting pokemon or getting back in 
 to it. Just wait till Pokemon Diamond or Pearl. This is not worth your time or money. The graphics 
 were the only thing worth your time. The sprite work was nice. The songs are annoying and don't 
 vary greatly. Once you play it once it's not worth playing again. I lost an HM and I had to start 
 the whole game over, because you need them to enter certain dungeons. The 30 dollar price is way 
 to expensive. This game in my opinion was one of the biggest buzz and bust's of the whole pokemon 
 line. Just wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikita121
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to say Pokemon blue dungeon is a great approach to the series but not necessarily the greatest.
 
  
  The Good:
  1. The game always has a huge amount of missions (new ones each time!)
  2. The levels are never the same leaving a lot to do for those exploration freaks.
  3. The whole 
 leveling up thing (like in most rpg's) is in this game and in my opinion i find training fun (don't 
 know about others)
  4. You don't always have to enter a battle at random and only fight 1 or 2 pokemon at once, here 
 you fight a lot more.
  5. The battle system is a bit better than most Pokemon games.
  
  
  The Bad:
  1. The graphics 
 aren't as good as they can be for the ds and you can't hide the mini map to the side (or can you?)
 
  2. The levels don't have any cool landmarks except the boss floor because they are always grass 
 and dirt or rock and lava.
  3. And I don't really like the multi-player option in it as much as i hoped i would
  
  Overall 
 the Game is a great new approach to Pokemon and a sequel wouldn't be the worst yet i still think 
 the original style of Pokemon is quite better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox-guy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the coming of this new Pok&eacute; mon game I wasn't very interested. I 
 thought it would ruin the classic Gotta catch-em all! attitude that the books, T. V show and classic 
 Pok&eacute; mon games had. So in the spirit of not being able to let a game go that was playable 
 on my system, I went out and rented it. I found that after a while it seemed to be more and more 
 fun. The one thing I liked somewhat a little bit less, was the fact that instead of other games 
 where seem to learn everything in the beggining this game lets you learn through out the entire 
 game. After a while the game seems to resemble harvest moon although you as the player don't live 
 on a farm nor do you have to plant crops. The things from harvest moon that are in this game in 
 a different form is how on your rescue missions you find many items to regain health or to fill 
 your stomach. Another thing from harvest moon that is in this game is how you have to look after 
 yourself somewhat like in real life (manage your money, buy items and other goodies etc.) . Reciving 
 mail in this game is not the only way to take on rescue missions. Outside of the post office is 
 a bulatin board which may have rescue missions you may want to check out. If you own this game 
 good for you and if not I suggest you check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelpm15
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  It really is the worst pokemon game ever. Its utterly a waste of time you cnat evolve till the 
 end and you cant trade with other games. If youre looking for a good poke game theres a lot better 
 out there try emerald or pokemon ranger. This game makes legendery pokemon look like average ratata. Battles 
 are boring predictable and puts you in imposible situations. The worst part is not only do you have 
 to keep yourself alive but your partner as well. You have to spend countless hours trying to get 
 enough money to but all the friend areas. Yea u can go ahead and try to complete the game 100 percent 
 but then what you cant trade you cant battle. The point is dont even rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharmedKitty999
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dugeon is a very fun adventure game. The graphics and sound fit in perfectly to 
 the game. It's got a verry unexpected storyline. You take personality test of sevral questions that 
 test determines what pokemon you become you could pick a partener pokemon out of all nine stsrtersbut 
 say you get a totodile you cant pick mudkip or squirtle as parterners. music 10 : it fits in alll 
 along with the game. graphics10: it really good and theyre als quite cute too. gameplay10: Fun lots 
 of things to do! Value: good for your money lots of things to do. my opions: Good fun hard and exelent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon game genre took a steep step down after some of the more popular pokemon games lost 
 their popularity (red, blue, gold, silver, ruby, sapphire, etc) . Its no one's fault really. Perhaps 
 I'm just tired of the DS seemingly being consisted of dungeon crawlers that get increasinly longer 
 and consisting of no variety seemingly.
  
  This game is hard to describe. Its plot is okay, it's sounds get repeatitive, the graphics are 
 mediocre compared to your average DS game, the gameplay is similar to Children of Mana. A painfully 
 repeatitive dungeon crawler that gets increasinly longer as the levels progress. The scenery is 
 pretty repeatitive too. The gameplay can sometimes be more frusterating than fun. The battle system 
 can also be annoying. And if you fail the 29th of 30th level, you get the joy of having to start 
 all over again. Its got plenty of pokemon, though they've all been toned down and the game refuses 
 to let your pokemon evolve until after the story finishes... Why? Your charmander will be level 
 50 and still a charmander... What the hell?
  
  I found this game to be more painful than fun. Maybe you're different. Maybe you find repeating 
 the same level over and over with slightly harder monsters each time with a small variety of different 
 moves and a lousy control scheme that hurts your hands, fun. Personally, it drives me mad.
  
  I do not recommend this game to your average gamer. Unless you're a real die-hard pokemon fan, 
 you probably won't get much joy out of this game. I suggest others wait until the next decent Pokemon 
 RPG comes out. That is, if we ever see that day again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco2050
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  In a few words: this game cannot compare to the main games that define the Pokemon game franchise. 
 But it's not trying to.
  
  The storyline cannot stand up to true RPGs, needless to say. It's over in a matter of twenty dungeons 
 or so. It's what comes after that that makes the game interesting, and to a certain extent, addictive.
 
  
  There are over forty dungeons to explore, and most of them have unique Pokemon that make it worth 
 going through over and over, just to recruit some of them. If you are a fan of the other Pokemon 
 games, and have spent hours wandering on grass patches or fishing for that Feebas, it's a familiar 
 sensation.
  
  The graphics doesn't make full use of the DS capability, and that's a pity. That aside, each sprite 
 is well-drawn and uniquely animated. Flying types will flutter their wings while moving, and the 
 biger Pokemon will just lumber along. Very different from the standard games, where all you get 
 to see are the back and front sprites and limited action. Other features for the DS (such as the 
 touch screen options) feels like they're added just so that it can be considered a DS game.
  
  The sounds are recycled every few dungeons, along with the floor tile set. Fortunately, they 
 also change every ten or twenty floors within most dungeons, so in a sense, you do feel like you're 
 going deeper into a dungeon. The music fades into the background after a while, and the sounds 
 from attacks, Pokemon etc serve only as an audio warning if you're not paying attention.
  
  Gameplay-wise, nothing much in particular stands out. You can create a team of up to four Pokemon 
 (though it'll usually be two or three early in the story) but you'll also find that having four 
 Pokemon makes the team very cumbersome to handle. You're also more susceptible to having enemy 
 Pokemon sneak up on your 'rear guard' while you're in tunnels. The presence of traps makes it all 
 the more important to handle your team well. Your team may end up stepping on a few traps several 
 times if you're not careful with how you walk. Eventually, you'll find that having just one Pokemon 
 is sufficient.
  
  The rescue missions vary between four standard types: rescue, escort, item delivery and item finding. 
 The last one is particularly frustrating (not to mention stupid) because the item that you're supposed 
 to find either doesn't turn up on the specified floor, or has such a low chance of appearing, that 
 it may take several trips just to complete. And you'll soon find that it's easier to just take 
 the item with you (if you have it) and when you exit the dungeon, you're considered to have 'completed' 
 the mission.
  
  The game has some balance issues. If you're several levels higher than your opponent, most enemies 
 end up doing zero or one damage per attack, but it's still possible for the same Pokemon to use 
 defence-lowering moves and end up doing 40+ damage to you. Also, some dungeons that you are supposed 
 to complete easily (given your level) still contain Pokemon that can KO you with one attack. In 
 fact, moves that can attack more than once (eg Triple Kick) can wind up KO-ing you three times 
 over (if you have Reviver Seeds) , which is ridiculous.
  
  Overall, the game has plenty of post-story areas to explore, including all the legendaries ever 
 featured. In fact, it's possible to recruit all 386 Pokemon featured up till the 3rd Generation 
 games. The fact that some legendaries are so hard to recruit, may cause you to dive head-on into 
 a dungeon several times over just to glimpse that Pokemon. The 99-floor dungeons are always a challenge, 
 and bringing a wrong combination of items for those may spell doom for you.
  
  Final Verdict: If you're looking for freedom to explore, or something to fill your craving before 
 Diamond/Peard comes out, it's worth a try. You'll either love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slo_bro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I will never understand why this game has recieved some mediocre reviews. The only problem I see 
 with this game is its graphics. Nobody is going to like this game just for its graphics. In my 
 opinion the very first pokemon RPGs had better graphics than this game, for one simple reason: 
 In those games the pokemon characters could be seen as large, cute images. In this game you will 
 never see your stars any way other than as small (but well drawn and well animated) sprites.
  
  Everything else about this game just seems wonderful to me. One very good thing is that this 
 game can be played absolutely at any speed you want to. The game has features to run through dungeons 
 very quickly, but it will always let you stop and think things out, and believe me, by the time 
 you save the world you will have had some scenarios come up where you'll want to think out the 
 best course of action.
  
  By the time you save the world in this game you will have played 25 hours and will have witnessed 
 one of the most charming stories in any video game. But the game hasn't even hit its stride yet. 
 I only play extras after the story is finished in games if I really like the game and feel compelled 
 to, and oh yeah I wanted to see what this game had to offer! Many of the game's features don't 
 even appear until after the storyline is complete. Don't misunderstand, saying the storyline is 
 complete in fact is not true, because really nice scenes long after the storyline resolve things 
 that never really finish in the main storyline (the first 25 hours) .
  
  Once you've played 80 or 90 hours your heroes will be extremely strong, and none of the ordinary 
 dungeons will be any challenge for you. BUT, this game includes two wonderful features (neither 
 of them making any logical sense but that's alright) that will keep the challenge up even after 
 that. The first is missions where you have to escort a weak pokemon deep into a dungeon. If your 
 client gets beaten it is just as bad for your team as if your heroes are beaten. The bigger and 
 better challenge-increasing feature is the three dungeons where your characters lose all their 
 advantages (level and special abilities) every time they enter. Don't worry, they'll get all their 
 levels back after they leave the dungeon. These level 1 dungeons are a really special challenge 
 the likes of which I have only seen in Lufia games.
  
  And I haven't even mentioned some of this game's coolest features. If you know someone else with 
 the game, or have internet access, you can have your defeated team saved by someone else and have 
 another chance at the dungeon. That feature's so neat I hope other games pick up on it and add 
 it to their series. And hey, this is a Pokemon game, with - get this - 413 varieties of pokemon 
 that can join your cause! Well, 28 of those are different Unowns so there are really only 386 recruitable 
 species, but still it's impressive. After completing the story you can return to earlier dungeons 
 with tough legendary-pokemon bosses like Zapdos and recruit them. And some of the non-legendary 
 pokemon, like Chansey, are even harder to recruit than the legendaries. Another neat feature is 
 that it IS possible to steal items from shops in the game, but you REALLY have to know what you're 
 doing not to be beaten (without the chance to even be rescued) . If you're dedicated and lucky enough 
 to recruit the shopkeeper, you'll have a decided advantage in those level 1 dungeons I mentioned 
 before.
  
  If you only play till the end of the main story, this game has 25 hours of gameplay. But I think 
 it's a safe bet you'll want to play more than that. If you play long enough to complete all the 
 dungeons it'll take a little over 100 hours. That's pretty good for an RPG, BUT, if you really 
 like this game and want to recruit every single pokemon, and want to get into the internet friend-rescuing 
 scene, this game has 400 hours of play!!! That's amazing. I've logged 425 hours, and I still want 
 to play more. And the graphics only bothered me about the first one-fourth of an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asturns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game! I may have completed the main game in about 9 hours, but I enjoyed it anyway. 
 It's totally awesome!!! It's learning curve was easy for me, since I also have Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon Red Rescue Team, but I really love all the new features that Blue Rescue Team has that 
 isn't in Red Rescue Team! I also love the Dual Slot compatibility. Now I can rescue my brother 
 easily without a Game Boy Advance Connector Cord. My favorite feature is Unknown Dungeon. You can 
 use wireless connection to unlock new places, recruit new team members, and explore an unknown 
 Pokemon world that isn't in the main game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshandlucky
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far the best pokemon gome on the ds. not the best ever but its up there. i like 
 how the dungeons are always random so sometimes youll be right next to the exit and other times 
 youll be the farthest possible. this game is DEFINITELY worth $30. i also like how your starter 
 pokemon best reflects who you are. but if you get a crappy one your partner you can still choose. 
 gamestop was awful at rateing this game it deserves so much higher than a 5.2. well thats all i 
 have to say but i have to have at least a hundred words so ill keep talking... oh look at that thats 
 a hundred words so im going to stop talking even though i like writing thgis review and pokemon 
 is really fun ewven though people think its for babys but i dont im 14 and i still [play it and 
 i dont see me stopping any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue team sucks. Period. And the storyline is WAY too easy to predict.
 
  
  First of all, the graphics are just terrible. They're just the GBA's graphics.
  All you do is go floor after floor after floor- almost half of them being 99 floors- hitting these 
 little things that look somewhat like Pokemon. I love Pokemon. I hate this game.
  
  And EVERY. SINGLE. DUNGEON. SAME THING. All they are, is just different Pokemon, MORE FLOORS, some 
 crappy items along the way (Which will get you killed and ambushed) and different walls. Oh my 
 god! These walls were ORANGE last time! Wow, now they're blue! SWEET! And the music couldn't get 
 any more repetitive....
  
  EVERY ATTACK IS THE SAME. In total, there's only about 15 different crappy attacks, with horrible 
 special effects (none) . But- WOW!- recolors! Everything in this game is just a recolor.
  
  When you die, you have the great option to get rescued by a friend! And all it takes is a 30-digit 
 password! And then you can put in ANOTHER 30 password! AWESOME!!!! And it won't even do WiFi!
 
  The controls SUCK!!! Using the touch screen to move/ select items will take over 4X longer. Yup. 
 THAT slow. AND, forget it. The top screen? NO. Ooh, wow! I can see my health, JUST like on the 
 touch screen!
  
  Plus, this game is VERY cheap. You cannot choose whether you want to use a Revive or not. Automatic. 
 No choice. Recruit a new Pokemon? It committed suicide? One less seed. I was in a dugeon. A Sandshrew 
 35 levels higher kills me in ONE HIT and I die. It was using the weakest attacks it had. This game 
 has got to be a joke... And when you die, if you don't have hours to put in a 60-digit total-password, 
 you lose EVERYTHING.
  
  But, you can rescue yourself if you have Red Rescu Team without using a password. If you waste 
 your money on BOTH crappy games, I'd say the game would reach 7.4.
  
  The AI couldn't get worse. If you are about to die, and somebody is chasing you, your partner will 
 run away to fight it, die, and then you'll get game over. At random times they tend to run away. 
 And die. They use their special attacks on EVERY Pokemon. If you attack it twice and it has 1 HP 
 left, they'll use their best move. After about 10 floors, they have no moves left.
  
  Conclusion:
  Not even the biggest fan would want this. What would you do if YOU were a Pokemon? 
 Shut off the game and get a life. You can't choose what you want to do, anyway. Your guy just does 
 what the bad storyline does. Nothing.
  And by the way, this game is NOT action. It's still turn-based. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess-peach
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Pokemon games have always been my favourite ever since they came out and I must say I was impressed 
 by this. Mixing PS2 rpgs ethics with pokemon turn based battles were a good idea for Nintendo. 
 Especially as you can get away without having to wait a turn.
  
  What lets it down though is the repetitive nature of it's battles and the evolution of the pokemon 
 only at the ending. Usually extras give me incentive to complete the game but these extras were 
 crap and so I started again to change the storyline.
  
  Overall, it's awesome for an rpg though emotions of the pokemon and the music can become annoying.
 
  
  Regards,
  
  Princess-peach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilwakka
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Where do I start? Pok&eacute; mon games have always been good, but they all followed the same theme. 
 This, however, is a little bit different. Let me explain.
  
  Instead of being a trainer, who travels around the world, trying to be the best, you are transported 
 into the world of Pok&eacute; mon, as one. Now that sounds a little corny, I admit. But trust me 
 on this, it's a sweet and new idea to try.
  
  That's the summary over with, now into the boring stuff. You may need some kind of an attention 
 span, whatever one of those is, I never paid enough attention to notice...
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's different, and because this is an RPG, you can play as long as you like, 
 doing various side-quests. You can capt- *gulp* RECRUIT all 380 pok&eacute; mon that belong in the 
 first three generations, which is sorta the same as the original trainer games, but on this you 
 don't have to trade, so if you have no friends, there you go!
  
  Okay, as far as the gameplay goes, it's a little repetitive. You go into a dungeon, rescue someone, 
 then come out again. Or you go into the dungeon, reach the end and battle a legendary. It isn't 
 really groundbreaking. But after a certain storyline event (no spoilers here) you can change the 
 leader of your team, which gives you access to dozens of attacks, so getting through the dungeon 
 is (slightly) less repetitive! What's easier on the brain is that they ditched the random battle 
 feature, I mean, that would drive you nuts.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  They are sprites. Just like every other RPG style pok&eacute; mon game. So it's not exactly stretching 
 the DS' graphics capacity. But that's a good thing, simple graphics are easy on the eyes. I mean, 
 they're not exactly BAD, just simple. The graphics on the attacks are slightly less pleasing. I 
 mean yeah, they're simple. But a fire attack just looks like every other fire attack (basically) 
 so, they're a bit samey. And you'll be seeing attacks a LOT, seeing as it's one of the main focuses 
 of the game. So, a little above average, then.
  
  Audio: 8/10
  The sounds are nothing really to write home about, to be honest. But remember what I said about 
 simplicity? The fire attacks sound like fire, the water attacks sounds like water, and so on. It 
 gets the job done, and nothing more.
  
  The music on the other hand... *grins openly* is very catchy, for the most part. I mean, some dungeon's 
 music teeters slightly on the annoying side, but the main theme, in particular is so sweet. It'll 
 stick in your head, folks!
  
  Story: 10/10
  A masterpiece, it must be said. I'm not going to go into detail, since you humans are reading this 
 review to get a general idea of what the game is like, not to be spoiled to hell. But you, a human, 
 have become a pok&eacute; mon, for a reason that you do not know, yet. But you become the victim 
 of malicious allegations, and even become a fugitive at one point. Ooo, crime... in a pok&eacute; mon 
 game? You'll see.
  
  Use of the Stylus: 5/10
  Since this is a DS game, (well, Blue version is) it's all about the touch-screen. Sadly, it doesn't 
 really utilise it as much as you'd think. I mean, sure, you can use it to move... to an extent. 
 And to attack... again to an extent. But you can do these actions just as well (sometimes better) 
 using the buttons. But bah, it's not a disaster.
  
  Summary: Me/10
  How do I score this... never mind.
  
  I like it a lot. Since I have always bought the RPG versions 
 of pok&eacute; mon games, it's kind of a ritual, but I didn't expect to be entertained to such an 
 extent, I mean... it's DIFFERENT! *Gasps* Seriously, though. If you are a fan of the series, this 
 is a must-buy. If you are an RPG fan, and aren't too bothered with the pok&eacute; mon theme, it's 
 also a must buy. If you hate both sides, then it's not. (Duh?) That's all, guys and gals! Hope 
 you buy this game. Remember, I sent ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkbrady
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  An interesting twist of gameplay following the previous styles of PokeMon, but in my opinion far 
 better. Picking up the becoming-forgotten-about dungeon crawling type games, it has mixed in the 
 PokeMon and Monster Breeder genres. Similar in style to Dragon Warrior Monsters and Azure Dreams 
 that you roam the dungeons recruiting new PokeMon to your cause and powering through the various 
 random maps collecting a multitude of novel items and Friends.
  
  The main storyline is fairly short , but i see it as an extended tutorial. You have your main two 
 characters and follow through a quirky little storyline that, by the end of it leaves enough loose 
 ends for afterwards and you won't have levelled up to a level where it takes the fun out of continuing 
 playing. Most of the game features are unlocked after the conclusion including plenty of much larger, 
 stronger dungeons and (after a slightly too easy storyline) they are more challenging and bring 
 in hundreds of more Friends to recruit and introducing extras like 'Level 1 Dungeons'. Probably 
 the most irritating thing about the storyline is that you are forced to stick with the same two 
 characters and charge through the story so when you have completed it any other Friends you have 
 can't possibly compare to the levels of your mains; therefore you are inclined to keep using them 
 instead of training up evenly. Neither can you evolve until the conclusion but, as said, that is 
 an extra you get to wait for till the definitely more challenging 'after-storyline' section. The 
 evolution system works differently and can be rather frustrating dragging one PokeMon at a time 
 back and forth evolving them all and then going to the Moves Shop to get them to remember all of 
 their earlier moves which you wouldn't otherwise have access to.
  
  The item section also differs from previous PokeMon games, having one slot per item instead of 
 ''Oran Berry x 99'' you only have twenty slots for everything, so you are forced to seriously plan 
 what to take with you and in dungeons what needs to be collected and what should be left behind.
 
  
  The most annoying thing about the entire game i would say is the recruitment system. Instead of 
 collecting eggs in Azure Dreams, or throwing food in Dragon Warrior Monsters or indeed chucking 
 PokeBalls in PokeMon, joining PokeMon is totally random and you have no control over it other than 
 increasing the percentage possibility of them deciding too join.
  
  The missions can get fairly same-same but if you are going through that dungeon anyway you can 
 just pick up a mission and do it along the way at no expense (also keeping an escape option open 
 if the need arises) and with the WiFi and Wonder Mail extras you can be rescued and rescue people 
 from all over and involve yourself more in other peoples games and keep everyone held together 
 by a certain rescue-glue that has been added in.
  
  I would say this game has been boosted with the twist in gameplay and has managed to maintain most 
 of the better aspects of the previous games like the 'catch 'em all' theme. A thoroughly addictive 
 game once started with plenty of quirky little extras such as the personality test at the beginning. 
 I say it's a fine addition to the DS shelf and PokeMon catalogue alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedDemon6421
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Dungeon Blue is a very repettive game. It is fun for the first 4-6 hours. A big part of 
 pokemon games is evolving by leveling up. In this game, you cannot evolve by leveling up, you must 
 evolve by touching a crystal which cannot be accesed until very deep (about 5-8 hours) into the 
 game. Also, the dungeons all have a feeling of sameness because every time it is entered, the floor 
 layout is randomized. Overall, this pokemon game is exciting for the first few hours, but then 
 becomes very repetitive and boring. Pokemon fans may become dissapointed after playing this addition 
 to the pokemon family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  i mean i liked the pokemon series when i was small and i still like them now. i don't see any bad 
 things about this its a nice simple game for the nintendo ds. its a lot of fun. and its about time 
 it was the piokemon turn insted of being a human all the time. thers a lot to do there are a lot 
 of dungeons to do and missions. you can spend hours playing this. i mean i never get enough of this. i 
 mean it does get bad reviews. but i think it should of had better scores. i have never played the 
 red one but it might be the same as this. and for me i think this is the best pokemon on the ds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsPYT
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Because that's what this game is, a dungeon crawler with PokeMon...
  
  Yes, of course there are ups and downs such as the storyline, its cute, interesting and any fan 
 would want to finish it just to see what the heck happens but the downside is... many.
  
  There is one other up before I continue to the downs, that would be the personality test in the 
 begining to see what PokeMon you turn out to be, heck! Thats one of the reasons I got the game 
 myself but time to move on.
  
  Downside one would be the lack of 'leveling up' sort of speak, yes you gain levels as you would 
 any PokeMon game by battleing other PokeMon but the down part is you do NOT evolve! How is that 
 possible? Whats going to happen? You work all the way to level 100 in the main storyline and THEN 
 once its done you evolve? But what about all the awesome and stronger moves you learn as a higher 
 level pokemon? Out the window until you beat the story!
  
  That my friends is BS...
  
  The next downside is the gameplay of this take a turn, slow moving and very annoying fighting system. 
 It isn't like a normal RPG where if your partnet falls you can use a revive to bring them back, 
 thats only for second rate pokemon, if you or your main partner passes out? EEEERRR, back to the 
 begining. The fights are normally one sided in your small size as you make your way up or down 
 dungeons... Which isn't fun...
  
  Next would be limited space in item holdings, instead of back in the day having potions x whatever, 
 now theres a space for all items so no more berrie x 20, oh no, they have to make you think about 
 how many rations you need to take. I find that alittle hard not to mention could be frustrating 
 for a child. Even though the game is a total let down, I find myself enjoying it to the fact that 
 I am a fan and that I'm used to the cruddy system of playing. It gets boring fast in the begining 
 because of all the missions that need to be done to gain levels but then when you DO get through 
 the storyline its too short and not to mention once its done, all thats left to do are those repeative 
 missions only as evolved PokeMon... Not the type of game you'd pick up and continue with that type 
 of motivation if you ask me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekstiles2012
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  i think gamespot ar etoi hard on this game its a amazing game if u like old 1s urll like this the 
 battlings differrent but i prefer it its a bit to short but lots to do after u complete so its 
 amazing buy it
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crapyourheadoff
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  this is not a relly good game but the gameplay is prety good to me but not much i good about ist 
 i would not relly sugest buying this game unless you relly want to get it .i just dont like this 
 game that much. so i hope you like my revew but i still dont relly suget this game it get relly 
 boring after like 7 minites. i think the game is boring so i dont play it any more. this game is 
 not worth that much money so if you still want to buy it its barly any money. well i got to go 
 back to my union. so more people will join if you reed this plz join the halo union. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is a dissapointment to fans of the Pokemon series across the world. The 
 graphics look worse than most games on the GBA, and this is a DS game. Although the story is well 
 -written and can consume over 20 hours, but that doesn't override the awful layout of the game. 
 The simplistic dungeons seem to have nothing to do with the series except for famous pokemon characters 
 slapped on. Also, the backgrounds and dungeons are extremely reppititive, and there is nothing 
 to do in the overworld except some dumb shopping and saving the game, where you are at. This game 
 is a game meant to be rented, not purchased. The battle system and gameplay is similar to the classic 
 games (WORSE THAN THE OTHER GAMES) , but there are no innovations, oops, good innovations in this 
 game. Only really really really hardcore fans should even consider buying this game. I used to 
 love to pokemon series, but this game made Pokemon go down the drain. Bye Pokemon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I know Game Spot and They disagree with me when I say this, but this was a great game with a unexpected 
 moving sensations. It makes you feel like you're really in the game. One thing is, the game ends 
 too quickly. It was a total of fifteen hours of game play and it was, as a strange combination, 
 a superb game. The graphics were awesome and the sound, oh. That was the best sound I heard. Ever. 
 I know it seems weird, but I enjoy easy listening with emtional backup. Good: Great price for a 
 game that is as great as ever, compelling good ear and eye candy, controls are prefect, the character 
 are not slapped on, but carefully overlooked to make sure it didn't happen, cast is perfect. Bad: 
 Game is too short, more accessible missions, I wish there was more to do than shop and save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxds
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who said this game is good must be kidding. Terrible graphics (for DS) awful gameplay and 
 SLIGHTLY FOR BABIES.
  Do not Buy this game.... Unless you are a total freak for Pokemon... but even so, i don&acute; t think 
 you would like this game. It&acute; s too easy, you get fed up really quikly, there is no challenge, 
 and you don&acute; t have tha gotta catch them all feelling. But why do you think all the other comments 
 are mostly good?
  KIds nowadays think the game is good just because it has Pokemons. But guess what, it&acute; s not 
 true this game is c*ap! Just take a look at those graphics and compare them with the comments, 
 I mean, These must be joking but guess they don&acute; t know what a good game is... or they would 
 not like this terrible game... GAMESPOT, I am with you this time, but if it wasn&acute; t a Pokemon 
 game I think you would give it an even lower score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuddy_666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  It's a pokemon game, I hear you cry. It gets 5.2, I hear gamespot cry, It's really good, me and 
 everyone else who has played this game for longer than 10 minutes cries. That was my though trail 
 yesterday as I finally read Gamespot's review (and a few other reviews) of this game. And, as most 
 people can tell you, it's pokemon, but not as we knew it.
  
  Graphics: 8/10- The usual pokemon-style graphics here, not that that is a bad thing.
  
  Gameplay: 
 10/10- the gameplay alone makes this game classic. Chunsoft finally add a hunger meter to the pokemon 
 games that some fans (me, and a few others) , have wanted for a while. Another good thing is the 
 in-game randomised dungeon engine making the thousands of rescue missions you can go on totally 
 different, even if your next mission is in the same dungeon as your last mission. While the AI 
 is sometimes pretty sloppy (on both your side, and your enemies side) , this doesn't matter, as 
 the whole brilliance of the gameplay balances this out.
  
  I also liked the character selection test at the start of the game, where a Pokemon is chosen based 
 on your personality (according to the Game, I am Impish [fun to be around, but slightly childish] ) and 
 afterwards, you also select a partner pokemon (If you were wondering, my partner pokemon is charmander)
 
  
  Sound: 9/10- Some tunes aren't very good, but some are really catchy. The mission complete tune 
 that you listen to after completing some of the story missions is one really catchy song, that 
 I was humming along to for a while on Christmas day (please note, I did get this game on christmas 
 day) .
  
  Value 10/10: I've put close to 15 hours in (mainly on non-story missions) , and I've not got near 
 to finishing this game, the main story is supposed to be around 20 hours if you rush through (according 
 to other reviewers) , and after the main story, I reckon there is around 100 hours (possible) of 
 extra gameplay getting all 380+ pokemon.
  
  The good:
  Lasts ages.
  Lots of missions to do if you have 5 minutes spare.
  Pretty fun, considering most people find 
 recent pokemon games to be boring.
  
  The bad:
  The sometimes sloppy AI for your partner pokemon.
  Some music is bad.
  WonderMail passwords 
 take ages to type out sometimes.
  
  Overall:
  A worthwhile purchase for all pokemon fans, and RPG fans in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard this was a dungeon style game I was a little worried. I hadn't played many dungeon 
 style games but I bought it anyway because it was a Pokemon game. The minute I started playing 
 I was hooked. It is great to be able to be the Pokemon and it adds a different spin on the normal 
 Pokemon games. The fact that all of the current Pokemon are in it is a big plus. The dungeons can 
 be difficult with 99 floors to go through so it never boring. I love the ability to pick teams 
 for different locations. Plus the length of the game is great. I got it when it first came out 
 and still haven't finished everything there is to do. Overall this is a great new style of Pokemon 
 game and I wouldn't mind buying a sequel that would contain all of the current Pokemon plus the 
 ones from the new diamond and pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 008xtreme
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is totally awesome, one of the best games I ever played.
  I think the way why it is rated a 5.2 is because of the fact the 'judges' don't like Pok&eacute; mon.
 
  Anyway, the story is perfect, the controls are (almost) perfect, you can have a lot of help.
 
  The only minus point I can give is the evolution.
  I've heard that it's one of the biggest games ever made on the DS (in MB) .
  You can totally change 
 your gameplay by choosing your Pok&eacute; mon.
  So, if you are a Pok&eacute; mon fan, and you don't have this game, and you have some money left. 
 I'd say this would be a great piece of your collection!
  
  That's all I have to say, I hope it's okay.
  
  ~Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachmen
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  game is good the worst is the evolution part. the best in the series. imersive game with much innovation 
 from the ones before. i like the way of gameplay its easy and the buttons are simple. the sound not 
 perfect repetitive music for me. good graphics perfectly designed bodies. i guess the game is worthh 
 the wait and the money payed for it. ITS a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a as a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmrcx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Blue Is........... Absolutely fantastic. It has great graphics unlike any 
 pokemon game ever seen before (except for newer pokemon games) . You really feel like your in the 
 action and story. The storyline is a little bit short but still great. The sounds like any pokemon 
 games get annoying after a while but you get used to them. This is a must have for any pokemon 
 fan. The personality test at the start of the game is great. It helps you pick the best pokemon 
 for you. Oh the attacks are great and you actually see them. The items are pretty good too! DEFINETLY 
 A BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorade23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  This game in my opinion is the best Pokemon game Nintendo has come out with that ive played so 
 far. I mean i was cool with having a whole box of pikachus on my fire red but now i get to be a 
 pikachu!!! I mean how awesome is that? Great game for those just introduced to Pokemon. Even better 
 game for those Pokemon veterans who have been playing since Nintendo first came out with blue and 
 red versions ( I still have my blue version finished poke-dex + missing no and mew, max cash and 
 all lvl 100 pokes =P ) Whoever doesn't like this game may be entitled to their own opinion but 
 I think its a great game over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I give pokemon: mystery dungeon blue rescue team a 9 out of 10. It has exciting gameplay and missions.
 
  You can free roam in dungeons and as you go along part of the map is revealed. Get your level 
 higher to acheive many things. They throw a funny and great storyline at you. Its a creative game 
 and it allows you to store items and have other pokemon as friends who join your rescue team. Recieve 
 mail and items from completing quests. Do missions to get your rescue rank up and become the best 
 of the best. It does not use the ds double screen feature or the touch screen feature that well. 
 It's much faster to just use the buttons and it only displays your team or map on the double screen. 
 To make gameplay faster this game allows you to sprint through turns. Avoid enemys in dungeon by 
 going around in circles or face them head on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staticmario
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The Game can be a let-down at times, The graphics are dissapointing and the lack of battle scenes 
 slow the game down. Although, the fun of it can rack it a few points and i'd say the gameplay is 
 awesome! It is a full-through and emotional tale about a boy who turns into a pokemon that you 
 choose yourself.
  
  Hopefully a newer version of the game will be released with more improved graphics instead of the 
 GBA style to it. Nintendo can be pleased of the copies sold but the question is... Do the customers 
 like it? Personaly I think the game is brill. The option to recruit and battle each and every pokemon 
 can be fun and encouraging!
  
  Overall i'd say the game is elementary but needs a few emprovements.
  Nintendo can rest asured 
 that there is one person out there who likes this game. Me. Now come and join me and get a copy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  i am a huge pokemon fan and this is probably the worst pokemon game i have played to date... i sold 
 2 games to get this game and after the first hour of playing the game i wanted to..... urggggghhhh!!!
 
  the only thing good about the game is questionnaire at the beginning!!! the rest is very boring!!!! 
 they could have at least made the battles a bit more interesting.... the game is ttoo repetetive... u 
 go into different dungeons and rescue pokemon which definitely gets old after a while... the dungeon 
 design is the same in almost every dungeon !!!! the other bad thing about the game is that u can 
 only have 2 pokemon although u can recruit other members after the other members faint they go 
 away so tht isnt a good feature.... the graphics are mediocre and the sound again the same everytime 
 !!!!
  to sum it up this game is definitely not worth ur money.... u would be much better off with pokemon 
 ruby or fire red.... they r a million times better than this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcgecko
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game can be a great way to apreciate all the other great pokemon games. Its not thats its 
 bad its just not the best. You chose your charecter by takeing a personalaty quiz. (in this game 
 you are the pokemon. I was a machap.) Then you pick a partner. As it turns out you were once a 
 human but you cant rember anything. now you go on reccue missions to try and turn you back into 
 a human. the dungeons are randomised so good luck trying to memorise them. instead of the framiliar 
 potans you have berrys and seeds. Another aspect of the game is your belly. Some hold items make 
 it go down and apples bring it up. if your belly goes empty you lose life. There is no good link 
 up in this game. The story is pretty much a set up for after you beet it. you cant evolve, learn 
 HMs, recruet legendery pokemon, or swich leaders untill you beat the game. If you have any other 
 guestons please gamespot-mail me or coment on my blogs By: kcgecko 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on the web I thought it'd be an interesting take on the Pokemon formula. 
 I waited a few months and bought it the week it came out. To my surprise this game is the exact 
 opposite of what the other Pokemon titles are. They're fun, this is not! The concept is a fresh 
 idea but the execution is done so badly. The story is as follows. You play a human turned Pokemon. 
 You're trying to figure out why this has happened to you while also trying to solve the mystery 
 of the Curse of Ninetales and what happened to Gardevoir. While doing this you form a rescue team 
 which basically is someone who does fetch quests and finds missing characters inside randomly generated 
 dungeons.
  
  Graphically if you looked at a screen of the DS and GBA versions of the game you couldn't tell 
 the difference. This is a bad thing! This game is some half-arsed port Nintendo decided to bring 
 to the DS so they could cash in. This game is soo bad it's not even worth completing. I mean you're 
 Pokemon can't evolve until you beat the game. Seriously!
  
  Sure you can recruit Pokemon you've defeated inside the dungeons to your team but the combat is 
 so bad you may not want to because you and you're partner will always be 5 or 6 levels higher than 
 the others on your team.
  
  Avoid this game at all costs unless you really really love Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  OMG I thought this game was going to be like a superb or a great but boy was I wrong this game 
 was stupid. I mean you have to beat the game then evolve pokemon, clients join your mission and it 
 make the mission frustrating, Attack combinations are worst than I thought, running and walking system 
 is horrible, and most dungeons are long and dull. The only good thing about this game is the great 
 story, sound and cute graphics oh and the fact that the pokemon your going to be his random which 
 makes it very fun and guessing for that particular moment. I'd say you should only get this game 
 if you've played a differnet version of this and liked it but please get someone else to try to 
 buy it for you because you will be disappointed with the money spent. Also don't sell any games 
 for just this game because I did that and now I really regret doing that. So i conclusion I'd say 
 it was really disappointing it's really not worth getting and that's pratically it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dry_Bomber_2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  you basicly wake up as the pokemon that was randomly chose for you while taking a quiz to find 
 out and another pokemon who will be your partner pokemon wakes you up. then you form a rescue team 
 and you are off on an adventure. It may sound really good but its just okay. the battle style gets 
 really really repetitive and you could get annoyed having to battle all the monsters again in a 
 same doungeon if you had to backtrack and battle the same monster again. I do like that you can 
 capture other pokemon and you can put them in the buddy place were you can store differnt pokemon 
 that join your team. The graphics remind me of the old times of playing pokemon ruby. and I really 
 like the music. Its like im playing runescape when i hear that music. the game last for a while 
 but It just soo repetitive and annoying it just made me lose intrest and gave it a bad score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kertkapu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  I really don't have too much time to spend playing games, so I prefer stuff enjoyable on a short 
 term. I also love dungeon hack style stuff. And this is a quite good mix of this two.
  Well as of being Pok&eacute; mon or not, could not care less... The storyline is not a big deal 
 so far - i hope i'm pretty far from the end -. However as most of the hack'n'slash games the story 
 just gives a moral to kill everything that moves. Don't look for big things, as spectacular graphics, 
 or wonderful animation, maybe the kid next door could draw those tiles hundred times better, however 
 the overall feeling of the whole game is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suyomizzle_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is not a Pokemon game, and anybody expecting one should leave right now. Rather, it is a new 
 installment in the popular Japanese series called Mystery Dungeon or something, a few of which 
 we have seen in the states. But none of this is really relevent to the content of the game, unless 
 of course you've played one of these games before, and chances are you probably haven't.
  
  In this game, instead of playing the role of an intrepid explorer or young upstart trying to hunt 
 demons within his local tower of doom or cave of wonders, you play the role of a Pokemon, cute 
 creatures that inhabit the vivid and colorful world of Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, trying to save 
 your fellows from natural disasters that have been occurring. The gameplay is simplistic dungeon 
 hack fare that you have come to expect, where you navigate dungeons using an overhead view and 
 move in a grid. Each attack or step onto another space on the grid is a turn, and during that turn 
 every creature in the dungeon also moves. They can't move or attack if you don't move or attack, 
 so it feels real time, but it's turn based. The catch is, you do not have any equipment of any 
 sort. You have one basic attack, and then four moves that have a varying amount of PP, or Power 
 Points, which is the amount of times you can use the move without replenishing them. You also have 
 Hitpoints and Belly to watch over, each which can be replenished with different items. Belly diminishes 
 as you take steps through the dungeon... and if I have to explain hitpoints to you, then I really 
 don't want you reading my review. The actual plot of the game is that you are a human that has 
 turned into Pokemon for some reason or another (I don't want to spoil anything, as the story is, 
 surprisingly, quite good) and make a Pokemon friend. The two of you join up and make a mystery 
 dungeon to save Pokemon that have been effected by natural disasters and maybe make a buck. A few 
 surprising twists happen, and the story would feel right as home as a Grade A Children's Film, 
 so if you don't find some enjoyment in it I'm sorry to say there's probably something fundamentally 
 wrong with you.
  
  You move through the dungeon with one, two, or three partners and complete missions that you receive 
 in your Rescue Team base mailbox, or find on the town billboard. Also, each dungeon is randomly 
 generated each time you enter.
  
  Essentially, all of the game takes place going between one dungeon or another and your base town, 
 as in most dungeon crawlers.
  
  Recruiting new members to your Rescue Team requires several things. First, you must buy something 
 called a Friend Area where different Pokemon can live. Each Pokemon has a specific Friend Area, 
 and you have to buy them before you can even consider recruiting them. Once you have a certain 
 Pokemon's Friend Area, then you have a small chance of adding the Pokemon to your Rescue Team if 
 you have an empty spot in your party, and if your leader is the one to deliver the final blow.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely beautiful. Each Pokemon is vividly animated with bright 
 colors in their cute sprites. The backgrounds are equally vivid and varied and are a pleasure to 
 look at as you are navigating through them.
  
  The sound also is very good, with hum-able tunes for each dungeon. The game is not very difficult, 
 for anybody who has never played a dungeon crawler before, or young children, this would be a great 
 title.
  
  The touch screen implementation is nearly non-existent, but using your stylus you can navigate 
 menus, move about the town or dungeons, and attack. But you're probably better off just using the 
 buttons.
  
  Overall, this game isn't by any means revolutionary, but it does what it does extremely well and 
 adds some unique twists to the dungeon crawling genre. It's extremely addicted, and the mission 
 setup makes it perfect for quick bursts of playing on the go. If you are a fan of Pokemon (not 
 the games, but the creatures themselves) or dungeon crawling, you owe it to yourself to pick this 
 game up immediately. And if you aren't familiar with either, this game might have you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Not sure what I can actually say about this game it's kind of boring but since I like Pokemon I 
 decided to give it one point higher. If it wasn't a Pokemon game I would have given it a 7.5 instead. 
 Since most Pokemon games are a fun I was kind of like a little surprised this game didn't live 
 up to my expectations. I beaten the game in like about 15 hours. Not sure but maybe Pokemon would 
 be better off without this game. Still it's an all right game. I can't give this game a thumbs 
 up or a thumbs down. RogerC44 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  i personally loved this game. when i first played this game, i kept asking myself why they changed 
 perfection (pokemon red/blue) but before i knew it. i threw in more than 10 hours and couldn't 
 stop. they NPC's really grow on you, and the dungeons, though slightly repetitive, always seem 
 like a new adventure. i think this game really hit the gotta catch 'em all feeling of the series 
 it not so closely relates. even though you'll probably end up using only two pokemon, you'll go 
 back to all the dungeons to get every pokemon on your team. get ready for an unforgiving and tough 
 rpg.
  ive been one square away from the last floor of a dungeon, when my stomach ran out, i had one hp. 
 i was done, that was 25th floor. that can annoy you a little. and you lose ALL your items and money.
 
  
  if you want a game that has 40+ hours of gameplay GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpgirlsarehott
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Blue is an interestin addition to the pokemon series. It completely leaves 
 the aspect of human-pokemon interaction out of it. You start the game off taking a quiz that will 
 decide which Pokemon you'll be. Then, you choose a partner from a list of Pokemon. The story starts 
 off when your partner wakes you up after finding you asleep on the ground, and suspects your crazy 
 after you tell him you were once human. Suddenly, a Butterfree appears and asks you to rescue her 
 baby Caterpie who fell into a fissure. You and your partner rescue the thing, and form a rescue 
 team. Apparently, these diasters have been happening like crazy. And that's how you start off. 
 you lead a team of pokemon through randomly generated dungeons while looking for items and reaching 
 the pokemon your assigned to help. You have the oppurtunity to have all 300 something pokemon join 
 your team, though it is difficult and nearlly impposible if you have better things to do.
  The gameplay is just going through the dungeons, which gets tiring after a while. The deeper you 
 go into a dungeon, the higher the rank it is, which means the better the reward,
  To recruit pokemon, you need that pokemon's freind area. To get these, you have to either buy them, 
 complete a mission for them, or battle the pokemon who needs it, and you'll receive their freind 
 area upon recruitment. Each Pokemon has their own recruitment rate. Most pokemon can be recruited 
 without much diffculty. However, legendary pokemon can be a bother to recruit. Groudon for instance, 
 has a recruitment rate of -10%. Which means you need to either have a freindship bow or a level 
 of at least 50 before recruiting it. A fun aspect of this game is to see the pokemon talk. They 
 all have their individual personalities, which is fun to see on pokemon. The graphics are different 
 from the other games. When battling a pokemon, the screen doesn't change. The moves are still turn-based, 
 and makes it harder to run away from opponents.
  A hard aspect of this game are the random rooms called monster houses. They are rooms in a dungeon 
 floor that suddenly fill up with tons of pokemon. This can become a real problem when in a dungeon 
 full of strong pokemon.
  In conclusion, this game is worth trying. If nothing entertains you but the pokemon talking, it 
 wasn't a total loss. They honestly could've made it better, but still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioxx
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is special for my want you playing as a Pokemon not as a trainer and the Pokemon can 
 talk and that you partner's as you the game out playing the leader can word and i found that crazy 
 that the some bad Pokemon in your rescue team come. And that some team's evil thing tell on other 
 Pokemon in Pokemon square as team Gen-gar. And that you item's can trade with your friend's and 
 that you in the unknown dungeon new friend's can make's and it's cool that the Pokemon why you 
 are, choice word's with your result's of the question's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  If you are into the whole stratagy RPG thing then this is the game for you. In the game you play 
 as a human turned into a pokemon and you have a partner and you both decied to form a rescue team 
 to save pokemon that are in trouble. You then run through these radomly created dungeons and try 
 to save the pokemon. When you run into enemy pokemon you do a kind of real time battle and when 
 you defeat the pokemon you gain experience points and sometimes they want to join your party or 
 rescue team . YOu would think that this system works, but there are some flas. ONe of them is that 
 you can sometimes get overwhemled by the number of enemys that you encounter. YOu also don't level-up 
 as fast as you do in traditional pokemon games. Overal this game is good for a pokemon fan and 
 anyone else who is looking for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clefairy2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you are a human who has transformed into a Pokemon without any memory as a human. 
 You take a quiz at the start to see what Pokemon you become, and you pick a partner Pokemon to 
 help you.
  The game is incredibly addictive; I was hooked at the start. Little clips of text give you hints 
 about how you can play, so it was easy to learn. You don't even have to use the touch screen if 
 you don't want to!
  Moves, weather effects, and items have been retained. I don't like that each berry you have takes 
 up space in your toolbox, even if it's the same kind! I also don't like that moves have strange 
 amounts of PP. But this adds to the challenge and forces you to think about which items you should 
 take into a dungeon.
  I found the main story fairly easy if I had a good combination of Pokemon, but the later dungeons 
 are much more difficult. Speaking of which, I found the story to be very good, and the ending left 
 me choked up. Why? You have to play through the game to find out!
  Graphics could be better for a DS game, but I'm not picky about that. Dungeons available after 
 the main story, new recruitable Pokemon, and secret items add to replay value and keep you playing 
 for months.
  Overall, I'd say Mystery Dungeon is a must-buy for Pokemon fans, especially if (like me) they're 
 excited for Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS:380 pokemons to collect, the dungeon are not the same, a well written story, many 
 may side quests to do, cool boss pokemon, many dungeons, you can link with the other version RED RESCUE 
 TEAM. THE BAD POINTS: very late you can evolv your pokemon, if you let evolv your pokemon, have the 
 pokemons still have the same status as the first form, some pokemon if you let then evolving they 
 get lesser status points [CONCLUSION] this game is not so as gamespot say, its even a good game 
 with solid gameplay and its the best pokemon game for the nintendo DS {till pokemon diamond and 
 pearl is in stores} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElweArnutuile
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's chain of pokemon video games have created a large hype in it's multiple versions of 
 the pokemon series. Each game that has come out has made a great impact to society. Unfortunately, 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team has made a unsatisfactory boom into today's culture. 
 Pokemon Dungeon Blue is a dungeon dwelling DS game that puts in the role of a pokemon. You take 
 a quiz which turns you into a pokemon shortly after (the pokemon you become varies from each response) . 
 After this myserious interview has taken place, you find yourself in a forest, with another pokemon 
 which you get to choose as your partner in front of you. You are called to save Butterfree's baby, 
 who has fallen into a fissure, which you must go through the savage pokemon infested dungeon in 
 order to save it. After you save the Caterpie, your partner is admired by his/her own idea of a 
 Rescue Team. After you are forced to accept, a Rescue Team is established. Pokemon Dungeon Blue 
 get's too repetitive with it's large amount of tasks you must perform inside dungeons. Very little 
 off-task events and privelages are set to save you from the tedious quantity of dungeon rescuing. 
 Alongside the dreary errands, you must face a simple display of controls. L is not used, while 
 SELECT, without any needed use, makes the screen black, X opens the menu, although B does the exact 
 same thing, and Y displays a grid... useless. The buttons could and should have been gifted to 
 function with more useful purposes. Nintendo made no attempt to sanctify it's continuation of identical 
 graphics. Although unremarkable graphics have been reported in almost every DS game, Pokemon Dungeon 
 Blue could have done better. Sound became an annoying aspect attatched to it's features. The music 
 in the Pokemon game ancestors matched it's style, but Blue Rescue Team abandoned it's older music 
 and came up with a totally unfitting music genre. Of course, the music did go well in the dungeon, 
 as you can hear in the background the dull song's which match the dull dungeon layout. Although 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue was a regretful game to pokemon customers, the value of the game 
 should be legendary for it's unique idea. Overall, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team was 
 a fateful success, only standing because of it's distinctive idea. The DS game was displeasing 
 to alot of pokemon gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmwade
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I have got the game and i have also played it. My first opinion was boring... but when you get 
 into the game it speads up a bit more and the story line progresses. The whole object of you being 
 a pokemon and helping fellow pokemon is a masterpiece. The reason why it is getting some slack 
 is because it is different but you just play it and try it out for yourself and i say you'd be 
 pleased.
  I started of as squitle and i progressed through the game with trecko. As the game progresses you 
 learn more and more so then it gets better and better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irkoolman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far the best game on the ds, and one of the best games i have played in years. 
 now as a child i played pokemon blue, then silver, then crystal and then ruby. but after that i 
 kindof drifted away from pokemon not caring when new games came out. but when i looked on the internet 
 about THIS game i was addicted already. the fact that they took the whole pokemon fanchise and 
 turned it into a hack and slash/rpg i was amazed. the way that all of the moves work and how your 
 parter is a smart AI. people keep getting mad about the graphics but if they changed the graphics 
 it would look weird and not look like a pokemon game... just think about it. i like it that you 
 do not have to use the stylus at all for this game, because i dont like using it very much. it 
 has a sweet theme song. the price is normal for a ds game and it is cheap if you are looking for 
 a psp game and you own a ds. the fact of how nintendo and chunsoft took the original pokemon gameplay 
 and mixed it in with action rpg elements is amazing. considering that rpgs and action rpgs are 
 my favorite types of games. i love it that you get to have your own special leader pokemon and 
 you have a special partner because you dont really have to worry about getting all of your pokemon 
 around the same levels and using all of them at different times. all in all this is a freaking 
 awesome game and it is not for kids anyone can play it. i am a freshman in high school and i thikn 
 that this is one of the greatest games i have ever played in my entire life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGuyThe3000th
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, Gamespot gives this game a bad rep. This is the second dungeon game i've played 
 and this one is awesome. It's not to expensive, and the storyline catches you like a hook. Im not 
 the only one who thinks this, right? So, the graphics and sound aren't superb but but they don't 
 have to be, the ever expanding storyline makes you drain the DS battery, and keeps you coming back 
 for more. But Pokemon? Many people would be discouraged just seeing Pokemon in the title, but even 
 for the anti- pocket monster people, this game creates a change of heart. It did for me.
  
  
  
  (This is the first review i've ever written.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButtonBasherBW
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Mystery Dungeon didn't exactly strike me as anything too special among titles, particularly 
 when comparing to the standard RPG titles of the series. Sapphire, Emerald and FireRed to name 
 a few, even the recently released Japanese Pearl and Diamond.
  
  Sure enough, when measured up to those games it lacks to the depth and strategy that those games 
 hold. A major of them being the competitive level behind it. Co-operation is still there however, 
 and with the clever use of passwords the people of the Pok&eacute; mon can come together to help 
 each other out. It has its benefits, allowing you to pick up where you left off, and keeping everything 
 you had as opposed to a game over and losing all money and a lot of your items, as well as starting 
 the dungeon over.
  
  But that's possibly jumping a little too much into it, no? Let's get to the game from the start.
 
  
  Right off the bat, you're put through a series of questions. What are these for? Well, to determine 
 who you're going to be, basically. Will you be a Meowth like that of Team Rocket? A stong muscular 
 Machop or a much more femine Skitty? Yes, even the male/female question has a major influence.
 
  
  Once you're past that, however, it's time to move on to the first mission of the game. It's pretty 
 easy right here, having to battle a few monsters before making it to the end of the mission. But 
 at least it gives you a taste of what's to come, and allows you to start working out the options 
 of the game right there and there in the earlier stages. Like any Pok&eacute; mon RPG, you've got 
 four moves you can use. The effects of the moves are a little different to the normal, but essentially 
 they're pretty close to the main games. In addition to those attacks, you get a weaker 'struggle' 
 like attack where you charge forward in a small tackle. Saves you PP, but doesn't get you the EXP 
 points you could otherwise be earning.
  
  Each mission is pretty straightfoward. They're all to reach a certain point in a mission, and meet 
 someone, or make it to the end after finding an item, or battle a boss. Not much different at all, 
 yet maybe it's something with battling with any character you can, but you can find yourself wanting 
 to get through to see what happens next in the story, or just to get that elusive legendary waiting 
 for you at the end of a long dungeon. Some of those can get to a massively long 99 floors, so be 
 prepared to spend a while in those places! Luckily, a Quicksave option is available to pick up 
 right where you left off from your previous session.
  
  Other than that, there's not too much to say about the game. The music seems tedious at times. 
 A little is good, but the rest seems to repeditive for its own good. There's no cries for the Pok&eacute; mon, 
 but there are some reactions and the fact that they talk here doesn't really concern that fact. 
 The sounds for the attacks seem varied, and suit each move. Unfortunately, the actual animation 
 of a Pok&eacute; mon isn't always as varied as you'd possibly like.
  
  Doesn't have much in the way of actual multiplayer, but as mentioned earlier in the review there 
 is the password rescues. If you get stuck in a dungeon, and get KO'd it's as easy as sending a 
 bunch of letters and numbers to another person and awaiting a code back.
  
  How it works is they get the code, enter it into their game and go on the rescue mission for you. 
 Once done, they send a code back to you, you enter it and can continue right there without any 
 Pok&eacute; mon to worry about on that floor. Be aware however, that you are limited to being saved 
 9 times on each 'adventure'. At the point of being rescued too, you can send back a Thank You mail, 
 giving them an item for their troubles.
  
  Overall, if you've got some extra money to spend on a game, and really have an urge to play as 
 a Pok&eacute; mon, then go out and search for the Blue version on the shelves of Big W or whereever 
 else you like to purchase your games. But I'd save this title as one you'd request someone else 
 to get you, or even wait for a discount. The red version is pretty much the same, but lacking the 
 touch screen keyboard for passwords, the second screen to place the map and team info (team info 
 not shown apart from your own character at top, and map is over the top of your screen) . They're 
 the same price, why not get the one with more features? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team is similar to drinking grape juice that has not been 
 in the refrigerator for a day. The thought of drinking the grape juice is pleasing at first, but 
 the warmth of the drink itself is sometimes repulsive. Mystery Dungeon at first seems like a truly 
 great game however, once you indulge within it you, you find out that it isnt. First off, as we 
 all know the game is based around the premise of a human being transformed into a Pokemon. He must 
 go throughout the game trying to discover the reason for it. The main story itself is set around 
 the forming of a Rescue Team composed entirely of the player and the Pokemon that he chose for 
 his partner. This rescue team is to go throughout the ravaged Pokemon world and try to either save 
 the Pokemon from disastrous areas and angry Pokemon, escort Pokemon to their friends, or retrieve 
 items that will benefit the Pokemon that requests them. The story is really interesting once the 
 player reaches the point in which a certain Pokemon Rescue Team tries to reach the top through 
 cheated and evil ways (such as overcharging Pokemon) . All of this sounds good at first, but once 
 one indulges themselves in the game they discover that it is repulsive. The game plays by having 
 players go into dungeons to complete these missions. This is where my first qualm lies in the missions. 
 Going through many dungeons that could vary from being only two floors to nearly 60 or more floors 
 is very tedious when you are doing it by escorting level one Pokemon or are trying to get an item 
 that could have easily been bought or for another matter an item that is entirely weak! Doing this 
 for fifty or more missions is extremely a waste of time and leaves a bitter taste in my mouth. 
 Could they have not made them more interesting, such as going through these dungeons and getting 
 something extremely beneficial in return, like a rare Pokemon or story element? Secondly, the idea 
 of having to watch how many spaces a Pokemon on your team takes is another repulsive thought. At 
 first I thought it would add another bit of challenge, but when I think about it, it is quite dumb. 
 Why go through the challenge of first having to go through a dungeon with three or less team members, 
 and then having to square off against a legendary Pokemon and not only that you have to hope that 
 they join your party! This system combined with that one truly makes it horrible.
  
  The gameplay itself also suffers from the fact that it is on the DS. The game is virtually a near 
 exact replica of the one on the GBA. There are virtually no extended gameplay elements or bonuses 
 (unless you count the ability to have the map and stats on the top screen, instead of being overlaid 
 on the bottom screen, or if you want to include touch-screen controls which provides a minor bit 
 of change) . They could have included a graphical update as well. Nothing is changed at all. Graphics 
 wise the game is still the same old GBA generation graphics, nothing new at all. The sound is perhaps 
 really ambient and imagined almost. I cant even think of any of the sounds in the game because 
 I always turned it off. They did have a bit of sounds for the Pokemon themselves, but that could 
 have perhaps been updated to Voice-overs perhaps. For the final word: Mystery Dungeon is really 
 a great game story wise. It had the potential to be a great game, with the ability to change the 
 strategies of the Pokemon, to capture many of the top legendary Pokemon, ability to interact with 
 other players for rescues, and even the satisfaction of completing missions, it could have been 
 stellar. For some reason this game reminds me of Dragon Warrior Monsters, a similar dungeon crawler. 
 It is so far, the best of this game type and even featured better battle animations, shorter dungeons, 
 and a more exemplified story, even breeding. Mystery Dungeon is a fairly good game that can be 
 used to pass the time, but it is no Pokemon Gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon was a game many gamers were waiting for, as it seemed as though their dreams 
 came true: no trainers, a story where you actually understand what the pokemon are saying. Apparantly, 
 Game Spot and Game Informer despised this game and didn't give it a chance. I am not the biggest 
 pokemon fan to exist, yet I found this game enjoyable for the most part. Although the game starts 
 off dull and boring, you need to give it a chance. The game does indeed pick up. The game has a 
 suspenseful story, as you are dying to find out what happens as you progress through the story 
 mode. Unfortunately, your questions are answered way too soon, since this game has a very short 
 story mode. Beating the game is no challenge, it may take you 5 or 6 hours to complete if you are 
 good with the pokemon strategy games. Pokemon Mystery Dungeon also lacks the graphics compared 
 to the modern day Nintendo DS games. Sound is alright, I mean the music is a bit annyoing, but 
 there are quite a variety of tunes. Another problem is the lack of the touch screen and double 
 screen. Now a days, some DS games lack the use of these great features. It also lacks a Wi-fi mode, 
 but it does have some interesting code systems in which you can help other teams. Recruiting members 
 to your team is like this: you buy a friend area, beat that pokemon in a dungeon, and it will most 
 likely request to be on your team. The battling system is a bit mediocre, however, it is quick, 
 so you don't have to wait. After beating the game, most of the fun happens. You can journey elsewhere, 
 and recruit ALL of the legendary pokemon that appeared in the previous sets of Pokemon games. Mew, 
 Celebi, and Jirachi are all present, so that's cool. Overall, I spent 15 hours on this game, and 
 I am seeking legendary pokemon. You may have a good time with this game, you may not. It depends 
 on how big of a fan you are to pokemon, and how long you can wait until the game picks up. Overall, 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon gets a 7.3/10 by me.
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Good- You get to be a pokemon; long and engaging story; get many pokemon to join your team;
  
  BAD- The dungeons are all the same; gameplay runs stupidly
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  In Mystery Dungeon 
 you get to play as pokemon, you are given a series of questions and if you anssew them in your 
 likling you'll turn into a pokemon that reprasents you. in gameplay is'nt like your avrage RPG 
 pkmn game like you saw in games like Red and Blue ect, this time you can move whilst attacking, 
 Stylus is useless, same with the Duel Screen
  
  GRAPHICS:
  They are very colourful, but what makes the graphics bad is the repeative dugeons, there all the 
 same with random floors
  
  SOUND:
  Pretty decent background and sound effects but nothing specile, the entire game is pretty suitable 
 mainly for the GBA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zblk27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  will keep you busy for hours. great gameplay sound and all tho the graphics are'nt the best i say 
 that you will pick it up and keep on playing. rock on pokemon!!!! i will buy pokemon ranger becus 
 most pokemon rpgs are quite good i was'nt that happy bout pokemon trozei which is'nt a rpg anyways. well 
 this game is worth $30 on my case. i think every one should have at least 1 pokemon handheld game 
 pokemon not just for kids every one plays it so dont put it down. if you did'nt like the game that 
 just means it's not your style. but if you like rpgs then you should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokeypokemon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's latest game in the Pokemon franchise dosen't exactly live up to what I was expecting.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The game is a little different, which give it some spice. The new combat system is confusing at 
 first, but gets better as the game goes on.
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  Well, at least they tried.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  They were kind of corny . I didn't feel like it 
 went along with the game.
  
  Value: 9/10
  This game has a lot to do after you beat the story mode.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 6.5/10.
  Die hard 
 Pokemon fans will love it, but not those who are just getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a really fun game. With a great story, (although not too great at the beginning) , 
 nice graphics, and the ability to be any of the 386 Pokemon, Pokemon fans should grab it. The game 
 starts out with you answering a series of personality questions to determine what Pokemon you are 
 out of 16 possible Pokemon. Then you can pick a partner out of 10 possible Pokemon, as long as 
 it isn't your type. You have actually turned into a Pokemon, and find yourself in a world inhabited 
 by Pokemon, and only Pokemon. This world is being plagued by natural disasters, and its up to you 
 and your partner, and a slew of other Pokemon, to stop it. You constantly are going on missions 
 to rescue Pokemon, give them items, etc. This is a cool feature, because every time you enter a 
 dungeon, it is randomized and completely different. But, this can get a little boring. So if your 
 looking for a cool Pokemon game that won't drag on forever, pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotdeer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  I honestly don't know what to say about this game other than I love it. At first glance it doesn't 
 like anything else besides another chunsoft randomly generated dungeon crawler (I have played the 
 chocobo dungeon and torneko dungeon parts and I can say I do not care for them) . This game however 
 takes out the cock fighting aspect that pokemon kind of resembles. The little creatures go on their 
 own adventures having fun and saving the world. The story is top notch, you can get really involved 
 if you let it. The personality test is quite fun because it chooses your character based upon what 
 personality type you fit, which is a pretty cool feature, and then you pick your partner who will 
 be your best friend through out the game. I must say the little avatars that show your pokemon's 
 emotions when they speak is my favorite part, it is quite amusing. All and all this is the type 
 of game people either love or hate, and while I know its not for everyone I think people should 
 just give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brybry
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This has a GREAT story! So why'd Gamespot give it a 5.2? Really the story is sooo good that it 
 made me cry, and be happy! I'm really sure this game is fun because i'm really far in this game, 
 also I have some of the strongest pokemon in the game! I would recommend this game so much. I think 
 this is the best DS game ever!!! The only other pokemon game that is this good is Colosuem. I hpoe 
 they make another one like this for the Wii! ^ _ ^ The only main downside is the story is short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D12World20
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Hey yall its D12World20 here with my very first Nintendo DS review. So I picked Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team because this is the first game I got for my DS. Now at first when I saw 
 this game i thought like most of you did... WTF? Sure the other Pokemon games were good but now 
 I am to play the role of a Pokemon? It will never work. Woah was I ever Wrong. I mean this is the 
 most strategy ever used in a Pokemon game. Its turned fighting based, but still requires thought 
 on what to do. I mean sure the story mode is not that long compared to the other Pokemon games 
 (about half the time) But after you beat the story mode theirs still a sh! t load to do. Normally 
 in the other Pokemon games you get a badge for beating a gym. But remember you are a Pokemon now 
 so instead of gyms and badges, you get badges for beating a rare Pokemon. So when you beat the 
 game there are still badges to be won. So the main point of this game is that one night you go 
 to sleep and the next morning you wake up a Pokemon. The Pokemon you wake up as is selected on 
 how you answer a personal survey. My Pokemon I woke up as was a Bulbasaur. So anyway you select 
 another Pokemon that has a dream to start a rescue team to save other Pokemon. By doing this you 
 get points and earn rescue team points and eventually go up ranks. The graphics are about the same 
 as the GBA with very little need for the styilis (but it can still be used) The sound is way better 
 because it actually sounds allot like the attack you make. The whole game takes about 13 hours 
 to beat (but it doesent end their) It takes about an hour to learn most stuff but your always learning 
 in this game. Its kinda hard because sometimes theirs so much to do you just wanna throw the game 
 out the window. But if you have a good temper then I highly suggest you pick this Pokemon title 
 up. So I am going to rate this game a 8.0. Well thats it yall peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut-butter
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  PMD may not be the best game out there, but it sure tops most. First of all, for the first time, 
 you actually get to adventure as a pokemon, instead of the trainer. It is also different from every 
 other pokemon game. In the beginning of the adventure, you must take a quick interview. Depending 
 on your answers, will decide on witch pokemon you will be in your journey. Afterwards, you choose 
 a partner to travel with. I was impressed with selection of pokemon you could turn out as, instead 
 of the three or four basic ones. (Bulbasaur, Charmander, Squirtle, and Pikachu.) But you can still 
 end up being one of those four. In the beginning you go into a dungeon and rescue a pokemon. From 
 there, you and your buddy decide to start a force to rescue pokemon. In the game, you can go to 
 the local message boards and choose missions, get cash, and maybe some rare items. You can also 
 recruit other pokemon for your clan or group. PMD does offer a great, original RPG game style, 
 which I have never seen in any Pokemon games. The fighting system will also keep you hooked, with 
 its classic choose your pokemon's attack, to its grid moving system. The game also has many other 
 great features. But with a great game, there is always some things that might bring it down. One 
 of the things I sort of don; t like is the randomized dungeons. Sure its a neat feature, but for 
 some missions, such as the event missions instead as typical rescue mission should have constructed 
 dungeons. This is because in some dungeons, you will go down some long halls, find some rooms, 
 and then there will be a dead end. (With no treasure usually) I'm just saying maybe leave the random 
 dungeon feature for typical missions instead of BIG story missions. But in the long run, I think 
 its a game worth playing, or at least looking at. If you aren't sure about it, then maybe try renting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyduck11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Yah, it's the first Pokemon game where you can play a Pokemon for the first time. Not another trainer 
 but a real Pokemon. (Clap, clap, clap, clap, clap) . In the beginning the game will ask you questions 
 about what Pokemon you will be. For example if you answer the questions as being stubborn, you 
 will be a Pikachu. (I'm a Bulbasaur, [go Bulbasaur] ) . After that you can choose your partner. Then 
 your exciting adventure begins. The main structure of the game is that you're a Pokemon, and you 
 go through these mystery Dungeons on missions to save Pokemon or something else like getting Gummis. 
 You will have to go through easy missions and hard missions. You will also verse Legendary Pokemon 
 and more, but mostly Legandary Pokemon. If your a die hard Pokemon fan like me you have to get 
 this game (Thats why I ranked it so high) . If you are not a fan, this game may not be for you. 
 The way I put it is that all real Pokemon fans should buy this game. It is very very fun and I 
 recommend it strongly. Go POKEMON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer528
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  this game has got to be the best ds game i have ever played it has good graphics for ds and there 
 is a pick in the begging of the pokemon you can be it goes by your personality and then you get 
 a partner it is very easy to learn it took me 5 mins then i was off it is very fun and there is 
 no swering so its good for the whole family so if i where you i would go out and buy it if you 
 dont have a ds i reccomend you get one because you miss a lot with no pokemon blue\red rescue team 
 so have fun and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_boy286
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  You know i like this game but it is really to basic for me to say. I like this game and 110% disagree 
 with the score gamespot gave it. For example the game is cool you just want to keep playing because 
 well......... its alot diffenent from all the other ones. The problem is its got GBA grafics and 
 you just press A or use the touch screen to use a spechal move and u do damage its is pretty interesting 
 of a game but its not the best one. So i say give this game a shot and see how you like it. I think 
 you probly will feel about the same on it as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glorgan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Where has this game been all my life? I LOVE the classic portable Pokemon games... and I got them 
 all.... well...... almost.... I got Red, Blue, Yellow, Gold, Silver, Crystal, Ruby, Sapphire. After 
 that I said to myself Man, these games are getting repetitive. Then I didn't get the next ones. 
 I told myself that it would be awesome if, in the fighting, you controlled the pokemon and moved 
 around as them, and attacked by pushing a different button for each attack. Man, that would be 
 awesome.
  
  Wait a second.... That's what happens in this game!
  
  You play as the pokemon, not just for battles, but for the WHOLE thing. You were turned into a 
 pokemon and.... blah blah blah.... The story is a little dull, but the game is absolutely one of 
 the best I have played in such a long time! It is great to be able to go back and use all my old 
 favorites like Squirtle and Charmander. Don't take that the wrong way, these aren't just the original 
 generation of pokemon, there are 386 pokemon in this game, if I recall correctly.
  
  My only real regret with the gameplay is the online play.... well.... the lack thereof.....
  
 
  For online play, you can go and rescue another player from a dungeon they died in. So if they were 
 on midway through the dungeon then they died, they just get a password, which you then put in, 
 and you can do the dungeon up to that point for them. Then they start back from where they were 
 when they died. I kind of wish there was a battle mode, so you could go into a dungeon with another 
 player, and you race up to the top (or bottom floor if it is B#Fs) then, when you get there, you 
 wait for the other player to come, and when they get there, you attack them. That would be fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 2.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Krustys line from the infamous episode Krusty gets Kancelled pretty much sums up this game. 
 WTF was that? I playe dit for 30 minutes and I was falling asleep! I cant believe these dungeons 
 series games are popular in Japan because of here in North America that stuff is not gonna fly. 
 Yes its nice to see and finally understand what they are saying to one another but maybe it is 
 just that I am used to the turn based fights when I think of Pokemon but this is certainly the 
 low end of the Pokemon series if not the bottom. This game is so boring and I really tried to enjoy 
 it I really did but this game just plain sucked. Maybe younger gamers would have more fun on this 
 game but as an adult I think it sucked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diamond-Diaruga
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is a little repetitive but overall, this game is great! Just how the story begins 
 is amazing. Even though, it has Gameboy Advance graphics (That was a little disappointing) the 
 game stil looked very colourful. I felt excitied when I got to Zapdos, or Moltres, or Groundon! 
 That hasn't happened to me in any other video game! The bosses are awesome! The starters are good 
 too, instead of 3, you have 16 to choose from! If you have Blue, you are more likely to get a water 
 type but if you have Red you are more likely to get a fire type. You can't evolve in the storyline 
 but at the end of the game you can. Some in other words, the storyline rocks, the bosses rock, 
 and this game rocks! Go Mystery Dungeon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1045
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  I think it is great that Pokemon has decided to do something different. IT really is revolutionary 
 this game. With the general gist of the pokemon games like 4 move sets and such, playing as an 
 ACTUAL POKEMON is amazing. Linking moves is great too. Basically, this is a great new change to 
 the Pokemon series. Recruiting POkemon to join your team helps you fight and beat the MASSIVE and 
 ever changing dungeons that you continuinly face keep the game fresh and exciting. IT is a challenge 
 to recruit al the pokemon after you finish the game. I LOVE THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptilious
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the old game play in Pokemon Blue/Red- Emerald, this is basically a Zelda type of 
 game, so you can get a whole new perspective on Pokemon. It may not be the same as the old Pokemon 
 games, but that's what makes it so good. I've caught all the legendary birds ( Articuno, Zapdos, 
 and Moltres) and I'm working on getting Latias and Latios so I can get to Lugia in Silver Trench. 
 Once you beat Story Mode (defeat Rayquaza) it gets a lot harder to gain levels and complete dungeons. 
 My advice to new game players is Once you beat Sky Tower dungeon, it's not as easy as it may seem. 
 And don't forget, the adventure never ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfens_
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  My expectation was big... until I realized that was doing the same thing again and again, even 
 worst the idea of give just for walk.. food to the pokemon... WAKALA... Not sure if the idea of 
 food was to have the player looking for another think than pokemon to fight. The graphics looks 
 like gba game and the fights are press the button as fast as you can, run for your life if the 
 enemy is hurting your cute poke pal... and try again... I can&acute; t take it anymore.. Sorry guys, 
 I don&acute; t wanna hurt your pokemania &acute; cause I like pokemon too... But this game is everything 
 I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awsome rpg which brings you into the pokemons world, where they communicate with 
 each other and become friends. the game has alot of dungeons you can go through which means once 
 you finished the main quests you still got heaps of new dungeons openning up. the bad side to this 
 game is the graphics, for nintendo ds they should of been way better. The graphics just sucked. 
 but this game is a good way to waste time and have fun. At the start they ask you questions and 
 depenind on your answer is the pokemon they choose for you (i got torchic) . You start as a pokemon 
 who use to be a human and start your jorney to save pokemon and the whole world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacksonWery
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  I have only bought this game a few days ago, and it is not terrible as people say. The only thing 
 Nintendo &amp; ChunSoft could work on are the graphics. The floors lack variety, and only about 
 four different Pokemon are on the same floor. But the ability to rescue your friends is invaluable. 
 The dual slot function is as of yet for me, without an opinion. It has good value, at a fairly 
 low price (I bought it for under $30 /\_/\) . Get a friend to let you try it, and you might just 
 waltz over to your local business chain and purchase it! Reader, buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostjr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better than I expected it to be. I quit playing pokemon games and watching 
 pokemon about a year ago, and now, from playing this game, I regained that addiction to the series. 
 The way I got this game is I went to Gamestop and cashed in a few of my games for Harvest Moon 
 Magical Melody, and I only had 35 dollars and it costed 40. I decided to get a DS game instead, 
 I decided the first game I saw that I didnt have I would get, and I saw Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Blue Rescue Team. I looked at the back of the box and I thought, Hmmm.. Looks good, I'll check 
 it out. and then I took it home and played it and couldnt stop. The only thing with the game I 
 have to say about it is that you should stick with the first pokemon you get in the quiz, because 
 I kept switching them and testing out which one is better, and I just now almost beat the game. 
 I extremely recommend getting this game, even if you dont like pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadster101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  In most Pokemon games, you are the trainer. You try and capture Pokemon. Any old video game head 
 knows that!! But what happens when you ARE the Pokemon? Read and find out!!
  
  Gameplay: Pretty different from other Poke games. In Mystery Dungeon, you get to control the Pokemon!! 
 Sounds lame? No, it isn't... At the start you get to take a personallity quiz to find out which 
 Pokemon you are. As an example, I started with Squirtle. There are many Pokemon in this game. All 
 of them to be exact. But, to play as them you have to befriend them. Its kinda hard though, but 
 later in the adventure it gets easier. This game is like a turn-based strategy. You see your characters 
 sprite on field. All you do is press B and the meun pops up. You can select many options. Just 
 make sure your facing the direction you want... and fire!! Any direction, and Pokemon are at your 
 fingers. You do take turns, but you don't have to go into a loooong battle scene. Tons of stuff 
 to do. Go to town, meet Pokemon, explore dungeons... A buffet of Pokemon goodness crammed into 
 a tiny DS card. More than 20 hours of game-play here.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good!! The DS is capable of better, but they suit the game well. All the Pokemon 
 have different animated sprites. Pokemon Square ( the center of the game ) looks great too, but 
 the dungeons seem a bit recycled. Who really cares about the graphics anyway? Its the game that 
 matters!!
  
  Sound: The music is fantastic!! SFX is pretty absent in this game compared to other Pokemon titles, 
 though. Still, there is a lot of variety and memorable tunes. Nice little battling tunes and sounds 
 make this a secrion to remember!!
  
  Replay: As I said tons of replay. I bought this game a couple of days ago and my time playing is 
 huge. PMD is very addicting. Probably one of the better DS games!! Also, is the fact you can send 
 S. O. S messages with other PMD owners across the world!! Without Wi-fi!!
  
  Buy. Rent, or Leave: Buy. Its pretty cheap compared to other DS games... so get it!! I have to 
 be honest. If you rent this game, you won't be able to finish it ( unless your hardcore ) . Leaving 
 PMD is a sad choice considering this is better than your typical RPG.
  
  Conclusion: If I though this was good, I'll just have to try the upcoming games. You'll probably 
 feel the same way as me about this title. I definitely recommend Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  So like the dork I am I was stoked about the new game. Yah I knew it wouldn't be like the other 
 pokemon games, but still seemed like it would rock. So I started to play it, and at first I was 
 like sweet I got an awesome pokemon. Then as I went through the LAME dungeons and clunky combat 
 with stupid moves that were boring and repetitive I realized one thing......... this game blows. 
 Anyone that says surprisingly good must have never played a video game in their life. It was like 
 someone said lets make the easiest , most dull game ever. Then someone was like, well how would 
 we make money on it? Then the guy responded, let's put a pokemon theme to it! The only thing that 
 had me playing for the 4 hours I played it before I gave it to a kid down the street for free was 
 the story, which was decent. But cool story bits in between long periods of the most boring gameplay 
 ever is not enough to get you through this krapfest....... only thing to do is wait for the new 
 Pokemon game............:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team is a rpg from the Mystery Dungeon series. The game itself 
 doesn't look too good, compared to other DS titles, even though the cartoony-ness of the pokemon 
 universe is perfect for the game.
  Overall the gameplay is varied. The types of pokemon you recruit to your team and the different 
 moves that each pokemon can learn add to the replay factor. The dungeons in the game are different 
 every time that you enter them. The game doesn't make much use of the touch screen in any special 
 way. The entire game can be played with the touch screen, but it is much easier to play with the 
 d pad and the buttons. Basically, in the game, you run around the dungeons with your team of pokemon 
 and defeat other pokemon, collect items and poke (the money in the game) , and complete missions.
 
  The graphics and sound are perfect for the game. They are fairly similar to the GBA counterpart. 
 Most of the music and sound can get annoying at times, but for the most part, they are addictive, 
 catchy tunes. The graphics aren't too advanced, but what can you expect from the pokemon series. 
 This cartoony feel of the game is just darn perfect for the game.
  This game along with the other mystery dungeon games, are just too fun to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  The world of Pokemon has finally made its way onto the Nintendo DS. However, it is nothing like 
 the many titles you may already be familiar with. In Pokemon Mystery Dungeon (PMD) , instead of 
 playing a trainer trying to make it to the top of the Pokemon League, you play a pokemon itself! 
 That's right, for the first time ever, you play as a pokemon and are able to communicate with your 
 fellow critters in an understandable fashion. The simple idea of letting players understand their 
 pokemon counterparts has been thrown around for years, but unfortunately, the outcome isn't up 
 to par with other adventures. PMD has a lot in common with its predecessors in the fact that there 
 are two options to choose from (Blue for DS and Red for GBA) and the fact that there are game-specific 
 pokemon in each version. Another similarity to past outings is that the game, apart from the storyline, 
 is mainly concerned with leveling up the various pokemon by battling. However, similarities beyond 
 these facts are hard to come by.
  
  A clever opening sequence has players answering personality questions. Afterwards, you are assigned 
 to be the pokemon that most matches your personality profile. For my gameplay experience I was 
 Torchic, a small bird pokemon of the fire persuasion. After naming yourself, you have the ability 
 to pick your in-game partner, which is the one pokemon that will help and accompany you on your 
 journey. You are given a list of available options, and in my case, I chose Squirtle, a turtle 
 that is of the water type. While there is no saying that I couldn't choose another fire type, there 
 is a great bit of strategy involved in picking the best one for the job. Since certain types prevail 
 over other types (water beats rock - fire beats grass, and so on) you would want to choose the 
 pokemon that will best compliment your own type. Since I had one of both fire and water, I had 
 various strengths against opponents.
  
  Moving on to the actual story, you awaken in a forest as the pokemon to which you were assigned. 
 You find very early on that you are actually a human that has been transformed into a pokemon, 
 and with the help of whichever ally you chose, you must travel the land in an effort to solve the 
 mystery of your transformation. Along the way you will come across more pokemon who will want to 
 help you, and this gives players another level of strategy when entering dungeons, since you can 
 only take one extra critter with you.
  
  Speaking of dungeons, the majority of your gameplay will be spent in these various levels. Unfortunately, 
 this is a gameplay element that we should all be very familiar with by now, seeing as how there 
 have been numerous copycats of ChunSoft's original formula. The dungeons come in various designs 
 and with varying numbers of levels, but they are generally the same. If you've played Dark Cloud, 
 you know what I'm talking about. Each time you enter the dungeon, the levels will be different, 
 which helps the game stay fresh, but the fact that you could pick up any number of titles and have 
 the same gameplay experience is disappointing to say the least.
  
  Another element that has seen its fair share of copies is the Belly meter. Travel through a dungeon 
 long enough and you will become hungry, so you must eat any of the numerous apples and gummies 
 that are scattered randomly throughout the levels. Again, it's a nice touch in theory, but more 
 original elements would have been appreciated.
  
  Back above ground, you follow the 20 hour long storyline from your birth as a pokemon to the end 
 of the tale. Only after you beat the original storyline can your pokemon counterparts evolve, which 
 is another disappointing factor. The main draw of past titles was completing your Pokedex, but 
 in this game, it's nowhere to be found.
  
  When discussing the actual look and feel of the game, there isn't much to be said, other than the 
 fact that the graphics look like a GameBoy Color threw up and that the sounds are so repetitive 
 that I often played with the volume at nil. Catchy tunes, yes, but not varied enough to keep it 
 interesting.
  
  Even though the storyline itself is intriguing and the gameplay is intuitive, allowing players 
 to actually have some fun, it is disappointing to see the world of Pokemon dropped to these sorts 
 of standards. The dungeon aspect that you could find in much cheaper titles ruined a great idea 
 overall, and even the fact that you can rescue your friends and trade items over Wi-Fi and passwords 
 doesn't help matters. In the end, I have to say that it is a good thing that these aren't the last 
 titles to be set in the Pokemon universe, or this would be a sad ending to an otherwise stellar 
 series.
  
  Review part of grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pokemonmdblue 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue Rescue Team is the latest pokemon game to hit any console. This game 
 is all about you (a human) has been turned into a pokemon (decided by personality quiz at the start) , 
 soon after you choose you companion. At the start of the game you are awoken by your companion 
 and soon after a butterfree flies over and asks you to help her baby caterpie. After you complete 
 this, you and your partner decide to make their own rescue team which you decide what its called.
 
  
  Gameplay: The game is about you going on little missions to find/escort pokemon or items to other 
 pokemon in the dungeons. The dungeons are not repetitive, they are chosen randomly so you will 
 never go through a dungeon and have the stairs in the same spot. While you are in these dungeons, 
 you will encounter wild pokemon, and if you lucky enough they will ask to join your rescue team. 
 In this you can apparently get all 380 pokemon (although i am not certain)
  
  Graphics: Should have been better. The town looks good, its just the characters look out of place 
 sometimes and it bugs me. The dungeons look ok as well, nothing fantastic.
  
  Sound: background music which is once again just ok. other sounds include when you hit/attack anohter 
 pokemon it makes this weird little noise. the texts is not read out, you have to read it yourself. 
 But its not that bad.
  
  Value: You can play this game for a fair while, and you can continue training and evolving pokemon 
 after you beat the game. You can go back and fight bosses again etc, so it does offer a fair deal 
 of replay value.
  
  All in all: a pretty good game, its a bit different from the normal pokemon games, but still have 
 the turn-based RPG we all know. It offers replay value and is never the same each time you go into 
 the same dungeon.
  
  Finally: The good: smart way to decide which pokemon you are, can be played for a little while 
 or hours at a time, nice amount of replay value, can collect alot of pokemon The bad: the graphics 
 annoy me sometimes, they attacking noise can get annoying, you may not enjoy it as much if you 
 don't know much about pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdwav
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  Probably the most underrated game on gamespot. I think this game deserves at least a 7.0.
  
  Graphics - OK, maybe the graphics are a bit outdated, but i found it pleasant to look at. The 
 Pokemon sprites and avatars are so cute!!
  
  Gameplay - This game is not as repetitive as u think. Firstly the storyline is very good, it keeps 
 u playing. Secondly ALL dungeons are randomly generated every time u enter, which means the layout 
 and the items scatted on floor are totally random! If you found catching Pokemon with Pokeballs 
 such a nuisance (like me) , then this game is definitely for you. Everytime you defeat a wild Pokemon, 
 chances are they will join your rescue team, provided that you are at a high level and bought the 
 corresponding friend area before hand. I always feel a sense of accomplishment when a new Pokemon 
 join my team. To keep them alive until you cleared the dungeon is also challenging.
  
  And did i also mention that u can get ALL 386 Pokemon in your rescue force? Yes, ALL!!! That includes 
 all legendaries, e. g. Lugia, Mewtwo, Deoxys. After they joined your rescue force, you can even 
 team up with them in dungeons! Sound - It's OK for me, I don't find them annoying. I think they 
 have a track for every dungeon and even friend areas, too.
  
  Conclusion - If you're a Pokemon fan, or simply want to play a decent RPG, then you SHOULD buy 
 this game. The unlimited side quests and well developed story should keep you playing for at least 
 20 hours or more. Even after u finish the main storyline, there're still plenty of things to do, 
 such as getting all 386 Pokemon in your rescue force, do as many missions as possible, etc. I never 
 regret buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel11
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  PMD: BRT is a gamef that totally changes the pokemon world.
  You no longer catch pokes with pokeballs, you dont go to gyms, you dont challenge the elite four, 
 you are just a pokemon.
  Wait, a pokemon? that's right! you are a pokemon.
  When you begin the game, you will have a shot quiz that not only give you a tip for life, will 
 also choose with pokemon you will become.
  You can become any of the 1st 2nd and 3rd generation pokemon starters, and some other pokemon. 
 You also get to choose a partner, it cant any poke that you could have become, yet it cant be same 
 ype as you.
  When u first come to the world, you save a little worm pokemon, called caterpie and bring it back 
 to hsi mommy butterfree, and this is where it starts, on your way back you see an evil trio which 
 does only bad to the world.
  While playing, you will understand your goal in the game is why did u become a pokemon.
  The 
 story is well written, which really takes you in the pokemon world, and makes you keep playing 
 just for the story.
  Why just for the story? well, the game itself is boring, realy boring, Once you take a mission 
 with your rescue team, you enter a maze with many wild pokemon that you fight. each pokemon that 
 you fight may join your team, if he wants and if you agree, the choices are unlimited, you can 
 get any pokemon from all the generations (not including 4th) .
  The battles are realy lame, i have to say. the battles are turn based, kind of other than normal 
 turn based tho.
  Once you do ur turn, your enemy does so too, and like this all other pokes do, which means, when 
 u move a block, others move a block in the same time, or attack in the same time, and so on. this 
 is realy bad and ruins the fun. The music is also not so good, nice, nothing more than this.
  The graphics are OK for GBA, bad for DS.
  Personally, this game is good just because of the story, 
 nothing more.
  Buy this only if you realy like pokemon, if you dont, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew_Atreides
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I honestly don't know how i got sucked into buying this game. I always have given the main Pokemon 
 games (Ie Blue, Silver, Sapphire) a shot, but have always steered clear of the spinoffs. Just never 
 have enjoyed them. Somehow I found myself having bought the game before i even knew what i was 
 doing. At first glance, i was not impressed. Seemed incredibly repetitive, incredibly silly. But 
 goshdarnit, give it an hour and this game completely grabs you. The storyline is enough to keep 
 you going on that next mission, and recruiting members for your team is darned addictive. I'm stunned 
 to say that this is one very fun experience. Worth giving a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platypusseslive
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I'm not even that into pokemon, yet I love it! The great part about it is 
 that it isn't just another game where you have to become pokemon master and travel everywhere and 
 blah blah blah.
  
  The first thing you do is that you take a personality test to see which pokemon you will be out 
 of the 16 starters. Yes, you finally get to be a pokemon! Then you choose a partner. You start 
 out asleep, only to be awoken by your partner. Your partner starts talking to you,. but soon enough 
 a Butterfree interupts you, and asks you to save her baby caterpie, who is in danger because of 
 all of the natural disasters happening everywhere lately. After you save the caterpie, you and 
 your partner decide to make a rescue team.
  
  Through the course of the game you travel through many different dungeons that are always randomly 
 generated so you can't memorize dungeon maps. This makes every adventure unique. You are actually 
 a human that was turned into a pokemon in the game, and you are trying to find out your purpose 
 in this pokemon world with your partner. You take on multiple bosses as well as different teams, 
 including team meanies (consisting of a gengar, medicham, and ekans) , as well as saving many pokemon 
 and other rescue teams including the number 1 team in the area, Alakazam's team. While you are 
 not taking on missions, you are in pokemon square, where you can buy items, tms, orbs, and friend 
 areas for recruiting pokemon. Even after you beat the main storyline of the game, there is still 
 a lot for you to do. You can recuit all of the pokemon (all 386!) and take on side quests. All 386 
 pokemon are available in the game, but like in the original pokemon games, there are some unique 
 pokemon to each version. However, with wonder mail codes you can get all pokemon without trading 
 with another game. Also, you don't need to waste all of your money on poke balls, because there 
 are none! When you defeat a pokemon, they may decide on their own to join your rescue team. Also, 
 you can save other people who faint in dungeons with sos mail passwords. Or, you can send out for 
 help with passwords. There is always something for you to do with this game.
  
  So, all in all, this is really a teriffic game. The only times i put it down are for school and 
 for this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futchy_ly
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Where to start will I thought the story was good. Insted of telling what the pokemon to do you 
 are the pokemon. You first answaer questions in the begging to decide what kind of pokemon you 
 get. Then after that you choose a pokemon sidekick. When you begin you are awoken in the pokemons 
 body and you have to go resue all kinds of pokemon from diffrent places but mostly dungeons. The 
 fighting style I find very unique. For the touch screen part it didn't really have a use (I just 
 got this game and have not beaten it yet and I don't know about the touch screen controls.) Anyway 
 this game does not deseve a medicore score but an avagre around 7-7.5. You bascilly do the same 
 thing over and over saving and giving pokemon things while trying to figure out why you ended up 
 a pokemon. I do recomend it except if you hate pokemon or your just not into RPG's. Hope this review 
 gives you thought's on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVDarko874
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  I can't believe it. Gamespot, my most trusted site, gave this game a 5.2. I am so disappointed, 
 because I love pokemon games, and this is the best one yet by far.
  
  First, you take a personality test to see which pokemon you play as (yes, you are a pokemon, actually 
 a human transformed into a pokemon) , and choose a partner. I became Bulbasaur, and chose Mudkip 
 as a partner. Your partner wakes you up, and then a Butterfree approaches and begs you to save 
 her Caterpie, one of the many disasters that seem to be happening lately. This leads us to dungeon 
 controls.
  
  Enemies mimic you. When you step once, they step once. When you attack, they attack. A button to 
 attack, Y to look in any direction, R and control pad to go diagonally, and more. You can also 
 throw rocks, use regular moves (which take up PP, just like other games) , and there is also a hunger 
 meter. You have to eat something every now and then, or you faint from hunger. The random generator 
 is also cool, so you never play the same dungeon. The side effect: Sometimes things are too easy.
 
  
  When not in dungeons, you're in Pokemon Square, a shopping mall of game necessities. The Kecleon 
 Brothers sell you items, TM's, and a new item, Orbs. Kangaskhan Storage stores items, Felicity 
 Bank (Persian runs it) , stores your Poke, the local currency. The Gulpin Link Shop lets you link 
 moves and use them in battle one after another. The Wigglytuff Club sells friend areas, more on 
 that next paragraph.
  
  Since a Poke Ball is now your worst nightmare, you need to recruit friends for your team on your 
 own. But they need somewhere to live. If you have their preferred Friend Area, they sometimes ask 
 to join your squad after you beat them in a dungeon. After you get them, you have to keep them 
 alive until the end of the dungeon, or they quit. You can see a list of possible recruits in the 
 menu. You can have up to four members on one mission at a time.
  
  Also in Pokemon Square: The Pelliper Post Office, where you can get rescue jobs, and the Makuhita 
 Dojo, which are 3-floor training areas filled with one type. Real dungeons can have up to 99 floors, 
 however.
  
  Some things I haven't tried are Wonder Mail, which help you live if you die in a dungeon, and evolving, 
 which is only doable after the game and is optional. There are many other cool after-game features. The 
 game can also be done with the touch screen.
  
  You are also noy the only rescue team in town. There are three other teams. Team Meanies, a Gengar, 
 Medicham and Ekans, do rescue work to gain a rescue team reputation, but want to rule the world. 
 Team Shiftry, a Shiftry and his Nuzleaf duo, do work for lots of money. You wind up coming to his 
 rescue. Then there is Team A. C. T, an Alakazam, Charizard, and Tyranitar, and the best team around.
 
  
  Overall, I can barely put this game down. If you love pokemon, dungeon games, both or neither, 
 you will love this game. So worth 30 bucks. Get it NOW.
  
  Oh and Gamespot, next time I turn to you, I want better results. Much better results. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crystaldragon18
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I think this game was the best pokemon game they have gotten so far on a handheld that is. I mean 
 it's different in this game theres a twist you are actually a Pokemon for a change and it's by 
 accident. So there's a lot of suspense you want to know what happened to yourself and why you are 
 a pokemon all of a sudden! With your partner you go through harsh dungeons until you can uncover 
 your past. Then, when you do that, you can finally evolve and keep going on missions so as you 
 can see the fun never stops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  im not an extremely large pokemon fan, i stopped playing after gold and silver in fact. maybe the 
 editors at gamespot have played a chunsoft game before and maybe it is more of the same but i havent 
 played one of their games before and i love this game. good: the random dungeons make it feel kinda 
 diablo-esque
  lots of items to collect not to mention legendarys
  requires strategy to survive. mindless hack and slashers wont get far
  huge cast of recruitable 
 characters
  lots and LOTS of side quests
  pretty good story
  rescue system allows anyone with any version to save your kester swamped too bad (via password 
 or wireless with ds systems and carts)
  
  bad: random dungeons mean lots of dead ends.
  sometimes friends arent very bright leading to the loss of a revive seed.
  sometimes monster 
 houses can obliterate even much higher level players
  its a game that DESPERATELY SCREAMS, BUY THE GUIDE!!!
  money should be used for more than just 
 friend areas and items
  shopkeepers should have more items in stock
  leveling weaker recruits should be easier
  a little too hard if you dont grind alot ( if you 
 do change my difficulty to just right)
  
  when all is said and done its a solid game that hits a right note with me cause i played diablo 
 2 for the longest and the randomness is what does it for me. i think this is one of the few times 
 the gamespot editors experience with a series not known to most people got in the way of the score. 
 listen guys, almost noone played chocobos dungeon 2 amd fewer people played torneko, remember that 
 when giving a game a review and put yourself in the common guys shoes
  
  (insert nasty insult about gamespot reviewer here) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigi1489
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth every penny I spent on it. If you are a fan of Pokemon, you will 
 love this game, as you can finally get ALL 386 Pokemon from the Kanto, Johto, and Hoenn regions 
 wothout cheating, trading, going to Nintendo events, etc. If you haven't played Pokemon in you're 
 life, this is a good place to start. It's simple, fun, and addictive. With new items and features, 
 such as the Wonder Mail system, this game is good for even old veterans. The Wonder Mail is a cool 
 new feature that is literally perfect for game forums, as if you fail a mission and lose in a dungeon, 
 you can request help by posting your Wonder Mail, and if another person gives you an A-OK password, 
 you can continue from the spot you died instead of going all the way back to the beginning of the 
 dungeon. In terms of length, you could probably breeze through the main story (which, I might add, 
 was much better than I expected) in 20 hours. However, the after-story is much longer. Add to that 
 fact that you can spend a LONG time trying to get all 386 Pokemon to join you're rescue team. Overall, 
 the game is excellent, and if you're bored and are waiting for a game system (like I am) , this 
 game will absolutely help pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugar_bear666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  ok well ive been a bokemaster for quite a wile. about 8 years. and most of the games were the same. 
 now im not bashing them because the are amazing and i want to marrie them all, so dont be hatein. 
 ok well previsoly to getting this gamei have played a couple of the jp only dungeon games and may 
 i say they stunk. but im glad the made the us version of them easier and funner!
  
  Gameplay: the core of the game is very intersting and new to the us gamers. touch screen dident 
 come in handy much. but the way they made the random maps was good and tricky.
  
  Graphics: you gota love the old school 32bit pokemon. i love it so much that they are keeping the 
 same pokemon that ive grown up with and some new friends.
  
  Sound: cool music but still lackin the pokemon theme song from the old show... makes me sad... 
 thats my cell phone ring tone!
  
  Value: $34.99 is the same as the other ds games....
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: well im 15 and am in 10th grade so ive grown up with my little monster friends. 
 many good times playin red and blue in 2ed grade, my first games and i nearly crapped my pance 
 when i palyed it. ive been addicted ever cence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleric_of_doom
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok this has been the GREATEST pokemon game ever!
  My 3 cousins have it and so do I!
  It's fun for all ages and your personality suits your pokemon!
  if you didn't ike your base it 
 will become a replica of your own face! sooner in the game.
  It really fun i hope all you traditional pokemon lovers out there try this new game that isn't 
 about being a trainer. All you people who say this game is childish it isn't it shows reponsibility 
 to save someone and courage to say you need help like if you faint. you can choose to ask for help 
 and Most people will help you.
  its really a good game, please try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirePaladin
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I wasnt to sure about this game but once I started I couldnt put it down. It has good gameplay 
 and story. There is never a shortage of missions to go on. All 386 Pokemon are obtainable in the 
 Dungeon games. If you dont like turned based gameplay you may not like this game. I would recommend 
 this game to any Pokemon fan.
  
  Pros:
  
  Good gameplay
  Good story
  
  Cons:
  
  Music is a little to repetitive.
  A little to childish. Hey! Nintendo older people like Pokemon 
 too.
  
  Warning! This game is only linkable to the Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games. I give this 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan_117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is not the traditional Pokemon game. As you may know in this game you take 
 the role of a Pokemon by taking a personality quiz. After you are assigned your pokemon then you 
 get to choose your partner.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  The graphics in this game are pretty good to the point of being a slight upgrade to GBA graphics. 
 The graphics are 2-D but thats alright cuz in my opinion 2-D graphics beat 3-D graphics anyday.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  The gameplay in this game is absolutely addictive. In this game you get rescue requests for dungeons. 
 As you go into the dungeon you must complete the task that was asked of you. After completing them 
 you get a reward depending on th rank of the mission. But beware! If you are looking for a traditional 
 pokemon experience you will not find it here. Its kind of hard to explain. As you go along the 
 dungeon you will see pokemon roaming around. I t goes like this: If you move then they get to move 
 once, If you attack then they gat to attact once.
  
  Overall this game is highly addictive and a fun twist to the original pokemon games. I would highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoLuffy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  In Pokemon, Blue Rescue Team and Red Rescue Team, you wake up as a pokemon, and must save pokemon 
 from natural disasters; in a world of ONLY pokemon.
  
  There are some things in this game that tick me off, and it was harder than I first anticipated. 
 I like the thought of playing as a pokemon, and the storyline is very exciting, and, at sometimes, 
 sad. If you like long games with plenty of post story mode stuff, then try this game. Even with 
 all of the things that tick me off, I give theese games a 10 out of 10.
  
  The first 386 pokemon are able to be on your rescue team, including the rarest pokemon out of them: 
 Mew, Celebi, Jirachi, and Deoxys. Some pokemon are exclusive to each game.
  
  Well, that is all I have to say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutinpofin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  What's important for you in a game? Personnaly, I need:
  
  -Good gameplay
  -Good story
  -Replay value / Depth (reeeally important)
  -Originality
  -FUN!
  
  And this game has all 
 of this, plus, it's on my list of the 5 more addicting games ever ! Seriously, since I bought it 
 (maybe 4 days ago) , I've wasted so much time on it that I almost feel guilty.
  Now you must be wondering... okay, this guy must be 12 and this must be one of the first games 
 he's ever played. 
  Answer: No! I'm 19 and I consider myself a gamer. So it's not fun BECAUSE it's a pok&eacute; mon 
 game, but I guess it helps. ... that being said...
  
  I've read the gamespot review and I guess theorically, this game *could* be considered by some 
 as a bad game. Why? Primo*, the graphics are a bit outdated, that's true. Secundo**, the controls 
 are hard to understand at first. Tertio, yes, this is repetitive... but what a fun repetition it 
 is!! And you're not going into theses dungeons just for the thrill of it - you always have an objective 
 and that's what's making it interesting! So to answer theses critics:
  
  *Do you really need awesome graphics to appreciate a game on a portable system? I don't. As long 
 as it's fun... and it is.
  
  **Do you want kids controls or do you prefer to have some depth and controls that do allow you 
 more than only choose your direction and attacks? I prefer a longer learning curve, because don't 
 forget that this game has a lot of strategy elements in it, you have to carefully position your 
 characters for combat.
  
  ***Will you be bored by going into randomly generated dungeons, with randomly generated loot and 
 randomly generated missions and prizes; meaning that each and everytime you enter a dungeon, it 
 will always be a new one, generated just for you? ... I think that ROCKS!
  
  So, if you are a pok&eacute; mon fan, will you enjoy this game? The answer is: YES! Believe it or 
 not, you can recruit ALL 387 pok&eacute; s from all the previous games in this one and all your 
 favorite moves (or almost) including HM are back! And for once, the monsters actually really HIT 
 each other, isn't it fantastic?
  If you're NOT a pok&eacute; mon fan, will you enjoy this game?? The answer is: YES! If you just 
 forget about the fact that your team is composed of japanese monsters and if you're looking for 
 a long and fun RPG/Dungeon crawler, this game could be just what you were waiting for!
  
  And OH! I forgot to talk about the rescue system (which rocks too!) ! Let's say you die at the floor 
 87 of a 99 floor dungeon... that could be the most frustrating thing in the world, but thanks to 
 Nintendo, they invented a little rescue system that works either by wireless communication or by 
 a password generated for you to give to a friend (or on the http://dungeon. filb. de/ website...) 
 ... so, someone looking for adventure (and experience!) can take on this mission and save your 
 team, and you'll get back on your feet at the same place you died, with all of your loot intact! 
 It reeeeeally is useful. So it means that when you're bored, you can go rescue people in need... 
 or when you die, you can get rescued by real nice people.
  
  So my conclusion is...
  
  DON'T BUY THIS... If you still care about your life! This game grows on you and you won't be able 
 to put it down once you're immersed into this simple but incredibly deep and long lasting dungeon 
 crawler... Thank you for reading me, -Lutinpofin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XMetalSonicX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was destined to suprise me. I thought It was going to be one of the shortest, easiest 
 games in the world, and like every one else, I got it so I could get Deoxys :P ... I was completely 
 astounded to find out it was one of the most difficult games I have ever played. Not that it's 
 a bad thing. I very much love a challenge. Once I started the game, the first character I got was 
 Meowth. I was so happy. Most people think Meowth is weak, but I beg to.... Oh, well, thats another 
 point. One letdown that is totally irrelivant to this is that Mewtwo and Deoxys are the last legendaries 
 to be fought, and they happen to be my favorites. The sound in the game does get a little repetitive, 
 but How could you hate it? I did not like the fact you needed to defeat Rayquaza to evolve, but 
 that left me thirsting for more of the game! There are so many missions in this game to choose 
 from, and that is good too. Not only does it add an effect to the world of Pokemon, but it sticks 
 to the Pokemon.... thing. What I mean to say is that attacks are still held in the game, and Items, 
 TMs and HMs can be recognized along with new Items. Depending on how you see it, these graphics 
 are either cute, or awesome. Now, I'm not saying that all girls see them as cute, because that 
 would classify me as a sexist. Anyway, This is definitly a game to buy if you are a fan of Pokemon 
 and have $35 on hand! Thanks for listening.
  
  Alpha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcichosz
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely terrible. The gameplay is turn-based, more or less, and for each one turn 
 you take, your enemy also takes one. For example, if you take one step, your enemy will take one 
 step, or if you attack once, your enemy can attack once. It's a neat idea that's been used before 
 frequently in old dos games, but doesn't live up to today's standards. You control one pokemon 
 (who is assigned to you at the beggining of the game through a 'personality test') and you get 
 a supporting pokemon of your choice. The supporting pokemon follows you around in dungeons, but 
 isn't really of any help or fighting value, as it must be positioned correctly to attack an enemy, 
 and you cannot control him, suffice to say that he follows directly behind you. I really didn't 
 play that much more of the game to find out what else was in it. I really didn't want to know. 
 I'm sure there's some cool stuff hidden in there, but it's really not worth the time playing to 
 find out. If you don't want to listen to my opinion on this game, it's cool, because it's not completely 
 valid, but overall I think the game is (would be) a waste of time playing, and is, at best, worth 
 renting. Unless you are one of those left-over die hard pokemon fans, with minds still lingering 
 in the late 90's, please save yourself the 30 dollars of buying this game; You will be disappointed 
 by it. Oh, and I forgot to mention: The music is absolutely horrifying. I wanted to shoot myself 
 listening to the theme of the first dungeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaidersFan56
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addictive, i cant put it down, except for writing this review, so buy this game!!! 
 and i need 100 word so bbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bb bbbbbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbb bb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb b bbbbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb b b b b bb b b u u u uu u uu u u u u 
 u u u u u u u u uu u u u uu u u u u uu u y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y it!!! ! !! ! ! AB fldnfklsdnfkj 
 adfsdf dsf jksad jkfs jdsf jfas jklfjkfdjkls jkf dfjk d fddf jd f jkdf kjdfl df d dfd fdf f d dfs 
 df d d s fd dsf fd df d df dfs fds fds fds f dd ff dd fdfs dsf fds fds f ddf s fd dfd d f dsf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d43mon1k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I think it is unfair that GameSpot gave this a 5.2. I have seen far 
 worse games get 6s and 7s. Anyway...
  
  This game is pretty cool as far as a decent mix between a pokemon game and a dungeon crawler. You 
 go through a personality test, which assigns you a pokemon based on your personality type. Pretty 
 cool if you ever wondered what kind of pokemon you would be. You then go on a number of quests 
 through randomly generated dungeons, collect items, and add pokemon to your roster. The quests 
 are not too challenging, and though not highly exciting, they are interesting enough to keep you 
 playing the game.
  
  My only complaint is that the music is repetitive. I would have given the entire game another whole 
 point for better music. It gets really redundant.
  
  I would recommend this to any pokemon fan waiting for Diamond and Pearl... and for anyone who plays 
 their DS for 20-30 min at a time on the bus, or waiting at the doctors office :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImDrFreak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is pretty darn fun.
  
  Yes, I'm playing devil's advocate here, and going against what most of the review sites are saying 
 about the game - just a warning. You know how it is.
  
  In Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, you are a Pokemon - or more appropriately, you're a human that has 
 become one, but for all intents and purposes, you are one. Which one you are is determined by a 
 personality test at the beginning of the game, which then chooses from a short list of available 
 avatars. If you don't like what you got, you can reset and try again, or I'm sure you can (or will 
 be able to) find a chart somewhere that leads you how to get what you want.
  
  You are in a world populated completely by various Pokemon, with no humans around. There's a vast 
 land of various dungeons and home areas, and a central town where you can buy/sell things, store 
 items, go to a bank, get advice, get missions, set up power combos, and the like.
  
  I started as a Charmander. It's a little orange dinosaur like thing whose special powers are fire-based. 
 I got to choose a partner. It's generally a good idea to choose a partner whose abilities make 
 up for your weaknesses. In my case, I'd be weak to water, so I chose one that would be strong to 
 water - an electric type, in this case, a Pikachu.
  
  The game consists of a series of things to do, but it mainly all comes down to traveling out to 
 a series of dungeons and trying to complete a quest. The quests are all pretty straightforward 
 - rescue someone, bring something to someone, bring someone to someone else, etcetera. The missions 
 range in difficulty and are aquired from the town post office or sometimes dropped right into the 
 mailbox of your Pokemon's hovel. At any given time, you can have up to eight missions including 
 the one story mission which is required to advance the storyline of the game. The non-story missions 
 are used to acquire items, get cash, and level up to continue with the story ones which are generally 
 much more difficult.
  
  Sounds a bit repetitive, but I didn't really find it so. The dungeons are randomly generated, and 
 frankly it keeps you playing to get to that next level, and/or ability (just like in the regular 
 Pokemon games) . There's also Evolutions to look forward to.
  
  There's generally not so much dungeon crawling necessary before you can continue along with the 
 story, so it keeps things relatively fresh, though I can see it getting a bit monotonous at higher 
 levels. Basically, there's always something to look forward to when the story unfolds. Visually, 
 it's a Pokemon game... but since you're dealing with Pokemon as your contacts, friends, and self 
 (as opposed to humans) it gives the game a painfully cute factor. The developers went out of their 
 way to give most of the critters little dialogue box expressions that more than a few times had 
 me cringing with the cute (and having my girlfriend coo.) The colors are bright, the backgrounds 
 are cartoony and enjoyable. The dungeon backgrounds are repetivtive, though the layout changes 
 with each floor and each visit.
  
  I've noticed two primary complaints from most of the gaming sites:
  
  First, that this game 
 is just another game in the 'Fushigi no Dungeon' series - this one with Pokemon thrown on. To which 
 my reply is this: It's terrible that this is just a re-hash of another game series that the reviewers 
 are familiar with and for them, it's just more of the same... except they don't seem to realize 
 that Fushigi no Dungeon is a Japanese series - of which only ONE game has been released outside 
 of Japan (Chocobo's Dungeon 2) , and which most people never played. I'm glad that these folks can 
 play so many Japanese games... but we (the readers) can't. This is a new game series as far as 
 we're concerned.
  
  The second complaint seems to stem from the Fushigi no Dungeon gimmick , which is randomized dungeons. 
 The claim is that this is the only thing that the series brings to the table and is nothing new. 
 Well, yes... we've seen random dungeons before... Diablo, NetHack, and such... but it's not really 
 common, and frankly the changing dungeons keep it from being too monotonous and the rest of the 
 game adds to the appeal.
  
  All that said, its not a perfect game in any way. It's fun and mildly engaging... but compared 
 to a regular game in the Pokemon series, there's not much there. It's really just a holdover until 
 Diamond and Pearl (and Hunters, maybe?) but it's a holdover that I'll enjoy at least for a little 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonhuman40
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  A very interesting game. Pokemon mystery dungeon blue is almost the opposite of other pokemon games. 
 Like instead of being the human you are the pokemon. Well, a human transformed into a pokemon. 
 Story: You wake up in a grass area and you can't remember what happened before that. Next, you 
 realize that you are a pokemon when you meet your partner pokemon that you chose at the beginning 
 of the game which also makes you take a personality test to see which pokemon you are most like. 
 Then you both help rescue a caterpie and you form a rescue team not long after that.
  
  Gameplay: Probably the most different thing about this game compared to other pokemon games is 
 that you run around as a pokemon and have the pokemon on your team follow you and they attack pokemon 
 on their own. Which brings me to the ai. If you have played other pokemon games you will know that 
 all enemy pokemon don't no crap from apple sauce. Even after they taste it. Well, now it's your 
 own pokemon and enemy pokemon. Luckily you control one of them. In this game they allow you to 
 make them smater by raise their smartness which raises their I. Q. In the I. Q. menu their are many 
 different ai options that you learn that make them do and don't do certain things. Like make them 
 stop using moves that are out of pp. I don't know how they do that anyway. It would have been easier 
 to not have made it that way in the programming. The dungeons are randomized but have themes and 
 different pokemon and a different amount of floors depending where you are. You buy friend areas 
 so you can catch certain pokemon. Pokemon need a place to live to! Cause there are no humans in 
 this game. You can recruit pokemon after they are beaten if you have their friend area, your lvl. 
 is higher than theirs and if you have a space open on your team. You can have 4 pokemon and each 
 of them have 4 attacks. you learn more through out the game. It's really cool cause you can finally 
 catch all 386 pokemon in this game! Only one that allows you to catch them all accept for version 
 only ones!!! And yes. That means all the legendaries including jurachi, celebi and deoxis! And 
 all your pokemon actually move when they do attacks! You can store items and money. Buy TMs. The 
 best attacks are also available like blast burn. You get random rescue missions also from the bulletin 
 board and from your mail box. Multiplayer: You can rescue your friend if they die in a dungeon, 
 trade items, and go through dungeons with them. Great fun.
  
  Graphics: A little bit better than pokemon mystery dungeon red on game boy advance. Sprites are 
 well done.
  
  Sound: The sound is normal for a dungeon crawler. The town music is the only annoying track amazingly. 
 Attack sounds are okay.
  
  Value: Lots of replay value considering all missions are random and so are the dungeons.
  
 
  Overall this is an awesome game. Especially being able to catch all the pokemon! You should definetly 
 try this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you go into playing this game with the expectation it'll be a typical Pokemon travel-and-capture 
 game or a new ChunSoft innovation, you're not going to be impressed. This is probably why I've 
 seen some low reviews for the game. However, if you ditch those perspectives and look at it for 
 what it is, then Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue is a pretty solid game if you're looking for an 
 open-ended randomly generated dungeon crawl that's playable on your DS or GBA. The Pokemon theme 
 is a bit more than half-implemented, too.
  
  After a brief introductory sequence where you are given a small personality quiz and land in the 
 game as a Pokemon, the game quickly gets underway. You're given a taste of the dungeon crawling 
 at first, and soon more parts of the game open up as you continue playing, such as the friend recruiting 
 and storyline elements. The central focus on the game is on the dungeon crawling, with a town being 
 outside of the dungeons. The town is mostly there to serve the functions of allowing you to store 
 and replenish goods and money, get more jobs, and also choose which Pokemon you're taking with 
 you into the dungeons. If you have friends who play the game, you can also choose to rescue them 
 from here.
  
  The Dungeon itself plays like your average Roguelike. Assuming you don't know what a Roguelike 
 is, it's a top-down perspective game that centers on fighting your way through a randomly generated 
 collection of rooms connected by passages. Each room will have randomly generated foes, money, 
 and usable items laying around. Everything is turn based, you move and then your opponents (and 
 allies) get to move. You defeat foes and gain experience and levels as you go. Because there's 
 so much room for random generation, you'll never play the same game twice. This is the essence 
 of a Roguelike game that PMDB is based on.
  
  The Pokemon theme and game mechanics have been somewhat ingeniously weaved into this basic Town 
 + Roguelike forumula. Away goes the typical hero and his worn or wielded equipment, replaced instead 
 by yourself as a plucky Pokemon. Each Pokemon has a variety of moves that they gain with level, 
 and these can be executed instead of a generic attack. The moves are more powerful than the generic 
 attack and reward a greater amount of experience if they defeat the enemy, but can only be executed 
 a certain number of times before you need to rest or use an elixir (like in a standard Pokemon 
 game) . There's also the aspect of Pokemon weaknesses to keep in mind, with things like Fire attacks 
 being effective against Plant Pokemons but Fire Pokemon taking extra damage from Water attacks.
 
  
  These and other Pokemon game based mechanics make this more interesting than your standard Roguelike. 
 I actually like the flow of combat here in PMBD better than the standard Pokemon carts because 
 it's still the same turn-based mechanic but now it's open-ended. It sort of annoys me how in the 
 normal Pokemon games the combat goes so slowly, perhaps to make it easy for kids to read or something. 
 Here, combat is still turn based and balanced the same way, but executes quickly and with much 
 of the same mechanics. The main exception would be the generic attack and the aspect of linking 
 moves, which allows you to execute more than one move per turn by firing them all off at once. 
 (Pokemon alpha strikes?)
  
  The game would have been interesting enough if it was just your Pokemon alone juggling moves against 
 the various encountered foes, but they also introduced team members. You start with just you and 
 a Pokemon friend, but in time you can impress other Pokemon you meet and defeat into joining you. 
 So far as I can gather, there's a random chance each hostile Pokemon you meet will join you provided 
 that you've already bought an appropriate habitat for them. You can only have four Pokemon in your 
 group at a time, and (while you don't control them directly) you can assign them a basic tactic 
 and toggle certain behaviors (such as whether they pick up or throw items) . For the most part, 
 I've found that the leader Pokemon (me) does most of the work, but sometimes other members are 
 needed to help clear out difficult rooms, throw me a berry to save me from defeat, or confront 
 foes my own Pokemon is weak against.
  
  Although the relatively sophisticated gameplay probably makes a fair use of raw processing power, 
 PMDB doesn't seem to do anything that should push the DS's graphical and audio capabilities very 
 hard. The graphics are really no better than Super Nintendo quality, which is probably an accommodation 
 made to make the game look the same whether you're playing the DS or the GBA. The sound effects 
 are simple and get the job done. The music actually seems a bit repetitive and some of the pieces 
 strike me as being unnecessarily atonal. At least there's a fair variety of music if you change 
 areas often. About the only redeeming factor about the multimedia aspect is the wealth of animations 
 of the Pokemon and their varying moves, which could easily involve tens of thousands of frames 
 in all. Ironically for the purists, there's way more frames of Pokemon graphics here than in your 
 standard Pokemon game.
  
  If you're looking for an open-ended dungeon crawl with some interesting Pokemon aspects well integrated, 
 then this is a pretty good game. If you're looking for a game that plays like the Pokemon series 
 that started it all, you're going to have to wait until Pokemon Diamond. Could they have innovated 
 more with this game? Sure. Still, taken with an open mind and an appreciation towards leveling 
 up through randomly generated dungeons, this is a game that can appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geostrike
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this game up I didn't do much research on the game or play it for more that three 
 minuets. So when I played it, to my surprise, it was very entertaining. The game starts off where 
 they ask you a series of questions to determine what type of pokemon you will play as throughout 
 the game. After that you have to select a partner to join you on your adventures. For the most 
 part this game is a action / tactics game. The movement is in a block grid but you do not take 
 turns to move. As for the battle system, when wandering through a dungeon you a going to encounter 
 enemy pokemon and there a multiple way to fight. The first is a plain attack function that goes 
 with hitting the A button. You can also set moves the pokemon has learned but these take PP and 
 the regular attack doesn't. You can also access the menu an attack from there. Your partner will 
 help in battle as well, but he has to be positioned right and sometimes it isn't worth it to move. 
 The missions are fairly simple and wont take much time to get through. The story is good as far 
 as a pokemon game goes. This game is good to have if you aren't really playing anything else on 
 the DS and is worth a look at. I wouldn't recommend it for those who want a really in depth DS 
 game, but it is a fun title to have and is fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  In my 16 years of life and collection of a few hundred games, I have happened upon the most underrated 
 game of my life. Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Blue not only presents itself as a new type of game, but 
 it does well to uphold the basic formula that made Pokemon great, and made dungeon crawlers great. 
 This type of dungeon crawler is probably completely new to most Americans. ChunSoft took a decent 
 franchise, Fushigi no Dungeon, and translated it into a near flawless American version in the form 
 of PMD: BRT. I honestly feel that most high-up gaming reviewers were prejudiced in their reviews 
 for this game because it had Pokemon on the label. They didn't give it a second chance from there. 
 This game executed the fundamentals they were hoping for perfectly. It is almost the only game 
 of its type in America and it is amazing in every way. I have fallen in love with a new type of 
 gaming. The in-dungeon controls are great. It takes a while to learn them but once you do, your 
 Pokemon will be able to do anything you need. They will move perfectly, attack perfectly, and use 
 the moves you want them to use. This is one of the best aspects of the game. The depth of the game 
 is amazing. There are so many strategies and tactics you can pull of at any given time. And you 
 can basically function your allies to act pretty similar to how you would act after a little testing 
 and research. The only problem with them is that they sometimes stray away from you and you have 
 to literally chase them. I occasionally enjoy this. It adds a new challenge to the game. You can 
 either chase after them and rescue them or you can attempt to venture ahead alone and as fast as 
 possible and escape before your allies get swamped. The rest of the game is pretty solid. It has 
 an extremely long single player that compliments an entertaining story for the beginning portion. 
 It has some great graphics although the appearance of some dungeon tiles gets pretty repetitive. 
 The sound is just fine for a DS game. I am not a Pokemon fan at all or a major RPG fan really, 
 but the combination of the two into a dungeon crawler is quite the treat. I am so upset with Gamespot 
 on this one. I don't know who rated it but they have just lost all my respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophecy15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  What if you woke up one day, and you were a Pokemon? What if all of the sudden you find yourself 
 in a NEW world, where you can speak and interact with other Pokemon? The adventure begins when 
 you and your partner Pokemon set out on rescue missions in a world ravaged by natural disasters. 
 But what is your true purpose and destiny in this Pokemon world? Thats the real mystery...
  
  An exciting and dramatic story pulls you tino an involving world of Pokemon never seen before. 
 Use various moves and items to complete your missions and increase your rescue teams' reputation. 
 Meet over 380 Pokemon on your journey. Become friends with them and call upon them for help whenever 
 you need to. Strategic battles enchance the adventure as you explore deep dugeons and towering 
 mountains.
  
  This game bought me back in the Pokemon realm, and I cannot wait for Pokemon Ranger, and D/P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Think of the most simplistic and generic rpg ever made for any of the gameboy systems, swap out 
 the characters and replace them with cute pokemon, and you've got Pokemon Dungeon Blue. Not only 
 do I want my money back, but I also want the time I spent beating this terrible game. I guess I 
 got excited about a pokemon title for the DS and I didn't wait for the reviews to come out. Let 
 me assure you that this will never be the case again. By far the worst addition to the pokemon 
 family. Play control was terrible, I couldnt tell which I hated more; the stylus controls or the 
 face controls, both were so bad I found myself swapping between the two for most of the game. The 
 sound was minimalistic, the graphics were dated and they used the same dungeon tiles over and over 
 again. They really didn't take advantage of the duel screens either. Absolutely no replay value. 
 The good: The story line actually wasn't that bad if you could hack through all the mindless dungeons 
 to see it unfold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raquor
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot seems to have missed the boat on this one. One of the many reasons I picked up this game 
 is simply the long time period with NO pokemon game. But I also picked this up because it IS different 
 rather than the same as all the other pokemon games since the original gameboy versions.
  
  Gone are the long boring treks through useless routes between quests .
  Gone are the random battles 
 that tend to be more irritating than useful.
  
  Instead you pick and choose the quests or missions you want to do and you also zip instantly to 
 whichever dungeon you are to journey through. The game has a few quirks and does a terrible job 
 of explaining itself in the beginning. You would do well to read the instructions throughly before 
 you begin your journey.
  
  It's meant to be a filler between now and D/P and of course Pokemon Ranger is coming in another 
 month or so and is meant to perform the same use. (This applies to the US crowd at least... I know 
 Japan already has all these games.) It performs admirably in this guise as it is refreshingly different, 
 capable of being played in short quick bursts, and won't suck up nearly enough time to prevent 
 you from enjoying other up and coming pokemon games as they are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Hewson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is a real fun game! it is nothing like the original rpg pokemon, but it just might be 
 better. this is a real cute game and it basically keeps you guessing the hole way. so, at the start 
 of the game you do a test. and the test will uncover what type of pokemon you are. the best thing 
 in this game is the story line. so you wake up as a pokemon. not knowing how you turned into a 
 pokemon. (it involes a curse of ninetails) then your partner (witch you can pick) comes and wakes 
 you up. then you rescue a caterpee and start up a rescue team. before you know it, everyone in 
 the town wants to kill you! you say goodbye to you friends, and its very emotional! you might even 
 cry. so then you run away and im not going to say anything else. (becarefull gardevoir will tear 
 off your head!!!!! haha only joking!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShanghaiKid2007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  ok, well the game is pretty fun. the personality quiz can be pretty fun to answer but if you're 
 like me, you may have done it several times to become the pokemon you wanted. the game looks very 
 vibrant and colorful, basically a little better than advance wars. gameplay is a bit weird but 
 can easily be gotten used to and battle is all in a crazy turn-paced style which is weird at first 
 but is pretty cool. sound is kind of insignificant but it's not bad at all. this game could easily 
 be like 40 or more hours long so it gets a 9 for value. i just think the game is highly addictive 
 and fun so thats my view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I just got Pokemon Blue Mystery Dungeon DS yesterday! So far it is an awesome game. Something I 
 always wanted. I always wanted to BE the pokemon and actual see when wild enemies were coming. 
 This made my dream. Its a wonderful RPG. Something new everytime you enter the dungeons or forests. 
 The maps always change. And there is a variety of different pokemon you can be from the start. 
 And then you could pick a teammate right after that. Two of the pokemon you love. I like the way 
 you can be rescued. Thats I could reason I have a brother... when I die he can save me! But usually 
 its him that dies.... But whatever. The saving system is pretty sweet.
  
  I love this game and any pokemon fan should get it... scratch that... any RPG fan should get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcoombs8
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Like I Said Two Thumbs Up if u own a DS but not this game your crazy you should buy it right now 
 and be a proud owner of the game i played my friends im geting mine soon rent it buy it play it 
 just TRY IT! I really want it to buy it right now its so fun. I have nothing more to right 100 
 words are hard. Well just buy the game im hoping i get pikachu when i get my coy of the game. . 
 . The Diffrence between red and blue are the pokemon i think. My friend had red version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  It a good game. It should be played by a lot of the people who love pokemon because this game is 
 not like the other pokemon it is so much better!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You dont have to play as one of those 
 stupid trainers no you are actually a pokemon ( thats the title) its the first oof its kind so 
 you really should get it thats final. The best of the best. You can be any character you want but 
 most likely you are going to get a pokemon that is going to fit your personality! Thats all i got 
 to say about this game so get it  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
