-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Platinum
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonplatinum/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same great Pokemon core mechanics.
 Countless tweaks refine the experience.
 Battle Frontier, Distortion World greatly extend replayability.
 Almost 60 Pokemon added to Sinnoh's native Pokedex.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited, simplistic minigames in Wi-Fi Plaza.
 Heavily recycled material from Diamond/Pearl.
 Story could use sprucing up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 982 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Game Freak
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 22, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although not exactly fresh, Pokemon Platinum's substantial fine-tuning and new features make it 
 the best special edition yet. 

  Two things are certain in the crazy world of Pokemon: Somehow these adorable creatures trigger 
 an undeniable urge to collect 'em all, and every new generation of games ultimately spawns a special 
 edition with additional features. Usually these new editions rely on cheesy gimmicks, but Pokemon 
 Platinum's gameplay is much more refined than that of its predecessors,  Diamond and Pearl . The 
 focus is still on classic, addictive battling, but Platinum also incorporates several new areas 
 and an impressive array of subtle changes, making it the best of the bunch despite heavily recycled 
 content.  

        var shown = false; function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  Platinum maintains 
 the franchise's traditional elements, including a cozy (if banal and predictable) backstory with 
 some slight adjustments. You select your character's gender, receive your first Pokemon from the 
 local Professor Rowan, and embark on your own adventure -- exploring the land of Sinnoh's vivid countryside 
 and meddling in the affairs of the laughable Team Galactic. Two new characters extend the returning 
 plot, providing interesting details about the new areas and Pokemon forms, but they add little 
 overall.  

  The majority of the gameplay follows the series' tried-and-true formula for a pleasantly nostalgic 
 journey. You travel with a team of six Pokemon and engage other trainers and wild Pokemon in simple, 
 turn-based battles. Each creature has four moves based on elemental types, such as fire and water, 
 and the goal is to capitalize on your opponent's elemental weakness. These ability types form the 
 basis of a rock-paper-scissors mechanic that encourages you to catch a variety of Pokemon to tackle 
 any opponent, providing the foundation of the game's highly addictive nature. Capturing Pokemon 
 adds them to your collection and expands your Pokedex's Pokemon data, which now boasts almost 60 
 new creatures, though you're still spending most of your time battling the same old Pokemon.  

 
  Facing off against the game's huge selection of Pokemon masters is now even more challenging and 
 fun. Pokemon gyms have been redesigned to incorporate interesting minipuzzles, and gym leaders, 
 important trainers, and even the Elite Four have all had their Pokemon lineups adjusted to reflect 
 the expanded Pokedex. You're now able to retackle gym leaders and the Elite Four, and both groups 
 feature more-advanced Pokemon for your rematches, which keeps you on your toes and offers a more 
 lasting challenge. New, special trainers appear in Pokemon centers for entertaining combat practice, 
 and their fights can also be repeated.  

           And so your Pokemon adventure begins. Again.      

  The new Battle Frontier, in which 
 you'll tackle your most difficult foes for rare prizes, is the game's most impressive and addictive 
 feature. It's been tweaked since its Pokemon Emerald debut to house five battle facilities, such 
 as the popular Battle Tower, and plenty of new restrictions to test your mettle, including back-to-back 
 battles and sharp limits that curtail your Pokemon usage. The Wi-Fi Club, which enables you to 
 battle registered friends via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, now uses a clearer visual interface 
 and lets you and a friend go through the Battle Frontier together, pairing up against trainers 
 from all over the world -- another of the game's most enjoyable elements. If you ever grow weary 
 of Wi-Fi battles or the Battle Frontier, you can visit the new Distortion World, wherein you have 
 to traverse floating platforms and endure deliberately confusing camera perspectives en route to 
 an exciting battle with the famed Giratina's new origin form.  

  Trading, the other half of Pokemon, is just as fun and addictive as catching your own creatures. 
 The Global Trade Station, renamed the Global Terminal, has been slightly expanded to better facilitate 
 trades over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, which enables you to trade without meeting other players. 
 A neat new e-mail feature exclusive to Platinum will contact your Wii account when a Pokemon that 
 you've listed for trade has been accepted, saving you time that you'd ordinarily spend rechecking 
 your listings on the DS. The terminal has also received a new Battle Videos feature with which 
 you can take advantage of the new Vs Recorder and submit videos of you battling against friends 
 or in the Battle Frontier. You can upload videos for ranking and share them with friends, which 
 is great for those times when you wished a friend could have witnessed your astounding victory 
 or hilarious defeat.  

  It's unsurprising that the game looks much the same as its immediate predecessors, though there 
 have been some slight graphical improvements. Pokemon animations have been somewhat refined and 
 perform flashy moves shortened for brevity; however, the text speed is still too slow even on the 
 fastest setting, which can make battles tedious regardless of whether or not you turn off attack 
 animations. Colorful environments feature several redesigned areas, and you can now clearly see 
 footprints and bike tracks as you scurry along pretty seaside beaches. Unfortunately, battle screens 
 are still rather barren and Pokemon cries feel very outdated.  

           Visit the new Distortion World to battle the legendary Giratina's new form.      

 
  Though most of Platinum's content is recycled from the Diamond and Pearl games, the Battle Frontier 
 and numerous tweaks applied to even the smallest of elements manage to make it feel fresh. Pokemon 
 Platinum's rich gameplay and extensive replayability create a highly satisfying adventure that's 
 well worth taking for newcomers and Pokemaniacs alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Igor_Lollipop
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Undoubtedly, this is the best game in the Pokmon series thus far. It is very similar to the other 
 third games in each generation (like Yellow, Emerald, and Crystal) , but also very different because 
 it takes a step further.
  
  For one, the requirements to fill up the Pokdex differ by adding more Pokmon. This can agitate 
 gamers, however. It hardly fazed me... just one more challenge to look forward to. 
  
  Many of the special edition games in each generation have also added some new things, but the Battle 
 Frontier has endless possibilities so that players will be entertained for longer since there are, 
 about, five buildings or so.
  
  The story line is also the best, in my opinion. Galatica's plans have been expanded and given a 
 more humanized feel (unlike in previous games where the villains really didn't have many/very good 
 reasons for what they were doing) although I think the addition of Charon was a waste of pixels, 
 really. 
  
  Still speaking of the story line, let's look at the Distortion World. Wow, the Distortion World 
 definitely set Platinum apart from all other Pokmon games, and Nintendo should really do something 
 similar in the next Pokmon games. Taking advantage of the DS' superior graphics and 3-D capabilities 
 made for a very awesome-looking world, though you will not understand how wonderful it is unless 
 you play it. 
  
  Speaking of graphics, the additions and repairs that have been made for Platinum that were not 
 in Diamond and Pearl are beautiful. For one, Eterna Forest looks beautiful with the cloud cover. 
 The new trees in the Battle Area are also very nice. Overall, everything that had been fixed just 
 looks beautiful; I was astounded by the beauty in the games. 
  
  The change in the gyms was also pretty cool, particularly Eterna's gym. 
  
  As an Action Replay 
 bearer, my only complaint is that it's no longer possible (for me at least) to get Shaymin with 
 the invisible/walk through walls cheat. That was disappointing, but appropriate on Nintendo's part.
 
  
  Like with the previous games like Crystal, Giratina (Platinum's featured Pokmon) has a wonderful 
 appearance. Finding it in Turnback Cave in DP was kind of like "Oh... well... that's nice." Giving 
 it its own part in the story was very cool. And being able to get Palkia and Dialga was very awesome. 
 It was also very refreshing to track down Moltres, Articuno, and Zapdos in the game; very kind 
 on Nintendo's part. Kudos to Nintendo for all of the legendary Pokmon in the game, that's for 
 sure.
  
  Platinum is improved in every way, and it really is the best in the Pokmon series. Its story line 
 alone is very enticing, and the legendaries make up for the regular Pokmon that you may not care 
 for. The graphics are, again, very lovely. And it's a nice bonus to get Giratina's Origin forme 
 (found only in the Distortion World until you get a special orb) later in the game. 
  
  Overall, a great game. I highly suggest Pokfans out there to at least rent it if they can't buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perfect_Shot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought a DS. I was looking through the games I could buy, and quickly picked up Pokemon 
 Platinum. I hadn't bought a Pokemon game since Crystal version. However, I was amazed how much 
 everything had changed, and for the better.
  
  I was surprised by the sound quality and graphical power of Platinum. The game makes full use of 
 the system's power with its stellar graphics and great sound, and it's all compacted in a game 
 that will present you with numerous hours of fun. The price is nice and low for an immersive game 
 of it's kind, and for those who have yet to play a pokemon game, or simply pokefans who wanted 
 to play the newest version it is well worth the price paid. For those who are new to the series, 
 there are plenty of tutorials along the way which will help you through the game, and eventually 
 conquer it.
  
  One of the best things about Pokemon is that it has a diverse target audience. Many consider games 
 like Mario for 'kids', and Resident Evil as for the 'mature'. Pokemon has the unique ability to 
 please anyone from children to adults. There is really no specific audience for the Pokemon series; 
 it's one of those games that can make everyone happy, and Platinum follows this as well.
  
  Platinum boasts a total of almost 500 different Pokemon, which will keep the player picking the 
 game back up. Also, the raised difficulty in certain places (namely the Elite Four) was greatly 
 appreciated. Some other great changes is that now berries and poffins are avaliable for purchase 
 instead of having to pick and make them yourself. As always, the Wi-Fi continues to do a good job 
 by allowing trades, battles, chatrooms and more. The storyline is well done and flows, not leaving 
 players hanging. There are many more additions, but not enough space to list them.
  
  Overall, Pokemon Platinum is a well-made game that does excellent on expanding the series. If you 
 are a fan to the games, this is one that can't be missed. If you are new to the Poke series, swing 
 by your local video game retailer and pick Platinum up. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  So the 4th Generation of Pokemon has definitely been exciting, and the excitement hasn't died down 
 in the years that we've had access to it. Of course I'm talking about Platinum version, the third 
 in the trio of the 4th Generation. Now, all Pokemon games are great, but this has to be the best 
 yet. Let me start by saying that if it's strategy you're after in a game, this is about the most 
 complex thing you could ask for. Sure, it's cute and fun on the outside, but at the heart of Pokemon 
 is advanced strategy that is ever-changing and always delightful. Platinum, of course, is not exception. 
 What's new, you ask? Well, the biggest change to the game has to be the Battle Frontier, something 
 introduced in Emerald Version. Now, not only does this add to the strategic value of the game, 
 it also provides good practice for online play, which is a monster in itself. About online/competitive 
 play, this is the cream of the crop of the Pokemon experience. With the new Wi-Fi capabilities 
 that Platinum brings forth, it's more possible than ever to battle, trade, and even voice chat 
 with friends from across the country and even world! The new and improved Wi-Fi club and the new 
 Wi-Fi plaza make for a great online experience, a much upgraded version than D/P. My favorite part 
 of the experience has to be the competitive play, but even if you aren't into that, there's plenty 
 to do in this RPG. The story has had some tweaks, including new characters and places, but I won't 
 spoil anything. You also have many new options and things/people to help you in the game. For example, 
 something I was particularly excited about was the addition of a Hidden Power character who basically 
 lets you choose a Pokemon and he'll determine it's Hidden Power type. All in all, for Pokemon die-hards 
 and newcomers alike, Platinum is the best choice for the Pokemon experience and should not be taken 
 lightly. Finally, I'd like to add my enthusiasm for the new sprites. I always enjoy visual tweaks, 
 so I really liked these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camster10
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  It has touched up graphics and the plot's a little changed up, but that's not enough to make me 
 buy this game, sadly. I rented this game and became very disappointed to find out it was almost 
 identical to the diamond/pearl versions. I hear that it also has a couple of added features, but 
 still Nintendo and Game Freak need to step up to the plate again and make a brand new set of Pokemon 
 games, but still keeping everything from before besides the storyline and pokemon, oh and the region. 
 I would like to see that. I won't buy Platinum because it's too redone but I definetly would buy 
 a new one somewhat like Platinum, you know a battle based one. Hope to see it in stores! ^.^. Anyway, 
 I think the little things like the snow in Twinleaf Town and the fact that you can tell the ledges 
 are ledges, not fences are really cool ideas. Also, that the status bars are black and look really 
 cool. I would reccomend the game to anyone who doesn't have Diamond or Pearl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  As an adult guilty-pleasure Pokmon fan, I had great anticipation for this "platinum," version 
 of Diamond and Pearl. I feel it necessary to point this out because whether you have played the 
 previous D and P games is probably the greatest factor in how appealing this game is- which put 
 a unique spin on creating a review.
  
  If we look at Platinum in a vaccuum, as though D and P didn't exist, I'd give this game a 9.0 or 
 more. For a DS game, it excels in utilizing the console to its pinnacle; the game sounds are strong, 
 the graphics and visualizations are superior and it presents hundreds of hours of gameplay for 
 a significantly lower price than its other-console counterparts. So, for those new to the franchise, 
 they will probably not be disappointed; though playing Pokmon for the first time is probably unlikely 
 for the majority of players. If, though, you are in fact new to the franchise, you won't be disappointed 
 in terms of value and performance; and if it's for your child, you will find that the game offers 
 enough guidance and tutorials that can help young children make their way through the game.
  
  This point is where the game truly shines: most games have a target demographic, the Pokmon 
 has the unique ability to traverse many.
  
  However...
  
  Having predecessors in the series in Diamond and Pearl, Platinum has to struggle with the problematic 
 quandary of "do we completely revamp, or merely make additions?" In this case, the Pok-creators 
 have decided to tweak instead of re-invent the wheel, so to speak. Some changes are excellent and 
 were much needed: the ability to purchase poffins and berries instead of creating and growing, 
 the inclusion of a wider range of Pokmon to choose from, graphical enhancements at previously-weaker 
 places and a higher difficulty scale in places that needed such.
  
  Ultimately the game's storyline, world and strategy are largely unchanged. Very little new dialogue 
 and only a few token NPC's have arrived, and if you HAVE played D and P, you will probably feel 
 a bit disappointed in just how little has changed in these areas. In summation, Platinum can probably 
 be best-described as what Diamond and Pearl should have been to begin with, but it's still much 
 fun. You gotta get 'em all! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCaseyDog
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Well, Platinum was sure worth the wait! The graphics are great, the online wireless options are 
 amazing, the battle format has been enhanced, and it also features a lot of the older Pokemon from 
 the Gameboy games, just not the other starters, of course. I would definitely recommend this game 
 to anybody, even someone who isn't into the whole Pokemon thing. Trust me, this game is very addicting, 
 but extremely fun, with a constructive storyline to go along with it. The huge community of players 
 online and also in the game makes trading, chatting, sharing, battling, and communicating with 
 others fast and easy, while the game is just as fun without the internet. The soundtrack is pretty 
 decent, and the events that happen daily in the game add to the excitement, and make you never 
 want to put it down. Forget life - Play Pokemon! This game is totally worth the $35! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceGamer01
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  On march 22, 2009 history was being made in U. S. pokemon platnium was on sale. I reserved mines 
 at febuary and i was waiting ever since, i rushed to gamestop and got it, when i got home, i played 
 for 3 whole hours non stop (i got to 5th gym leader) it turns out that nothing was new except new 
 pokemon and change of characters and lines. I was dissapointed in that. A few days later i met 
 with the distortion world and it was HARD/AWESOME i beat it and caught giratina (with masterball) 
 and it was hard too. I find myself in the pokemon leauge in 1 week, i repaet 1 week and it wasn't 
 so hard for the first 4 the champion was HARD, HARD, HARD it took me 3 tries to beat her. 
  
  
  
  The other difference was THE BATTLE FRONTIER. it was like dying and going to battle heaven 
 the place was supa awesome, they even have the old battle factory it was great. ARTICUNO, MOLTRES, ZAPDOS 
 can be caught in this game too these are the only diffrences i've seen in this game.
  overall Great, but not that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitthepunisher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  WOW. This is probably the Best in the Series. First ill start with the negatives
  
  Negatives
  The villa could be advanced a bit
  The underground is still kind of basic. Not a 
 lot to do
  Secret Bases are too basic. A return the the Ruby/Saphire bases would be appreciated
  Dont like 
 the Acting in compitition. Should retern to Ruby/Saphire
  Dont like some of the battle Frontier
  
  Positives
  Love the Underground. On Negatives, i 
 said it was too basic, but it is still an amazing improvement
  Love the Resort Area
  Love the Massages which were from Gold/Silver (called Haircuts)
  Love the Bigger Sinnoh Dex
 
  Like Pokemon Center Battles
  Love how to catch Spiritomb
  Like the Poketch
  Like the Dress Up and Dancing
  Love the Pokemon Swarms
  Like the addition of the Battle Frontier
 
  Like the Great Marsh
  
  I dont have Wifi, so i cant talk about it.
  
  Here is my conclusion
  
  WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mejikojin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  When i played the previous installments like RED, BLUE, YELLOW etc. they all good games and i enjoyed 
 them to the fullest extent to get the bad part of the reveiw out of the way i would say the problems 
 i have with this game is the basic plot thats it i not saying the plot is bad its just basic other 
 then that they fix alot of things like the sound animations the sprites and change how the gym 
 puzzles are and fix most of the gym leaders line up in the previous diamond and pearl there pokemon 
 that didnt fit with the leaders theme and most of the games visuals are a lot better when i played 
 the two i said man they cant possibly do better i was worng in platinum after you beat the leaders 
 and the elite four you have so many things to do this game ranges to 40 to 100 hours of play they 
 so many pokemon that wernt in the last two installments giving the game more veriety in my opinion 
 think this game up right fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCGamer3452
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  When i saw the reviews... i thought woooow..! A new pokemon game!! Finally!! I bought at... and i 
 was shocked... Its the old.. same and Cool pokemon game!!! Maybe is a mistake... maybe a bought Diamond 
 and Pearl!!!... but not...
  Its Pokemon Platinum...
  There are a few changes.. but the story, gameplay... and the pokemon world are the same!!! I wont 
 give my money 4...2 new pokemons and few new characters!!!
  Its like some kind of expansion or a patch... nothing more... if u have played the pokemon diamond 
 and pearl... u wont find anything new in this game and u will get bored soon! ; (
  
  If u never had played pokemon diamond and pearl.... This is a better game than diamond and pearl 
 with new things.... and... what are u waiting 4???? go and buy it!!! now!! :D
  
  And give my score 8 more points because this is a great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The story in this game is about a boy or girl that you choose and you name and you of course like 
 other pokemon games you pick the starter pokemon and begin your journey to catch them all and record 
 them in your pokedex. But there are the same enimies that you battle that were from Diamond and 
 Pearl and they Team Galactic but they have a more sincester plan to rule the world. The story hasn't 
 changed that much from Diamond and Pearl.
  
  The gameplay is the exact same from Diamond and Pearl and if you played those two games then you 
 will know that no gameplay has changed from it. But if you are new to the series then you might 
 feel that there is alot of change. The newest gameplay is there are some new stuff and the legendary 
 pokemon are on different levels and you versus against different people then they are from Diamond 
 and Pearl.
  
  But there are alot of new things in the game like there are new formes of some pokemon like Shaymins 
 Sky forme and Giritinas Origin forme. The gyms have been remodeled and it is a bigger challenge. 
 The contests have changed only a little by dressing up your pokemon. The newest thing to the game 
 though is one the Battle Frontier it is a big place where you challenge other trainers and you 
 try to be the best. Two wifi there are alot of new things in wifi like the play plaza where you 
 go and play minigames against other people in the world. The last thing that is really new is the 
 Distortion World. It is a world when there is no time and space and you go upside down and sometimes 
 you walk on the walls as well. You can only back in there as many times as you want but after the 
 first time then it is not that big of a place and you can only explore where Giritina has been 
 and the only pokemon you can catch the Distortion World is Giritina only.
  
  The good of the game is that there is new of almost everything in the game. The new formes of Giritina 
 and Shaymin are really awesome. The remolded gyms are a bigger challenge then the old ones were. 
 Wifi is alot better and more fun to play with friends.
  
  The bad of the game is same graphics, same story, and same gameplay from Diamond and Pearl.
  
 
  Overall this game is a must get game if you are a pokemon fan or not. I rate this game 9.0 outta 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day it came out. When I started playing it, I was hooked. The gameplay in this 
 game is the same as every Pokemon RPG game ever made, which is the old traditional turn-based battle 
 system. This battle system is somewhat difficult if your Pokemon have low speed. If your Pokemon 
 have high speed, this battle system is extremely easy. The Pokemon with the higher speed gets to 
 attack first, so if your Pokemon's speed is higher than the opponent's Pokemon, then you get to 
 attack first. With legendary Pokemon, you can pummel the competition, enough said. The music in 
 this game is pretty solid. Most of it is the same as Diamond and Pearl, except there are a couple 
 of new tracks. One new track is the Distortion World music. The story in this game..... the exact 
 same thing as every single Pokemon RPG. You pick out a starter Pokemon (SInnoh starter) , go on 
 a quest to stop an evil orginization, and become Champion of whatever region you are in. The evil 
 orginization in Platinum, as well as Diamond and Pearl is Team Galactic. Team Galactic are trying 
 to succeed in catching Dialga and Palkia for their evil plans. You have to stop them from succeeding. 
 Guess what, they are all pushovers! Your Pokemon can obliterate their Pokemon in a matter of seconds! 
 Getting to the Elite Four is a challenge; not a challenge if you have a lot of experience with 
 Pokemon like I do. The Gym Leaders in this game are very easy, and you have to collect 8 badges 
 to battle the Elite Four. After the Elite Four, you battle the Champion. The Champion, who in this 
 case is Cynthia is very difficult to beat. After you defeat Cynthia, you are the new Champion! 
 Congrats! One more addition to this game is the Battle Frontier (Emerald anyone?) . There are a 
 new cast of Frontier brains in this game and you have to defeat every one of them to get their 
 battle symbols. The Battle Frontier in my mind is useless because you have to fight so many trainers 
 to get the chance to battle the Frontier brain, it gets repetitive fast. The Battle Frontier is 
 a place for fun, for all of you battle lovers out there :) . Overall, one of the best Pokemon games 
 ever made, Battle Frontier reloaded, great story, solid music, and the same old battle system. 
 If you own a Nintendo DS, BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moody1997
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Platinum is a great game full of adventure. While Pokemon Diamond and Pearl mainly feature 
 Dialga and Palkia. Pokemon Platinum features the master of the reverse world Giratina. This game 
 takes you to an extraordinary adventure in the reverse world and many other places. This game is 
 a great role playing game. The adventure is also set in the sinnoh region with remodeled gyms and 
 brand new characters such as an agent code name: Looker who helps you in various situations including 
 the invasion of the valley wind works and a new member of team Galactic called commander Charon 
 who is a self described genius who is very secretive. Watch Shaymin change to his sky forme when 
 he comes in contact with Gracidea flowers. also see Giratina's origin forme when you go to the 
 reverse world where the rules of time and space don' apply. Can you help Looker defeat team Galactic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkill123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  I'm going to be brief in this review; mostly because I don't have to rant on and on about critiques 
 with harsh biases against creativity. (I always start with my controversial statement.)
  
  Okay, so too many people feel that Pokemon is a kiddish game. That's just not true. In fact, out 
 of all the RPG's I've played, this is my second favorite of all time. (The first being Kingdom 
 Hearts II Final Mix, however that has no significance to this review.)
  
  Why is this my second favorite RPG of all time? Because it will keep you playing for hours and 
 hours and you never run out of something to experience. A prime example of this is the newly added 
 Battle Frontier, which basically jacks the replay value of this game to unlimited. Another factor 
 would be the ability to battle with anyone around the world.
  
  I enjoy the enhancement made to this game which were not in D/P. Big and small, they were all warmly 
 welcomed by me. Just to list some examples, there are: new story tweaks, changed sceneries, enhanced 
 gameplay elements, added wifi options, yotta, yotta, yotta...
  
  If you are a currant Pokemon fan, or a newcomer to the series; this is a wonderful game. It's much 
 improved and well distinguished.
  
  Thank you for your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zackraa
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Pokemon game I have played in a very very long time. I've been playing since it 
 started like.. a decade ago since then I haven't quite felt that spark since I played blue. Pokemon 
 blue was awesome and since then they have been refining it I finally feel this feeling again of 
 being in a world much different from my own. 
  
  Fire Red & Leaf Green were very flat then Ruby, Sapphire & Emerald on the other hand had some great 
 game play but still were lacking in that adventure feeling going back farther Gold, Silver & Crystal 
 were okay yet saddening to see the original games torn down so greatly
  
  This game pulled me into it and hasn't let go I recommend this game to anyone who used to play 
 the older series of games or thinks all the fire has gone out of it since the advance series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of the game: Pokemon Platinum Read the information below to see what I think 
 about different category of
  ratings.
  
  Graphic (9.5 out of 10) I rated the graphics 9.5 out of 10 because this game's
  graphic was awesome 
 but something bothered me from giving the graphic a
  10. I'm not sure what.
  
  Price (10 out of 10) I rated the price 10 out of 10 because the price is just affordable and it is 
 not that expensive either. My mom didn't even scold me about the price.
  
  The Fun of the Game (10 out of 10) I rated the game itself 10 out of 10 because
  the game has new 
 pokemon and new characters that makes you want to
  play the game more and more and more. It also has new maps adding the
  feeling of wanting to play 
 more to your brain.
  
  Enjoy the game until you are bored of the game and even want to sell it and
  buy another game. Have 
 fun playing the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Throughout my long years of life, I've learned that there are three sure things; death, taxes and 
 new Pokemon games. At least, the latter of the three are something to actually look forward to. 
 There's something about the franchise that appeals to me and everybody else, and Pokemon Platinum 
 continues that endearing trend with some neat new features to keep it fresh and interesting. It 
 expands upon Diamond and Pearl in many respects while holding true to the charming, frenetic gameplay 
 that has drawn many to it (myself included -- otherwise I wouldn't even be writing this positive 
 review) over the past decade or so. 
  
  Just like in past Pokemon games, you're a Trainer (boy or girl, your pick) on a quest to be the 
 greatest Trainer of all time. In this case, you're conquering the land of Sinnoh -- a land filled 
 with secrets and mystical Pokemon of every size and measure. In Platinum, you will enter the Distortion 
 World where the elusive (and extraordinarily powerful) Giratina Origin Forme exists. The story 
 surrounding this Pokemon is an intriguing one at that, and the best part is -- you can catch it. 
 In fact, every Pokemon you come in contact with has the potentiality of being caught by a Pokeball; 
 provided it isn't already owned by a Trainer. This is the tried-and-true formula that has always 
 worked with Pokemon games, and it continues to work here.
  
  Adding to the formula is the much-desired online Wi-Fi capability. Just like the Diamond and Pearl 
 games that first introduced it to the Pokemon series, Platinum allows you to battle human opponents 
 over Wi-Fi and, as you can well imagine, trade Pokemon with players from all over the world. With 
 past Pokemon games, you had to resort to either buying two Pokemon cartridges to complete your 
 Pokedex and having a local buddy with a Game Boy in hand help you out (not to mention the cumbersome 
 link cable -- that is SO old school) The Wi-Fi Global Trading Station eliminates the middle-man entirely, 
 so it is possible to finish your collection with only one DS card and a competent Wi-Fi connection. 
 Platinum also brings back the Battle Tower from Pokemon Emerald, as well as the all-new Wi Fi Plaza, 
 where you can mingle with other trainers, make new friends, and play some interesting multiplayer 
 minigames.
  
  The goal of the game is to defeat the Gym Leaders and earn their badges so you can participate 
 in an epic battle against the Elite Four. You can expect some interesting plot twists along the 
 way, and of course, lots and lots of Pokemon battles. Leveling Pokemon can be serious work, but 
 well rewarding of the effort you put into doing so. Think of raising Pokemon as a life lesson; 
 with enough hard-work, dedication and commitment, the victories you pile up will have all been 
 worth the sweat and tears. Needless to say, Pokemon Platinum, as with earlier games, rewards hard 
 work and punishes anything less than a half-baked effort. And with effort comes strategic preparedness, 
 for you will come across situations where you need to find the achille's heels of your opponents 
 by using specific types (water vs. rock, fire vs. water, etc.) against them to your own advantage.
 
  
  With lots of new modes, new ways of playing and, of course, new Pokemon to discover, there's a 
 lot to like in Pokemon Platinum. Pokemon's marketing popularity may no longer be at the peak of 
 its dominance amongst the younger set, but if there's one thing that has endured, it's been the 
 video games that have inspired the worldwide craze. The game can be enjoyed by just about anyone 
 of any age -- it's certainly runs far deeper than just cute looking cartoon monsters. Whether you 
 ARE a Pokemon fan or just someone looking for something different for their DS, you can't go wrong 
 with Pokemon Platinum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryaznbanana9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, now that Platinum is out, relief enters our minds with the satisfying truth that Platinum 
 is worth the wait. After the two games before it, this game improves upon its predecessors by bring 
 more active online functions, more story twists, and more. The improvement online is where it's 
 all at. Saving battles, Wi-fi club, etc. was a great addition compared to the previous. The downside 
 is you can only intereact with Platinum version owners, so those who didn't bother to pick up this 
 game and kept the previous ones will be missing out. Next, is the new story changes. Not much to 
 say, but it changed more than I had expected. I thought it would be almost identical like in emerald 
 except with the Distortion World added. No. There was much more than that. New dialouge, characters, 
 and enviroments. They did a pretty good job on this. 
  
  For the downsides, although much was added to this, I still believe this should be improved upon 
 even more. This game takes rather "evolutionary steps than revolutionary steps" ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starduke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and Game freak do it again They made the best Pokemon game to date, Pokemon Platinum.
 
  
  Game play/ story: 9/10
  
  The game play and story is classic Pokemon, with new features. 
  You choose you gender and starter 
 Pokemon and then start your adventure. You battle Pokemon trainers. You battle Pokemon and try 
 to catch them. You can use the touch screen to battle, which I like. The touch screen is also home 
 to various mini games and Poketetch Aps, which are things like a calculator and a clock. You fight 
 Gym Leaders so you can earn badges and eventually challenge the Elite Four and the Pokemon Champion. 
 You also fight Team Galactic to stop their plans for world domination/destruction.
  Near the end of the main story you go to the distortion world, which is awesome. Also, it is quite 
 the puzzle to get through it. I got a little dizzy watching my character walk around some areas 
 of it.
  
  There is a lot of Pokemon to catch, which is to be expected since it is a Pokemon game. I almost 
 wish there wasn't so many, because it can get kind of annoying when it seems like a Pokemon pops 
 up every five steps. Sometimes, I just wanted to get to the next part of the story in a hurry. 
 Get some repels and the Pokemon won't show up so much.
  
  There is also the Battle Frontier, which adds a lot to the game. You can go there after you get 
 in the Hall of Fame. You can do a lot of cool and different kinds of Pokemon battles there. It's 
 fun. I don't want to spoil it for people who want to play the game, so you'll just have to find 
 out how fun when you get there. 
  
  You can upload Pokemon from your GBA games. You need to do this to complete your Pokedex.
  
 
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Outside of battle is in 3d, which is done great. The landscapes are similar to the GBA games, but 
 with more detail. All of the usual buildings (Pokemon center, Poke mart, etc) are there with the 
 usual color scheme for the roofs. Pokemon center is red, Poke mart is blue, and I choose you Pikachu!
 
  
  In battle is still in 2d, which is kind of lame compared to the console Pokemon games and the other 
 games out for the DS, like FFIV, that use 3d for everything. Still, the art is pretty good for 
 2d.
  
  The distortion world is awesome, visually. I wish more of the game took place in it.
  
  Sound: 
 8/10
  
  The music is just typical Pokemon music. It changes wherever you go depending on where you are. 
 
  The sounds the Pokemon make haven't changed much at all. They still sound pretty tinny. 
  
  The Bottom Line: 9.5/10
  
  Pokemon Platinum is a game I highly recommend. It's a great 
 RPG and a great Pokemon game. It's just plain great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic__323
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Pokemon Diamond and Pearl you might find this game similar to those two games 
 but there are some differences/changes.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : The gameplay is superb, you get to start off by picking one out of three Pokemon 
 which are Turtwig, Piplup, and Chimchar, once you select your Pokemon, you start off in a Pokemon 
 adventure by raising your Pokemon, catching new Pokemon, meet new people, battle Pokemon trainers, 
 etc which will get addictive if you manage to like the game a lot.
  
  Sound (7.5/10) : If you have played previous Pokemon handheld games, you will notice that every 
 Pokemon sounds the same and there are a few new sounds added to the game, but you can hear the 
 game perfectly which is not a problem.
  
  Graphics (9.5/10) : The graphics look really well designed, it is like the same as Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl, so there really isn't any changes with graphics except there are some course changes 
 in the game such as Pokemon Gyms, and so forth.
  
  Extras (10/10) : There are some extras that Pokemon Diamond and Pearl don't have like getting Giratina 
 in a different forme, a little different story, new course changes, and some other extras. Well 
 you will know once you played the game.
  
  Overall (9/10) : This game is superb and it could get addicting depending if you enjoy the game 
 or not. If you are new to NIntendo DS games, it is recommended especially if you are a fan of Pokemon. 
 It is worth your money because there are a lot of things to do in the game which are fun and awesome. 
 So anyway, this concludes my review on this outstanding Pokemon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_765
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:20 am PT
Review:  Beware. If you bought Diamond/Pearl and are not a diehard fan of the series, this game has absolutely 
 nothing to pull you in besides the Battle Frontier. For everyone else, this game may very well 
 be the best Pokemon game ever. The graphics are a step up from Diamond and Pearl, and sprites for 
 almost half of the Pokemon have gotten a slight tweak. But other than the Wi-Fi Plaza, Battle Frontier, 
 and Distortion World, there isn't anything new, but this is an overall review so I should probably 
 review it as if I never played Pearl.
  
  The game's story is actually very well done when you're up against Team Galactic. While this is 
 an E rated game, don't think the villains won't use bombs. They do. They steal Pokemon. They take 
 Team Rocket and basically one-up them in the bad deeds department, leading to quite an epic feel 
 when you challenge the entire team by yourself. Other than that, the whole becoming the best trainer 
 storyline is intact, and while it shows polish, it is pretty predictable by now.
  
  There are an additional 60 Pokemon in Platinum's Sinnoh Dex, but this is easily balanced if you 
 just make sure to fight every trainer, since all the trainers together will give you 203 of the 
 Pokemon, only leaving out Dialga, Palkia, Giratina himself, Manaphy, Uxie, Mesprit, and Azelf. 
 Almost every one of these 210 Pokemon has a different sprite than their Diamond/Pearl sprite, but 
 I noticed certain Pokemon like Magby seem unchanged. In addition, these Pokemon and even many others 
 in the game have new Movesets, either from switching some learned moves levels, or giving them 
 new ones.
  
  Now for the big pieces. Battle Frontier, while a good effort, could have had seven facilities. 
 Where's the Battle Dome? What about the Pyramid? Most of the other facilities not found here from 
 Emerald were trashed altogether or concepts from them led to the new ones. The five Frontier Brains 
 are a bit more clever and mostly don't have a theme, much like the Emerald ones had (e. g. Brandon 
 used the Regis, Tucker used familiar final evolutions, etc.) . All in all, the new Battle Frontier 
 is pretty fun, and provides a decent challenge.
  
  The Distortion World is an awkward place, for various reasons. The most obvious is that you'll 
 be walking along walls, surfing upside down, and other odd traveling views. However, there are 
 no Pokemon or trainers to fight barring Cyrus and Giratina, so it feels a bit tedious inside when 
 you have nothing to do but figure out how to run to the end. Fortunately, it's like a puzzle, so 
 at least it's in true RPG fashion.
  
  The Wi-Fi scene booms well here, better than Diamond/Pearl ever had done. While Friend Codes are 
 still the norm, you have a Plaza to have fun and explore and without Friend Codes or anything else. 
 It's basically a Trainer's Lounge. This and the Battleground, as well as the already mentioned 
 Battle Frontier, add replay value. After all, if there wasn't constant change or new challenges 
 to tackle, you'd have a Red/Blue clone. Yes Red/Blue are great, but after beating them, there was 
 nothing to do but start over. Each Pokemon generation since has made some improvement to give more 
 after-story activities to do, and Plaitnum has the largest amount of them yet.
  
  One of the best aspects to Pokemon is the music. This game shows that Pokemon can keep up with 
 the rest of Nintendo. While the music isn't outstanding, it's light-hearted and never feels out 
 of the place. Major trainers like Gym Leaders, the Boss of Team Galactic have some of the most 
 fitting music themes, leading to my final point on this aspect: the battle music is the best in 
 the series.
  
  The battle system, which has stuck around since 1998, still works. Unlike old level-grinds like 
 old Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest games, Pokemon's approach to the level grind formula almost doesn't 
 feel like level grind. And with the strategy of 17 types and 493 Pokemon to use on your opponent, 
 battles get far from old. While it couldn't hurt to give Pokemon the ability to learn a 5th move, 
 the restrictions and freedoms the battle system present continue to show why Pokemon is Nintendo's 
 flagship RPG series.
  
  With all the new, little bits of content, the large additions (Wi-Fi Plaza, Battle Frontier, etc.) , 
 and the content from Diamond/Pearl, Platinum gets you wondering what the capacity for a DS Cart 
 is. However, with a game this addicting, you'll be more into the prospect of getting that Pokemon 
 to Lv100 or beating the Frontier Brains.
  
  Pokemon Platinum is hands down the best Pokemon game yet. Bravo, Game Freak. You are the masters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wachon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  As for me is harder in some gyms have great pokemon's and is tough to beat them than in previous 
 version, you can also catch other legendaries and you got the battle frontier like in emerald, 
 also it has the distortion world to catch the new form of giratina is a very messy place to beat, 
 so train hard.
  Also don't miss the eggs and the gift pokemon you got an evee you can have from a girl and you 
 can check out the new evolves of him.
  Futhermore you got a second row in the pokemon league with much more level than the first row, 
 and you can seen 210 pokemon to get the national pokedex so you can catch later  
 etc.
  Shaymin has a new form too, changes at the gym's like in the third one for example, many new features 
 you should check out you won't be dissaponting enjoy the game and try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charization
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is the definitive version of Pokmon. It's got all ~500 Pokmon, online play and much 
 more - but how different is this to Diamond and Pearl? In my opinion, you should get this game 
 as soon as possible even though you got one of the others, cause the game has changed so much.
 
  
  __STORY__
  The biggest difference between this and Diamond & Pearl. Without spoiling anything I can say that 
 the game is getting more "mature". The cutscenes (if you can call them that) are beautiful and 
 not as childish as previous games in the series. Wonderful story overall.
  
  9/10
  
  __GAMEPLAY__
  As in other Pokmon games, you mainly battle and trade. Let me start with the battles, 
 since they are the what makes the Pokmon games so special. THE GAME IS SO COMPETITIVE I CAN'T 
 EVEN TELL YOU. This over Final Fantasy any day. So many different combinations make the game very 
 good for adults too.
  Trading Pokmon is just a wonderful idea if you got lotsa friends playing this game too. Online 
 is very good.
  
  10/10
  
  __GRAPHICS__
  This is the type of game that can't improve it's graphics a lot more. The Pokmon sprites are perfect, 
 but for comparison to other games, they're not outstanding. Just near perfect for this game, and 
 that's the charm of this game.
  
  9/10
  
  There's really nothing else to tell about this game if you already know Pokmon. If you don't, 
 you're random. But it's an RPG based on tons of monsters with special abilities and such.
  
  In my opinion, this is, and will be for a long time, the best RPG ever. Get it. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I've recently, in anticipation of getting Platinum, been playing my Diamond version, just training 
 and such (I have Platinum now, however...)
  
  The differences are incredible. There's more stuff to do with Wi-Fi, especially the new themed 
 Wi-Fi plazas. 
  
  Aside from Wi-Fi, the game has considerably less lag, the graphics for scenery and other things 
 have been improved, and the story has been given some more depth. Although it's darker than some 
 other Pokemon stories, they've added some random humor in there to balance everything.
  
  The difficulty is just where it should be. There won't be too many instances where you'll run into 
 a Pokemon that has a higher level than you expected it to be, and they've increased the difficulty 
 (and puzzles) of certain gyms, giving them more spice, and especially more trouble for you.
  
  Along the lines of the new formes (apparently, Nintendo decided to add an e in there) , it's 
 an interesting addition. Although, if you don't have your hands on the event-specific Pokemon... 
 good luck trying to find one.
  
  All in all, this is a pretty solid and fun game. I would recommend it to any Pokemon fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cat333Pokemon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  (This is a review of the Japanese version of the game, which I have played extensively. I've only 
 played the English version for three hours as of the date of this review.)
  
  Pokmon Platinum arrived like any other Pokmon game, full of hype, leaked images, fascination 
 videos, rumors, and thousands of blog posts with every newly-announced feature or low-resolution 
 screenshot. Like any other highly-hyped game, people were insane over it allexcept this was Pokmon, 
 the second top grossing game franchise (behind Mario, but it's getting close) of all time.
  
  Soon before its release forums exploded with topics like "Are you getting Platinum?", "Did 
 you reserve Platinum for the Giratina Origin Forme figure yet?", or "The Distortion World looks 
 awesome!" Then that fateful day, March 22, 2009, came around and the game was released to the United 
 States. Some stores reported having long lines or massive numbers of reservations (GameStop) , while 
 others were silent and subtle (Toys "R" Us) . Then came the time to open that shiny shrink-wrap 
 and stick the cartridge into the DS! And thus, here is my review
  
  Story: 9/10
  At first glance, you might think that the storyline of Pokmon Platinum is very similar to the 
 storyline of Diamond and Pearl. Well, for the most part, you would be correct, but there are quite 
 a few minor changes that enhance it a bit. The temperature of the Sinnoh region has dropped due 
 to anomalies regarding a world parallel to our own (the Distortion World) . Team Galactic has shifted 
 their plans from Dialga and Palkia toward the ruler of this world and the star on the box cover, 
 Giratina. Your mission, as always, is to capture as many Pokmon as you can to become a Pokmon 
 Master and later to stop Team Galactic.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  It's Pokmon, what more do you expect? The game consists of a massive number of monsters, 493 to 
 be exact, most of which can be caught only with a single copy of the game. With several additional 
 games (or a friend) , you can complete your collection and legitimately capture 492 of them (as 
 of the date of this review) . A few of them have one or more alternate 'formes', first introduced 
 in Pokmon Ruby and Sapphire with Deoxys. The game consists of the classic eight badges, all of 
 which required to become the Sinnoh League Champion, the same three starters as before (Turtwig, 
 Chimchar, and Piplup) , and a vast land based on the real-world Hokkaido, Japan. Finally, the Battle 
 Frontier, which started from the Battle Tower in Pokmon Crystal, makes a comeback, hailing from 
 the original Battle Frontier in Pokmon Emerald. As you may know, this is an area of many different 
 types of battling, such as rentals (based on Pokmon Stadium) and specialties. This game can easily 
 last you over 100 hours, as it's one of the most engrossing Pokmon games yet.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  This is actually the game's lowest point, because dozens of other games have 
 proved that the DS can certainly output amazing eye-candy, from the launch game Super Mario 64 
 DS to the recent hit Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars. However, the game certainly isn't displeasing 
 to look at. It's bright, vibrant, and beautiful, especially in the well-drawn overworld. Battles, 
 while not 3-D, do retain their classic charm that the precedent games standardized. But don't expect 
 anything like the detailed models in Pokmon Battle Revolution, because it might be a while before 
 true 3-D battles emerge on the handhelds. This is a great example of decent graphics; at least 
 most of the Sinnoh Pokdex has new sprites from Diamond and Pearl!
  
  Sound Effects: 9/10
  Nearly all the sound effects and cry samples are recycled from Diamond/Pearl, 
 but that certainly doesn't make the sound terrible. Sounds can still be easily associated with 
 what they should sound like and the sounds still set the mood like they should. At least the cries 
 weren't screwed up like in My Pokmon Ranch.
  
  Music: 10/10
  The same amazing Masuda works from Diamond and Pearl make a return along with about a dozen new 
 tracks. "Giratina Battle" alone nearly gives this section a whole extra point, because it's one 
 of the most epic tracks I've ever heard in a Pokmon game. Anyway, the old music returns and appears 
 in pretty much the same places as before, from Route 201 to the Pokmon Center to Sunyshore City 
 to the Gym Battle. The only gripe I really have, which has actually been a little peevish since 
 Red and Blue, would be the fact that you'll hear the same two tracks repeated throughout the entire 
 game: "Trainer Battle" and "Wild Pokmon Battle"; you seriously will get sick of these two songs. 
 At least the route themes change as you progress.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: 10/10
  The game features greatly-extended Wi-Fi features from Diamond and Pearl. As before, you can battle 
 or conduct trades with friends (or strangers who you've obtained Friend Codes from) from across 
 the world. This time around, you can also cook Poffins with your friends over Wi-Fi. Of course, 
 you can also post Pokmon on the Global Trade Station (GTS) for others to trade for, given your 
 request isn't too steep. A new option added is the ability to filter the results by country, which 
 actually has two benefits. One is to get more than seven results. The other, which is certain better, 
 is to add foreign entries to your Pokdex. [Note: I have yet to test this on the English version. 
 In the Japanese version, my traded English Pokmon had their respective English entry added to 
 the Pokdex along with the Japanese entry, so I'm assuming the same is true for the English version.] 
 The official website of the GTS is www. pokemon-gts. net. A new feature is the Wi-Fi Plaza, a world 
 of mini-games and other fun distractions available only over Wi-Fi. It actually is laid out like 
 a festival, with a limited amount of time given and a big celebration at the end to top it off. 
 The best part is you can go back as many times as you want!
  
  Extended Features: 10/10
  The developers really went out of their way to make this an excellent experience for those both 
 new to the series as well as the long-time fans. Platinum has loads of activities you can have 
 fun with, even after you become Champion. Here are just a couple examples. You can while away your 
 time (and money) in the Veilstone Casino, hoping to hit triple-7 and score a bonus Clefairy round. 
 Another time-eater is the Battle Frontier, especially the Battle Tower, where the only goal-other 
 than getting 100 wins in a row-is to complete as many battles as you possibly can, getting breaks 
 only after every seventh battle; of course, it gets harder as you progress upwards. Going after 
 the in-game legendaries-and there are quite a few, including the legendary birds, Regis, and pixies, 
 the masters of time (Dialga) and space (Palkia) , the crescent moon (Cresselia) , the lava monster 
 (Heatran) , and the platinum-girasol ruler of the Distortion World (Giratina) -can certainly be time-consuming 
 if you don't cheat! Finally, adventure for in-game secrets. Ever since the beginning Pokmon has 
 been about hidden features and Pokmon; Mew was actually sneaked past Nintendo way back in the 
 late 90's! Oh, if you really can't think of anything, try to complete that Pokdex!
  
  Saving Note:
  The game has the classic single save file, which must be erased to save a new adventure. 
 The only real alternative to that is to buy another copy; if you don't have Diamond or Pearl yet 
 after your purchase of Platinum, go for one of those.
  
  Summary:
  The true meaning of the game shines in the fact that this is real game of strategy and customization. 
 You have to form a team of six monsters to battle with, and training can be a real pain in the 
 butt, especially for those who focus painstakingly on Effort Values. There are the people that 
 get a head start, training hard for the beginning of the game in order to simplify their adventure. 
 Then there are those who take their starter and train it all the way up to level 100 before reaching 
 the Elite Four. Whatever your path, there are infinite possibilities and millions of players out 
 there to get in touch with. Maybe you can meet some new friends. There is always someone that will 
 be willing to play Pokmon with you; you've just got to find them. With the current and past sales 
 figures, that really shouldn't be a chore.
  
  Verdict: Buy it!
  I've seen people who hate Pokmon pick up a Pokmon game and talk about how wrong they were. Even 
 if Pokmon is not your thing, save up a little bit of money and buy this precious metal. If you 
 really don't want to spend your money and think Pokmon is a total waste of your cash, borrow it 
 from a friend for a few daysseriously, you might be amazed at what you've been missing. (I do 
 not condone the usage of emulators instead of purchasing the game-and it's illegal, too.)
  
  Closing Quote:
  Junichi Masuda: "Bridges look very simple, but if you look closely and see 
 all the different elements-it's a very complicated matter."
  G4: "And really, that's the perfect metaphor for Pokmon, isn't it?"
  Junichi Masuda: "Yes, I 
 agree."
   Interview with Junichi Masuda and Takeshi Kawachimaru, G4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Platinum is the long awaited special edition of Pokemons DIamond and Pearl. Platinum is 
 essentially a re worked version of these two games, it follows the same patter, is in the same 
 land and has the same pokemon but adds a whole bunch of new elements to the gameplay. For one, 
 there are several new areas to explore, one of these areas is the Distortion Chamber. It is a strange 
 fully 3D environment that has you character literally walking through distorted walls and on the 
 ceiling. Platinum also has a lot of new pokemon, and has reworked skings for several of them. (The 
 most major example of this being the new form of Giratina.) Now, instead of sitting here going 
 on and on about the ne features of platinum I think i should review it (that is what you are here 
 for after all ;P 0
  Okay, so first things first, gameplay n platinum is great, in the deep core it is simply classic 
 Pokemon style RPGing which is great and works fine.. However platinum has also added a variety 
 of extra gameplay elements that truley seperates it from your classic RPG or even your classic 
 pokemon game. This game for one feels a lot more open then the other pokemon games. For instance, 
 it feels as if the order that you collect the badges in isnt as set into concrete as it was before, 
 I literally only ahd the forist 2 badges when I went and accidentally stumbled on the 5th badge, 
 and it feels almost as though the game adjusted the difficculty for me to be able to challenge 
 the fifth gym leader with no trouble. (she had pokemon much weaker than before.) But another aspect 
 of the gameplay that is really great is the variety of pokemon, there are over 400 pokemon which 
 for any one who has been living in a box all this time they are your RPG fighters, ypou use them 
 to progress through the game and you level them up just like you would a normal character. There 
 is also a huge variety of items and side quests, plus a huge ultimately awesome multiplayer mode 
 that is only slightly dampenedby nintnedos pathetic friend codes, and you have yourself some wonderful 
 gameplay.
  Another thing that Pokemon Platinum should be prided on is its graphics. It has a lush beautiful 
 graphics, which combines the calssical top down view of the pokemon games with beautiful polygonal 
 buildings and environments that truley takes advantage of the DS's powe. The attacks pokemon are 
 all animated very welel, they are quite high quality and everything just seems to fit together. 
 The graphics are a bit of a step up from diamond and Pearl but not much that you can really tell 
 unless you are a game conesouir (like myself) 
  Now it is time for me to name my few complaints with Platinum
  For one, the game seems a bit 
 too easy, it may just me getting older and having more skill at these kind of games, but at times 
 I literally have to put the game down as I get bored with its simplness. However this rarely happens 
 so it is a very small complaint to say the least.
  Another one of my small complaints is it really doesnt guide you through the storyery mcuh. In 
 my opinion so far (and provided i havent completed the game but I am a good chunk through with 
 it.) the story feels a bit unorganized, and I literally find I am doing everything out of order, 
 this is both good and bad abecuse it almost adds a sandboxy feel to the gameplay but it also can 
 be a bit frustrating fighting wild pokemon that literallly pwn your dude into tomorrow :P
  Other tha these small complaints Platinum is a great game for any returning pokemon veteran or 
 for anyone new to the franchise that is looking for a great entry agame to enter into it. So that 
 is why I give it a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animegamer016
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though his game is like Diamond/Pearl with extras... I truly believe that the extras make it 
 worth getting. Things to note are the new wi-fi games, battle frontier, battling trainers at pokemon 
 centers, the distortion world (torn world) where you can find the origin form of Giratina, and the 
 sky form of Shaymin is also available in Platinum. Other new things are that you can get Moltres, 
 Articuno, and Zapdos on the game. Next, there are gym leader enhancements. Some of the gyms have 
 changed and also the level of the pokemon. You can also re-battle gym leaders and the elite for 
 at higher levels at special house in the resort area in Sinnoh. You can also decorate the home 
 at your leisure. Of course you must buy your items. Also the legendary pokemon regigigas can be 
 found still at snowpoint city but at lv.1. The pokemon Rotom has new special forms. Next, at Amity 
 square (found in Hearthome city) you can pick bigger pokemon to walk around with you. To wrap my 
 review up, you also can look forward to the battle recorder which you can share amongst friends, 
 a couple new key characters, and lots more. Therefore, if you are thinking about getting this to 
 your DS or pokemon collection.. you definitely should. I give this game a thumbs up and a whoot 
 whoot!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Another_Brick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  Graphics (9) : Pokemon Platinum has slightly updated graphics, but the game still seems to be based 
 off the same engine used 2 years ago for Diamond and Pearl, the catch being that Diamond and Pearl 
 had fairly impressive graphics two years ago. Pokemon has never been a graphics heavy game, but 
 Platinum is certainly the most impressive looking game in the franchise. From what I have seen 
 of the alternate dimension, the programmers have done a nice job of adding some 3D aspects to the 
 game, something that hopefully continues to the next installments.
  
  Story (9.7) : If you've played any game in the series, you know what to expect. That's not to say 
 the story isn't interesting, because it still is, there are just enough elements to make it a slightly 
 different game from Pearl and Diamond, and it's even better for those who haven't played through 
 the previous installments.
  
  Sound (8) : It seems the game is still using the same 8 bit midi files of the originals. The sound 
 is much cleaner, but very little has changed, the game has sounded the same for 11 years and though 
 the score has always been enjoyable, it's time for an update.
  
  Game-play (10) : Pokemon is a lot of fun. 11 years ago, I got hooked, and 11 years later the series 
 still delivers. The game-play has always been basic, catch all the pokemon, but it's a system that 
 keeps on delivering, its hard not to enjoy Platinum. The game is easily over 40 hrs. and once you've 
 beaten it, there are still another 40 hrs. of game to be played, things like online play, competitions 
 and "catching them all" will all add to your total. Replay value is through the roof; leave the 
 game down for 4-6 months and you'll find yourself wanting to go through it again!
  
  Overall (9.1/10) : Pokemon Platinum deliveries on every level you would expect the series to, graphics 
 have been slightly updated and the story and game-play are still as enjoyable as they where 11 
 years ago. Sound could use a major upgrade, but its still a timeless score, that could use a few 
 tweaks. I'm very interested in what I've seen of the alternate dimension and I hope that the series 
 goes in this direction with future installments. The game is easily 40 hrs. long, 80-100 if you 
 want to get everything and has a replay value that is among the best of any game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperkass
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Diamond and Pearl where clearly one of the best games to ever come out on the Nintendo DS, and 
 following the Pokemon Games Code, the third has to be "The same, but proving to give a unique difference", 
 well Platinum I can say clearly brings this to be.
  
  Firstly, the gameplay. You start off, to a now snow covered Twinleaf Town, where you and your named 
 friend head off to see Professor Rowan in Sandgem Town to ask for a Pokemon (note this is a different 
 scenario to that of DP) . After this, you continue your journey, getting the new improved Poketch 
 (a touch different with new colours and changing options) .
  
  The greatest, and obvious change from the main series, is the Other World (kind of what I nick 
 named it, officially named "Distortion World") , in which you have your finale fight with Cyrus 
 and battle out with the changed, levitating of such new form of Giratina.
  
  Graphics, as far as a Pokemon game can be concered, are magnificent, there are slight problems 
 with it, though these are nothing to bother as, if you've played DP, then you will know you can 
 live with them.
  
  The happy go lucky Pokemon tunes are a delight to listen to, and to Pokemon fans, this is a respectful 
 re-issuing of the original R/B/Y sounds.
  
  Overall the little changes, including the birds being available, Regigigas being alot weaker (Level 
 1) , The new forms of certain Pokemon (Rotom, Shaymin and obviously Giratina) and the Wi Fi game 
 rooms makes Platinum a great game, better that the 2 year old DP.
  
  So, after that an easy, respectaful 9.0.
  
  Oh, and for people that care, there are more "Johto 
 Region" hints, of that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dax-360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Platinum has finally hit North America! Platinum is the 3rd version of Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl (Just like Emerald was to Ruby and Sapphire) . Now its time for me to review this game.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics are great! Most of the game is 3D but it still has the 2D aspect that we all love. 
 The Distortion World takes the DS's capabilities to the max the only way Pokemon can
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  This game still has a great story, even though it kinda felt like D/P, but it 
 tottaly goes in a diffrent direction as soon as you hit Spear Pillar. I'm not gonna describe it 
 because I might give away spoilers.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  Its the same gameplay we all have come to know and love in Pokemon.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Sound 
 is great. Only problem here is that some of the music sounds recycled.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  With re-battles, Battle Frontier, Wi-Fi Plaza, Mini Games, and more! 
 Its like endless.
  
  Overrall 9.5/10
  
  Pokemon Platinum is an amazing game anda amazing addition to the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awssk8er716
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Ummm... it's Pokemon? 
  - Great graphics
  - Great gyms (Most were redesigned from D/P) .
  - Many game (Like gyms) events were changed from 
 D/P.
  - Excellent Wi-Fi (With microphone!)
  - New town titles/menus.
  - New backpack (On boy character) !
  
  Cons:
  - Slightly embarrassing to play in public.
 
  - Your "Buddy" in game is always "THUD!!!"ing you.
  
  I normally do not recommend the "Third" Pokemon game to each generation, because they normally 
 are the same as the first two. However, I strongly recommend this to DS owners, even if they already 
 own Diamond and/or Pearl. I recommend this one because Nintendo took their time (A little too much 
 time...) making this one.
  Nintendo even added Lore to this one! 
  [Spoiler] The whole link between Dialga and Palkia... Blah, Blah, Blah! [/Spoiler] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  You've all played Diamond or Pearl, c'mon. Yes, it marked the start of Generation IV, which debuted 
 on the DS. Now, after nearly two years, Nintendo comes out with the third and final chapter of 
 these games, Platinum. So what can we say about it?
  
  Graphics: These were spiffed up a bit, thus earning it the approval nod from Pokmon fans. The 
 game no longer "lags" when riding a bike through town or running. 
  
  Distortion World has, hands down, the best graphics in the game. These are pure 3D, and really 
 ask quite a lot from the DS's processing power. 
  
  Still, Diamond's graphics were good, and Platinum's are awesome. The attention to detail is fabulous: 
 patches of snow mark the game's changes in relation to temperature, which has now lowered. As such, 
 both trainer's attires have been suited for this Winter theme. 
  
  I'll leave you to spot all changes. ;) 
  
  Oh, and...."SPIFFEH BATTLE MENUS!"
  
  Graphics 
 Score: 10/10
  
  Sound: Nothing has changed here. Soundtracks continue to be very good the 2nd time round, which 
 is a bonus, due to repetitiveness. SFX, likewise.
  
  Sound Score: 9/10
  
  Gameplay: You're going to face Sinnoh a second time? Are you ready? Of course you are! 
  
  
 The gameplay is terrific - might I add that it's been the first game in a long time which has me 
 completely addicted to it! Seriously, when Diamond came out, it was nice, but Platinum really gets 
 you hyped with all the new stuff!
  
  The addition of a new NPC - Looker - has brought more interactivity between players. See, he warns 
 you about suspicious people (like Team Galatic) , so you know they're there and willing for a kick 
 out into space (handed by you, of course!) . 
  
  Battle Frontier just comes up as Emerald's did, and you're really gonna love it when you get there. 
 
  
  Distortion World also has you going upside down and sideways to get to Giratina - Platinum's legendary. 
 And, as always, it features tons of legendaries to catch - including Dialga and Palkia, naturally!
 
  
  And the story is quite funny, count the times you laugh out loud at some of Team Galatic's or your 
 rival's quotes. 
  
  Gameplay Score: 10/10
  
  Replay Value: If Diamond was the game with the best replay value on the DS, then what shall we 
 say about Platinum? 
  
  Let's see: 
  - new and improved GT - now with Battle Recorder;
  - Battle Frontier;
  - Distortion World;
  - more interaction with NPCs
  - Wi-Fi Plaza!
  
 
  All this and what D/P had should keep you entertained for hours, well over 100. 
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Overall, Pokemon Platinum is Nintendo's best bet yet. With a solid, 
 humorous story, allied to some pretty pwnful graphics, and a terrific replay value, what can one 
 say about it? 
  
  Absolutely fantastic. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
