-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonrangerbatonnage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Distinctive and slightly improved touch-screen controls.
 Slightly deeper than its predecessor.
 Lengthy but briskly paced adventure.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pokemon cries still sound 8-bit.
 Lack of quest queuing can be slightly irritating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 287 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Hal
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 10, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia improves upon its predecessor just enough to make it a fun, solid 
 addition to the spin-off series. 

  Just over two years ago, Pokemon Ranger gave Nintendo DS owners an unorthodox spin on Pokemon with 
 its unique touch-screen capturing controls. It turned out to be an enjoyable game, eschewing the 
 franchise's traditional evolution and "Gotta catch 'em all!" tenets. With Pokemon Ranger: Shadows 
 of Almia, Nintendo gives more of the same, though with a few small but welcome improvements that 
 add a little depth to the experience while keeping its quick pace.  

           As a Pokemon ranger, you capture beasts by drawing loops of love and friendship. Aw.  
     

  You start out as a fresh-faced student at a ranger school, where you learn about the various aspects 
 of taming and helping Pokemon in the wild. Like in the original Pokemon Ranger, there's no battling 
 here: rangers and students instead strive to keep the peace between Pokemon and humans. You capture 
 the critters as in any other game in the franchise, but in this game you do so by expressing friendly, 
 benevolent feelings through a device known as a styler, and once you use the Pokemons' special 
 abilities to help you, you kindly release them back into the wild. There's no Pokemon leveling 
 up or evolution here. As you progress from student to full-blown ranger, you take on the job of 
 stopping the fiendishly named Team Dim Sun criminal organization from brainwashing Pokemon to do 
 its nefarious bidding. The entire concept sounds a little trite, and many of the story's surprises 
 are predictable, but it's got just enough lighthearted mystery to satisfy a younger audience.  
 

  In any case, the real star of Shadows of Almia is its refreshing capture system. The core idea 
 entails drawing a circle around the Pokemon you're attempting to capture. If it bumps into the 
 line you've drawn, it gets destroyed and you have to start drawing again. If its attack hits your 
 line, you take damage. However, where the last game required that you draw a certain number of 
 consecutive circles around a creature (without interruption) in order to succeed, in Shadows of 
 Almia you need to fill up an empty friendship gauge. One complete circle fills up the gauge a little 
 bit, with the catch being that it gradually depletes if you wait too long in between scribble attempts. 

  These changes make the capture process a bit easier because you're not forced into an all-or-nothing 
 situation, and they also add a hint of strategy. Instead of just scribbling circles as fast as 
 you can, you're now employing an exciting stick-and-move strategy in some of the tougher encounters -- lifting 
 your stylus just in time to avoid a series of attacks or catching an especially quick Pokemon when 
 it pauses briefly. Each Pokemon has different attacks and movement patterns (though a number of 
 them are similar) such that almost every new monster encounter brings a unique capture experience 
 and a slight level of intrigue and uncertainty. Save for the large boss encounters, each capture 
 instance can be completed in tens of seconds. Therefore, capturing rarely gets boring thanks to 
 its brisk and varied nature.  

  Any Pokemon you capture can be used for its special ability during other capture sessions. For 
 instance, you can use a fighting-type Pokemon to enhance your capturing power or a grass-type Pokemon 
 to slow down your target by causing it to sprout foliage. You can also use special abilities on 
 the field as you explore Almia. Like in the last game, the exploring portions are less exciting 
 than capturing, and they employ the same obstacle-clearing mentality. For example, you can't clear 
 a stream without a Pokemon that can swim; if there's a boulder in your way, you'll need a Pokemon 
 with a high-level crush ability to smash it. These parts get progressively intricate and sometimes 
 require a little use of your noggin. But you'll also quickly learn that in many cases, either the 
 Pokemon you need for especially taxing obstacles is close by or a unique-looking Pokemon encountered 
 for the first time will come in handy later in whatever dungeon you're in. This takes away some 
 of the challenge, but at least it saves you some of the frustration of backtracking just for one 
 little critter.  

  Exploration has changed too: Shadows of Almia includes optional (but highly recommended) side quests. 
 Bystanders will ask you to help find, rescue, or calm down their Pokemon, among other similar tasks. 
 It's nice to take a break from your main Team Dim Sun-thwarting duties to wander around a bit and 
 fill out your catalog of monster encounters, but the quests also offer you the opportunity to meet 
 partner Pokemon -- those that never leave your side until you substitute in another partner -- and 
 to power up your capture tool with a variety of offensive, defensive, and elemental bonuses. These 
 additions help flesh out the game a bit more, and leveling up your styler might satisfy those who 
 would miss leveling up their Pokemon. The only slightly annoying factor here is that the quests 
 must be taken one at a time, forcing you to backtrack to clients before taking on new quests instead 
 of just queuing up quests as you encounter them.  

           Unlike in the original Pokemon Ranger, this time you get to explore the depths of the 
 sea.      

  The world of Almia is presented with vivid 2D graphics and large detailed sprites. Each area you 
 travel to has a distinct feel, with colors that pop off the screen and its own collection of inhabitants. 
 Though this variety is primarily due to the predictable use of lava, snow, desert, and underwater 
 environments, the world is no less pleasing to the eye. What should have been improved upon are 
 the Pokemon calls that you hear whenever you pass by them. They reek of 8-bit audio, and hearing 
 a Ninetails or Shieldon in this game roar at you is incredibly grating, though not in the intimidating 
 way a roar should be.  

  Nintendo hasn't made sweeping improvements on the original Pokemon Ranger, which is a slight disappointment 
 given the two-year gap between entries. All told, however, the improvements do make for a more 
 complete experience overall that provides the same invigorating mechanics introduced in the first 
 game. With a meaty adventure that could easily take you past 25 hours, the return of downloadable 
 side quests thanks to the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and the same core that made the original game 
 so refreshing, Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia is a worthy addition to the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JoE_Morais
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger was a great new addition to the pokemon franchise. It featured an exciting and addictive 
 new way to capture pokemon rather than just hitting them hard and throwing balls at them. It was 
 a very interesting addition but didn't show the potential that a spin off game could have.
  Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia improves in just about everything it's predecessor went wrong 
 with.
   name it. This game is an example of how franchises don't have to 
 stick to one storyline to be fun. Basically the rules are the same. You spin your stylus around and 
 around until you build enough points in the pokemon's friend meter so you can befriend and use 
 it's help to solve puzzles in the overworld. What changed is the fact that you don't have to straight 
 forward spin, for example, 11 lines around a pokemon. You can fill his meter and stop spinning so 
 you can dodge attacks. That makes capturing pokemon like Pikachu much easier than before. This game 
 also features a new Quest mode that allows you to do different things around your adventure. It's 
 a great new addition but will probably make you go around the whole overworld just so you can win 
 a little up-grade. And to end my review i'm going to state a common and annoying problem with, not 
 just this on, a lot of pokemon games. Old and screechy sounds. Change them Nintendo!
  I'm giving it a 8.1 and recommending it for those who want a different yet exciting new pokemon 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight, I don't hate Pokemon-I just think the direction the series is turning to 
 is not a good way to go. The series needs a change. The second Pokemon Ranger game ,sadly does 
 not change this fact. It is however, a fun game-but a bit tedious. For those who haven't played 
 either Ranger game, here's how it works: when you encounter a Pokemon, you have to draw circles around 
 it a number of times to catch it, then its befriended and you can use it's field move to destoy 
 obsticles outside of battle. It's a fun gimmick-for awhile. The trouble is, it fells very tedious 
 after awhile because you have to catch the same Pokemon over and over again (I swear, if I catch 
 one more stupid Bidoof) . Its kind of annoying that the devolopers insist in useing the same Pokemon 
 over in the same area (there's 493 Pokemon for cry'in out loud-use one of them!) , but some fans 
 will ignore this and play on. Boss battles are probabley the thing that shines the brightest in 
 this game: ther tough, hard, and big-everything a hard-core gamer loves! But some of us will get bored 
 and put the game away before they get to the boss battles.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty easy, the sub-quests are tedious, the dialogue is boring, and the plot 
 is predictable. Still, if you insist on playing it, you are problely a Pokemon dweeb. Pokemon Ranger: Shadows 
 of Almia gets a (C+) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  In our minds, the precise explanation as to why we didn't really get on with the original Pokmon 
 Ranger and yet love its sequel, Pokmon Ranger: Shadows Of Almia, is likely to go down as one of 
 the greatest mysteries of our time. Well, probably. The reason for the confusion lies with our 
 general preconceptions with how Pokmon games and their sequels work: one game sets the benchmark 
 (Ranger, Mystery Dungeon, Red/Blue) and then The Pokmon Company reuses that game over and over 
 with a few subtle tweaks until the end of time. With that being the case then, we should be as 
 nonplussed with Shadows Of Almia as we were with the last game... and yet, we're not. Weird.
  
  
  Is it that The Pokmon Company has finally broken the mould with Shadows Of Almia and actually 
 done something new? Sadly not. As usual, people familiar with the previous game will know exactly 
 to expect and, indeed, might be overly frustrated with the way this one makes you go through the 
 rigmarole of Ranger School for the first few hours. Yes, hours, not minutes. That it takes absolutely 
 ages for the game to really get rolling is perhaps one of the few problems we've got with Shadows 
 Of Almia, because it purely comes down to how much patience you've got. Two hours to clear Ranger 
 School was bad enough, but not earning the ability to move quickly around the landscape or break 
 out of the incredibly linear mission thread until hour ten really tested our limits.
  
  Home On The Ranger
  Not that this stopped us playing though. In fact, the steady build to where 
 we earned promotion, were finally (finally!) allowed to fly between locations instead of running 
 and had rather more flexibility to the mission structure actually kept us hooked, despite our occasional 
 exasperation at how long it was all taking. 
  
  Part of all this was undoubtedly less about the actual story - which is as twee and predictable 
 as you might expect - and more to do with how much more polished Shadows Of Almia feels to its 
 predecessor. It's almost as though The Pokmon Company saw the first Ranger as a dry run and has 
 ironed out all the kinks. Given how minimalist the refinements were in Diamond/Pearl (even though 
 they were definitely plentiful) or Mystery Dungeon (were there even any?) , it's certainly the biggest 
 leap in improvement we've seen in a Pokmon game for a while.
  
  Although most of this is purely presentation, the most important tweak lies with the way that capturing 
 Pokmon with the Capture Styler (read: stylus) works, a change that makes the game infinitely more 
 accessible and infinitely less aggravating. Before, you had to draw a set number of circles around 
 the target Pokmon without lifting your stylus or having the line broken by an attack, which became 
 horribly frustrating in places. Now though, the idea - and we're not kidding - is to 'transfer 
 enough feelings of friendship' to the Pokmon and convince them to give up. That essentially breaks 
 down as hit points and while you still need to circle the Pokmon enough times, lifting the stylus 
 doesn't reset the counter; instead, you've got a brief period to continue before the bar starts 
 decreasing. To counter this, attacks are more frequent and you have to be more nimble in your stylus 
 control but in truth, that actually makes the action all the more interesting.
  
  
  
  Circle Of Life
  And while it's virtually no different to the last Ranger, the exploration side 
 of Shadow Of Almia has really grown on us mainly because it's as puzzle-like as it is adventuring. 
 Put simply, exploring requires negotiating obstacles which requires the use of Pokmon field abilities; 
 find the right Pokmon, capture it, use it on the obstacle and move on. Granted, the early stages 
 are incredibly simple but once you get to the Top Ranger missions, there's far more running around 
 trying to remember where you captured that Electabuzz or finding something with Lv.3 Tackle. Again 
 though, it's a matter of patience and while we enjoyed such activities, some might see such toing 
 and froing as dragging out the inevitable.
  
  Of course, being a Pokmon game it's ultimately about more than just the main quest. Thankfully, 
 the metagame of six Ranger Net missions, 60 sub-quests and 270 different Pokmon to capture in 
 your browser adds plenty of replay value, even if it does fall seriously short of Diamond/Pearl's 
 almost limitless appeal. But then, considering that Pokmon Platinum is less than six months away 
 over here, it's not like you want a stop-gap game like Shadows Of Almia to last forever, do you? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yazoomafroo
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Not much different from the first.
  
  Graphics aren't really improved.
  
  Could do with some more new features.
  
  Gets old quickly if you played the first one.
  
 
  Lots of in game dialogue can get very irritating.
  
  It's not like the classic games where you would spend time playing it and actually enjoy it and 
 find it a challenge.
  
  A little too easy, although some things are quiet hard.
  
  More like a puzzle game than what you would expect it to be.
  
  It kinda' gets really repetitive, 
 really fast. You get a mission go and do it catch a few pokemon maybe use your brain a bit to complete 
 puzzles and repeat.
  
  If you already have the first one I wouldn't really recommend buying this game, although I didn't 
 really like the first one very much either to be honest. I suppose the ranger games lack what the 
 typical pokemon game has, it doesn't last anyway near the amount of time you would spend playing 
 on them whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorlaf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  .::Game::.
  Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia is the Pokemon Franchise's second attempt at a game in which drawing 
 circles is fun.
  
  Tutorial
  
  As the game starts, and continues for that matter, the player is treated with a very well done 
 tutorial that explains the way of playing the game. A few positive aspects of this gamming tutorial 
 involve an explanation of how to target clear and capture Pokemon. In addition, every time there 
 is an added feature, such as poke assists, the game makes sure that you are informed on how to 
 use the feature.
  
  Gameplay and Difficulty
  
  Although the premise of the game seems odd, many people will find themselves addicted to the action 
 of circling your opponents until they like you. This Pokemon game casts you as a Pokemon Ranger 
 who needs to help create peace between humans and Pokemon in the Almia region. The missions and 
 quests start out incredibly easy and slowly become more and more difficult until it eventually 
 tops of and the game starts to get easy again. By the end, most players may be bored with either 
 the repetition or the easiness.
  
  Audio 
  
  Audio is one of the main issues with the game. The Pokemon cries sound very old, and occasionally 
 become annoying
  
  .::Sequel::.
  Pokemon Ranger: Shadows of Almia is a Sequel to the Original Pokemon Ranger game, and it has improved 
 greatly
  
  Gameplay
  
  A much-improved aspect of this game is the abilities of the capture Styler. One major issue with 
 the previous game was that one needed to perform all the circles to capture the opponent in one 
 turn. Not only did this limit the possibilities of the game, but it managed to greatly increase 
 the difficulty in some areas, mostly catching teleporting Pokemon. In addition, many Poke assists 
 were greatly improved and allowed much more ability
  
  Story
  
  One semi-improved aspect of the game is the story. Characters, unlike the previous games, seem 
 to create some form of development. In addition, the plot flows greatly, but is very predictable. 
 I was able to guess the both major bosses at their introduction. There is some humor in the story, 
 but do not expect to laugh a lot. 
  
  
  .::Conclusion::. 
  
  Overall, this mildly interesting game should keep you entertained for some time. However, if a 
 there is a planed sequel, many improvements, especially the sound, could be made. I give the game 
 a 7.5/10
  
  As a sequel, I say it has improved greatly, and it deserves an 80% for its change for the better. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon attempts to expand the popular series by figuring out every which way the pokemon world 
 may work, and they have come up with.. Pokemon Ranger. You are a Pokemon ranger, a person who befriends 
 pokemon for a short period, using them to cut down vines, break giant rocks etc and then you say 
 good bye to them. Doesn't sound like much fun, but it is.
  
  Gameplay: From afar, this game looks, and sounds, incredibly boring, but in bursts of 30mins to 
 and hour, it's really not bad. While all that is involved is drawing many circles around a pokemon 
 to befriend it, and then using that pokemons ability to help you out in a single situation, and 
 then watch it run away.. for some reason it is starngely fun. The game is long enough for the story 
 to take 20hours+, so get some screen protecters, you'll need them!
  
  Graphics: they look quite good. The towns are all in 3D, when attempting to befriend a pokemon, 
 their attacks are in 3D, so if there is a wall of fire, you can go behind it and whatever else 
 in order to draw a stack of circles around the pokemon. All the chacracters and pokemon look good. 
 While the charcters lack some detail, they are done well, and the pokemon look better than the 
 characters, meaning they all look like they should.
  
  Controls: the only controls used in the game is the stylus pretty much, unless you chose to walk 
 around using the D-Pad. These incredibly simple controls make the game easy for everyone to pick 
 up and play with ease and get a quick understanding of how to play the game, and how it works.
 
  
  Sound: Beware, you will hear a "pokemon's cry" (taken from the Diamond and Pearl pokemon games) 
 an incredibly amount of times. While that's good for the pokemon with amusing cries, but others 
 just end up getting on your nerves! Other than that, there is normally some form of music playing 
 which doesn't get too repeditive..
  
  The Good: easy controls, good storyline, is strangely addictive
  
  The Bad: very long, annoying 
 intro. the constant befriending of the same pokemon can get repeditive and anoying
  
  Final Word: It's not annoying to play, and despite it may look and sound like a complete bore to 
 play, don't jusdge a book by it's cover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aagarcia100996
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:07 am PT
Review:  The game is sadly a bit of a rip-off. Though it has some more features than the first pokemon rangers 
 and it has Sinnoh region pokemon it still lacks something. The beginning starts off as you, a student 
 in the pokemon ranger school [in Almia of course] , trying to graduate so off you go on your little 
 adventure when after doing some things you finally graduate [yippie!] . Then after that you, of course, become 
 a pokemon ranger. So you try to find out why all the pokemon are acting so strange and find out 
 who are those shady guys you keep on seeing at the scene of the crime. Then it's just the same thing 
 as the last game. The game just has you drawing little circles around pokemon. So basically, if you 
 want to be amused at the beginning then get bored later in the game I suggest that you don't buy 
 the game because it is a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger: Shadows Of Almia is a solid game. Its got a basic game mechanic where you must 
 try to befriend Pokemon by using a capture styler where u draw circles around the Pokemon enough 
 times so that their friendship gauge is filled up. Once you have gotten them in your party you 
 are able to use them to complete various tasks and odd jobs that require the specific use of their 
 ability. While drawing circles can get rather repetitive soon it really does a good job of adding 
 variety by adding the ability to use poke assists which lets you use the ability of partner or 
 party Pokemon in battle to assist you in capturing the wild Pokemon. Also there are field abilities 
 which are a lot of fun to use such as riding an Empoleon, flying on a Staraptor, or running on a 
 Doduo. This adds new levels of depth to the gameplay. Story wise the game is a solid rpg that offers 
 an immersive main story with a variety of quests thrown in as well. You start off as as boy in 
 a ranger school that aspires to be the greatest there ever was. Once you graduate you are put in 
 the field and while completing various missions you stumble upon a evil plot going on in the Almia 
 region causing all the Pokemon to act up. You progress through the game searching for the cause 
 of this problem. While playing the main story you are able to accept side quests as well. These 
 are a great addition and allow for a way to take a break from the main story while still enjoying 
 the game. Also for every quest you complete you get power up data for your styler or a new partner 
 Pokemon since in this game you have the option to change your partner from a variety of others 
 that you'll meet later on in the game. This adds a lot of variety to how you can choose to play 
 the game. The story mode is quite lengthy and will last long enough for you to appreciate it and 
 then go to the other parts of the game that add more longevity to the game once you've beaten it 
 with the addition of extra quests, Pokemon, and a new area called the Pokemon capture arena where 
 you are able to just test your skills of capturing against powered up enemies in battle tower format (d/p) . 
 All these features really make the game great. But without a doubt the best part of the game is 
 the ability to download new missions via the Nintendo wifi connection. These extra missions tend 
 to be a bit harder the main games missions but once completed you have the ability to transfer 
 the rare Pokemon you caught in that mission to your diamond/pearl game. These missions add new 
 depth and longevity to the game as well. My only gripes about the game were at times the story 
 was a little predictable, the boss fights are a little too forgiving, and repetitive gameplay (still 
 fun though) . All in all this game is still a great game to buy and has a lot of potential for future 
 titles in the series. Also in one side not this is how the flagship Pokemon games should be played 
 with the sprites rather than the traditional Pokemon characters, i prefer the direction the team 
 took the art/ graphics in this game than past Pokemon games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_fanatic59
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has a few flaws and I did not finish it. The game is very addicting. I went to my cousin's 
 house to see him and i ended up playing this game the whole time. I was only waiting for my DS 
 to stop charging and then I left not seeing my cousin at all. I got stuck on heatran and I still 
 am stuck on him. The new things in the game are what make it good (other than the storyline) . The 
 capture charge is very helpful and you have to work hard for it so that is good. In the starting 
 of the game you "race" Kieth and try to capture more bidoof than him. I think that there sould 
 be more "races". They could treat them as a whole new category with missions and quests. One thing 
 that annoyed me is that you only start with 3 Poke'mon at the most. another good thing about the 
 game is that you can have more than one partner, but only one partner at a time. This really is 
 a cool game, but it does have flaws that I mentioned earlier. FIN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpoke
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Its a fun game once you pick it up you almost cant put it away!
  The dull parts are the patrolling parts and the dopey talk scenes
  The coolest part is when you 
 finally meet the boss of team dim sun.
  I like how the capturing Pokemon parts are not anymore continuous
  and you don't need to keep 
 circling pokemon to capture it.
  The game is pretty easy and you get to be a top ranger too quickly
  A 9.5 for the cool plot
 
  A 7.0 for comedy
  A 6.9 for difficulty
  
  Giving it a average of 8.5 :)
  
  It's not for people who like playing war games or dungeon games
  . .just saying
  
  The sending 
 pokemon to other people is not really effective because it took 5 to 8 tries before i got my manaphy 
 egg 
  
  The special missions are easier than the the first game Which is good because you can pokemon more 
 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderZX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the first game, you start off not as a ranger, but as a student at the ranger school. Almost 
 right off the bat you have to capture something, then you go to class. You don't stay at the school 
 for long, after you graduate you begin your job as a ranger.
  
  Graphics: Nothing has improved since the first game.
  
  Gameplay: Pokemon Ranger and Pokemon 
 Ranger Shadows of Almia are almost exactly the same when it comes to gameplay. There are some added 
 features however that make the game less slopy and such. One of the biggest problems with the first 
 PR was if your stylis left the touch screen then you had to start all over again, however in this 
 one the pokemon has an HP bar that goes down the longer time you don't spend trying to catch it.
 
  
  Music: The music is very kiddy at times but sometimes it has more evil music.
  
  Lasting Appeal: If there is one thing this game does best is the lasting appeal. There are 60 quests 
 along with missions to grab your attension for longer, and if you like the gameplay this is a good 
 thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmaan7000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Another fun pokemon game on the way. Its better than Pokemon Ranger. Its a game to buy if you like 
 pokemon. The pokemon from Diamond & Pearl are in there. Also if you didn't like the starters in Pokemon 
 Ranger in here you have 14 to choose from. You get them by finishing quests. There also good special 
 missions like getting Dialga, Palkia etc. The capure styler has improved. Also better feild abilities. Also 
 the capture room is good too. Of course you have the intense circling on your DS which is kind of 
 bad but it won't do much. Overall its a good game and its worth buying.
  
  Oh and also the release date didn't change. Gamespot has the wrong date and if you don't believe 
 me check on the OFFICAL SITE www. pokemonranger. com. If the OFFICIAL SITE says it its right. Its a 
 warning so you don't end up wasting your time in the store. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
