-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Diamond
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemondiamond/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Colorful presentation blends 2D and 3D.
 Enthusiastic soundtrack.
 Introduces online play.
 Lengthy, engaging single-player story.
 more than 100 new Pokmon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New touch-screen controls underwhelming.
 Online hampered by accessibility issues.
 Recycles some graphics and sounds from older Pokmon games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 8,740 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Game Freak
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diamond and Pearl do what the Pokmon franchise has always done best -- deliver an accessible and 
 highly addictive role-playing game experience. 

  Much to the delight of Pokmaniacs the world over, Nintendo and Game Freak have finally brought 
 a proper Pokmon game to the Nintendo DS with Pokmon Diamond and Pearl, and it delivers much of 
 what a fan would desirea richer, more detailed presentation, the ability to battle and trade 
 Pokmon over the Internet, and of course, more than 100 brand-new Pokmon to collect. Like any 
 of the core Pokmon games released since the original Red and Blue hit in 1999, Diamond and Pearl 
 offer some nice upgrades, but if you didn't like Pokmon then, you  probably  won't care for it 
 now. That said, it's a little surprising how well the formula holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which 
 is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as well as the quality of the execution. 

          The core Pokmon games have never looked better.     

  Sticking to the script, Diamond and Pearl start out the same as any other Pokmon game, and though 
 the specifics are different, the story plays out in a familiar fashion. Playing as either a young 
 boy or girl living in the out-of-the-way hamlet of Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region, you and 
 your highly competitive best friend are sent into the world by Professor Rowan to collect as much 
 data on the Pokmon that inhabit the region as is possible, which you do by capturing and fighting. 
 During your travels, you will battle plenty of wild Pokmon and other Pokmon trainers like yourself, 
 as well as face off with the leaders of eight different Pokmon gyms spread across Sinnoh. And, 
 in the tradition of the nefarious Team Rocket, Diamond and Pearl introduce the shadowy and oddly 
 self-righteous Team Galactic, a new Pokmon-obsessed organization for you to square off with. The 
 plot doesn't tread much new ground for the series, and it generally keeps things real light and 
 breezy. They won't dazzle you with the complexity or originality of their storytelling, but Diamond 
 and Pearl are still packed with lots of sharp writing. There are hundreds of people for you to 
 meet, and though they don't always offer lengthy conversations, they all have something to say. 

  The story is ultimately in the service of the gameplay, which fans and newcomers should be able 
 to leap right into without much fuss. You start off with a single Pokmon companion by your side, 
 which serves as your proxy in battleyou might be calling the shots in a fight, but it's 
 your Pokmon that do all the heavy lifting. As you wander through forests, fields of tall grass, 
 underground caves, and a myriad of other locations, you'll regularly be attacked by wild Pokmon, 
 which, if you're able to wear down their health without defeating them entirely, can be captured 
 in a Pokball, effectively taming them and turning them into companions. You can have up to six 
 Pokmon with you at once, and each of your Pokmon can learn up to four different abilities. These 
 abilities can come naturally as they earn experience in battle, or you can teach them new tricks 
 using technical machines and hidden machines, which can be earned in a number of different ways. 
 As they grow stronger, many Pokmon can also evolve, effectively turning them into an entirely 
 new and more powerful Pokmon.  

  The combat is turn based, and it's mostly about the rock-paper-scissors nature of the different 
 types of Pokmon. The only difference between Diamond and Pearl is the Pokmon contained within 
 each game. With the addition of 107 brand-new Pokmon, Diamond and Pearl raise the grand total 
 of Pokmon to capture to well over 480. Every single one of them can be categorized by type. Some 
 of these types are defined by elements, such as water-type Pokmon and fire-type Pokmon, while 
 others are determined by more specific, functional differences, such as fight-type Pokmon and 
 poison-type Pokmon. Each type of Pokmon is inherently weak to the attacks of another, so the 
 key to combat is having a well-balanced team of Pokmon with you that will be able to handle whatever 
 types of Pokmon get thrown at you. It's a simple enough concept to grasp, but there are enough 
 different types of Pokmon out there that you'll find yourself constantly tweaking your roster 
 of active Pokmon and laboring over which abilities you should be giving to which of your Pokmon. 
 The fact that you're constantly running in to, and thus capturing, new Pokmon makes the process 
 that much more involved. And that's just the basics. Aside from wandering around the Sinnoh region 
 and getting into countless Pokmon battles, you'll fish, harvest and plant berries, cook up special 
 treats for your Pokmon, enter your Pokmon in a pageant, set up a secret hideout, and more. These 
 games are long, with the main stories clocking in at well over 40 hours, and those intent on hunting 
 down the rarer Pokmon will spend far more than that.  

  The bulk of the activities in Pokmon Diamond and Pearl aren't new to the series, so what separates 
 these two from the Pokmon games that appeared on the Game Boy Advance? For starters, the presentation 
 has been improved to take advantage of the superior DS hardware. Though the game is mostly still 
 presented in 2D, there's improved detail to the 2D and you'll notice lots of nice polygonal touches. 
 For example, buildings and windmills are rendered in 3D, and it's enough to give the 2D world a 
 little depth. The game also has a bright, highly saturated color palette that makes it a pleasure 
 to look at. When in battle, the Pokmon are still static 2D spritesmuch of which appears 
 to have been recycled from the Pokmon games on the GBAbut in general, the 2D art still 
 looks sharp. The dynamic battle transitions look great, as do the numerous attack effects. Diamond 
 and Pearl also feature some catchy music, and there's a whole lot of it, with a special theme for 
 virtually every location or activity. As clean and upbeat as the music is, though, some of the 
 sound effects from the Pokmon themselves sound screechy and lo-fi. It's out of place, considering 
 how great the rest of the game looks and sounds.  

  There's also a little touch-screen support in Diamond and Pearl, letting you use the stylus to 
 select menus during battle and play a few simple, rather forgettable minigames that crop up. During 
 most of your travels, the lower screen on the DS is occupied by your Pokmon watch (Poktch for 
 short) . In addition to telling the time, you can install a number of applications, some more useful 
 than others, on your Poktch. There's a calculator, a pedometer, a status screen for your Pokmon, 
 a metal detector of sorts, and more.  

          Online play means it's that much easier to find others to battle and trade with.     

 
  What's probably the most significant new feature in Diamond and Pearl is online play, which lets 
 you battle, trade, and chat with other players over the Internet. The trading system is surprisingly 
 robust, letting you put any of your Pokmon up for trade on a global market, while specifying which 
 Pokmon you'll trade it for. Once you define the terms of the trade, the Pokmon is transferred 
 to a server, and you can set it and forget it. Your DS doesn't even need to be turned on for someone 
 to agree to your terms and complete the transaction. The online battle options aren't as immediately 
 accessible. Early on, you'll need the game-specific friend code for anyone that you want to battle 
 online, and it will take dozens of hours of single-player action before you'll be able to battle 
 with random strangers. The game also supports voice chat using the newly released DS headset, but 
 you can only use it with other players whose friend codes you've already registered. Of course, 
 you can also still battle and trade with other people through a local Wi-Fi connection. Diamond 
 and Pearl also promise connectivity to the upcoming Pokmon Battle Revolution for the Nintendo 
 Wii, purportedly letting you use your DS as a controller and take the Pokmon you've collected 
 on the DS into battle on your TV.  

  Between the 100-plus new Pokmon, the improved presentation, and the online play, this is a must-have 
 game for established fans. The new features also make this the most well-rounded Pokmon game to 
 date, and if you've never dabbled in the world of Pokmon before, there's no better game to start 
 with.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (648 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkraikicksass
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  As soon as i started playing, i coudn't stop, the game is great and still quite a hit today.
  
  People are still playing it all over the world, even when it has been out for a few years and 
 now the release of Pokemon Platinum is drawing near in the United Kingdom, people will be rushing 
 to complete it in time to trade their pokemon over to it...
  
  Graphics
  the graphics have evolved as much as the pokemon have (how cheesy was that?) remember pokemon emerald? 
 Pokemon Diamond's graphics are abosolutely fabulous compared to emerald, Nintendo have sort of 
 outdone themselves once again.
  
  Pokemon
  everyone likes to meet new pokemon right? well diamond gives a great selection of new pokemon to 
 catch and train as well as new moveset for pokemon in the old series.
  
  New Professor (whats the point of this section?)
  Rowan, (again the name of a tree like previous 
 profs, elm, oak etc) is more sterner than all professors ive seen so far...
  
  all i can think of for now so TTFN, Ta Ta For Now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan_Walker
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  New Pokemon was my main fix in this game. I wanted some pokemon that were cool, but not too weird. 
 Difficult to get, I know, because only the original pokemon had the original animals in the animal 
 kingdom.
  
  But anyway, this game has better graphics, enhanced type combos, and some cool looking pokemon. 
 Eventually you can explore Sinnoh and see types that have been the past series as well. an added 
 bonus.
  
  The trading experience is also enhanced. With the ability to trade with anybody around the world, 
 definently a good idea! I liked Wi-Fi, especially for this installment.
  
  Overall, this game had few flaws, besides the easiness of the game. It took me a mere 11 hours 
 to beat this game. It may sound like a while, but a true gamer knows that is nothing in gamer terms.
 
  
  Of course the originals will always be the best in our minds because we are younger and didn't 
 know what it was before, so it didn't suprise us when it came out, besides the touch screen capability, 
 which was as to be expected for the DS.
  
  I loved it, it was one of my favorites, and I hope Platinum gets a chance to show up it's older 
 brother! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iihashasocdocd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The starters were cool, each evolving to a pokeomn with two types. But this made the game too easy. 
 Infernape can beat its rival, as can Torterra and Empoleon. the story is just the right length 
 though the battles leave something to be desired and there isnt much to do after the e4. I liked 
 the double battles teamed up with other people. The Wi-Fi bits are good though i wish there was 
 a way to stop people using hacked legendaries (im sick of getting pwnt by a team of lvl 100 arceus) . 
 I liked the way you dont have to catch all of the pokemon to complete the pokedex, that way you 
 dont have to wait ages to find someone to trade with, or at worst you dont have to hack them, but 
 again, this takes some of the fun from the game whilst making the story shorter aswell. Also wdf 
 is going on with Spiritomb? You need to put the odd keystome in the tower thingy and meet 30 people 
 underground! That sucks tbh, although you are allowed to meet the same person 30 times, but this 
 takes too long especially if, like me, you like to wait ages to see if you can get all of your 
 pokemon as shinies (not reccomended as it takes aaaaagggeeeesss) . Overall, whilst it is the best 
 so far, it lacks some of the good properties from the other games, like the battle frontier (which 
 is coming back in platinum yaay) and the way you will definitely have a fossil pokemon instead 
 of trying to dig one up (which ultra sucks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pok3monpwner
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok this my review of the game called POKEMON DIAMOND and I gave it a....... PERFECT 10.
  Dialga the one in Diamond and palkia the one in Pearl they both are strong but it starts at Level 
 47 which is a fair level so you cant be the Pokemon
  League in 5 minutes.
  Who likes this game I do but do you like this game Whoever is reading my first review.
  Here 
 is some of the versions.
  [DS] Diamond Pearl Platinum
  [GBA] Ruby Emerald and some other ones too. So would you please buy this wonderful game. Also get 
 WFC to play with other poeple.
  That is my little review about dis. So just get the freaken game already :) .
  Okay you need a 
 DS to play of corse...... duh. So just pee in your pants when you get this game. So if you see it 
 in stores go OMG. I just think in this review right now thinking about stu.. oh yeah did i mention 
 about the pokerus thing that I dont know how to get it.
  Thats my Review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoE_Morais
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon games have long been (by long I mean since 1996...)
  a highly addictive and suitable franchise for the portables. The Game Boys all had their experiences 
 with the franchise and, since then, it's been one best seller after another.
  Until now, all the portable pokemon games have been made using
  2D graphics similar to that of 
 the SNES. The fans clamored and hoped that in the DS version something new and exciting would come 
 to them. It did.
  Pokemon DP delivers everything lovable about the pokemon franchise and a much more including new 
 pokemon, online play, a brand new and incredibly well put storyline, fresh and beautifully designed 
 graphics and interactive and exciting gameplay. Pokemon DP delivers you a pokemon experience that, simply 
 put, is the best of the series yet.
  What DP lacks to win a better score is a bit nostalgic by now. Sound issues. Nintendo can't seem 
 to put does new pokemon sounds in there. At least music isn't a problem anymore as they remixed 
 some of the old sounds and came up with some new ones (Team Galactic grunt fights are my favorite!) 
 but still, Nintendo just has to move on and evolve. The rest is history. You'll find yourself getting 
 much more than this game is worth. I'm giving it a 9.3 and a EC award (If i could I would but I 
 still have to grow up before Gamespot can hire me...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazamane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I did enjoy Diamond but I felt like making an Unbiased review is in order as it seems its scoring 
 too many 9+'s without substantiation;
  
  The Good;
  
  A new continent to explore!
  
  Wifi connections allow training and battling with friends
  
  Battle Tower is always the 
 ultimate challenge
  
  The return of the Day/Night Cycle
  
  
  The Bad;
  
  Slowly paced - Even running from Pokemon takes too long
  
  Some uninspired pokemon - From Drifloon 
 to Rotom's new evolutions (Fridgemon wtf) this generation had some stinkers
  
  Cakewalk - Until you get to Battle Tower where the difficulty rises so dramatically you feel like 
 you have been punched in the face you will notice this game is a complete Cakewalk for better or 
 worse.
  
  
  Undecided;
  
  Storyline - I feel Nintendo sets out to make their storylines more compelling as they go which 
 ideally should work out well - But the depth of this storyline and the general fun factor are extremely 
 questionable and the inclusion of "God" or "Creator" pokemon was a little too much in my honest 
 opinion
  
  
  
  To be honest I am still a fan of the second generation (GSC) but I have played from the first to 
 the current (4th) generation while I did enjoy this game I believe GSC was the Golden Age for Pokemon 
 and somewhere between Firered and Leafgreen the series lost its way and I just hope the highly 
 anticipated Platinum is the answer to my concerns;
  
  
  Blaza~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayrom123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game right here, it brought back so much memories when I had it. It was like the old days 
 when I was young. I used to watch pokemon 24/7. I would watch re-runs of episodes I had. When I 
 had this game it was like I was younger again, except much different. It had WiFi which made it 
 fun to trade pokemon, and battle other trainers. I was even able to battle my friends/family. Man 
 you don't even know i was so excited when I got it I never stopped playing it. I remember the first 
 time I encountered Giratina. I was like "Woah, whos this big guy... I WANT IT". I tried over and 
 over to get him until I caught him. Now that they made pokemon platinum I am planning on getting 
 that too. It might be cool and all since it has Giratina's 2 forms. I wonder how that would be. 
 I remember catching Arceus in pokemon Diamond with my ACTION REPLAY!!!!!! Yup I cheated and I admit 
 it but that was the only way I could get Arceus. I was reading it's description and how it said 
 it formed the pokemon world. I was like he must be the ultimate pokemon! I still he is the ultimate 
 pokemon, well because he created the pokemon world. I mean wouldn't that make him ultimate??? Well 
 that concludes my review and I miss this game and hope to get platinum :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle12271
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I didn't think it would be this good. I went from Emerald to Diamond, 
 and you could say it was a 'huge' jump.
  
  First of all, what I think caught most peoples attention was the graphics. They made a good choice 
 in putting the game in 3D. The sprites have also gotten a little better too. I still think your 
 main character as a boy should have stayed the same as in emerald.
  
  The day and night feature really caught my eye too. I like the fact that you can only catch certain 
 Pokemon at night. Also, with the 2 eevee evolution-espeon and umbreon-you have to train them at 
 either night or day. Lastly, I thought the setting background changed to look like you outdoors-example-6:00-Starts 
 to get dark out.
  
  With all 493 pokemon, this will be a long game if you try to "catch'em all".
  
  Now, for the 
 first time, you can trade over Wi-Fi! The all new GTS system is a very big step for this franchise. 
 With the GTS, you can trade pokemon from all over the world. One bummer though, is that you have 
 to at least see the pokemon to be able to obtain them.
  
  This game was a little easy to me (24 hours to beat game) , but it is a very good game, and I recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juniorpower
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  If your reading this review, do not own the game and own a DS, please pick up 40 dollars and buy 
 a copy. The reason I bought this game is thanks to friends, Pokemon Emerald, and Pokemon FireRed. 
 After playing Pokemon Ranger, I wondered when they would make an Pokemon RPG. I guess this game 
 proves God exists.
  
  Preface - (I cant say story, so I say Preface.) Pokemon Diamond continues the Pokemon legacy in 
 the Sinnoh region. This story Always, or somewhat follows this line. Boy wants to have Pokemon 
 ~  Boy gets Pokemon ~  Boy becomes the strongest Trainer in the entire Region. Pretty much it.
 
  
  Game Play - The gameplay for one, is totally recycled that explaining it would be pointless. Basically, 
 you catch Pokemon using Pokeballs you obtain through searching or buying them. You use your Pokemon 
 to catch other Pokemon. You become stronger by making them fight OTHER people's Pokemon and making 
 them look like weaklings. When your think your ready enough, you go to 1 on 8 gyms conveniently 
 placed in 8 cities. beat them, get a Badge marking your victory. In the middle are encounters with 
 some group, in this game known as team Galtic, who are trying to capture Pokemon to recreate the 
 world, as means to advance the plot.
  
  Beat the bad guys, become stronger, then beat the Elite Four, the 4 best Trainers of the region. 
 then beat the Champion, the last person to beat the last 4 guys.
  
  The only thing that has changed is there are more Pokemon in total, and your Poketch, an in game 
 feature on the Touch Screen which works like a PDA, but sucks because half the features are rarely 
 EVER used. The system of gameplay isn't broken, and I have no problem with it, it's the fact that 
 it is the same thing for a 4th generation.
  
  Wireless- The only broken part of the game. ITS friend code based. You see you can sit in a room 
 about 60 ft and enjoy a good battle without a hassle, but that is completely opposite for WiFi. 
 You need Freind Codes. So unless you randomly place your Friend Code online, with know way of knowing 
 if this will be a fair fight or not, you end up doing th same thing as a regular living room battle 
 thats as easy as sitting down, turning on your DS, going to the Pokemon Center, and having a good 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolfyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  If your reading this review, do not own the game and own a DS, please pick up 40 dollars and buy 
 a copy. The reason I bought this game is thanks to friends, Pokemon Emerald, and Pokemon FireRed. 
 After playing Pokemon Ranger, I wondered when they would make an Pokemon RPG. I guess this game 
 proves God exists.
  
  Preface - (I cant say story, so I say Preface.) Pokemon Diamond continues the Pokemon legacy in 
 the Sinnoh region. This story Always, or somewhat follows this line. Boy wants to have Pokemon 
 ~  Boy gets Pokemon ~  Boy becomes the strongest Trainer in the entire Region. Pretty much it.
 
  
  Game Play - The gameplay for one, is totally recycled that explaining it would be pointless. Basically, 
 you catch Pokemon using Pokeballs you obtain through searching or buying them. You use your Pokemon 
 to catch other Pokemon. You become stronger by making them fight OTHER people's Pokemon and making 
 them look like weaklings. When your think your ready enough, you go to 1 on 8 gyms conveniently 
 placed in 8 cities. beat them, get a Badge marking your victory. In the middle are encounters with 
 some group, in this game known as team Galtic, who are trying to capture Pokemon to recreate the 
 world, as means to advance the plot.
  
  Beat the bad guys, become stronger, then beat the Elite Four, the 4 best Trainers of the region. 
 then beat the Champion, the last person to beat the last 4 guys.
  
  The only thing that has changed is there are more Pokemon in total, and your Poketch, an in game 
 feature on the Touch Screen which works like a PDA, but sucks because half the features are rarely 
 EVER used. The system of gameplay isn't broken, and I have no problem with it, it's the fact that 
 it is the same thing for a 4th generation.
  
  Wireless- The only broken part of the game. ITS friend code based. You see you can sit in a room 
 about 60 ft and enjoy a good battle without a hassle, but that is completely opposite for WiFi. 
 You need Freind Codes. So unless you randomly place your Friend Code online, with know way of knowing 
 if this will be a fair fight or not, you end up doing th same thing as a regular living room battle 
 thats as easy as sitting down, turning on your DS, going to the Pokemon Center, and having a good 
 time.
  
  This is a great game, I recommend to Nintendo/Pokemon fans and DS owners. But
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rknaruto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is still fun and still good with improved graphics, more Pokemon, new moves, and new Ability's 
 will keep you trying the perfect get the Pokemon team it still uses the same old but it is still 
 fun to play and still makes work your but off to see and catch all the Pokemon. There are only 
 a few problems like the G. T. S. witch has a lot of dumb dumbs who ask for a lv100 ho-ho while they 
 are trading a lv1 Pokemon witch is annoying, and the promotional event Pokemon were you have to 
 go some were or buy something just to get a legendary Pokemon witch is unfair if you do not live 
 close to toys r us or have two DS's but at the end of the day you can over look this because Pokemon 
 is still fun for all ages whether you are 6 or 60 you will still have a great time playing Pokemon 
 diamond/pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUTombstone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  My brother really liked Pokemon but I didn't really like it much, but then he got Pokemon Pearl 
 and Pokemon Diamond. He played Pearl and I played Diamond. I got hooked and just couldn't stop 
 playing. How could you! There's just so much to do it's almost impossible to do them all. Since 
 it's on the DS it's really interactive and creative. You can even set up youre DS clock and if 
 u play Pokemon at night the game shows up at night time, if u play in the day it's day time. Plus 
 you can migrate pokemon from Emerald, Ruby, Sapphire and all the other Pokemon games. The new pokemon 
 are really cool too, espicially the new legends. There's Diagla, Palkia, Girritina, Reggigas, Shamin, 
 Heatran, Darkrai and probably more! The only flaw I see is that it's just a little too hard but 
 it's all worth it. Buy the game, it's great!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elwafir123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is an awesome series and is just plain addicting. But it had it's share of cons.
  
  When this game was announced in 2005 Pokemon fans rejoiced and were so happy, like me they just 
 couldn't wait. But we did and nintendo delivers the game with huge disapointments. This game is 
 the same game we've been playing for 10 years. The combat system is the same the sprites of the 
 fisherman and old people look suprisingly the same. But, why are we playing it, because nintendo 
 adds more pokemon, they added wifi, and more features. 
  
  But this game is fun and is actually going back to its roots of red and blue. For example Dawn 
 looks like the girl from fire red who you can play as. Your rival looks like a hyper version of 
 gary which entertains me. 3-D has been incorporated in this game you might notice the buildings 
 and the characters look like polygons which is good.
  
  My Final score
  
  Music: 9.0
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Addiction meter: 10.0!!!
  Storyline: 7.5
  Features: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.0
 
  
  This game is a must-have for DS owners nationwide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Why, if it isn't 13-year-old Pokmon. Yes, Pokmon arrived at the DS and kept the pace of its older 
 relatives. With a few real changes, the game changed little but has improved quite much.
  
  Thirteen years ago one would look at it and say "Wow, 150 different creatures! I gotta catch'em 
 all!". Nowadays he would look at it and say "493? You're kidding me, right?". And the answer is 
 "no". New pokmons, new moves, new features. The excessive number of pokmons makes you to use 
 the Nintendo WFC if you really wanna complete your PokDex, making the game to last for longer 
 for the addicted ones.
  
  Visually, the game's beautiful. Everything is bigger, softer and 3-D (outside the battles) . In 
 my first hours of game, my eyes got a little weird, everything was too new for them, but I got 
 used to it. Inside the battle everything's the same. All the moves have new animations, and some 
 of them have special animations, with colourful sceneries and stuff.
  
  The touch screen is used to control a device that takes the whole lower screen. It has over 20 
 features, but only a few of them are really handy.
  
  The game itself is great, a must-have for any Pokmon fan/DS owner.
  
  But it makes me wonder... 
 Is Nintendo intending to make new Pokmons? They're getting uglier and out of the original line 
 every year. I hope they stop it, or Pokmon will soon lose its reputation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowpokemon12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:35 pm PT
Review:  i got this game 2 years ago. i started with piplup. the game is so big, 493 pokemon, that is alot 
 of pokemon. and the graphics it is in 3-D. there are a ton of legendary pokemon and i have them 
 all from the
  kanto
  johto
  hoenn
  and sinnoh regions. and the wi-fi, you can
  go to the globol trade station (GTS) and trade from around the world.
  go to the battle tower 
 and battle around the world
  go to a pokemon centar and trade with people in your palpad.
  go to a pokemon center and battle with people in your palpad.
  over nintendo wi-fi. the under 
 ground feature is awsome, you can make secret bases and decorate it and steal flags from friends 
 secret bases. and the contests are awsome too. in contests there is 3 parts, the visual part where 
 you decorate pokemon with accosories you have, the dancing part where you have to copy your opponents 
 dance, and the main part where you use your pokemons attacks for appeal points. i accedentls saves 
 in the mystery zone and had to start over -_-. and i almost sold it but i decided to start over 
 so now im furthur in my file now than in my old file.
  Graphics:10
  Gameplay:10
  Sound:10
  Storyline:10
  the game is perfect in every way.
  I LOVE THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SliceSlice
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  hmm well, ive decided to do a pokemon diamond review, well you would know that coz your reading 
 it haha. anyways lets get this show on the road.
  
  The Good
  1. good graphics
  2. excellent story
  3. an array of characters
  4. way more pokemon to catch :)
  5. very addictive
 
  
  ok now for the bad
  
  The Bad
  1. repetitive gameplay
  2. the story seems to be just like the R/S/E story, so its not very "original"
  3. game gets boring 
 after you finish it.
  
  Over all, the game is pretty good, other then the flaws i typed just above this lol. If your a diehard 
 fan of the series, this game will be an excellent edition
  to any gamers collection. Hmm well to wrap this up, i would like to say that
  i have got the game 
 and thoroughly enjoyed it, so if your thinking of buying
  it, get it , its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played a pokmon game. I was about 7 years old. I got Pokmon Crystal 
 for my Gameboy color on christmas day... I knew nothing about it, i just knew that pokmon were 
 the coolest thing in the world. I trained up my pokmon, beat the elite 4, and caught the ledgendary 
 pokmon...
  7 years later, and I'm still at it. Pokmon Diamond is a fantastic release for the Nintendo DS 
 that'll keep you playing for a very long time. At this point, I have completed the core of the 
 game (collected 8 gym badges, caught the legendary pokmon and beat the Elite 4) , and this has 
 added up to 70 hours of play time. However, I'm not even close to finish. I still have to complete 
 my pokdex, catch the other ledgendary pokmon, and much more.
  The gameplay is still up to scratch. The massive region of Sinnoh is brilliant for exploring, with 
 tons of cities and towns to visit. Forests, lakes, marshes, caves - Sinnoh has them all, and within 
 all of these places are some god damn awesome pokmon to catch. As usual, the gameplay is pretty 
 repetive. Run, battle, run, battle, run battle until you reach your destination. This can get slightly 
 boring, however the feeling of your pokmon leveling up is awesome, and the feel of it evolving 
 is even better. The storyline is also brilliant too, but I won't spoil it. The music is brilliant, 
 as usual. 8 bit, 16 bit... I dunno what it is. But it's retro heaven.
  There is also a massive amount of new features. The Poktch is an excellent addition. It takes 
 up the bottom screen of the game, and it contains around 15 applications to make your game more 
 fun, eg. a watch, an item detector, a notepad etc.
  There are many other features including contests, however I find them slightly pointless. You enter 
 your pokmon in a contest, and if you win, you get a ribbon... but this ribbon doesn't add to the 
 gameplay at all.
  Overall, this is the best pokmon game to date. I haven't actually completed the whole thing - 
 I am currently searching for the legendary pokmons - but as I mentioned, I played the main amount 
 of the game. It is an absolute must have for any pokmon fan out there, and it would be a perfect 
 start for anyone who has never witnessed the pleasure of catching their first pokmon.
  
  Gotta catch 'em all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S10Bleach
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are a huge step up from Red, Blue, and Yellow, and even Emerald, and FireRed, and 
 LeafGreen. The story line is good. It also utilises the touch screen very well for battle and to 
 check your party, as well as browse through your bag quickly. The game animations that the opponents 
 pokemon is a nice thing. And as well as the night and day setting which is nice to see since the 
 Second Generation. Another nice addition to te game is that the specific pokemon you encounter 
 depend on specific demands. Like how some pokemon only appear at night, and some only appear in 
 the day. As well as some only appearing on a certain day. And it is very cool to see that it can 
 connect to the Wii and transfer your pokemon party, and can use them on Pokemon Battle Revolution. 
 And can get a Manaphy egg by transferring it from Pokemon Ranger to Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. 
 Altogether it is a very good step for the future of Pokemon games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser02
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  yea the game has its ups and downs i was expecting more cooler pokemon it finally seems to be the 
 end of pokemon arceus is enough proof created everything and last in pokedex rotom and mantyke 
 and all the little eveloutions of old pokemon like magmar and pre evolutions like budew other than 
 that the game is fairly solid.
  
  
  
  difficulty: 5, yea we been there done that became the Pokemon master now what 130 or so more Pokemon?
 
  
  gameplay:9, real fun new moves and more to train i like the battle system as always.
  
  graphics:6, they really like animal crossing huge heads small bodies really worse than sapphire 
 ruby and emerald.
  
  sound:10, good music the new cries are realistic and cool
  
  finale:8, a great game but it gets to Pokemon fans the bad Pokemon art and the graphics aren't 
 good same story as red and blue 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blooddog28
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by giving the reasons why this game deserves a 9/10 rating! I enjoyed the story 
 a lot, and there were a lot of pokemon to collect, and I can import pokemon from my previous 
 
  
  the only bad thing about the game is that the wifi is not so good. You have to use "friend codes" 
 which I personaly HATE! I wish it could be like the psp and just have a lobby... oh well it cant 
 get much better then it already is..
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  
  Sound- 8/10
  
  gameplay- 9.5/10
  
  learning curve- 9/10
  -------------------------------------
  
  Overall- 
 9/10
  
  Botton line- If you do not own this game for your ds you should go pick it up, it is one of many 
 MUST HAVE games out there for this wonderful system. If you have never played pokemon before dont 
 fear, It is as easy as eating pie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  I know, another Pokemon game. I personally own Emerald, Ruby, Diamond (duh) and FireRed. They're 
 always good games though! If you've played one you know how to play the next, but they change everything 
 which gives each game it's own personality. Each Pokemon game has some new Pokemon and some old 
 ones. Pikachu for example has been around since the very first game! Each game is easy enough for 
 a younger kid to understand, yet interesting enough for teenagers like my friends and me. The game 
 can get a little repetitive. Train, Walk Around Town, Battle Gym Leader and repeat. And sometimes 
 the game is just plain annoying. But it has it's quirks. Like for example, if you need money, go 
 and search the roads for other trainers your level and you will win, unless they have some advantage 
 which, let's be honest, doesn't happen a lot. Or sell power-ups that you don't need. I personally 
 find though, that if you play the game right and try you will have enough money, and your Pokemon 
 will be the right levels. If you need help before gym 4 (I think, I can't remember when you get 
 to the DayCare place) you're out of luck and just train with wild Pokemon it works the best anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowchronicle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  ------------Pokmon Diamond review --------------
  This is not the perfect game. In my opinion it's a game worth buying. It has a storyline like every 
 other Pokmon game. I was somewhat a little disappointed. Though I think the game needs more Pokmon 
 and more things like mini games in there. This game needs to have better graphics not like it's 
 bad or anything but I think they should of worked on the graphics a little more. The music is okay 
 I don't really think the music is perfect but it has a good tune sometimes. I like the idea of 
 the underground where r re interesting. Pokmon diamond game on and I like the mini games in there. 
 But I think the day care needs some more effects on a Pokmon or something to make it interesting. 
 I like how Pokmon can be shiny but I think Pokmon should be able to go to past level 1oo to get 
 more out of the game. I think it should show your Pokmon following you or the game should have 
 the beginning where you have a partner who follows you and you can see your partner Pokmon following 
 you. I think you should be able to choose if the way you look, that would be interesting. More 
 like 200 more Pokmon should be added to the game. I think Pokmon game with a storyline on the 
 wii would be better than a Pokmon game on the DS would. I found this game not that much exciting 
 without action. I think the game needs more poke ball types. Though I do like the amount of Pokmon 
 that can be in a party that is a good idea not to change that. I like the poke watch thing you 
 get during the game its fun to have and a lot of features to the watch and I'm expecting more features 
 on the watch though. This is a fun game and I suggest you buy it so you can do a lot of stuff instead 
 of renting I give this game an 8.
  That is my whole review!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor10
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good in these ways :
  
  1) There are 493 pokemon
  2) Beutiful enviroments
  3) The characters
  4) The music
  5) The midway climax is so exciting
 
  
  As you can see this game has many good points although these bad points do start to stick out eventually:
 
  
  1) Can get very boring very quickly
  2) Very Repetitive
  3) The climax point is at the exact same time as in ruby and sapphire
  
  It is still a very 
 good game though. After you complete the game's storyline, there are interesting side stories. 
 Rotom in the TV, Giratina in the cave, The Regi King and Heatran, lord of the volcano. But I won't 
 go into too much detail since it might spoil it. In the climax of the game, the choice of your 
 version (Diamond or Pearl) will come into effect. If you chose Diamond you will fight and capture 
 if you want to: Dialga the Deity of time. However if you are playing Pearl the same will happen 
 but with: Palkia the Deity of Space. They are exactly as powerful as eachother so don't worry.
 
  
  Overall this game is very good but it's bad points can get really annoying if you realise them 
 and then you keep playing.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsultToInjury_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Now I will admit I am not a 10 year old boy. I am in fact a 22 year old girl who has made it her 
 life ambition to get a full team of Evee's and an Oddish. With this you can be quite safe in the 
 fact this game is not only for kids but for adults alike.
  
  Pokemon first hit the scene in the 90s.... To cut to the chase we all know the games we all know 
 the "gotta catch 'em all" format. This game is no different, but yet with it being almost identical 
 to previous installments - it still stands on its own and you'll be glued to it hours and hours 
 trying to catch your dream Pokemon.
  
  So, with this game like the GBA versions before it came with two versions. Diamond and Pearl. Only 
 difference a few Pokemon. I bought this the day it came out back in summer '07 and picked Diamond 
 because I liked the cover more. Now of course you can hunt the various web pages to see which or 
 if any has the most powerful ones to catch.
  
  There are many a features on this which I love and make the game much more enjoyable. You can go 
 underground and search for stones and hidden treasures. You can trade and play online. Granted 
 I have yet to experience this and with a few horrible folk out there who may ruin in for everyone 
 else I am not ready to jump on that band wagon. There are hundreds of Pokemon to catch, badges 
 to win and lots of little hidden surprises.
  
  Pokemon D/P is an enjoyable RPG for all ages. The premise is simple, but rewarding. In real time 
 with the use of the clock app. you will be playing it literally morning, noon and night to find 
 that one Haunter or Munchlax.
  
  Take heed this game is what you make it. When you beat the elite 4, they say the game is just begining 
 and in some ways they are right. You can start from the begining and find new hidden paths and 
 stumble across a bizarre Pokemon in the bushes.
  
  I think 9 times out of 10 most people have played a Pokemon game. Its not hard to pick up and play 
 but getting the right balance to defeat your foes can be. It is definetly one of the best games 
 out for the DS. And with the release of Platinum in 2009, Pokemon may evolve and change but the 
 general basics of the game will not, but it will bring on board new fans to their old well played 
 format. 
  
  In the end why change something when its great the way it is? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runeblood123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  YO!, this game is completely awesome in every way, Good Graphics, great gameplay and brand new 
 features that were never brought in to other Pokemon games. Like Wi-Fi trading/battling, The new 
 GTS (Global Trade Station) is a place where you can leave a pokemon up for trade and then, it will 
 be traded in about 24 hrs. The contests are all new and still packed with action. There is also 
 a new place called Pal Park you can migrate Pokemon from FR/LG/R/S into this, using Dual Pak. There 
 is an unknown pokemon resting in a place that is almost unknown to the trainers of the world of 
 pokemon, it is the controller of Time and is almost unbeatable, no one can control it, only the 
 chosen one can and that is YOU the brand new trainer. If you are getting a new game and already 
 have a NDS get this, im certain that you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemongamer500
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is great but its kind of anoying that you can only get event pokemon from events 
 or DS Action Replay. It is a lot better than Pokemon Pearl because of Diaglia. The game is great 
 though and the multi player stuff is great like all the diffrent battles you can do with a friend 
 at the battle tower.
  In diamond is so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so ggggv ggrrrr rrrrrreeeeeee 
 eeaaa aatttttteeeee (great) because of every thing and the thing that is the best is beause it 
 has wi-fi!!!!!!!!!! $$$$$$$$$ %%%% POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME vvPOKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND 
 IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME POKEMON DIMOND IS ASOME v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshishadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  tha game is too hard because wihtout action replay you cant pass it (i dont use action replay) 
 and catch the pokemon with you limited money is too hard too u need a perfect combination to win 
 and use much tm and also hm, without it i think u cant pass it the only bad thing is too commercial 
 u need other version of gba to have more goods pokemons if u dont have need search for good pokemons
 
  and have to go to events of nintendo to have special pokemons like darkrai i dont have time to 
 a commercial events is a totally waste of time, and the movies are for promove the games an example 
 is the movie of giratina, my final team is
  
  -medicham
  -azelf
  -uxie
  -dialga
  -empoleon
  -luxray (my favorite)
  
  i miss my hopip, charizard, moltres, zapdos. articuno, 
 mewtwo and othe, r for that reason dont have 10 for me, but...... and for that i reason i never 
 know abou my favorites new pokemons of my lis wathever the game is sooo good , when i was 5 years 
 old i start to love pokemon
  
  i sold the GBA games lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rallen6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  Once again, The Pokemon Company has suceeded in scamming us again. I mean making two games, with about 
 1% difference so if we have no Pokemon loving mates you have to buy both. But then again Diamond 
 is extremely fun. The graphics are... suited for this kind of game, but not my type. But the content 
 is huge. At first there is the average story-line... then you can choose to be an underground flag-lord, a 
 battle park master or a co-ordinater supreme. And, if you want to be REALLY show-offy, you can complete 
 the National Dex, or just use your AR and beat the whole thing in 5 mins. But really its a very fun 
 game. Make poffins, enter contests, go on cathing sprees at the Safari park or just train your Pokemon 
 till they drop. And as always, we're amazed by the wonderful creatures running around Sinnoh like 
 theres no tommorow.493 pokemon to catch, raise, train or breed. I mean, some people have made a fortune 
 breeding rare pokemon and selling them for real money (some people are REALLY obsesive...) . But apart 
 from more pokemon and the poketch and some other small details, its not much different from, what 
 was the last game.. oh Emerald. But still this is totally recommended to Hardcore Trainers, or Rookies. And 
 get this, Basic reading ability NOT required. Only if you want to do the story do you need to be 
 able to read, and my 3, er 4 yr old bro plays on it and he is really good now, and can nearly beat 
 me in a wireless battle. Oh, and you can connect to your cousin over in Australia now. Wi-fi is a 
 very intresting feature to this game, and you can battle, trade or chat to people all over the world (and 
 maybe your astronautvuncle who's on the moon)
  
  Overall score-8.5. Fun but the story is maybe too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  The pokemon franchise has always been a surprisingly accessible rpg series for young and old. Nothing 
 has changed here, but that doesn't mean that nintendo should continue to recycle everything from 
 the previous games. This is truly Pokemon Diamond's only flaw. The same pokemon noises, the same 
 progression from town to town, etc. At least the addictive formula is still intact. The biggest 
 changes are apparent immediately. The presentation of the game has changed from a flat 2-D perspective 
 to a 2-D/3-D slanted perspective. The buildings and houses are presented in 3-D, but not the characters 
 in the game. It will seem great at first, but you'll get used to it pretty quickly. There is also 
 a much-needed wi-fi feature, which lets you trade pokemon online! No more searching for people 
 who have the same game and the same pokemon you want! It works great, and it really gives you incentive 
 to catch em all. The only downside is that you must have seen the pokemon in your game before you 
 can trade them online. The pokemon contests also return. They are improved a lot, and they are 
 actually fun to play. They have a fashion competition, a dance competition, and the competition 
 from ruby and sapphire. At the end of the game, you gain access to the Pal Park, which lets you 
 trade pokemon from your older games. It's a fantastic feature, giving you even more incentive to 
 catch em all. The Pokemon franchise is still as addictive and as accessible as ever. A great choice 
 for young and old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoNin360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon games took a pretty big leap from GBA to DS about a year ago. Yes it was a pretty big 
 improvement, but the mechanics of the game are basicly the same. This does not, however make this 
 game any less fun. The main story as usual takes the normal 40+ hours to complete depending on 
 how you play it. There is plenty to do, but training your Pokemon is quite repetitive and gets 
 very boring as many people would expirience from any Pokemon game.
  
  The online interaction is the best new feature of the game. However that leads to competitively 
 playing this game. Training your pokemon manually for real competitive battling can be horrible. 
 I can't tell you how much time I wasted doing this. If you are not into competitive play then the 
 only thing you can do is maybe collect and free train your pokemon like I use to do.
  
  I did enjoy playing people online until I found out how competitive it was. So as I said a lot 
 of time spent into training pokemon, this included EVing, evolving, getting its moves, making sure 
 it has good IV's...
  
  After a while I purchased an Action Replay so I could just make good pokemon without making them 
 looked like they are hacked, and honestly so many people do this it's not even funny. So I say **** 
 action replays and any other cheating devises for any systems. Even though I did purchase one just 
 for this game.
  
  In the end I got tired of playing this game and the competition, but did log in over 170 hours 
 of my life. For my earlier expirences here is my fair overview of this game.
  
  sound: 9.2\10
  
  gameplay: 9.5\10
  
  graphics: 9\10
  
  multiplayer: 6\10
  
  Overall: 
 9\10
  
  But soon Platinum will take its place over D&P, although I think they still will be able to interact 
 (trading, battling?) maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  To begin with this is basically the same old Pokemon game that we've all played before but with 
 some very nice new add ons that really improve upon the game. The story is the same as always your 
 just a kid that is asked to fill up a pokedex and along the way you end up fighting evil groups 
 of people, gym leaders, and legendary Pokemon. A proven winning formula so i really have nothing 
 wrong with this. What i do have a problem with is even though this is their first game on the nds 
 so they haven't really improved on the graphics that much apart from the slightly 3d environments 
 when traveling. In fact in the battles they are still using sprites and some are even from past 
 games. They aren't even new. They also recycled the sounds. The main positives of this game that 
 really give the game the scores its has gotten is the added multi-player through the Nintendo wifi 
 connection. You are now able to trade worldwide through the use of the global trading station which 
 is when you basically put your pokemon up for auction and what you would accept for him. You can 
 also now battle with other people all over through the exchange of friend codes. You can trade 
 through this method as well. Also there is now a union room where you can meet with your friends 
 and chat. This really sets up future games for more integral multiplayer and battles/trading. All 
 in all this is a old game slowly but surely moving in a new direction for the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthur_lhl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  If you haven't already know, the objective of this Pokemon game is similar to its predecessors, 
 which is to complete the encyclopedia of Pokemon, in addition to being the ultimate Pokemon trainer.
 
  
  Therefore, one will adventure through a region, and meet, battle, plus capture Pokemon on his/her 
 journey. The player's experience and his/her Pokemons' strengths will evolve throughout the journey 
 through battles. Obviously, battles will become tougher as the journey proceeds. 
  
  Although the game is relatively repetitive in terms of gameplay, the storyline and the vast diversity 
 of Pokemon keeps you interested in the game because one's always curious of what a newly discovered 
 Pokemon can do. 
  
  The games is not at all difficult. Once you learn about the Pokemon types, the strength and weakness 
 of every Pokemon can be easily predicted accurately. Therefore, a good way to proceed smoothly 
 through the game is to understand and learn about Pokemon types.
  
  As usual, multi-card multi-console battles are possible, in addition to trading Pokemons between 
 consoles.
  
  All in all, this game is relatively interesting and may be a great gift for children below 12. 
 Adults like myself may find this game interesting, as well. But, personally, I don't feel it's 
 worth the RRP of $69. Go for it when it's cheaper, because it's a relatively simple game in terms 
 of game development and creativity - nothing novel.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime6997
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The game was just great! I wish It had more in the game.. but what can you do? But still it is a 
 must buy! So many pokemon and you can catch most with out a AR. So just get it! Well I don't know 
 much more to say but it's as good as Leafgreen and that is a hard game and this game is bigger 
 and better the leafgreen. Well or firered I am new to gamespot so I have to put 100 letters here 
 and I don't know how much more I need so.. maybe I'm done. Oh yes this game is the only place to 
 get a mewtwo! So save your master ball! And the best pokemon to pick with the master ball if you 
 don't want Mewtwo Catch a Zapdos I beat the end of the game with zapdos LV55 and pokemon from 31 
 to 42. god what more do I put I wish I could just post this thing! But I don't know If i have to 
 much now! Get this game well I'm going to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat2red
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  in pokemon diamond you live in a small town called twin leaf town is were your adventure begins 
 when you go to the lake you pick your starter pokemon then you get your pokedex. In order for you 
 to complete the pokedex you have to see 149 pokemon you dont need to record the pokemon manaphy. 
 Beat the pokemon league and become the champion then get the nationl dex where you have to CAPTURE 
 482 pokemon you dont have to capture the following pokemon: mew, lugia, ho-oh, celebi, deoxys, phione 
 and manaphy. Badges were won, villians were defeated, a pokemon league was conqured, and now the 
 credits roll, but does that mean the adventure has fineshed? No way! doors are opening for you, 
 and its time to step through them as you begin the next phase of your pokemon journey. There are 
 new places to visit and new people to meet, and pokemon to catch - including some familiar faces 
 from other regions. when you have beaten the pokemon league you SHOULD have 149 pokemon on your 
 pokedex then you might think your stuck but just go to celestic town and speak to the old person 
 she gives you a picture of palkia/dialga then go to rowan and show him your pokedex and oak upgrades 
 it to national mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunter-Stride
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When Pokemon first hit the scene in the United States, I was among the age group that fell in love 
 with it. I own Blue, Yellow, and Gold version and loved them but by the time I hit junior high 
 school it was just another kids thing. Well, now I'm in college and I am once again enjoying these 
 little critters. 
  Like the other games you start out in your house chilling in your room when its time to get your 
 first Pokemon. Once you pick one of the traditional types your adventure begins. The story was 
 about as good as I expected it to be. I felt like a mute in a Saturday morning cartoon but whatever. 
 I noticed a few changes like how attacks, regardless of type, were either physical, special, or 
 other which made planning out my moves easier depending on how my monsters' stats were. I'm also 
 happy the game runs on the DS clock rather than set in game and kept on an internal battery like 
 my poor dead Gold version.
  While the number of monsters has increased to almost 500 you can only get your mits on about 150 
 before you get a national dex. This was kinda disappointing considering I wanted a team of Pokemon 
 that I remembered from when I was a kid but some were still there like Geodude and some new ones 
 I found I liked such as Honchkrow and Croagunk. 
  Luckily level grinding was never really a problem in the game, I was able to change my roster a 
 few times as I progressed without much trouble. However, like the original games I remember, its 
 very difficult to get anyone to level 100 unless you are extremely patient or cheat. While the 
 gym leaders, team galactic (what the hell happened to rocket?) , your rival, and the elite 4 were 
 largely predictable and easy to counter due to focusing on a specific type, they tend to drift 
 here and there more often making them a little less predictable adding a bit more strategy I felt 
 the series needed though it could have been better.
  While I assume the Wi-Fi features are great I am still currently unable to take advantage of them 
 as any access point I try doesn't work and the web site that is supposed to point out nearby Wi-Fi 
 points that work, all I got was twelve different McDonald's which I thought was bull but that's 
 not too much of a biggy for me since I was still coming off of the GBC Gold version.
  The last feature that I enjoy is the after game. While the R, B, & Y games didn't really have an 
 after game. Gold was great because you got to go to the last games world and collect another 8 
 badges, collect more Pokemon, etc. While Diamond and Pearl don't send you to any of the lands of 
 the previous games, a bunch of new features become available to you as well as another portion 
 of land to cover. First you get the national dex once you have at least seen all 150 of the Sinnoh 
 dex (the land you roam in initially has only 150 Pokemon combined from the previous games and exclusive 
 ones for this title) you get the national dex which allows you to collect any and all the Pokemon 
 from the previous GBA games and even more new ones introduced in Diamond and Pearl. You can get 
 a new rod to find even new aquatic Pokemon, a special radar to find some in places you have been 
 that cant be found otherwise, as well as access to new areas with special new legendary pokemon. 
 You can even transfer Pokemon from the previous games into yours and do an easy little mini game 
 and earn a berry for it. 
  All in all its a great game that's easy to pick up and keep coming back to. According to the game 
 I have just over 300 hours of play time (, though there have been countless times I just left that 
 thing running and I have had it for almost 2 years) . Even though today I'm playing games like RE4, 
 Orange Box, and soon L4D, its nice to have an innocent little game to bring you out of the real 
 world for a little while. Just don't let anyone see you playing it. Pokemon is not good with the 
 ladies.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomanxxx
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  good game for pokemons. is it like no other pokemons exept little better graphic more and more pokemons 
 difrent worlds .many pokedex and you know POKEMONS. you are a pokemon trainer then you catch the 
 pokemons walking from city to city and defeating the boss (gym leaders) . you can have a bike your 
 pokemons can have a special items hidden mashines or tehinc mashines. here are many of rare pokemons 
 . its worth of playing for kids too. (they must know english) . i thin is a multiplayer a little 
 boring. thats all. see you in pokemon world
  
  bye bye
  
  
  ps
  
  i think is no difrent like pokemon pearl exept pokemons are difrent i am not so sure (i didnt play 
 pearl)
  
  so lets play pokemons pokemons pokemons pokemons pokemos pokemons pokemons pokemos dialga dialga 
 pokemos pokemons
  
  nice playying from mariomanxxx
  
  see ya in pokemon world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Eight years. That's how long we've been playing Pokmon games in the UK, ever since Pokmon Red 
 and Blue on the original Game Boy arrived on our shores in October 1999. Now we're two handheld 
 generations on and yet still we're more than happy to run about catching those beasties with Pok 
 Balls.
  
  The big question, however, is this - for those of you who've already captured in Kanto, jogged 
 through Johto and hiked through Hoenn, are there enough differences and new features in this new 
 outing to warrant doing it all over again for a fourth time?
  Well, the short answer is this. If you're playing in single-player then it depends on how much 
 you enjoyed the previous games, but if you plan on using the multiplayer features on offer, then 
 it's most certainly worth another trek.
  
  
  Psyduck Redux
  
  In terms of the single-player adventure, it's not even a huge leap from the original Game Boy adventures, 
 let alone the more recent GBA titles. Although there are undoubtedly loads of new tweaks, like 
 the Poktch (a watch on the touchscreen which gives you access to a wide range of functions) and 
 a fun dressing-up feature (you can earn accessories for your Pokmon and customise its appearance, 
 then enter it in competitions) , the fact is that the main story and the basic goals are still near-identical 
 to Pokmon Red and Blue. Meet a Professor at the start of the game, get a starter Pokmon from 
 him, set out to capture more Pokmon by weakening them and throwing Pok Balls at them, train them 
 up until they're at a
  high enough level, defeat the gym leaders, then beat the final Elite Four trainers. The layout 
 (of the main adventure, at least) is exactly the same as it was eight years ago.
  
  Out With The Old
  
  This may sound like we're being negative about Diamond and Pearl but the 
 fact is, this familiarity isn't necessarily a bad thing. After all, if you're going to be playing 
 what is essentially an enhanced remake of a decade-old game, you could do far worse than Pokmon, 
 which has remained incredibly addictive throughout the years. In fact, it's a testament to the 
 original's gameplay that the DS version, while an almost identical experience, still feels fresh 
 and current-gen.
  In terms of audio and visuals the game isn't exactly pushing the DS to its limits. While it's graphically 
 decent, with the main game world in 3D (just about) and the Pokdex and battle screens featuring 
 detailed 2D Pokmon portraits, the combat still looks wooden. 
  Sound-wise, the music is pleasant enough and some of the previous games' themes make a pleasant 
 return in a slightly remixed form. But a real disappointment comes in the form of the Pokmon's 
 battle cries, which are heard whenever you select them in battle or access their entry in the Pokdex. 
 Although the 100 or so new Pokmon have new, realistic cries, the older Pokmon retain their old 
 cries, meaning Pokmon veterans like Psyduck and Bulbasaur still sound like their original Game 
 Boy generated-bleeps. Surely a little freshening-up of the sound effects wouldn't have been too 
 hard?
  
  
  
  Bells And Whistles
  
  That said, while this review seems mostly negative, do bear in mind again that it's simply because 
 these pages are otherwise full to the brim of boxes showing all sorts of innovative improvements 
 and new stuff on offer. The various Wi-Fi options open up the world of Pokmon, and never before 
 has the invitation to "catch 'em all" actually seemed so achievable, thanks to the Global Trade 
 Station feature . 
  The problems we've mentioned are still minor complaints in the grand scheme of things. If you're 
 looking for an enjoyable RPG adventure that's going to have you playing for months on end, there's 
 nothing to beat Pokmon Diamond and Pearl on the DS. Just don't go expecting any huge surprises 
 if you've played through any of the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Pokemon formula for Gameboy has been around for a long time and one might think that formula 
 has gotten stale. The truth is that yes, the formula has been around for a long time and it has 
 proven that it works not only on Gameboy, but also on Gameboy Advance and now on the DS. This game 
 will provide a fresh experience for the veterans and a new experience for the newbies.
  
  Diamond retains the core gameplay quality from the originals only it sports a whole new look and 
 a load of new features. I define "formula" in gaming terms as taking a concept or mechanic that 
 works and revising and expanding it in later installments. Diamond enacts this definition to a 
 tee, but all the while you are playing you will feel a strong sense of nostalgia because the game 
 is still very much like the originals. The game starts just like the originals only with a twist 
 here and there. You still are able to pick from three Pokemon, all of whom are the three standard 
 starting elements of fire, water, and grass. You meet a professor whose name is Rowan, and who 
 has this overzealous pupil who provides a little tutorial early on about catching Pokemon for new 
 players. You also have a rival, who happens to be a hyperactive nutcase, but he acts in a more 
 healthy competitive way than previous rivals did. The basic template from previous Pokemon games 
 is certainly there, only it has been rearranged quite a bit to offer a fresh story and allows introductions 
 to new characters. This familiar aspect will appeal to veteran players (like myself) who want something 
 new and exciting but at the same time they do not feel totally foreign to the new game. After you 
 pick your starting creature you progress a little more through the story and eventually you pick 
 up the incredibly useful running shoes which cut down on extended legwork, and ultimately you are 
 set loose to explore, collect Pokemon, and eventually become the greatest trainer ever. That is 
 basically the story in a nutshell, but it is easier said than done. There are hundreds of Pokemon 
 in the world and not all of them are easy to capture. Some Pokemon can only be acquired through 
 special means like trading while others have a "legendary" status and thus are difficult to locate 
 and even harder to catch. Pokemon are caught via various types of Pokeballs which are found, given, 
 or bought in places around each city. The trick to catching a creature is first weakening it during 
 combat, and then when you think it is weak enough you toss a ball via the handy touch menu and 
 the game does the rest. Your success depends on exactly how much damage you inflicted, how strong 
 it is (its level) , and what kind of ball you use. If you succeed in capturing a Pokemon it is automatically 
 added to your current team of creatures unless you already have six, which is the limit you can 
 carry. No need for concern because that Pokemon will simply be transferred to a handy PC which 
 can be accessed anytime at any Pokemon Center. The game hinges on Pokemon combat because that is 
 what they are primarily used for. Throughout the game world you will run into hundreds of trainers 
 who will challenge you if you to a battle if you happen to walk into their line of sight or if 
 you talk to them. Trainer battles are usually one-on-one affairs but from time to time you will 
 encounter two trainers you will face at one time. During the course of the game one of your goals 
 is to obtain eight badges that signify your victory over "gym leaders" that reside in each major 
 city. These leaders are elite trainers and are considerably more difficult to overcome, but a diligent 
 trainer could go to-to-toe with them. Once you defeat them you earn their respective badge and 
 generally it helps to advance the story. Combat, of course, relies on several factors: elemental 
 advantage, levels, and Pokemon moves. The elemental aspect is often given: fire is weak versus 
 water, grass is weak versus fire, etc. Some other elements like ghost and psychic are not as cut-and-dry. 
 The trainer who holds the elemental advantage over the other will often control the battle, and 
 that trainer will most likely be victorious. This is why it is important to learn early on to build 
 a team that is varied- to avoid being defeated by a foe who has an outstanding advantage over your 
 whole team. However, if your Pokemon are significantly stronger than their opponent level-wise 
 then generally type advantage can be disregarded. Levels are gained through defeating foes and 
 earning experience, and when a given number of experience is met your creature will gain a level. 
 And naturally, as your Pokemon grow stronger it will require more experience to next level. And 
 as your Pokemon level they will learn new, more potent moves often in accordance with their element 
 type. And sometimes when a Pokemon reaches a certain level they "evolve" by changing shape and 
 size. One very cool feature on the DS games is what is called "Poketch", and this is simply a collection 
 of very useful applications that can be seen on the lower screen of your DS. They range from a 
 doodle pad to a calculator, and there are a ton of them. And with the DS stylus you can cycle through 
 them and use them at your leisure. Some of these little gadgets have nothing to do with Pokemon 
 and they should just be considered miniature bonuses that you will run across from time to time. 
 Overall Diamond plays just like the originals in just about every way. Gameplay is absolutely extraordinary.
 
  
  Graphics are easily the best aspect of the game even next to its magnificent gameplay. So much 
 has been done to rework and redefine the game in just about every area. The world in general has 
 a heavy 3D look because now buildings are three dimensional, not flat. Other objects like flowers 
 and water have been redone to function as realistically as possible, and they look wonderful. Now 
 even the little doors to access buildings slide open! NPCs also are rendered a lot better because 
 they look 3D and not flat. Despite the new wardrobe on the world there is still a strong flair 
 of nostalgia because while they are new and fresh, they just look like what the "flat buildings" 
 in previous games would look like on the DS. Though the buildings and environments in general do 
 look like they may have been recycled it really does not matter because they look significantly 
 better nonetheless. The Pokemon combat is something that has been improved greatly because of the 
 handy DS lower screen. Rather than have a Pokemon's attack options on the main screen the DS shows 
 them on the lower screen, and using the stylus you use combat options like attack, run, bag, etc. 
 This new look helps keep the battle screen relatively clear, but the main screen still records 
 who is attacking who and such. The Pokemon themselves are rendered very nicely especially in battle. 
 They are crisp, colorful, and often are very detailed especially in later evolutionary stages. 
 Overall graphics take the prize as the most outstanding aspect of Diamond.
  
  Sound here works well with the game because they are simplistic, often soothing tunes that change 
 depending on the area you are in. Most of the time they are relatively slow, but when a battle 
 comes on the tempo kicks up with some well-themed combat music. The tunes remain mostly unchanged 
 even when looking back at games like Red and Blue, and though they are recycled they still fit 
 the formula. Some music like that in a Pokemon Center is completely unaltered. General SFX are 
 also "surprisingly" unchanged as well as with the navigation of menus, etc. And as from previous 
 games each Pokemon makes its own distinguishing sound, and it even changes after the completion 
 of an evolutionary stage. That adds up to hundreds of possible sounds from each creature and their 
 future stages. That is about the sum of it concerning sound, and ultimately it is unremarkable.
 
  
  Diamond can only be considered a "step up" in the sense that the series stepped up to the Nintendo 
 DS from the Gameboy Advance and original Gameboy. I would classify the game more as a diagonal 
 step upward because the game is very similar to all the previous ones. Though, if you played all 
 the previous ones you may not be as inclined to pick this one up because of the steep purchase 
 price. Regardless, Diamond packs a wallop as a terrific Pokemon experience and if you own a DS 
 you should definitely give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totallyawsome10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game so much I have played it for 130 somthin hours I have a lvl 50 Infernape lvl 54 
 Empoleon and a lvl 88 Torterra which was my starter pokemon the Torterra was I also have 2 ditto 
 lvl 100 Giratina lvl 55 Arcanine and more also I have eevee and more and I have seen 234 pokemon 
 it is awsome! I love pokemon so much but sometimes you have to trade good or your fav.
  pokemon to get the ones you really want. Oh and I forgot I also have a lvl 55 Dialga and a lvl 60 
 Palkia awsome right or am I right. I would reccomend Pokemon Platinum because it is supposed to 
 have loads of features and new cool and amazing stuff and I am so going to buy it and I just can't 
 wait and it is supposed to come out early 2009 and I really want it for my birthday!!!!! Oh and 
 if you buy this game tell me about it and if you like it or not and once you get passed the Elite 
 four and the pokemon champion all at once without healing your pokemon at a health center which 
 I have done and I bearly made it with one out of six pokemon left and I started out having 20 revivers 
 and tons of health potions and like I said I bearly made it! Yet again best game ever! And also when 
 I said I defeated the elite four and all that that was on pokemon diamond and that and this is 
 the game I was sayin to buy not to get yall confused! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazzerz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the same tired game we have all played a hundred times before. It's really starting to 
 get aggravating now though.
  
  The graphics haven't changed much from the days of the GameBoy Color. The world is a little more 
 detailed, there's a lot more color this time around. There is a small 3D effect on the buildings 
 now, character and Pokemon portraits are a lot smoother and more colorful than in past versions 
 but that's really all. What really pisses me off though are the Pokemon animations, they consist 
 of about 5 different frames of animation and they look as jerky and choppy as they did on the GameBoy.
 
  
  The music in the game is charming enough, but it just doesn't sound like something you would or 
 rather.... SHOULD hear on the DS, it's decidedly 8-bit. The different Pokemon sounds are also just 
 rehashed from the GBC versions, they sound just as grainy and distorted as they did back then. 
 I'm not exaggerating either, they actually took the sounds from the GBC version and just plopped 
 them in here.
  
  Are
  You
  Kidding
  Me 
  ?
  
  The story is standard Pokemon fare, love it or hate it that's up to you.
  
  Some of the gameplay 
 "improvements" are interesting, but when I look back at all the crap I just wrote about this game 
 I really don't even care. There's no excuse for this kind of sloppiness. If this game had any other 
 name other than "Pokemon" on the cover no one would give this thing a second thought, and that 
 is unforgivable.
  
  I really don't know why we keep getting red blue and yellow over and over and over again (aside 
 from the obvious financial considerations) . But you would at least think that some REAL effort 
 would finally go into the Pokemon series by now. Maybe next year  .  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fareru
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Now, pardon me for being so picky but, I'm a nineteen year old gamer. I've owned and still own 
 an SNES, I've been collecting NES games, I still have my N64, my PS2, my Gamecube, and I love my 
 DS and my PS3. I've played a LOT of games in my life time. The unfortunate thing is, there are 
 a LOT of bad games out there and I've seen a lot of them.
  Now for the good news... Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is one of those elusive games that keep you pleased 
 for the entire gaming experience. I was a little sceptical when I first picked up Diamond, I had 
 already bought my Girlfriend a copy of Pearl some months before I even bought my DS let alone Pokemon. 
 The main issue being that I hadn't played a Pokemon game since Gold and Silver when I was first 
 getting into middle school. 
  Naturally I was expecting the same old grind that I had experienced as a child but I was immersed 
 into a beautiful world full of challenges, new Pokemon, and a wonderfully original plot, which 
 is something good since the traditional, "I wanna be the very best" thing must have been getting 
 tired.
  Firstly, the new rival as well as Dawn (I was a male character, substitute Dawn with whatever the 
 boy's name is if you pick a girl) were excellent recurring characters. They weren't even half as 
 annoying as RED was or how bothersome SILVER was during Gold. Another thing I really enjoyed was 
 Team Galactic. Their whole evil agenda was very reminiscent, to me, of Garland from FFIX, creating 
 a new world, destroy the old one. I found it to be a great traditional RPG feeling.
  Besides the characters the game play itself felt much more interactive, probably due to the DS 
 touch screen controls.
  Another set of features I really enjoyed were the connectivity to the older games, such as the 
 Dongle method or the wireless connection to the Wii's "My Pokemon Ranch" and so on. It brought 
 a great nostalgia to be able to catch all the original Pokemon, who I grew up with, and the newer 
 ones who I've never seen before.
  In the end, it all boils down to this. Pokemon is a wonderfully traditional RPG with many, many 
 new features that really make both the Nintendo DS and the Pokemon series shine. There is so much 
 interactivity and diversity in this little game card that its almost overwhelming.
  I gave Pokemon a 9/10 because even though it presents all these wonderful new features and a great 
 new world with a rather compelling story, but it lacks in one respect and one respect only. The 
 frustrating and time consuming legendaries. I understand that they are meant to be a challenge 
 but I believe a capture rate higher than 3 would still suffice to make them difficult enough... 
 That aside, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is a true pleasure to play for new and old gamers alike. I highly 
 recommend this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Since i was about 5 i got my first pokemon game (blue) , through then Ive played basically every 
 single version, my favorite being the Gold and Silver series. If anything a pokemon game, to me, 
 is suppose to have that general feel of some certainty that you just can't explain. It's the feeling 
 of basically what you would feel during the holidays.
  
  All in all, Diamond and Pearl are great, innovative pokemon games, they just don't have that same 
 feel as the rest did, which includes Ruby and Sapphire. It seemed to go to fast, too many legendary 
 pokemon at your feet; it seems as though we are all power hungry. And to top that, what got to 
 me was the "god" of pokemon which is basically a mediocre mix of a sea horse and a dog. The same 
 goes with the rest of the pokemon in Diamond and Pearl, the pokemon were just too bizarre, so unrealisic, 
 which of course, the occasional one we can all relate our cats to. 
  
  And to add to that, it was basically all forgettable, nothing you did in that game made you proud 
 to be a great pokemon trainer as others have, particulary pertaining to Ruby and Sapphire. Which 
 let's get back to the subject of too many legendaries. Although ruby and sapphire had a large amount, 
 they never seemed to fail to impress you, with story lines, events, and ultimetly gameplay. I just 
 didnt see that with Diamond or Pearl. 
  
  To draw an ending to this "win- lose" situation, the games were at there best when they made you 
 relax for a while and make you realize where you are, and then, would you know what you are doing 
 in the game. So, in variation, the game was over-thought, overworked, and too bombastic. You want 
 a pokemon journey, not a pokemon race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyrox21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the game Pokemon fans have been waiting for on the DS. This is the game that actually made 
 me like Pokemon more than anything! Before I got this the only Pokemon I Knew was Pikachu! Now, 
 my favorite Pokemon is Darkrai! (Go to my images to see my Trainer Card.)
  
  Now for the game. The starters in this game are pretty cool. Tirtwig was my starter because he`s, 
 you know, cool and strong. Both games are pretty much the same games only different. Though I personally 
 recommend Diamond because it has better Pokemon than Pearl 
  
  In this game you can really see the new and old stuff in Diamond and Pearl. Now that it's on the 
 DS There is new stuff to do with the touch screen. The Wi-Fi has really changed the trading system. 
 Now there is a thing where you can trade with anyone in the world!
  
  Well to rap things up I give this game ****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLe7in
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Pokemon. Perhaps I don't need to tell you the long history of it. So to avoid a wall of text we'll 
 just jump to the review.
  
  Pokemon Diamond for the Nintendo DS has pretty much the same formula as any other RPG Pokemon games 
 (the color and gems versions) . And in the same formula means it has a pretty much the same storyline 
 too, only with different characters. The combat mechanics is also the same with previous games, 
 where you choose your moves, the enemy choose theirs and they battle in a turn-based mechanic. 
 Since they pretty much took all the successful elements from the previous games, if you are a Pokemon 
 veteran you won't be having much trouble with this game and you probably won't need to read the 
 reviews to justify the purchase of this game. Other things to note beside the combat mechanics 
 and the story, the graphics and audio are also recycled from the previous games. That doesn't mean 
 that it's bad, since the music and colorful graphics of the Pokemons are wonderful from the previous 
 ones.
  
  The controls are similar to previous games except now you can use the touch screen to choose moves 
 when battling, to use the new Poketch application, to make poffin (I'll let you find out what that 
 is) and other choices.
  
  Diamond also boast the wonderful connectivity it has. You can connect to your GBA Pokemon games, 
 connect to your friends through the wireless connectivity, trade your Pokemon to other players 
 around the world through Global Trade System (GTS) , or just to battle them. One weakness I found 
 in GTS' search engine is that you can't search for the Pokemons you haven't seen. So, for example, 
 if you want to search for other players to trade you a Blastoise. You can't put Blastoise in the 
 search box since you won't find Blastoise in this game unless you transferred it from the previous 
 versions. This made it difficult for you to trade the Pokemons that you haven't seen yet. But there's 
 always GameFAQs that you can use to ask other players to help you.
  
  In conclusion, if you found previous Pokemon games very entertaining to you, I can guarantee that 
 you will most likely like this game as well. But if you don't, well, they really haven't done anything 
 much to change that, besides probably the fact that you can battle and trade with other people 
 wirelessly.
  
  P. S: I guess this is still a wall of text. This is my first review. Don't judge me too hard :p
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omaranty
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  hello gamer fans , recently i lot of people have been asking me to do this review , so I hope I 
 won't be disappointing you .
  ok lets cut to the chase , Pokemon diamond and pearl are the old formula that always works with 
 the Pokemon RPG series , with a little graphic and audio improvements a little usage of the touch 
 screen .
  though the biggest improvement or should I say addition is the online trading and somewhat battling 
 and as alway Nintendo will only let you battle if you have a friend code of the guy you wanna battle 
 now this can be frustrating but if you have right gear you chat while battling via wi-fi , but 
 you don't need a friend code to trade except if you wanna trade with a specific person , if you 
 wanna trade with any one you have to have seen the pokemon you wanna trade .
  overall Pokemon diamond and pearl are highly recommendable for pokemon fans but for first timers 
 I would recommend renting it first ,if you really want it go ahead and buy it , but if you can 
 wait buy the newer version coming out in early 2009 pokemon platinum is like diamond and pearl 
 combined , well that wraps things up I finished the game got all the legendaries in the game without 
 a cheat device , i know a lot of this game questions just ask .
  til next time gamer fans 
  oh and for all the people who're asking my next review will be ..... super smash bros. brawl. 
 
  any question about any game just ask. 
  so be sure to read my next review . thanks for reading and good-bye.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbiterspartan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna go ahead and review Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for you and will reveal everything. I grade 
 this game on 5 main points, so here goes.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is a good game as far as Pokemon goes. It is the first pokemon installment on the 
 D. S. It is obviously a step up from its predecessors. New soundtrack, new contols, new battles, 
 even new bad guys. And as always new pokemon. 150 new ones to be exact, bringing you're number 
 of pokemon to catch 493.
  Plus, everything is wireless, so you are able to trade over the internet and such.
  
  CONTROLS: Very 
 straightforward. When not in battle, you will use your pokemon watch, or poketch for short. As 
 you advance further into the game, you will get new apps for it. When in battle pokemon, hp etc. 
 are on the top, while you use the touch screen to battle. A. K. A. chosing moves, healing etc. Ad 
 you now have the option ti run inside buildings.
  
  STORYLINE: If you've ever played a pokemon game, you know how this section goes. For those of you 
 that haven't though, here goes. You start out in a small town with your rival. Your main objective 
 is to obtain all 8 gym badges form around the country, but also to catch all the pokemon and defeat 
 the elite four. That, and foil the bad guys' plans.
  
  GRAPHICS: Well, if you have a D. S. you know graphics aren't quite there. But they are by no means 
 bad.
  
  LASTING EFFECT: If you've played a pokemon game, you know that you can't sleep until you've caught 
 every single one of those little buggers we call pokemon.
  
  All in all, in you are a fan of pokemon, you should consider geting pokemon Diamond And Pearl for 
 the Nintendo D. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tricky_d
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The first thing to notice about the new Pokemon is that its pretty much the same as the others, 
 but thats not really a bad thing after all they are sticking to a formulae that has worked perfectly 
 for the last decade and been succesful so why ruin it by taking risks (ala Sonic) ?
  Really if you are one of these people who has never liked Pokemon then the new games probably won't 
 change your mind towards the franchise and you really shouldn't be reading the reviews. I personally 
 had a lot of fun with this game; the graphics, whilst not revolutionary are certainly a step up 
 from some of the more classic iterations and there is certainly more than enough to do in game. 
 Not to sat that there is an abundance of tasks to complete but the minor additions to the basic 
 mechanic adds more than a few hours to be getting on with while still making the game easy to pick 
 up and grind an hour or two away when bored at home or even on the bus (if you fance getting your 
 DS nicked) .
  Ultimatley, if you enjoyed the other Pokemon games then Diamond or Pearl will be a brilliant purchase, 
 if not then stay well away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMD91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  this pokemon game is like the best pokemon game i have ever played. Its like completes everything (but 
 not totally everything) . Well what i mean its not like emerald which has new features for battle 
 frontier and but it has a great feature like the pal park which i really wanted because i wanted 
 to send my pokemon from other regions  and emerald to my Diamond) and 
 i liked catching the pokemon.
  But the thing i hate in pokemon is the event pokemon because i really cant take any event pokemon 
 unless if it comes out in a another game (pokemon ranger to obtain manaphy) but nintendo events 
 that are just in japan and then released in america i couldnt take because i live in another country 
 and another thing that i loved the contests of the 3rd generation games (saphire , ruby and emerald) are 
 better because iam not that good in dressing the pokemon and iam slow too. But too improve the 
 game this game they must put some of the event pokemon that you cant take and more features in 
 the battle frontier ( like emerald) and thankfully platinum is coming out with all new features 
 ans maybe new pokemon and new mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Diamond is not a bad game. This being said it's not a Wonderful game. this is your average pokemon 
 game. It's fun but after a while you say "WTF i have beaten the elite four and I'm still playing 
 this game. Why?" I know there i a lot of to do but sometimes i ask, why? I mean i would never sit 
 there and try to catch all 500 or so pokemon. I'm not saying that no one would. this is my preference. 
 If you are a fan of this type of game then Diamond is one Nice peace of work but for me, it is 
 simply get all the legendaries and show off to my friends. The wi-fi gives you a little more to 
 do but if you are a casual pokemon trainer like i am then you probably won't get much use out of 
 wi-fi other than trading. If this was my opinion i would give it a 6 or so cause i don't get to 
 much out of these games but top be fair, I give it an 8 cause there is nothing wrong with it, and 
 hey, there is even a cloning glitch as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cspowered
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Pokemon games since Pokemon Blue. I have them all. I've always loved these games. 
 The fact that I gave this one an 8.0 score is because of the battle system. With each new Pokemon 
 game, the battles take longer and longer, from the relatively long load to get into the actual 
 battle, to the "special effects" before the fighting starts, to the time-consuming attacks.
  
  I have always criticized RPG games that use the worthless long-load, long-special-effects battles 
 to lengthen the game, I hate it, more so on random encounter battles like in the Pokemon games. 
 Everyone should play Pokemon Blue to see what I'm talking about, the battles were probably half 
 as long, if not more.
  
  Other than the time consuming worthless battles, you get another great Pokemon game with online 
 capabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerom88
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Aah, it's been a while since I wrote my last review. Three years to be exact. What made me pick 
 up the pencil again, you might ask? The answer is Pokmon Diamond.
  
  Pokmon, ah sweet memories. For me it all started with Red, Blue and Yellow. I remember lying on 
 the grass in summers with friends, playing our cute little Pokmon games on our now old-skool gameboys. 
 The passion I developed for Pokmon did not fade as the next step in the games franchise arrived: 
 Silver, Gold and Crystal. They were excellent games, I can't remember enjoying any other games 
 more than I enjoyed those back then. However, as Sapphire and Emerald were released and the number 
 of Pokmon, the one even more ridiculous looking than the other, topped 300, I lost my interest.
 
  
  Now, several years later, Diamond and Pearl are in the shelves. It's already the 5th installment 
 of the handheld Pokmon games franchise (FireRed and LeafGreen being 4) and the number of Pokmon 
 that's been called into existence has risen to a whopping 493 species. 493? Yes, four hundred and 
 ninety-three. Are they all available in this game? Yes and no, I'll explain later.
  
  Now, the concept of this game is nothing new. As always, you are a young, ambitious trainer going 
 on a quest to see all the different kinds of Pokmon in your region of birth. We've also got your 
 traditional rival and your traditional evil organization a la Team Rocket. Professor Rowan gives 
 you a Pokdex and off you go! You catch wild Pokmon, you battle wild Pokmon, your Pokmon grow 
 stronger, you collect badges, you defeat the evil mastermind organization and finally you challenge 
 the crme de la crme: the Elite Four. So, what's new this time round?
  
  The region's all-new! It's called Sinnoh, and several new Legendary Pokmon call it their home. 
 Diamond and Pearl contain all the elements of previous Pokmon games, with some added features. 
 Most notable of those is the option to battle and trade with trainers all over the world. How is 
 this possible? The DS' built-in Wi-Fi system of course! Connect to a wireless network and you're 
 good to go. This adds a whole new dimension to battling as it enables you to face-off against trainers 
 who use their brains, unlike trainers in the game itself. It must be stated however that the AI 
 is much cleverer in D&P than in previous Pok games. You'll find proof of this in the Battle Tower 
 (available after you've beaten the Elite Four) , which is quite challenging. You can also team-up 
 with a friend via Wi-Fi and clear the tower in 2 vs. 2 battle mode. But your Wi-Fi options don't 
 stop there
  
  Once you progress through the game you receive a digging tool which you can use to access the underground 
 tunnels. Here you can create your own personal hideout and interact with other players, once again 
 using the DS' connectivity utilities. You can dig for treasure in the walls and find the items 
 that were so hard to come by, or not at all available but needed nevertheless, in previous Pokmon 
 games. I'm talking about Evolution Stones and move/type boosting items. The walls can also contain 
 fossils, so you can finally get more than one Kabuto/Omanyte/Aerodactyl per game. You can also 
 use the DS' connectivity function to blend berries with friends (which yield high quality poffins 
 for use in contests) . In other words, there's plenty of fun (and useful!) multiplayer content.
 
  
  These new elements aside, Pokmon D&P are basically improved versions of the old Pokmon games. 
 Every installment in the series has had some new features to it, and D&P are no exception. The 
 games are full of small improvements that make these installments play just that bit more smoothly: 
 creating and adjusting move sets has become easier (thanks to NPCs like the Move Deleter and the 
 Move Relearner) , breeding Pokmon is faster now (thanks to certain Pokmon's abilities to speed 
 up the breeding process) , battling has become more challenging, there's some handy in-game gadgets 
 that display useful information (berry locations, status of Pokmon at the day-care, number of 
 steps taken) , there's more Pokmon to collect, Wi-Fi enables players all over the world to connect; 
 the list is endless.
  
  Drawbacks? The battle pace is slow, especially when using Wi-Fi. I liked the battle speed of the 
 old GBC games, it made training Pokmon a much less time-consuming process. Ah well, at least the 
 battle animation can be turned off. Also, to complete your Pokdex you either need all the Pokmon 
 games released for GBA and up or lots of help from other players (Wi-Fi) . This means completing 
 your Pokdex is a very difficult, if not impossible task. Best not be such a completionist as I 
 am. Other than these two little annoyances, the game has no real flaws. I've put well over a hundred 
 hours into Pokmon Diamond and am still playing the game. If you liked the previous Pokmon games 
 then you shouldn't miss out on this one.
  
  Originally posted on GameFAQs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon276
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game in the pokemon series and is the best layed out and has the best graphics 
 it has many good features and kind of strays from the template of pokemon games. My favorite feature 
 of this game is the digging one and th fact that you have to find your fosills and you can also 
 find jewls to trade for different items. The bikes are really cool in this game also and the fact 
 that you have gars makes it awsome. The pokemon are awsome in this game and the fact that you turn 
 on or off the back ground is really cool and adds that much more to the game. The characters in 
 this game are very cool and the characters desings are cool to. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it came out in April last year. I really liked it. The only problem with this 
 game is that it's too easy. The Gym Leaders were so easy to defeat. Anyway, this, and Pearl are 
 the first Pokemon games to make an appearance on the Nintendo DS. The graphics are great. I like 
 the 3D areas, and great visuals. Pokemon games are better in 3D than 2D. The music is ok. Some 
 of it though was boring, while the others were fine. The Pokemon are cool. The legendary Pokemon 
 you catch in the story is Dialga, the Pokemon who can control time :) . You start with one of the 
 three Sinnoh starters. I took Piplup :) . Overall, Pokemon on the DS!, great graphics, ok music, 
 too easy, same old story. An evil orginazation trying to take over the world, fight the elite four 
 yada yada yada. This is a great game for the Nintendo DS, if you own one, and you are a Pokemon 
 fan, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ani_manga200
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is an awsome pokemon game, one of the best in the series. let me explain what I think of it.
 
  
  It's great pokemon to catch, loaded with legendary pokemon. It's got a great story line, and an 
 awsome adventure.
  
  It's cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool ccol as can be.
  
  It's great how you can trade pokemon with other games, even before you win the game, cool Gym leaders.
 
  
  It's also very chalenging, and like most pokemon games, even after you win the game, there's still 
 plenty to do.
  
  It's also got realy good graphics for a DS game. the background is better then the Pokemon games 
 for GBA.
  
  It's a realy cool DS game, that I recomend, for all the coolness, action, and adventure you experience 
 playing this awsome game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u_gt_skilled
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  It's really good, and even though I've completed the story line, I still play it heaps.
  But they REALLY should stop making new Pokemon.
  I mean COME ON, look at Chimchar's evolutions.
 
  And Croakgnuk AND Probopass.
  And WHAT LAZY PERSON DESIGNED PORYGON-Z?!?!
  Please, stop making new Pokemon otherwise it's gonna be ruined.
  
  Anyway it's a good game, 
 the wireless connection's awesome , especially GTS and underground. 
  Some Pokemon you can only catch in Pearl, and some only in Diamond. Not only Diagla and Palkia, 
 but Murkrow, Misdrevus and a lot more. For girls I suggest Pearl, boys Diamond. Oh, and if the 
 starters had a battle, Piplup would win because it would wipe out Chimchar because of Piplup's 
 water moves, and beat Turtwig because of peck.
  But since Ponyta's the only fire Pokemon for ages, for the game, Chimchar might be the best suited. (Just 
 ignore what it looks like) . 
  Even though some of the Pokemon are bad, it's still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyraxkilawatt
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  
  "Gotta Catch'em all" 
  
  Pokemon is a long living Nintendo Series where you catch cute little creatures (and some Ugly) 
 ones and add them to your collection in an attempt to Catch'em all. (Good thing PETA Isn't around) . 
 "Long live Pokemon" 
  
  Story: (Not Rated)  I'm not going to include the story line into my review since it is basically 
 the same story as Red and Blue just with different characters and plot line. And by now anyone 
 who plays Pokemon isn't playing for the story but rather the Pokemon. 
  
  New Pokemon: (8/10)  (The real reason to buy PKMN D/P) Though I do like a majority of the new 
 Pokemon, and others took some time for me to like, there are some that leave me wondering "Who 
 The Hell Designed this Pokemon" This extends to Bidoof, Cherubi, Glameow, Mime Jr., Skuntank, Drapion, 
 Carvine, Uxie, Mesprit, Azelf, and Manaphy along with any of their respective Evolutions. (Most 
 of the new Legendaries look like jokes in this one and none of them can stand up to MewTwo, and 
 a lot of the background stories behind some of these legendaries comes into conflict with background 
 stories of other legendaries from previous games)
  
  Other Content: (10/10)  New content is always a plus specially when it is fun or helps in the 
 expansion of your Poke'Dex, I don't personally care for the PKMN Contests but it is a lot better 
 this time around with more interactivity thanks to the touch screen. Using the touch screen to 
 mix profins is also entertaining and the Underground is a great way to get much needed evo-stones, 
 and other special treasures. Digging with the touch screen is pretty entertaining. The base is 
 sort of useless and after a few hours of messing around with it, I didn't care much more for it 
 but others may like it. I Would have like to seen the Underground with an online component. 
  
  Graphics: (8/10)  The new 3D over world is cool and now you can actually walk behind buildings 
 instead of hitting the roofs of them and have to walk around them, (A good example of this is Saffron 
 City in the original ones, where the top of the Siph Co. Building is actually an obstacle separating 
 the street into two) . My only real complaint is the 2D pixilated and mostly Static portraits of 
 Pokemon you use in battle (To be honest, I don't know if the DS Can handle it or not) but I would 
 have liked to see some updated 3D portraits and a clear distinction between Male and Female Pokemon. 
 You shouldn't need Pokemon Revolution to see Your PKMN in 3D. Move Animation is cool as usual. 
 
  
  Controls: (9/10)  The controls are basically the same simple controls; you can register one key 
 item on the "Y" button which comes in handy. But the real feature with PKMN D/P is the touch screen. 
 Gamespot I feel gave it an unfair and unrealistic expectation, I'm not sure what they wanted but 
 as far as I'm concern the touch screen controls are cool and it is fun to use the stylus to pick 
 your moves, navigate through your inventory and such. Perhaps being able to pet your Pokemon might 
 have been nice but other then that, The touch screen controls are what I expected, even before 
 The Game came out so I'm not disappointed by it and think its great I can play PKMN with two screens 
 and a stylus. 
  
  Sounds: (8/10)  I do agree with Gamespot that the sounds could have been updated a bit, perhaps 
 changed from a Midi sound, there are better programs Nintendo could have used in PKMN. But for 
 the most Part the recycled sound doesn't bother me that much and are familiar to anyone who's played 
 PKMN. 
  
  Music: (9/10)  For the most part the music is recycled from original games but do their job, and 
 really do you care to rock out in the middle of Veilstone or Hearthome. The music does deliver 
 where it is important and that's in battle, I found the battle theme engaging and drawing me into 
 the fight. 
  
  Online: (10/10)  "The crowning Jewel of the Game", this is what PKMN fans have been waiting for, 
 Online play, it is great to finally be able to trade and with trainers from around the world, no 
 longer is a stupid cable needed to connect to others. The trading system has been a constant pleasure 
 of mine, trading with others. It is understandable to have F/C codes to play one on one (Or two 
 on two) with other people and I didn't care much for the battle Tower, since everyone seems to 
 use a legendary or two, But others will find it very enjoyable. 
  
  Reliability: (10/10)  You never truly stop playing this game, in the time since it has come out 
 it, it has been constantly in the top of the games I play, Several great games have come out since 
 its release such as Contra 4, Etrian Odyssey, and I've purchased many other older titles but even 
 after I get bored with these titles, PKMN is always there and at the end of the day seems to find 
 it's way back into my DS. With the special EV Training you can do, and the combination of moves 
 to teach your PKMN to make them stronger and unbeatable you will never truly get bored of PKMN, 
 and now with Online play there is always some one to battle. 
  
  Conclusion: Nintendo truly has a winning series with PKMN and I can't wait for future releases 
 on even better systems then the DS, and one day may have to catch a thousand PKMN. But till that 
 day, I'll enjoy my 493 PKMN I have now. This game is worth having and a must buy, don't let the 
 "Children's Game" stigma cause you to avoid getting this game, Other then some of the cuties PKMN 
 in the game, it is far from a "Child's game" with to much depth and a darker story line. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceFireCloud
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This is so amazing that when i first played it. It made me say wow. The story line just made me think 
 nothing but the game for as long as i played. Even after i finshed the game it still had a lot 
 in stored for me because it had a lot more pokemon for you to catch. i recamed this game for people 
 who share a bond to stratie and adventure games. The smartest thing to do while playing is to keep 
 all your pokemon at the same lv and to not let them faint so they like you more.
  Naming your pokemon makes your pokemon more unique to you and other people that you trade them 
 to.
  Hints-The best combo of pokemon are fire with fighting, water with electrisaty, and then grass with 
 ground.
  This game is a great in provement to all of the pokemon games and to the nintendo company.
  This 
 is you of my favorite games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Ummm, uhhhhhhh. This game is just like the others. Pokemon is a fun game, but if you've been playing 
 ever since Red, this will seem very nostalgic. 
  
  Gameplay/ Plot
  
  This game is soooo much like the others it's not even funny. Find pokemon in the grass, catch em', 
 train em, kick other people's butts. The plot is very unclear. There's this guy called Cyrus, leader 
 of ( another ) group of baddies ( remind you of Rocket, Aqua, or Magma???) . He says that the world 
 is full of strife, that humans are destroying the world or something or other. He wants Dialga/Palkia 
 so he can completely destroy the Earth, and recreate it with him the ruler. Why? We have no idea. 
 He's another one of those crazyI'm gonna destroy the world to make it better" people.
  
  Graphics
  
  This game has the best graphics out of all the Pokemon games. Not the best graphics 
 on the DS, but still good graphics. The trees and some rocks are a little blurry when you move, 
 but they are good. 
  
  Differences from old games:
  PRACTICALLY NONE!!!! The only things different are the regions, people, and Pokemon. Really. 
 
  
  Overall:
  Good game, but just soooooo nostalgic. Really. If the Pokemon company wants to keep their fans, 
 they are gonna have to do something different than becoming champion ( Red, Blue, Yellow, Silver, 
 Gold, Crystal, Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Diamond, Pearl, Platinum) , figure out why you became human 
 ( Mystery dungeon: Red Rescue Team, Blue Team, Explorers of Time, Explorers of Darkness) and saving 
 the world ( Ranger, Ranger : Shadow of Almia) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHeart9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, the pride Nintendo (second to the Mario series) , releases the Pokemon games Diamond & 
 Pearl, which is the first installment of the Pokemon adventures on the Nintendo DS.
  
  The story starts in the Sinnoh reigon, were your character must undergo continous battles to rise 
 to become the Pokemon Champion. All the events and battles are the same, different place, same 
 story though (and way better graphics) .
  
  With some newer features, like the GTS (which allows you to chat, battle and trade by taking advantage 
 of the Nintendo DS wireless internet feature) .
  
  These new versions are pretty much the same as it's predecessors with a few twists to it. The games 
 are mosty recomended for Pokemon lovers.
  
  With i'ts share of flaws Pokemon Diamond & Pearl versoins are exeptional games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewd4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I have extremely enjoyed the pokemon series and stood buy it for many years.
  Pokemon blue, red and yellow really showed me just how much simple games can draw you in and keep 
 you hooked for hundreds of hours. The wide range of pokemon and the clever designs kept me interested 
 in the series all up untill diamond and pearl.
  
  I was a tiny bit skeptical about ruby, emerald and sapphire and will admit that the pokemon featured 
 in those games were not the best, but the new pokemon in diamond and pearl easily snatch the award 
 for worst pokemon created in the game to date. 
  
  They look, sound, and fight pathetically (for example BIDOOF!!) and i thank god that some of the 
 original pokemon have been included otherwise i wouldnt of spent even 5 hours on diamond and pearl. 
 
  
  I enjoyed the 3D touch to the game and the amount of depth in this is pretty impressive but if 
 a pokemon game has weak pokemon then it flops. This is a prime example. My advice, buy an action 
 replay and get the original pokemon into your pc in the game as fast as you can to spare yourself 
 the horror of owning a bidoof....
  
  
  .... BIDOOF! :/ who the hell made him. 
  Other worthy mentions of worst pokemon ever made go to:
  
  Probopass
  Croagunk
  Chatot
 
  Bastiodon
  Cherubi (seriously a cherry with eyes :S)
  
  BIDOOF!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 8
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 8
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 8
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.4
  FINAL SCORE: 8.5
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - Increased 
 difficulty (especially during Gym Leader battles)
  - An unbelievable amount of content
  - The opportunity to catch all 493 Pokemon in a relatively easy manner
  
  The Bad:
  - Lame 
 new Pokemon
  - Lame new additions (decorating Pokeballs, wtf)
  - Delivers a major case of deja vu
  - Why all the Golbats, Bronzors/Bronzongs, and Gyaradoses?
 
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  This game came out last April. I'd read plenty about it, and even though I already owned Red, Gold, 
 and Sapphire, I didn't want to get it. My younger brother tried to persuade me to, since he was 
 very much enjoying Pearl, but I held out, despite his best efforts at breaking me. I figured, I'll 
 just wait until the third installment of this generation and get my next Pokemon fix then. Well, 
 I was waiting and waiting and I actually thought it wasn't going to come. And then, this past May 
 or whenever, the first news of Platinum surfaced. I got excited. But surprisingly, not for Platinum. 
 Instead, I decided it was finally time for me to get Diamond. So I did. And I'm not getting Platinum 
 (I'm not one for the third installments, anyway) . And well, I'm both glad that I finally got it 
 and upset that no one failed to mention how uninspired it is.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Pokemon Diamond (and by association, Pearl) is exactly the same Pokemon game you've been playing 
 for the last ten years. You're a young boy or girl about to start his personal journey/quest towards 
 becoming the Pokemon Champion. There's a professor, and he has three Pokeballs, each filled with 
 a Pokemon. Fire, Grass, or Water. There's an evil Team wreaking havoc on the land and gym leaders 
 to defeat to earn badges. The Elite Four still exists, too. At its core, Diamond is the same game, 
 for the fourth time.
  At least some changes were made. The touch screen controls during battles are very nice. And just 
 like with Ruby/Sapphire, there's more going on with the Team than mere mischievous antics. This 
 time, the whole world is at risk of being distorted, either temporally or spatially.
  My one problem with the gameplay is that overall, it just stands out to be dull, repetitive, and 
 uninspired. It pains me to say that because I love the Pokemon series, always have. But no matter 
 how much you try to ignore it, it's been there, done that. I REALLY did not enjoy fighting the 
 same Pokemon over and over and over again. Every Galactic Grunt had the same three to four Pokemon. 
 Nearly every patch of grass had the same three Pokemon in it. Excuse me, but you've got 493 to 
 choose from. Diversify your fictional world, please! I also felt that the Sinnoh region itself 
 was kind of lame. At least in Ruby/Sapphire, you had mountain ranges, deserts, and underwater city, 
 the volcanic area, etc. There was much more geographical variety. Here, it was really just grass 
 fields and mountainous caves. And sure, you could chalk that up to that just being what Sinnoh 
 is composed of, but this is a fictional land mass, not a real continent. Game Freak could (and 
 should) have created its own little Earth. Hey, it would have allowed for a wider range of wild 
 Pokemon, eh? 
  
  GRAPHICS
  My biggest gripe since all the way back to last year was how the game was 3D but not full 3D. Even 
 after playing through the game, I'm still disappointed that the game was not in full 3D. My stance 
 was justified when DQMJ came out and showed that a Pokemon-like game could be created in full 3D. 
 There are no excuses now. 
  That's not to say that the game doesn't look pretty. It does... but it's still disappointing. 
 
  
  SOUND
  The music featured in Pokemon games has always been lighthearted and memorable, but I don't think 
 I've ever heard so many people, myself included, consider any of it "cool". The theme for battles 
 with Galactic Grunts is very cool. As are a couple of the songs that play as you traverse the routes. 
 
  
  VALUE
  There's no denying that Pokemon Diamond has replay value. Ever since the start of MMO's popularity, 
 I've considered the Pokemon franchise to be the best offline MMO. The game simply excels at using 
 up countless hours of one's life. This, of course, could be a good or bad thing, but for the sake 
 of this review, we'll say it's definitely a good thing. There should be no question in anyone's 
 mind that this game and Pokemon titles in general contain a freakin' boatload of content. This 
 is undeniably one of those games where if you wanted to, you could easily play this game for the 
 rest of your life.
  
  TILT
  Honestly, I don't think it matters what I write here. Millions upon millions of people have already 
 bought either Diamond or Pearl (or both) and/or will buy Platinum when it is released. Others still 
 will buy Diamond or Pearl because their friends have it and/or they finally got around to getting 
 their own DS. Whatever the circumstances, this game is a bestseller. I just wish it was better. 
 It could have been better, but more to the point, it SHOULD have been better. Game Freak should 
 count its blessings that it has so many loyal fans that will buy each generation of the series, 
 no matter what it's like. All I can say - and I'm sure there are many out there who would agree 
 - is that the fifth generation better be in full 3D and provide a richer, reinvented experience 
 than the one we've been handed here. Because there is a difference between consistently recreating/revisiting 
 the charm and mechanics of an original and lazily providing the same exact product with a new coat 
 of paint, and it's really getting to that point where I'm starting to not only smell the paint, 
 but get sick from it, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ver_Guitarman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  It's been a year and one quarter since this game got released, I think.
  But I'm writing this review anyway.
  The R/S/E and the FR/LG Generation did not have the "spark" 
 I had found on RBY and GSC.
  It has the good old difficulty: Hard for those who only use one Pokemon. But, of course, you still 
 see people who pass the game with a level 85 Infenape.
  But fear not, for this new part to the series is all that you have been asking for. It has:
  
 Internet trading and battling.- This adds a whole new level to the Series, as you can fight with 
 people around the world AND trade with them via the Battle Tower and the GTS.
  Wireless Battling and trading.- Thanks to the DS Wireless Communication, you can fight with everyone 
 without the need of a Linking Cable.
  100 more Pokemon.- 100 more Pokemon have been added, raising the list to 486
  Ability to pass 
 Pokemon from the last Generation, thanks to the Pal Park option, available to those who completed 
 the Sinnoh Pokedex.
  Connectivity with PBR, Pokemon Ranch and Pokemon Ranger to pass Pokemons, items and data.
  Lots 
 of postgame extras, such as the Battle Island, Cresselia, Heatran and Giratina, the Level 70 Ubers.
 
  I think that is pretty much.
  But don't read this.
  Take the dust off your old Game Card, wait for Pokemon Platinum or buy it right now!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  In this game the new starter pokemon is Piplup, Turtwig, and Chimchar. It is just like the other 
 pokemon games besides a new place called the Sinnoh Region and there is alot more legendary pokemon.
 
  
  Legendary Pokemon: Palkia
  Dialga
  Reggiggas
  Giratina
  Phione
  Manaphy
  Cressialia
  Mespirit
  Azelf 
  Uxie
  Heatran
  Rotom
  Darkrai
  Shaymin
  Arceus
 
  
  The new enimies are Team Galactic and they are trying to capture Dialga and use his power to rule 
 the world. This game is very fun and the 8 gym leaders are very fun. The Elite Four pokemon levels 
 are amazing. After the story you can capture all the pokemon from the other regions and this happens 
 after you complete the originial pokedex.
  
  The good the pokemon are amazing and the game is awesome
  
  The bad is that there isn't that 
 much to do after the story.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10 if you are going to get this game then you should. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: widdowson91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The proper RPG Pokmon games arrived on the DS amid lots of hype and anticipation. Pokmon Diamond 
 and Pearl are easily the best games of the franchise and if your new to the Pokmon games or your 
 a veteran, you'll be surprised by the amount of depth in these new titles.
  The new adventures are set in Sinnoh, a new region for these games, and Sinnoh is massive. It is 
 by far the biggest world to ever appear on a Pokmon game, so big in fact that you could finish 
 the Pokmon league then realised that you still have a ton more of Sinnoh to see. Plus you can 
 go into all the underground caverns of Sinnoh to find all sorts of cool things such as heart scales 
 or evolution stones.
  
  The core gameplay of this game is exactly the same as even the very first hand-held Pokmon games, 
 Red and Blue which you may think it's about time Nintendo changed things, but this gameplay is 
 fantastic and if it's not broken, don't fix it.
  The battles remain in the turn-based style, with either a one-on-one battle of a two-on-two battle. 
 Because its for the DS there are touch screen mechanics to the game, as all the battle commands 
 are done with the stylus, but you can also use the D-pad.
  Although the games remain largely 2D, the buildings are done with polygonal graphics so this gives 
 a nice effect. The music on this game is great too but some of the cries the Pokmon make do sound 
 static, but this is only on the Pokmon that appeared on the very first set of games like Bulbasaur 
 or Kadabra.
  There is still the 8 badges to collect in the story, and there is a new evil organisation called 
 Team Galactic that is threatening the world so you have to stop them. There are also over 100 new 
 Pokmon so catching them all is even more difficult then ever. Some Pokmon only appear on Diamond, 
 like Dialga of Mime Jr, and some only appear on Pearl like Palkia or Bonsly, so if none of your 
 friends have the games, you'll have to buy both of them to get all the Pokmon.
  There is an absolute total of 490 Pokmon, which is a hell of a lot. To put it into perspective, 
 Pokmon Red and Blue only had 151 Pokmon in total on it, and they all took a long time to get, 
 so nearly 500 of the little things will take you a very, very long time to get.
  
  The Main story should take you about up to 40 hours to finish making Diamond and Pearl one of the 
 longest DS games to date.
  Apart from all this there is also plenty to do in the single player apart from the story. There 
 are absolutely loads of touch sensitive mini-games and there are also Pokmon contests again, although 
 none of these are essential to the games story. It's difficult to say exactly how much time you 
 can spend of Diamond and Pearl. Because of the seemingly never ending amount of Pokmon you can 
 catch, along with about 40 hours of the story and about 10 hours of extras, this game could take 
 you over 200 hours to fully finish it.
  
  The one thing that will make Pokmon fans most buy this game is that you can battle and trade with 
 people over Nintendo Wi-Fi, making this the first ever online Pokmon game.
  To trade all you do is deposit a Pokmon then state what Pokmon you want in exchange for it and 
 what level it should be which is a great feature. You don't even have to have your DS turned on 
 for the trade to work.
  The online battles are great also and you can even talk to your opponents using the DS headset, 
 but you can only battle people online if you have their friend codes, you can't battle random people 
 which will be a big disappointment to fans of the series.
  But there has never been an online Pokmon game before so people aren't missing out much.
  
 
  If you add up all the features of this game what you have by far the best Pokmon experience ever 
 and while there isn't really a story to the game, when you play you get a jist of things and you'll 
 get infixed and won't want to come off it. So these are the best Pokemon games ever and definitely 
 get them if you're a fan or if you own a DS.
  The 3rd in the series, Pokemon Platinum, is coming out in September in Japan and in 2009 in the 
 rest of the world but no specific dates have been set for the releases yet.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 7
  Sound - 9
  Value - 10
  Design - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Gameboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  the 4th generation of pokemon has not only attracted my attention, but I'm sure it has attracted 
 the attention of all Pokemon fans. For all Pokemon fans, in this game, there is an adventure waiting 
 for us all. There are new Pokemons to capture and battle, new items to collect, new paths to be 
 discover, new problems to solve and a new region to explore. With the help of new and old Pokemon, 
 you can achieve your goal and that is to become the region's pokemon champion. In this game, there 
 are new features such as Wi-fi connection, th ability to import pokemon from you GBA pokemon games 
 and the real- time clock feature. With Wi-fi connection you can connect with anybody and interact 
 with them. Once you have become the pokemon champion, you will be able to import pokemon from your 
 GBA pokemon games which is really awesome if you ask me. The real-time clock feature is also a 
 cool thing too. So what i'm saying here is that all pokemon fans should get their hand on this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mio53
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is extremly addictive and it will last for ages because once you complete the game you 
 can trade pokemon or start again and obtain the empoleon or the torterra. This game consists of 
 the usual, get the starter pokemon and go on an epic quest, this is the best pokemon game so far 
 as well as pokemon pearl and i would recommend it. The only thing that is a tinsy bit bad is the 
 fact that sometimes it can get boring exploring mr. coronet and massive caves where you constantly 
 get attacked by wild pokemon where i tend to just run away however this is an ammensly good game 
 and the sinnoh regoin is the best. As well as gaining loads of pokemon you can obtain the legendry 
 pokemon, dialga, mesprit, uxie and others in pokemon diamond and pearl. I have also never been 
 a pokemon fan and i bought my ds with an RX card which had this game and i was surprised because 
 i'd seen my friend play it and i say pathetic grapthics but when i played on it the graphics were 
 to my liking and i enjoyed the game and when i played other pokemon i loved it but its true to 
 say, pokemon pearl and pokemon diamond has got to be the best so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0lidifieds
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Old-school pokemon play at its finest. Basic rpg fun-ness. Find pocket monsters, lvl them up in 
 the fields, defeat gym leaders (Bosses) at cities, and volia. It's simple but it works. The type 
 system (electric hurts water, etc.) has just enough complexity to stay a little interesting. Pokemon 
 has always been targeted to a younger crowd though, so you can't really get too upset at the easy 
 difficulty. 
  
  So everything seems to work well except for just a little pet peeve I have. Only pokemon that fought 
 in the battle earn xp (unless you have the exp share item which you get a bit into the game, though 
 you can only give this to one another pokemon =/) . This might seem like it makes the most sense, 
 but from a gaming standpoint it's just cumbersome, and it's a bit annoying having to switch through 
 all your pokemon just so they earn some xp in battle. (easier to just lvl up one at a time ya know) 
 It has some challenge I guess, as you can intelligently lvl up a pokemon quickly by using them 
 in an area where its type is strongest at (so there's some environmental challenge) , but it just 
 annoys me. Half xp should be dolled out to all your benched pokemon, whereas full xp should be 
 given to your most used pokemon in that battle. Or something.
  
  Because when it all comes down to it, there's just too much grinding, and going back to heal your 
 pokemon at the centers. The game is never too hard on you, but the types almost play too a big 
 of role in encounters. So you waste a turn switching out, then inevitably get hurt- forcing you 
 to heal and use items. When it's just more efficient (esp. in the beginning) to go back to the 
 center. Though this just feels cheap since it costs nothing but time to heal your pokemon to full. 
 Items should be saved for emergencies.
  
  With just a few more tweaks, they could turn Pokemon from a great rpg series into a perfect one. 
 Still very fun though. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderZX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Here we are again and it's time to catch em all! The popular Pokemon Franchise is back and better 
 than before! So it is almost Impossibe for a Pokemon game that isn't a spin off to be bad, but 
 even though it's alot more of the same stuff it's one the best games for ds that are out now! 
 
  
  Story You start off as a youngh boy or girl living in a small town off in a corner some where, 
 when one day you see something on tv and your friend 
  or Rival wants to explore. Whatever happens you end up getting your very first Pokemon. You use 
 this little guy to beat the crap out of every other Pokemon you find.
  
  Gameplay: Each Pokemon can learn up to 4 moves at once and you learn those moves from battling 
 and leveling up in this very fun RPG. When you level up you get stronger and eventually evolve, 
 take on a new apperance learn new moves and get stronger. Now you arn't stuck with just one Pokemon, 
 can catch 493 and have up to 6 with you at one time. It is a good Idea to have more than one type 
 of Pokemon because of the type system. 
  For Example: Fire beats Grass beats Water beats Fire
  So if you train only a fire type what happens 
 when you run into a water type?
  There are over 15 types of Pokemon. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good for a Pokemon game, they have improved them a lot since the 
 last set of Pokemon games. When you walk it is mostly 2-D but all the houses and Contless other 
 objects have 3-D because of how the Camera is set up. 
  
  Sound: The music Good you enjoy listening to the tunes as you walk a long, there is from happy 
 to evil music depending on the situation. But most of the Pokemon cries sound Recycled from the 
 old games even from the original Game Boy.
  
  For any Pokemon Fan or anybody that has any Interest what so ever Should definetly pick up this 
 game, or at least try it! So when you are done with this review go buy it....... NOW!!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sector_12
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This is the first Pokemon game I've ever owned and I love it. I'm 22 and by no means should this 
 game only be considered only for children. Very easy to get a handle on and you'll be quickly drawn 
 in and you'll will have trouble putting it down. Great color schemes and characters gives the game 
 its aesthetic appeal, though the somewhat dated sounds do take away from an otherwise great game. 
 There are millions of discoverable items and Pokemon to discover and while I have only been playing 
 for a short time you instantly get a feel for how much there is to do in this game. From collecting 
 Pokemon to Berries and saving local towns people, this game will get plenty of mileage. Overall 
 the recognizable format and brand name, alongside the ability to keep the franchise fresh and new 
 makes this game an easy choice to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a great game in generel but introduces much to the old pokemon formula we know 
 and love. This time the game puts you into the world of the Sinnoh region where you can choose 
 a boy or a girl protaganist like in every other pokemon game. The story starts with you your neighbor (friend) 
 and a trip to the river. Once your at the river you find a professor and a young women and you 
 could probably figure out the rest.
  
  
  The biggest new feature to Pokemon Diamond is the online features. The best new feature is that 
 you can battle other people online but the bad thing is you can only battle people who's friend 
 codes you have on your system. Another plus about this feature is that it also allows you to use 
 voice chat. The second online feature is the online trading system that allows you to trade with 
 anyone and i mean anyone no friend code's involved. The process is very simple you either choose 
 a pokemon you want from someone else and then put one of your pokemon up for trade or put one of 
 your pokemon up and request something in return if the other person accepts or has an offer for 
 you it sends you a message the next time you are on the global trading channel and bam there's 
 your pokemon.
  
  
  Another thing that this game does is great graphics or at least a great jump from previous pokemon 
 titles graphics. You still walk on a 2-d plane but the backgrounds are 3-d and they look great. 
 Your pokemon's fight animations look great too from a simple spark to a gargantuan flamethrower.
 
  
  
  Pokemon Diamond is basically the game you played 10 years ago
  but with some new features and increased graphics it's worth any gamers while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex41790
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  For those that are die-hard pokemon fans, obviously you know the perimeters of the game and what 
 it provides to the players. However for those that are not so familiar with the pokemon series, 
 don't be afraid to pick up a Pokemon Diamond/Pearl for your DS or DS Lite. These games will provide 
 players with enough game play to last them days on just the main story alone, and still have enough 
 content in the game to make players spend triple the time on that. 
  
  Since previous pokemon games such as sapphire or ruby, the gameplay has also seemed to become more 
 difficult. When I played Ruby I was able to easily skim through the Elite four once I finished 
 off the last gym. However in Diamond it took me hours and hours to set up the correct team to defeat 
 the Elite Four after I beat the final gym which made things much more interesting. This may not 
 be the case for some much more experienced in pokemon games but it has stepped up a notch.
  
  It has always been enjoyable to catch as many of the pokemon as you can to complete your collection 
 and pokemon diamond is the same as all of them (even though personally I was more of a fan of the 
 original pokemon simply because I was a big collector during the time of charmander and bulbazor 
 and squirtle) . After going through the main story, beating the elite four, and catching all the 
 pokemon you can find, you are given a tool to catch even more pokemon, even rare ones (shinies 
 as well) . Also the "Pal Park" allows you to migrate your owned pokemon from previous games (Fire 
 Red, Leaf Green, Sapphire, Ruby, and any other GBA game) to your new one. As you migrate them you 
 enter into a region similar to the safari park where you must find the 6 that you migrated over (only 
 six at a time) before you can officially own them on Diamond/Pearl. That isn't to say you can't 
 team up with a friend who also owns a DS and trade all of the pokemon over wi-fi or cables (but 
 seriously how much fun would that be....)
  
  So if you have just purchased, plan on purchasing, or already own a DS and you are wondering what 
 to play next, if you are a fan of RPGs or are a fan of the previous pokemon games then this is 
 a definite must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't in any way, fall short of its name. It is an excellent handheld game to take 
 on the road with you and to play while sitting on the couch at home. The Pokemon people, whatever 
 they are called, continue to make more and more and more better Pokemon that you can catch and 
 use in battle. There are also new moves that you can use. The graphics are starting to get that 
 3-D look to them, so the experience is well improved from ruby and sapphire. The gym leaders are 
 as fun as always, so this is pretty much the best you can get for DS, or any handheld system for 
 that matter. This one is definitely worth playing, even if you are new to the Pokemon series. Since 
 there are Pokemon that are from four different generations you can still play as Pokemon you caught 
 in the previous games, as well as the new ones, which adds a little old- school kick to this awesome 
 role-playing game for the DS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjacobson21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -493 different Pokemon
  -wifi trading and battling
  -excellent replay value
  -Tougher battles require good strategy
  -Good graphics for a Pokemon game
  
  The Bad:
  
 -Story isn't very engaging but at par for Pokemon games
  -Would have been nice to explore Hoenn like you could explore Kanto in Pokemon Gold/Silver/Crystal
 
  
  Having not played Pokemon since the Gold/Silver/Crystal days I decided to pick up Pearl just on 
 a whim because it was on sale. I was instantly reminded why I loved Pokemon games so much. They 
 formula is basically the same, a professor gives you the choice of 3 Pokemon and you set out on 
 an adventure to become the league champion. But the game has over 100 new Pokemon and a complete 
 new area called the Sinnoh region. It would have been real nice if you could explore the Hoenn 
 region from Ruby/Sapphire like you could explore Kanto in Gold/Silver. Unfortunately you can't 
 but it's not that big a deal.
  
  One of the best features is the wi-fi trading. Early in the game you gain access to the GTS (Global 
 Trading Station) which always you to trade Pokemon all around the world. Although your searching 
 restrictions are limited (you can only search by Pokemon, gender and level) it gets the job done 
 nicely.
  
  With so many Pokemon to collect, the replay value is excellent. To date I have over 100 hours of 
 play time and I'm not even close to getting bored of it.
  
  In conclusion, this is the best Pokemon game I have ever played. It's got enough old elements to 
 feel like a genuine Pokemon game and enough new elements to not feel repetitive and boring. I highly 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoCC123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Yet again Nintendo and GameFreak havent failed to put out another spectacular Pokemon game. Like 
 the others it is filled with new pokemon, places, items, trianers, and fun mini games. You will 
 love this game as much of the rest. If they keep it up they could make millions of different pokemon 
 games and it would never get old. The graphics are amazing in this game compared to the others. 
 The music is yet again fun and amussing. The touch pad allows you to take part in some of the mini 
 games. It has a new modern feel to it without loosing the great classic pokemon feel. All pokemon 
 lovers this is a must-have. The only little problem i had was this game was the player guide. I 
 bought the players guide like i do for most pokemon games. So i could check out all the new pokemon 
 and figure out their moves and when they evolved. But when i bought this all it had in the pokedex 
 section was the name of the pokemon and what page of the guide you could find this pokemon in. 
 Not even the type or moves or evolve forms or their stats. I was aggrivated at the cheap guide. 
 I couldnt find another one so i was stuck with this one. But all in all this is a terrific game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ducky14528
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  the good
  
  -the graphics are great
  -theres over 300 pokemon
  -theres alot of new pokemon
  -theres an underground world
  -you an make poffins
  -Wi-fi!!!!
 
  -new APP for poketch
  -have contests
  
  overall its the best! 
  
  so the graphics are great, theres so many Pokemon, theres alot of new Pokemon, theres an underground 
 world where you can dig for treasure, have a secret base, decorate your secret base, play with friends, set 
 traps, use wi-fi ,make Poffins which make your Pokemon like you more and make your Pokemon more 
 lively! You can use wi-fi to trade Pokemon and battle them too. Theres new APP's for your Poketch 
 and SO many places to explore! You can also have contests which are you dress up your Pokemon, you 
 copy and make dance moves other Pokemon do, and you get judged for how cool or what ever contest 
 your in. you can also have contests with friends and use wi-fi for that too. theres just SO many 
 items and Pokemon.... ITS A MUST HAVE GAME!
  
  its not a good game if the user is going for a Pokemon game that really is just all about the battling 
 and leveling up your Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirbilicious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is one of the best Pokemon games in the series! Its graphics are dynamical, the 
 story line is alsome, and WIFI multiplayer is a hit!!! 
  
  When I first got Pokemon Diamond my brother got Pearl the same day so we were trading and battling 
 before we even had decent Pokemon in out boxes!! Multiplayer consists of various rooms to chat 
 and interact in and battle fields to fight either alongside your friends or ageist them. What surprised 
 me the most was the new variety of Pokemon that was available for you to catch! I would have to 
 ask my brother what Pokemon it was and what it did!!! Another good thing about the game is the 
 way each town is mapped out! It gives you a lot of wide open space and provides you with pleasant 
 images!!! 
  
  The thing that impressed me the most in this game was the story line!!! Let me tell you, i was 
 hooked from the second I walked out of my house and started my adventure! On this game your character 
 (Boy or girl) Has to interact with the Cpu's in the story; i really don't mind but at some point 
 it really gets annoying when you finally make it to the next town and trying to got to the Pokemon 
 center when your "Friend" in the games pops out of who knows where and forces you to battle!!! 
 At some point I found my self asking....."What type of friend is he when all he wants to do is 
 battle you?" 
  
  Other than that extreme unfair circumstance this game is pretty lenient on the players; by having 
 gym leaders and trainers use weak moves like quick attack and growl!!! Other than a few upgrades 
 this game reminds me of any other Pokemon game to date so it shouldn't be that hard to get the 
 hang of. Controls are simple enough with A to accept and B to cancel, Y to use which ever item 
 you equipped there and X to open the menu with your back pack and save screen. The touch screen 
 can be used to tinker with the many upgrades of your Poketech watch and Battle commands! 
  
  All in all this Pokemon game will have you coming back for more even after you've beat the 
 game with it's 2 player action and WIFI settings!! Pokemon Diamond is defiantly a game to pick 
 up and try!! Ohand to all you hard core Pokemon fansyou wont be disappointed!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qualbert
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon, whether you like it or lump it you know you can't avoid it!
  And this is one pokemon game you wouldn't want to avoid.
  With stunning colour graphics that 
 are also sort of 3d it really stands out from the rest of the other pokemon games. However most 
 of the pokemon still make the same noises from the red/blue games, lazy game freak...
  
  Youd expect the same type of music from this game but they've adjusted the old songs a little bit 
 and thrown in a few more tracks.
  
  The best part of this game is the gameplay, i've played it for 300 hours and i'm still not bored 
 with it! If you can play a game for that long it's gotta be worth the money.
  
  There's many new features included in this game such as the GTS (where you can trade pokemon with 
 anyone else in the world, but most of the trades are one-sided, eg lvl 100 Mewtwo for lvl 5 bidoof) 
 the tresure diggin' fossil excavating uderground, and new and improved berries, battle tower, pokemon 
 list, pokedex, contests, and who knows what else.
  
  This is a fantastic game and is well worth buying (even if the game is too expensive) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66ers
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon series is pretty well-established. But I started with this game. It hasn't disappointed 
 me. It starts with you going on an adventure. After that you battle the Elite Four, Battle Tower, 
 and other things. Also, there is a WiFi connection that lets you battle with people around the 
 wrong. Also, you can trade. So if you need a Ho-Oh, than you can trade for it. All in all, the 
 WiFi is great. This surely makes it one of the best DS games to date. Buy this game. The final 
 thing is me explaining about the Battle Tower. It is a place where you can battle people In-Game 
 that are tougher than the other trainers except the Elite Four. It gets tougher as you go on. The 
 Battle Tower really is great. That sums up this review, so make sure that you buy this amazing 
 game if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catpeniworld
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is a good game. It includes...
  1. New character at the beggining. You start with Lucas or dawn. 
  
  2. New starter pokemon. 
 Piplup, Chimchar, and Turtwig are the starters. Their abilities are incredible, you should know, 
 Firered, Emerald, Gold, all the same strenth in starters!
  
  3. New pokemon. This isn't the same as 2. With the Sinnoh dex you should carry up to 151 Pokemon. 
 Some Kanto and Hoenn, most are new. When you get the national dex, get ready to catch 493 different 
 types.
  
  4. Bad news. There are three pokemon not found in the game. Darkrai, Shaymin, and arceus. Darkrai 
 is found in events. The other two, only with Action Replay.
  
  5. New Gym Leaders. This Gym leaders mean buisness, and alot, their alot more powerful, than the 
 Kanto and hoenn ones. The Champion does the most destruction.
  
  6. Graphics. The Graphics are 3D. Not bad for a DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has always been my favourite RPG ... so I always buy the games! 
  This is the first pokemon RPG on the DS and has great uses of the touch screen, great graphics 
 (it's pretty much fully 3D!) , Many new pokemon and much more. Here's the summing up...
  
  
  sound: Has some great songs like the Dialga/Palkia battle and more. Some of the best pokemon 
 songs so far! 10/10
  
  gameplay: This is what makes the game so good. With 493 pokemon, better pokemon contests, up to 
 date in... well everything and many new legendarys, the gameplay is excellent! 10/10
  
  storyline: pokemon RPGs have never had much of a storyline apart from becoming the "best pokemon 
 trainer ever" but this one does. That and also team galactic trying to take ove the world/universe 
 and it's up to you to stop them!!!!!!!! 8/10
  
  and it goes on and on and on and on...
  
  overall: if you have a DS and like pokemon games then... buy it!!!!!!!!!
  
  P. S. only one 
 major problem. Many new pokemon are just the evoloutions of old ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendrickd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a new fresh break-away from the usual Pokemon series. Just when you think that the 
 Pokemon series was dying Pokemon Diamond and Pearl Bring you back with a new adventure and even 
 more new Pokemon. You would think that they would run out of ideas when coming up with these Pokemon. 
 The story is about you a boy from Twinleaf town looking for a mysterious RED GYRADOUS. Then you 
 discover a briefcase with three Pokemon. Later on you discover that an evil organization is trying 
 to take over the universe with the power of Pokemon when they evolve. So you are set out to destroy 
 this evil organization. There are so many new features such as online and underground playing. 
 The old features such as double team battles and fashion shows are renewed in the series with little 
 changes that make it that much better. Don't Worry not all of the Pokemon are new they brought back 
 some of the favorites from the old series but for me that was kind of a pet peeve that all there 
 Pokemon aren't new. Besides That Pokemon Diamond/Pearl reminds us why we fell in love with the 
 series. That is why I gave Pokemon diamond/pearl a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFgeoffrey-the-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  pokemon, GET! *cues first japanese pokemon opening song*
  LOL. sorry. Pokemon diamond is a really, really, really, really fun game. You can start with one of 
 the three pokemon that you can choose with. Later on, your rival (call him moron. LOL.) comes in and 
 fights you (it's annoyin') but after you beat him , you earn money and he leaves and trys to catch 
 more pokemon. Here's some cool stuff:
  
  Cool
  1. There's more pokemon that are kewler then your lawn (PWND)
  2. The amazing mystery of Dialga
 
  3. you get a lucario
  
  Sucks
  1. Your rival challenges you ALOT
  2. the final battle with team galatic (OH DEAR GOSH!)
  3. elite 4 (O. O)
  
  So if you ever began 
 your pokemon game, make sure you get the leaf type cause later, on its 3rd stage, it learns earthquake. earthquake 
 is PWNSOME. So if you're trying to play a cute RPG, pokemon is your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveyx0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  This two pokemon games for the DS can lead you in one big addiction! It`s a wonderfull game with 
 new pokemons to collect. The new pokemon are awesome and they contain another amount of legendars. 
 But you can get most of them after completing the game or with a event. That last thing is kind 
 of anoying. Europe doesn`t get that much Ninendo Events. But WiFi is a possibility to make this 
 problem less bad. 
  
  The Wifi options are great. Battling with your pokemon against friends or totall strangers is one 
 of the best things of pokemon DP. The new pokemon game Pokemon Platinum is promising a new kind 
 of Battle Frontier so getting Wifi will be even greater. There is also said that you can get Wifi 
 with the Undergrounds. 
  
  To get all pokemon on your pokedex is taking a long time without cheating. I`ve done it though. 
 But that`s one of the reasons you can get addicted. Many people say that Pokemon is just for little 
 kids. But that not true. Most people who play Pokemon are teenagers, because pokemon is also a 
 stragety game. Little kids just do an attack without thinking of the consequenses. Like Hyper Beam, 
 it sounds strong but it will take two turns. 
  
  Pokemon DP is a great game with many options and it was worth playing it. I`m waiting for Platinum 
 to come now. I will try to get the Japanese version first to get a good look at the game. The story 
 will come to me in the English version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultima_5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is a hard game to review. I have been playing the series since the humble beginings, I've 
 watched the TV show, and I've even bought a ton of the cards. Most of those things I have grown 
 out of, and forgotten about, but one has not. The games. Each handheld iteration of the series 
 has retained the same exact game mechanics that made the series so successful since its debut, 
 and this one keeps that tradition. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl toss in a few new game mechanics to 
 spice up the game play, with only a one or two holding any importance.
  
  New Gameplay Mechanics:
  1) One of the main differences between Pokemon D/P and its previous 
 iterations is the inclusion of online. Using Nintendo Wi-Fi you are able to trade pokemon wirelessly 
 through the GTS (Global Trade Station) . The main problem with the GTS is that you can only search 
 for pokemon that you have seen, which severely limits its use. Using Wi-Fi, the player can also 
 battle wirelessly using Friend Codes. While troublesome there are many ways to find people to battle 
 (gamefaqs has a trade/battle board) .
  
  2) Since the 2nd Generation, each new generation has introduced some kind of new gadget to aid 
 the trainer on their quest. In diamond and pearl you are able to get a poke-tech, which is basically 
 a fancy watch. During your travels trough Shinoh you can find new applications for the poke-tech 
 like a digital and an analog clock, a timer, a counter, and a roulette application. While most 
 of these applications are useless, some of them can come in handy like the counter, which you can 
 use while EV (effort value) training so you can keep count of the numbe of EVs you have gathered.
 
  
  Now i will go into detail on some features of the game
  
  1) Sinnoh - - Sinnoh is the region where Diamond and Pearl take place. Sinnoh is a more norther 
 region when compared to pervious ares, which cause there to be more variation in the climate. In 
 Sinnoh you there is a mountain range that divides the continent into two different areas. In the 
 northern part of the map there is an area that is covered by constant snow fall.
  
  2) New Pokemon - - Diamond and Pearl feature over 100 new species of pokemon. Of those 100+ species 
 there are a ton of legendary pokemon to catch. 
  
  3) Community - - Since its release pokemon has always had a huge following, and it continues to 
 this day. Nintendo has supported the fans of the games by giving away free rare pokemon at local 
 gamestops and toys r us. Pokemon also has a huge competitive battleing community. With sites like 
 smogon, helping to shape the metagame, pokemon can continue to grow and develop.
  
  Pros / Cons
  Pros:
  1) 20+ hour story
  2) 200+ hours of game play ( i have put in about 300 
 )
  3) Introduction to competitive - Wi-Fi allows more players to experience the competitive nature 
 of pokemon.
  4) Deep RPG - 493 Pokemon, 90ish TMS, EVS, IVS
  5) Wi-Fi
  
  Cons:
  1) Still the same old pokemon
  2) Graphics look all right, but not that great
  3) Sprites of 
 pokemon still look great, but the moves need to be aligned to each sprite (ie: Infernape's Flamethrower 
 doesnt come from his mouth)
  4) Even after all these years, the series is still viewed as "kiddy"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Mmhmm, you read the intro correctly, they made even more new Pokemon. In the general opinion they 
 should've stuck with the original 150. I think they should've cut it off after Gold and Silver. 
 But that's just me.
  
  This game brings you back to the good ol' days of Pokemon Red, but fixes glitches, looks prettier, 
 and all in all plays better quite honestly. So it doesn't have the charm of the oldies, it still 
 is pretty cool and new ^_^.
  
  The formula is the same, basic Pokemon Vs. Pokemon battles, sometimes, there's a two on two. It's 
 pretty simple like that. But some of the puzzles are more advanced, and it does sometimes leave 
 you hangin'.
  
  The new Pokemon they've added in are... Colorful... But still, their relentless attempts to make 
 us fall back in love with the adorable-ness of Pokemon have yet again failed (Everybody was turned 
 off after Ruby and Sapphire XD) .
  
  But all in all, excellent game, Wi-Fi features are cool, and it does deliver on bringing a whole 
 new adventure to the mix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well, actually, I only got about 140 in the first two games. Ah, but you have read a million of 
 these reviews, so I'll cut to the chase.
  
  Pokmon is a franchise that has been around for ten years, and it hasn't done squat. It's added 
 perks and gimmicks and timewasters galore, but aside from that, the game remains a simple, homely 
 looking Game Boy game with the thought requirement of a rock. Pokmon Pearl and Diamond have been 
 my addiction for the past few days, and not because it's an in-depth game that takes a lot of willpower 
 to get through, but because it's probably the longest handheld game ever made. Aside from that, 
 while simple, it just simply succeeds.
  
  Succeeds at what, you may ask. It brings turn based RPG to a bunch of folks who bent under the 
 "overwhelming" difficulty of Final Fantasy III, and dumbs it down to a nice long level grind. It's 
 fun, but it's soon it just gets so irritatingly repetitive and boring and dull that you just can't 
 take it any more. If you are sane in any way, any more than two hours at a time will just melt 
 you: too much repetitiveness at once can cause danger to the brain.
  
  Look past that, though, and what you have is a well designed RPG with loads of things to do and 
 see. In fact, the game will probably last you around twenty hours with one playthrough (give or 
 take about five hours) , and that's just beating the main bosses. Past that, there's the underground, 
 there's the Pokedex catch-em-all fun, there's the legendary quests, there's just an endless amount 
 of stuff to do. In fact, it's actually pretty crazy at times, especially when you throw in all 
 the little things that they added to the series. So that's what Game Freak has been doing for the 
 past two years.
  
  The game is really less for the kiddies, too. It's a little harder, which is just what the series 
 needed, and the crazy terrorist group Team Galactic is actually pretty crazy and heretic. The vocabulary 
 is more sophisticated, and some of the story's subject material is much more focused and interesting 
 than series past. It's just a little higher on the maturity scale, which is a good step. Plus, 
 they finally trumped Silver and Gold, which are considered by many fans to be the best in the series.
 
  
  Wait, hold on a minute. I'm praising a Nintendo DS game for being better than a Game Boy Color 
 game. Well, it better be! In fact, there was no excuse for the poor quality of the GBA iterations 
 as well, and it's about time somebody at Nintendo finally started moving some gears. Just because 
 the game is Pokmon doesn't mean it gets a free sweep through the tubes, and there's plenty that 
 it has to deal with.
  
  The graphics look good for the Nintendo DS for the most part. The buildings and 3D effects look 
 nice and clean, and most of the time it all melds together fairly nicely. But then we get to battle, 
 and what hits us is a Game Boy Color game, made bigger to meet the DS standard screen. After seeing 
 Metroid Prime Hunters, Final Fantasy III, Mario 64, Mario Kart, et cetera et cetera, do full 3D, 
 there's no reason why this game isn't getting the flack it deserves for having 2D playing fields 
 that could occur on a much older system. That added to a few graphical glitches here or there (black 
 bars on the side of the screen, poor 2D frame rate) all add up to an overshadowing question mark: 
 what the heck happened here?!
  
  I ask this also for the music. For some of the later sections in the game, the music is fantastic 
 and brings the best out of Game Freak and their inkling of talent... if only it had been in the 
 first half. Why should I have to wait for fourteen hours to get to the good stuff? What we have 
 here is GBA melodies (which weren't that far removed from the GBC music in the first place) added 
 with what the DS can do: percussion and bass. That's all that's added in this music, the rest is 
 the usual MIDI junk from the series past; it's cheery, annoying fluff that really deserves to be 
 turned off.
  
  But bah, it can be turned off, and it will be. The game goes beyond the silly little presentational 
 mishaps and is still as fun as (and might be considered to be the same thing as) the old Game Boy 
 games. It pretty much brings new and old everything to make the best Pokmon game so far. That 
 said, it just really doesn't add up to much, and people who already have most of the series really 
 can't be pressed to get this one.
  
  
  What Pokmon should do next time around:
  
  1) Limit the number to only 150 Pokmon, That's it, only that.
  
  There are too many now. I 
 will never catch 500 or whatever how many there are (493) , and I don't want to try. I loved the 
 originals because there are only 150, and that's just it. I didn't have to import and export and 
 buy ever dumb spinoff in the series to get them all.
  
  In the same tangent, let us catch them all in one game, or at least let us trade them over the 
 internet. But that's a different bullet point.
  
  2) Don't limit our internet fun.
  
  I am sick and tired of friend codes and the losers that the game sticks me with. I know, Nintendo 
 is scared because I might use their service to "touch the children" or something god-awful like 
 that, but silly me, let me at least choose Pokmon I haven't seen before to trade. Or let me battle 
 people that I don't know. PLEASE. What we have here is just plain boring.
  
  I'm still waiting for the moment they give is the chance to catch Arceus through Wi-Fi. Now that 
 Nintendo Power is outwhat else to do with their promotional Pokemon? Plus, all those plates you 
 found in the world? Those are all for Arceus. They have to let us have him. I have a Master Ball 
 with his name on it.
  
  3) Use all of the DS capabilities.
  
  Don't have stuff that the last generation could do and just write it off. Use that lack of 450 
 Pokmon (as seen above) to create some real winners and animate, 3D-ify, and dazzle us with the 
 system. Don't just leave it at the best looking Pokmon gym I've ever seen, please make it more 
 than that.
  
  Plus, use some good music equipment, too. Use what was done at Mt. Coronet and put that into the 
 entire game, not that horrible Team Galactic techno sound-a-likes. That really hurt.
  
  4) Fully flesh out the story.
  
  Again, something that was just barely hinted at: I won't spoil 
 anything, but Team Galactic is definitely deranged. I loved that. It became a really cool sequence 
 around the sixth badge collected, and it swept me up and into the game for a good three hours. 
 I was hooked into what would happen next, and it was fantastic. Sophisticated and well written, 
 it was Game Freak's best moment.
  
  Then, just as suddenly, it ended. That entire subplot, gone and not even hinted at. I really, really 
 wanted to see more of that kind of thingperhaps I need to go watch the third Pokmon movie again 
 (the only one worth watching, sorta) . Get a good scenario and run with it, and let me feel that 
 rush again.
  
  5) Get rid of Drifloon.
  
  I'm not kidding. That thing is a freak of nature.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerboy4eva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  heres my review for the game.
  
  gameplay- 9.6 out of 10
  the game is fun and exciting while your in the middle of it. you dont know what will happen next. 
 and its not to easy btu not to hard, but unlike pokemon emerald, theres really no place to go when 
 you beat the game. the thing you should do it multiplayer. and you can migrate pokemon from previous 
 games.
  
  originality- 9.8 out of 10
  probably one of the best games to date. it introduces tons of new pokemon.
  
  multiplayer- 
 10 out of 10
  Tons of options for miltiplayer. you can battle, fight side by side in battle tower, mix records, 
 go underground ( which personally is one of my favorites and takes up a lot of time when you beat 
 the game) , have a contest together, mix poffins, and trade over wi-fi. oh, the list can go on forever!
 
  
  Graphics- 8.5 out of 10
  The graphics are pretty good. except theyre mostly recycled from previous games. 
  
  Sound- 
 9 out of 10
  They soundtrack and quality is way better than previous games. 
  
  value- pokemon diamond is a big hit. its on of those games that they would sell for nearly the 
 same price when you would go to get one used. really awesome.
  
  if you dont really want to read all of that, heres something easier.
  
  PROS:
  new pokemon 
 makes it more exciting. new cool storymode. tons of new legendaries. gives you option to migrate 
 pokemon from others. AWESOME MULTIPLAYER!!!! Overall The game is great. you can say that.
  
  CONS:
  the basic idea is the same as previous games. theres minimal options to do when you 
 beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark1dolphin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Pokemon is a series that's often under-valued by the critics; it's always been the solid fanbase 
 that's kept the series ignited (as illustrated by the difference in the critic/player reviews of 
 the game on this very site) . We always loved it for its game mechanics that are easy to pick up 
 but are hard to master; the varied and quirky designs of the 'mons, and the addictive 'catch em 
 all element. And we still love it, because Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is a great evolution from GBA 
 to DS that preserves the bread and butter elements of the series that we know and love while keeping 
 it fresh with new ideas.
  It plays pretty much as you would expect from a Pokemon game- you start off with a weak 'starter 
 Pokemon' and as you progress the plot (this time concerning the notorious 'Team Galactic') unfolds 
 and the complexity of parties you can potentially construct grows and grows, before the final showdown 
 against the Elite Four.
  The game mechanics are much the same as on Ruby/Sapphire, but have been expertly refined to great 
 effect- battling has never been more intense, and it feels far less random and cheaty than in previous 
 games. There are over 100 new 'mons to collect and train, a great new island to explore, and some 
 brand new moves and items. All this is strung together with solid presentation and graphics, but 
 which at times can feel frustratingly retrospective.
  The primary innovation of Diamond/Pearl is the inclusion of online play via the Nintendo WFC. Unfortunately, 
 friend codes are required to utilize this service (which is fair enough- there's no room in a 3+ 
 game for comprehensive online chat with complete strangers as would have been provided had there 
 been an online matchmaking element) however there's no reason why Nintendo couldn't have provided 
 a streamlined 'pure battling' online matchmaking service that would have protected younger gamers, 
 and this is one of the shortcomings of Pokemon Diamond/Pearl.
  But despite the rubbish online play and retrospective presentation, it's still Pokemon as we know 
 and love it- why change a winning formula? For competitive gamers it's the best Pokemon yet; with 
 hundreds of 'mons to collect and by far the most complex battling mechanics ever seen in the series, 
 but for the casual gamer just looking for fun it doesn't quite live up to the golden years of Gold/Silver/Crystal.
 
  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl isn't by any means the best in its series, but that doesn't really matter, 
 because at the end of the day it's still the fun, charming, addictive Pokemon we know and love.
 
  
  Summary:
  
  Good Points- Refined, complex gameplay that's easy to pick up but hard to master; hundreds of 'mons 
 to battle with plus brand new moves and items; expanded multiplayer including limited WFC play; 
 a brand new environment with more secret 'mons to find and easter eggs than ever before.
  
  Bad Points- WFC play is made almost inaccessible to casual gamers due to the necessity of friend 
 codes; the graphics and presentation feel stuck in the past; makes little use of the DS's touch 
 screen features.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouldy_Turnip
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Pokemon was destined to be a hit.
  From the day the first episode was aired (April 1st 1997)
  To the day they brang out the world 
 renowned "Pokemon cards"
  Kids were flocking into shopping centres to get the latest toys, games, and card packs available.
 
  
  Now, 11 years on, People are still enjoying the portable console games.
  Unfortunately, the TV show has gone to sh*t, and the card packs have so many new pokemon, that 
 finding a Pikachu would be rare, but they win over the portable games market, and have easily proved 
 this is Pokemon Diamond.
  
  Pokemon Diamond is the sort of game that feels right. 
  From the day you start your adventure, to the day you battle with Dialga, the controls are executed 
 with perfection.
  No more will you be having to whip out the stylus and give yourself wrist cramp, because this game 
 gives you the power of choice. Stylus, or Buttons.
  I recomend buttons as they are much easier for me, but it gives the player pathways.
  
  Another 
 great thing about Pokemon Diamond is the gameplay. Fantastic, heart pounding battles, using fierce 
 cunning, and strategy to K. o your opponent, or bag his 'mon!
  
  The great thing about every Pokemon game, is the game choice. 
  Similar to Emerald and Sapphire, 
 you get a choice of Diamond/Pearl,
  Each giving you different Pokemon, exclusive to the game.
  
  The game offers a WTC (World Trading 
 center) where you can trade pokemon from all over the world! So if you're looking to bag a Japanese 
 Lucario, You can easily access it from the trade center.
  
  This game offers a variety of different features and is a great time spender.
  
  Overall:
 
  Length: Long ass Haul
  Graphics: Terrible, but if i could choose to change them, i wouldn't.
  Gameplay: Perfect
  Audio: 
 Catchy tunes, blood pumping boss battles, Perfect!
  Overall: 9.9 
  
  Great game, please buy it, its a must have for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Appear for the first time on Gameboy in 1995, Pokemon immediately became a remarkable trademark 
 and enthralled gamer community in many countries throughout the globe. Among Nintedo's wide range 
 of products, it's the second only to Mario, surpassing many other big names like Zelda and Metroid. 
 So after the success in the market of NDS, few could doubt about a new version of Pokemon in this 
 fruitful land. And it came on 22/04/2007 with the gameplay loyal to traditions of the series and 
 many new features exclusively on this console.
  
  The plot sounds quite familiar: The main character along with his best friend is entrusted by professor 
 Rowan - a pokemon expert - to collect information about all types of Pokemon throughout the land 
 of Sinnoh. Ever since, the start a long journey as companion and rival. Of course, the main objective 
 is to battle and tame wild Pokemons, compete with other tamers, especially the Gym Leaders to achieve 
 noble badges. Moreover, you will gradually discover Galatic Team's conspiracy to possess two legendary 
 pokemons Dialga and Palkia, which have power to alter time and space. Will you ever be able to 
 avert this horrible scheme?
  
  At the beginning, you choose a Pokemon belonging to one out of three types: Chimchar (Fire) , Piplup 
 (Water) , v Turtwig (Tree) . Soon you will encounter wild pokemons on the journey and use pokeball 
 to take possession of them. To increase the possibility of success, you'd better reduce their hitpoint 
 to a very low level. Diamond/Pearl supports real time feature that synchronize the time in game 
 and in real life, hence, which type of pokemon appears depends on the time you play the game. However, 
 this can be fixed by adjusting clock of the NDS. The pokemons which you usually use in battle will 
 gain experience to reach new level or evolve into more powerful one. To complete your collection, 
 it's also necessary to exchange with other players, since the game is separated into 2 parts: Pearl 
 and Diamond, each of which has some exclusive types of pokemon. With over 100 additional types, 
 this version offers the most various selection in the series (up to 480 types overall) . Thanks 
 to backward compatibility of NDS to GBA, old fans can use pokemons from previous version as well. 
 You can keep at most 6 pokemon at hand, others will be held in a cache at pokemon center for later 
 use. Because all types have opposition to another (Fire prevails over water ect...) , it's critical 
 to choose a proper squad suitable to the situation. The number of battle versus NPCs in Diamond/Pearl 
 is much bigger than ever, with all kinds of variation to make them more interesting. It's a good 
 chance to gather experience for your pets.
  
  Since this is the first pokemon game on NDS, many new features are introduced. First and foremost 
 is the utilization of 2 screens. On travelling, the upper will display the game while the lower 
 is for Poktch, an application consisting of clock, personal computer and more additional function 
 gained through chatting with NPC. In battle, the upper will display Pokemons and the lower shows 
 their abilities and options. There are also other features supporting finding hidden items, managing 
 your pokemon collection, voice chatting with friends. Stylus helps fasten your manipulation but 
 can be totally replaced by pressing buttons. Wi-Fi allows easy exchange between players among a 
 large space, and with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, it's possible to share your collection with players 
 all over the world.
  
  However, Diamond/Pearl is not impeccable. Graphics is more colorful and vivid then GBA games but 
 still 2D. Background soundtrack is familiar but lack climax, hence, unable to create strong impression.
 
  
  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl will take over 40 hours to finish, a considerable amount of time for a game 
 on handheld console. It's advisable to save this game for holiday, since once you have started, 
 it's inevitable you will get addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princepersia0
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not one of those pokemon nerd's like yorik and stuff that always talk's about pokemon 24-7. 
 But I do have pokemon and it is the hardest game that I have but I only have a couple games, this 
 game is pretty good game it's hard because in some parts likewhen you reach the Heathrome city 
 gym you might not know what to do but I've already passed that gym and all the other gym's and 
 the poke league and know all I need to do is catch every pokemon and then I have finished the game. 
 WOOOOOOOOOOOo! But I've lost my ds at the moment so I will not be playing it for a long bit. Also 
 I am aonly doing this review because I have pokemon diamond not pearl and I recon in pearl you 
 catch more and better pokemon that are a bit rare in diamond so it would be easier to write a review 
 on it. In both versions you can firstly choose out of Chimchar the fire type, Piplup the water 
 type and my favourite and the pokemon I started with Turtwig the grass type Chimchar evolves into 
 Monferno then Infernape, Piplup evolves into Prinplup and then Empoleon and Turtwig evolves into 
 Gortle and then Torterra. Goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CowsGoWoof
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  "POKEMON ON THE DS? SERIOUSLY?!?! OH MY GOD I CAN'T WAIT!!!"
  Yeah, I'm a fan of pokemon games but this one was just sad. Maybe its just me. Where to start? 
 I'll start with the pros.
  Pros:
  New pokemon are always fun :3
  Legendary pokemon are sweet.
  Mini games
  That's about it I guess. I played the old games, 
 red and blue and those are what made me love this series. I don't really know what was wrong with 
 this game, it just... didn't feel like a pokemon game. I don't see why everyone is so crazy about 
 it. Its fun if you have time to kill and nothing better to do, but its terrible compared to red, 
 blue, yellow, and even some of the newer ones like Ruby and Sapphire. I was so happy to hear this 
 was coming but ended up being disappointed. : ( Maybe I'm being a bit harsh, it is a good game but 
 not fantastic. Not as good as I thought. The online battles and trades are awesome! I forgot about 
 that, ha ha. If you've got time and money to spare, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09brandon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  The first DS chapter of the continuing saga of Nintendo's "collect 'em all" RPG series. Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pokemon Pearl offer a number of exciting new features to please both experienced and 
 new Pokemon fans alike. Set in an entirely new region called "Sinnoh," players can choose to begin 
 their adventure as either a boy or girl Pokemon trainer on a path to becoming Pokemon League Champion. 
 The adventure continues as players can bring Pokemon from their Game Boy Advance Pokemon games 
 to Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl using the GBA game slot on their Nintendo DS. As players trade 
 and collect Pokemon to complete their Pokedex in this new challenge, for the first time they'll 
 have the chance to catch new Pokemon, Munchlax and Weavile. They also can play via local wireless 
 with up to eight other trainers while new moves and abilities deepen strategy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanderbruggen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  Well another pokemon game hits the store and now for the Nintendo DS. It's a game I have been waiting 
 for in a long time.
  
  Gameplay:
  There is really nothing new here, you still control you character with the D-pad, and the battle 
 system is still 2D and turn based. It works fine as it did with the other games, but they could 
 have made better use of the touch screen. The touch screen is only uses for the so called poke 
 tech, which contains a watch, calculator and some other features; it's not really that useful, 
 but it's okay. One of the cool things in this game is the day and night cycle. If you play at night 
 it will be night in the game also, which is a very nice feature. And since some pokemon only appear 
 at night, and some only appear in the morning, you will have to play the game at different times 
 to catch them all. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics is one of the things that have been upgraded. Instead of full 2D, it now has a mix 
 between 2D and 3D, and it looks very good. The game is very colorful and the landscape is detailed 
 which makes the game very enjoyable to look. But when it comes to the battles, the graphics hasn't 
 improved very much, which is a bit disappointing, because it looks almost identical to the last 
 games in the series.
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack in the game is very good, it changes when to enter a new area, and that's why you 
 never listen to the same soundtrack for to long. The music also fits very well into the environment, 
 if you're in a spooky cave, the music will also be a bit spooky, and that makes the experience 
 of this game very good.
  
  Value:
  Like the other pokemon games, this one takes a long time to complete. The main story will probably 
 take you 40 hours to finish. Even after beating the game, you can continue to play for many hours 
 trying to complete your pokedex or just training your pokemon. There is also some replay value 
 to this game. Starting your journey over again with new pokemon is really fun, because it will 
 give you a totally new experience of the game. 
  
  Overall pokemon diamond is really a great game. It could have made better use of the touch screen 
 but that doesn't ruin the game in any way. This game can easily be recommended to all the fans 
 of the series or anyone who has a NDS. Especially people that like RPG will find this game very 
 entertaining. 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8
  
  Total: 8.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy717
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The game Pokmon Diamond is the newest in the Pokmon series it has new features. It also has new 
 Pokmon to see and to catch.
  
  
  
  
  THE NEW POKEMON: 
  There is more than 100 new Pokmon in this game so you are not having the same old boring Pokmon 
 you used in all the other Pokmon games you now can migrate your Pokmon from your old games suck 
 as emerald and leaf green version.
  
  
  
  THE NEW FEATURES: 
  It has new multiplayer modes so you can now mine and also you can go on global trade system so 
 you can trade with people all around the world. You can also voice chat with your mates how cool 
 is that. This game is hot.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachu15eevee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  As the latest released non-spin off Pokemon game, This does count as an Instant Classic. Uplifted 
 by the release date of near the Tenth Anniversary of Pokemon, It is memorable. The graphics are 
 the best so far, as the people and buildings, mostly the buildings, just seem to pop up at you. 
 Opening the start menu was extremely annoying at first, So I enjoy the option to make it so there 
 is TWO ways to open it. The legendaries of this generation are the best so far, especially Darkrai 
 if you ask me. Now, I know a lot of people dislike this game only because they dislike Pokemon. 
 I can stand people who dislike Pokemon, although not when they talk about how bad it supposedly 
 is ALL the time. But I really hate people who hate Pokemon without trying it first. That is no 
 way to judge a game. And that is my (first) rant on Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2-10-08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  If you've never played a Pokemon game before, this monster catching rpg is about the hero (you) 
 trying to conquer the eight gym leaders in his region and eventually the elite four, who if beaten 
 will grant you the title of the greatest pokemon trainer in the world.
  
  Pokemon is actually a very simple RPG experience. At the beginning of the game you choose one of 
 three "starter" pokemon to use in battle. Each pokemon can learn four attacks by reaching a certain 
 level or giving an item called a "technical machine" (TM) to their appropriate pokemon. 
  
  And of course you have the whole weaknesses and resistances-each pokemon can be one or two types, 
 and the type of pokemon's attack combined with the type of your opponents pokemon affects damage 
 done. For instance, if a pokemon uses a water type attack against a fire pokemon, that attack will 
 do twice as much damage.
  
  The other objective of the game is to catch all 496 pokemon in the whole pokemon series, through 
 two main methods. 
  
  The most common way is to find a pokemon in the wild. You can choose to kill it and gain some Exp., 
 or you could catch it and use it in your party. To do this, you must throw an item called a pokeball 
 at it. The weaker the pokemon is the better chance you have of capturing it, and status conditions 
 like sleep and paralyzed help even further.
  
  The other way to obtain pokemon is trading. You can trade to people WITHOUT knowing their friend 
 code at the GTS station. You can also trade directly with another person wirelessly too.
  
  Another aspect of the game is evolution. When a pokemon meets certain requirements (usually a certain 
 level) he or she will "evolve" into a completely different form with enhanced stats. 
  
  So yes, pokemon is a very simple rpg and is still in it's semi-3D while games like FFIII make the 
 jump into full 3D and tons of jobs.
  
  What it does have, though, is a very addicting battle system, and a burning desire to, yes, catch 
 them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfingpichu
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a very hyped game that I do enjoy. It's just that the game was extremely easy 
 and boring. When you first start the game it seems like it will be a pretty good game that will 
 keep you busy for awhile, but around the time you get to the 5th or 6th gym. Once you beat the 
 game it gets even more boring and loses it touch. Don't think it'll get better if you start over 
 your game, the game just feels even more boring and it'll last throughout the game. I believe the 
 main cause of the boringness is that the game doesn't let you be as free as you could in the other 
 Pokemon games. The easiness of the game is something that I could've done without. Most of the 
 other games took me about year to finish and had more difficult parts. This game took me about 
 a 2 months to finish and It didn't give me the same feeling of excitement as the others did. Most 
 people would probably disagree with me, but I am just stating my opinion. I hope Nintendo does 
 a better job on their next Pokemon Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is deffinitley earned a spot on one of my most enjoyed and most favorite games list. 
 It is right next to Ocarina of Time and Brawl. Why, because this game is amazing. It is so much 
 fun. It has what Ruby and Firered lacked. The enjoying atmoshere. I had so much fun playing this 
 and I will keep playing it for awhile. However some few problems did hold it back from getting 
 a ten. 
  1. You have to beat the game in order to play people on wifi.
  2. Lack of interesting pokemon.
  3. The lengendaries were much to overused and cheap.
  4. Some 
 of the action replay codes can make you unbeatable online.
  5. A little to easy
  
  That is pretty much it. Here are some improvements that have been made throughout the years.
 
  1. Better graphics and now the game is partially 3-D
  2. No stressful dungeons that take hours (ex. Pokemon Red)
  3. Online
  4. Trades can be made 
 ofline
  5. Microphone
  
  Those are just a few of the many improvements. I can go on for about an hour with all the improvements. 
 Though I thought there were about 5 mistakes in gameplay... the mistakes kind of go unoticed because 
 of all the fun you will be having. I also did see the touch screen wasn't blown off and it was 
 as used as much as possible. If you have a DS this is a must buy especially if you like Pokemon 
 or Nintendo. I don't like Pokemon anymore but that dosen't mean you will not enjoy this game. This 
 game is a great way to spend $25 so you should buy it. No matter who you are... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. It has a new style and has a great Wi-Fi trading and battling system. This 
 game really takes a long time to beat unless if you used the Action Replay DS. The Action Replay 
 is usefull, but it makes it less fun because you don't have that feeling you get when you beat the 
 Elite Four without using the cheats. This game is really fun, and is sometimes challenging and puzzling, but 
 it's the best in the series. Diamond and Pearl really make you work! I think that they're both equal 
 so don't ask me which one I like most. These games are fun, and require a lot of strategy, and planning. After 
 a little while everybody seems too easy for you, but don't get over your head! The elite four are 
 very tough once you enter. The champion is someone you'll never expect. I won't tell because I don't 
 want to ruin it for you. There are so many pokemon in this game it's unbelievable! You may be a little 
 frustrated sometimes with the game, but don't worry! You're not alone. Many people get angry when 
 playing video games. If you are considering buying this game, then head down to a game shop and bust 
 out your wallet because you will really enjoy this game, man! I wish you good luck with Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl, and happy hunting.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is the latest in the Pokemon series from Nintendo and Game Freak. And if you're 
 a fan and you don't have this game (if that's even possible) , there is something wrong with you. 
 The gameplay is the best this series has ever had, even if it is just more of the same. But who 
 cares if it's just more of the same. It gets extra points for being one of the most addictive games 
 ever released on a handheld. The graphics are still vibrant and colorful, and the music (especially 
 the battle theme) is fantastic. There are also just dozens and dozens of hours of gameplay here. 
 And trading and battling with friends has never been easier. There is also a new addition called 
 the Poketch, which is a digital watch with multiple applications that utilizes the touchscreen. 
 Overall, this is a very fun and accessible RPG that every DS owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to the gaming world with Nintendo's Pokemon Yellow way back on the GameBoy Colour. 
 Needless to say, the series has always held a special place in my heart. Each generation has found 
 me owning one or even two of the games. However, the formula has changed very little since its 
 debut 10 years ago, and it might be starting to wear thin.
  
  For the select few who are unfamiliar with this classic series, you should know that Pokemon is 
 a role-playing game. While moving a character, male or female, around the relatively vast world, 
 you will harness the powers of a team of "Pokemon". Pokemon are creatures that also roam the region, 
 and they come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Starting with just one (given to you by a scientist 
 at the beginning of the game) , you will capture and raise many others. You can only carry around 
 six Pokemon at a time, so choose your core team wisely! You will need a strong but balanced team 
 to successfully traverse the land of Sinnoh.
  
  The battles with Pokemon happen randomly, when you are traveling through long grass, dark caves, 
 certain buildings, or over water. You will also battle other trainers, but only when you enter 
 their line of sight on the map.
  
  The actual battling is centered around a rock-paper-scissors mechanic that can set-up some frantic 
 switching and nasty surprises. There are 17 types, ranging from Fire to Psychic to Steel to Flying. 
 Each Pokemon has one or two types, and each attack has one type. Certain types have advantages 
 or disadvantages. For example, attack a Water-type Pokemon with a Grass attack, and you'll be rewarded 
 with double damage. However, use that same Grass attack against a Poison-type, and the damage will 
 be halved. Because of this, the battles take on an interesting cat-and-mouse feel. You have to 
 decide when to stand your ground and when to switch up.
  
  The story is really only there to make the gameplay have a point. Your character is a young child 
 who sets out on his/her own adventure after being given a Pokemon by the aforementioned scientist. 
 Travelling around the continent of Sinnoh, you will be battling trainers, challenging "Gyms" (basically 
 training centers that feature a 'boss' character) , and finally challenging the legendary "Elite 
 Four." A whole host of nasty character are there to deter you. Team Galactic are a bunch of crooks 
 bent on causing general mayhem, and your rival, too, will challenge you in an attempt to prove 
 that he is a superior trainer. Unfortunately, the story really is just "there." It doesn't involve 
 you at all. None of the characters are memorable, and you certainly can't connect with them. Fortunately, 
 this is not meant to be a story-driven game.
  
  This has been the Pokemon formula since the series started a decade ago, and it has changed very 
 little since. Diamond and Pearl keep it, almost entirely unaltered. This can be a blessing and 
 a curse - the formula is an addicting one that works, but it might be starting to get a bit stale 
 after so many reiterations.
  
  Diamond and Pearl look pretty nice for DS games. The colourful graphics seamlessly blend old-school 
 2D and new 3D graphics to create some really nice effects. The world in particular has been given 
 a beautiful, 3D face lift. This means that now, buildings and trees will move with your character. 
 They will shift to match your perspective. This also means that your character can walk behind 
 trees and buildings, and that inside houses computers or chairs no longer block your way. On the 
 other hand, while the world has undergone some changes, the actual battling has not. Some sprites 
 have been revamped, but still look flat, and particularly in the case of the new Pokemon, bland. 
 Some of the attacks have changed, too, and the new versions look pretty cool, but the battles are 
 really lifeless and stale where they could have been made exciting.
  
  The sound is perhaps the most disappointing feature of Diamond/Pearl. Some of the newer Pokemon 
 sound okay when they are going into battle, but the older sprites still have their original cry, 
 which is usually shrill or tinny. Zubat, in particular, is terribly annoying. It really wouldn't 
 have taken that much effort for Nintendo to simply revamp the older Pokemon's cries, and it would 
 have added a lot to the battles.
  
  The music in Diamond/Pearl hasn't changed from older gens either. After hundreds of hours of gameplay, 
 I am beginning to tire of the same battle music, and when you are traversing the world the music 
 is nothing to get excited about either. Overall, the sound in Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is really 
 disappointing. It is something that could easily have been made great, but ends up annoying or 
 bland. For the most part, I plugged in my own music and played with the sound turned off.
  
  Taking advantage of the DS's hardware, Diamond/Pearly incorporate some very light touch-screen 
 controls. You will play several mini-games with it, and during your travels there is a "Poketch" 
 on the bottom screen. On this, you can choose to display a number of things, ranging from the time 
 to your recently caught Pokemon. None of them are particularly useful, though. Fortunately, during 
 battles you use the touch screen to select attacks, navigate menus, and use items. This makes everything 
 a lot quicker and easier. All-in-all, though, you can't help but wonder if Nintendo couldn't have 
 used the touch screen more to their advantage.
  
  Online play is one new feature that really adds a lot to the series. Most notably, the ability 
 to trade Pokemon with the GTS trading system and the ability to battle strong trainers whenever 
 you feel the urge to are great. The GTS trading system is surprisingly accessible, but not without 
 its flaws. You can put up any of your Pokemon for trade, then specify what you would like in return, 
 right down to the gender or level of the Pokemon you wish to receive. On the downside, the trading 
 system is plagued with absolutely ridiculous trades (think level one Pokemon for level 100s) , posted 
 by people hoping to get lucky and have a hacker hack them the Pokemon they want. As for online 
 battling, it is a bit limited at the game's beginning, due to the unfortunate reality of needing 
 friend codes in order to battle, but when you complete the story you can battle trainer's teams. 
 Unfortunately, the teams you challenge are controlled by AI; you can still only battle "real" trainers 
 once you have their friend code.
  
  Another plus is that the online, in collaboration with great replay value, make these games last 
 a long time, and you definitely get enough bang for your buck. You can play through these game 
 multiple times, because there are always new secrets or different Pokemon combinations to try out. 
 The game can appeal to a great amount of ages, too. Children will be content with the simplistic 
 story and easy gameplay, while older gamers can get into competitive battling and the challenging 
 extras at the end of the game. 
  
  All in all, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl are solid enough entries into the Pokemon series. It is a worry, 
 however, that many of the games aspects have changed little, if at all, since the game debuted 
 10 years ago. Nintendo really needs to think about altering some parts of this classic series, 
 or gamers will get bored with the all too familiar battle style, bland story, or repetitive gameplay.
 
  
  Round-up:
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Story: 7.0
  Graphics: 8.0
  Sound: 6.0
  Value: 8.5
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  There really hasn't been much change in the Pokemon universe. Sure, you've got new species, and 
 all kinds of little mini games, but the core remains the same. You play a young boy (or girl this 
 time around) who is just starting thier Pokemon adventure! You'll be given either a water, grass, 
 or fire type companion to start off with, and then its up to you travel the world, capturing more 
 pokemon while earning badges to compete against the legendary Elite Four in order to become the 
 greatest pokemon trainer in the world!
  
  We all know the score, but I'll give a brief rundown. You search the wild for pokemon, than battle 
 them to weaken them. Once they're hurt, you toss a pokeball and nine times out of ten, you got 
 yourself a new pokemon! Battles are turn based affaris where stats like speed, attack, and defense 
 determines who goes first and how much damage you do. They're are about 150 different pokemon in 
 this game, and eash has its own type and personality. All types have some sort of counter. Fire 
 beats grass, water beats fire, electric beats water, ground beats electric, and grass beats ground. 
 Choosing the right type of pokemon for each situation is paramount to your success. 
  
  One great thing about the newer games is the sheer amount of depth to be found for hardcore players. 
 You'll be able to breed pokemon to create the best that can possibly be created. You'll be able 
 to train and evolve your team to your heart's conent. There are all kinds of stats and such to 
 increase and tamper with. You can even enter your pokemon into contests to raise thier happiness. 
 Still, there's no reason a total beginner can't just jump in and have fun. 
  
  The game has a lengthy adventure that took me over forty hours to complete first time through. 
 There's still a lot to do, as new avenues of gameplay open up once you've beat the game. You'll 
 be able to transfer pokemon from you GBA games to the DS version as well as trade and battle online 
 with your friends. This game has near endless replay value. 
  
  So whether your trading, breeding, battling, or just collecting, pokemon is a fun game that should 
 give you plenty of bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game is great!!! It throws a great twist by putting this game on the ds. It also uses every 
 aspect of the ds. It has many new creative pokemon and cities. It follows the guidelines of the 
 older poke'mon games though. Rival, gym leaders, elite four, you get the point. They do add a lot 
 of new things though. For one example: I think the underground caves are the greatest! They are 
 so much fun, and even funner with friends! I used to play it all the time with my brother and we 
 played nonstop for a long time. Also the new devices they put into this game make it even better!
 
  
  This is a great game to buy and yes, i absolutely recommend it! It is worth every buck and you 
 will get more than your moneys worth. Gameplay- 10.0
  Graphics- 9.5
  Sound- 10.0
  Value- 10.0
  Tilt- 9.0
  
  Overall- 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygirl184
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  My cousins and I have this game and every time I see them I end up addicted t it. the last time 
 I played on it was November 7th, its so easily forgotten by me but once I start up again I have 
 the difficult task of getting unstuck. Its not like Halo, where I play until I finish but I do 
 seem to have large breaks between playing!
  
  This game overall is good, the pokemon themselves have interesting names, but it drags on as it 
 describes what is going on and im sick of slowly going around and doing the same things constantly 
 just to try and beat some randomer at the gyms. I hate how I have to wait ages for my pokemon to 
 develop new skills as I have one that only teleports out of battle (how is it going to get better? 
 seriously?) . 
  
  Dont get me wrong I use to enjoy playing on my neighbour's pokemon yello on his nintendo colour, 
 but now on the nintendo ds Im finding I am becoming a greater critic of the pokemon games. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w20046ps1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  As a Pokemon fan, I'm very disappointed at this game. The game itself is recycled too much, in 
 an extent that it is beginning to be boring.
  
  Gameplay 7/10-
  
  Same old same old, it's still the same boring goals that are highly repetitive and addicting.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10-
  The graphics are slightly impressive cause it's the DS we are talking about.
  
  Sound 7/10-
 
  The sound is ok but it doesn't give much interest to me. The music is much better in Emerald. 
 And I really really miss the Elite Four music of Emerald.
  
  Value 9/10-
  I guess it's worth the weight.
  
  Tilt 10/10-
  The tilt is always the same so, no problems 
 with that.
  
  I still play this and the game is worth it itself, don't take me for a Pokemon hater, I enjoy Pokemon, 
 but this is just repetitive, that's all. My point is that the game's ok, but it just recycles too 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is one of those franchises that has gone through many iterations but hasn't changed much 
 yet it's still really good. But does this old dog have any new tricks to show us?
  
  If you've played any Pokemon game before you'll know exactly what to expect you play as a young 
 kid who hopes to make it big in the world of Pokemon training, nothing has changed here. To become 
 to champion trainer or whatever you have to travel from town to town beating the gym leaders in 
 each and recieving a badge tha'll let you use a new move that'll open up more areas and repeat. 
 You do get occasional diversions by having to thwart Team Galactic once in a while but it's still 
 old and predictible ground.
  
  That's not to say it's dull and boring though as the game is still lots of fun to play through 
 anyway. The single player mode will last you quite awhile then it's time to turn to what many people 
 buy Pokemon for multiplayer and Pokemon Diamond and Pearl does not skimp on this aspect.
  
  Multiplayer options are the usual stand bys with some new things thrown in there to mix things 
 up. Link battles and trading make a return while new things like multiplayer contests and poffin 
 cooking are new additions. But the best addition beyond being battling together is the new underground 
 area. The idea behind this is that you and a chum can wander around an underground tunnel, digging 
 up treasure and customizing your secret base. Secret bases is your personal space in the undeground 
 but mates can come in if you let them. You can also steal your friends flag and run it bag to your 
 base for bonuses.
  
  There's also online play this time but without being able to play against random people it's a 
 bit limited unless you have tons of friends with Pokemon and a working wireless router cause I 
 sure don't
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is still a fantastic experience for newcomers and Pokemon stalwarts with 
 the best multiplayer on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfowler
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  While, of course, this game has it's flukes, it's a great game. First, I'll list the pros & cons 
 of this game, the I'll give one last opinion on it.
  Pro: The original battle system from Pokemons Red and Blue, giving it a nostalgic feel.
  Con: 
 Repetitive music, making going through areas sometimes boring, and REALLY annoying.
  Pro: Lots o' new Pokemon for you to catch and train. If you could count the varieties, you wouldn't 
 be able to.
  Con: While the music is like Red and Blue's, old-school isn't always the way to go.
  Pro: You 
 may not notice it at first, but most Pokemon have different looks with the two genders. Some are 
 quite noticeable, but some you'll have to look for with a Pokedex tool, which you get as you progress 
 through the game.
  And finally, one more con (:- ( ) : THE ELITE FOUR IS WAY TOO HARD, unless you level your Pokemon 
 up to AT LEAST level 75+.
  
  
  Well, I hope you enjoyed my opinions on Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. Now, one more opinion. If you're 
 set on buying this game, then do so. This game is great. But, you may rent it if you are still 
 skeptical. But just play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is the first "proper" pokemon game to appear on the Nintendo DS, and 
 it is arguably the best Pokemon game yet.
  
  Pokemon D/P is your normal old school Pokemon adventure it follows the same story as all the other 
 pokemon games did, however they've changed the extremely annoying TEAM ROCKET to the slightly cooler 
 TEAM GALACTIC, but still, not much of a difference is there. One of the main differences here yet 
 again as with any other Pokemon game is the region and the Pokemon, there are yet more Pokemon 
 do discover and catch, whether this is a good thing or not is up to you, some people will be thinking, 
 "WAHOO!!! More Pokemon! Whereas the odd few will be thinking "What, more of them? You've got to be 
 kidding...." I of course am thinking the first one!
  
  So that's the main bit out the way, it really is just your normal Pokemon game.... or is it? Now 
 it's time to introduce the place where D/P really come into there own, the ONLINE play.... It really 
 is fantastic and probably the best online for a Ds game to date! You can battle, trade, chat, and 
 even draw with each other! And that's not even the half of it!
  
  Like Pokemon Emeralds Battle frontier, this also has an extended story after you've completed the 
 main game. It's not like another bunch of gyms though, it is like a proper extension to the story! 
 You unlock a new area with one enormous mountain, you meet a new character there who will play 
 a big part later on, there's more contests to enter and more Pokemon to catch! (Including a secret 
 Legendary, but i won't tell you because i don't want to spoil the surprise!
  
  Although as i said before the story is basicly exactly the same as the previous "proper" Pokemon 
 games it does have much more going on and it will be much more dynamic. And there is always something 
 to do! No matter how many hours you put into the game (i've done over 120) your always spoilt for 
 choice! 
  
  All-in-all Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is a great game that will keep you occupied for months on 
 end! It may be like the previous games but with so much extra content does it matter?! 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFrostD
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is the 4th generation of pokemon games. It features 3D and 2D graphics which is a great mix 
 of new and old. There are tons of pokemon to own and collect so will be entertained for hours and 
 hours. The storyline is about the same as the previous games but there is a great mix of comedy 
 here and there. The wifi makes it easy to play with your friends around the world. This game is 
 a instant classic and can be played by all ages. The price of the games is just right ranging from 
 20-30 dollars new, used you can get for around 15-25. The game even offers a feature where you 
 can migrate pokemon from your previous GBA games into the new pokemon to allow a whole new kind 
 of gameplay for you and your friends. Best of all you can then complete the game and migrate then 
 to the pokemon battle revolution on the wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toni_lapy
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game about 2 weeks ago and I was so addictive to that game that I played 
 5hours per day. It's great. Game has great music and graphic is amazing. You can catch so much pokemons 
 and making puffins is fun. I was sad when I founded out that there is not team rocket in game because 
 they are in cartoon since it's beggining but team galaxy replaced them greatly. I like that game 
 has many add-ons on touchscreen such watch, berry map... You can catch every legendary from newest 
 pokemon cartoon edition except Palkia, but if you have friend with pokemon pearl just trade it. Ohhh 
 I forgot to mention underground and finding fossils in underground, that's so great, avoding traps 
 and blowing and getting out of traps, wow. Game is so great it's better than previous pokemon games, just 
 try it and you will get addictive to it just like me. I will highly recommend to every pokemon 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamer400
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I usally give all games 10's but I am telling the truth when I give this game a 10!
  There is alot of things in the game that make it fun challenging and great beacuase I play Pokemon 
 Diamond almost every single day!
  This game has great graphics, great multiplayer, great sound when you plung in a headphone!
  
 This game has extremly good and awesome music that I love a lot!
  Has fun things that you can do in the union room and can do under ground!
  I extremly recomend 
 that you get this amazing game.
  The game is challenenging whick keeps it from getting tiring after a while!
  And you can do somthing 
 with the game that is really cool too!
  You can hook it up to the Wii and battle your friend on Pokemon Battle Revelution!
  You can do 
 a lot of fun things on Pokemon Diamond verson and Pearl Version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  First I'll get my minor issue out the way... the League has great music but is slow and fairly 
 boring, so why play a game like this when Leaf Green is sitting there with the best league ever! 
 Ultimately I don't play this game any more as Pokemon Leaf Green gets all attention as I can't 
 be bothered doing all my hard work again or playing a boring league again.
  
  That is the only negative to this game as, THE ADVENTURE IS STUNNING, never have I played such 
 a brilliant adventure, and I've played Ocarina of Time and most of Metroid Prime! The adventure 
 is very intissing and addictive aswell for the first time ever lasting more than ten hours, its 
 exactly double the length of Ruby and Sapphires.
  
  The new pokemon I have mixed reactions about, some are so unbelievably cool, Giratina, some are 
 unbelievably lame, Bronzong or as I like to call it Bronzthong! The new gyms are perfect along 
 with the music. The graphics are stunning while you're outside, but once inside they are very poor, 
 this is because all the fine detailings like flowers and consoles have there pixels screwed up 
 in the new 3D look. 
  
  The music is the best as a whole for a pokemon game, however pokemon noises are now even more irritating. 
 Like all WI - FI games the link up is full of those that use cheats or quit half way through, admitably 
 I used cheats for new pokemon, but I would never use them to battle people as that is dishonest... 
 unless somepne wanted to see Shamin or another rare one.
  
  The underground aswell is so much fun, it's unbelievably addictive, I spent a good 10 hours solid 
 in it at times. All in all this game is essential for all DS owners, even those content with just 
 the one Pokemon game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a great game for Pokemon fans. It is better than some of its 3rd generation 
 predecessors. It has definetely better graphics, there are a new whole set of 107 Pokemon to catch 
 and you can do more things than you could of done in the old games, but you did lose some things. 
 Here, you can participate in Super Contests (enhanced contests) , you can, like a Pokeblock, make 
 Pokemon food called Poffins and you can even walk around with your Pokemon to find items in a place 
 called Amity Square. Unlike in Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald though, you cannot rematch the gym leaders, 
 but you can verse the Elite Four as many times as you like, whenever you like. I have actually 
 defeated the Elite Four seventy-two times! There are a few new berries that you can have here and 
 there is a berry master who gives out berries and his wife gives out soil to plant it in. Rather 
 than have me explain the whole game to you, why don't you go and explore it for yourself? Oh, come 
 on now, the game isn't just to be imagined, it's to be played. So go on an adventure, and try your 
 luck in the Pokemon region of Sinnoh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyteen311
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was Surprised When I got This Game. I thought It was Going to be As Hard Ruby or Sapphire, 
 But I was Way Wrong. This Game Was One Of the Best Games I Ever Bought. I`d Say the only flaw is 
 Barley any use of the touch Screen. Pretty Much the only Thing You get to use the touch screen 
 for is Mining And Making Poffins. Put Still It was A Awesome Game! 
  
  Graphics- 6.8 I think It Could Be Better The Battle Sprites (pokemon And Trainers) Are Still 2-D. 
 And Outside Sprites Are Bad Because When You go in a house, Black Surrounds You. Come On! 
  
  Music- 9.5 I love The Battle And Outside Music, But Sometimes Hearing It over And Over Can 
 Get Annoying! 
  
  Gameplay-10.0 Amazing! The Story may be Similar With Ruby And Sapphire And Fire Red Leaf Green 
 But Still Basically Good 
  
  Overall, I think It's a Good Game If you Like Pokemon or New To It, You Should Still Buy This Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game for more then 3 quarters of a year, and im glad i waited. This game is very 
 true to the pokemon formula. They added even more pokemon to make a whopping roster of 493 pokemon. 
 I dont even know where they get their ideas from any more, but all i can say is keep it up GameFreak!! 
 Ithink it was a great idea to be able to migrate your old pokemon from the GBA games that you dont 
 play anymore into this game. The game is really good in terms of graphics to the other pokemon 
 games as well.
  
  The Good: Great RPG- Fun, addictive gameplay- So many other extras-Multiplayer is AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  
  The Bad: When you finished the game you are looking for more, but the game really doesnt give you 
 a whole lot more 
  
  
  
  Final Comments: A great game for the DS and a great pokemon game. it has great wifi and wireles 
 communications. i love this game and now all we can do is beg GameFreak and Nintendo to make a 
 Johto  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes The 90's The greatest time in history for the video game (besides 08) I flipped on the T. V 
 and saw the most amazing thing i have ever seen. Pocket monsters? Catch, battle, train, Evolve? 
 this was a kids dream when the game came out. But many other pokemon games have come out and ruined 
 the series entirely (excuse my gram mer) Diamond on the other hand is to many good things and also 
 bad.
  
  
  Graphics: For a DS game this is possibly the most amazing looking DS game that i have seen, even 
 though sence it is 08 now there are better but last year this was un-real 9/10
  
  Gameplay: As pokemon games progress Diamond and pearl have the same pokemon feel we have had sence 
 95 and is the same (catch, Train, Battle, obtain badge, etc etc) Now there is a variety of 150 
 new pokemon for you to spend 15 hours to catch. There are some nice improvements, like the poketech, 
 a nice little helper to get you through the game as easily as possible. The pokedex is the same 
 except when you see all 150 pokemon you get the "national Dex" Where you can see all the other 
 pokemon from all the other instalments. The game is crazy long if you want all 400 some odd pokemon. 
 The pokemon company really needs to change some things.
  7.5/10
  
  Online play: Yes finally! Screw the trading cords which hardly ever worked. In jublilife city to 
 the west i think, there is a nice little (BIG) center called the GTS known better as Global trading 
 station, where you can trade pokemon from all around the world. This is the best way to get all 
 those other pocket monsters in the other pokemon games. A absolute outstanding choice
  10/10
  
  Guide Book WTF?!: No offense to Nintendo But the official guide book is absolute Malarky. 
 It does'nt show you when the pokemon evolve, or where to find unless you flip 150 pages to find 
 his enormous picture that takes more of the map and info then it needs to! has nothing to actually 
 do with game, but just to let you guys know if your looking for those few extra pokemon good luck.
 
  
  This is my Review on Pokemon diamond I couldn't find much more then to put in the review besides 
 it's a good game. Happy reviews from
  turoX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The pokemon games are something that some older people or non nintendo players wont pick up because 
 they think its about the silly adventures of Ash Ketchum and the increasingly annoying voice of 
 Pikachu being heard every 15 seconds, though if they picked up one of the good games and gave it 
 a shot they'd find a game that would take forever to complete.
  
  So you start with a lecture by Professor Rowan and then walk downstairs as usual to find your mum 
 blibbering nonsense to you about the annoying speedy friend you somehow like. So you meet him and 
 he drags you out to the Lake right near you, were you meet Rowan and Dawn (Lucas if you picked 
 the girl) . Who leave promptly without there suitcase, you walk in the grass and 2 starly attack 
 you, so you open the suitcase and Tadaa you have your very first Pokemon, from Chimchar, Piplup 
 and Turtwig, and so your Gym beating, Galactic Loser Beating, pokemon training begins.
  
  So then you beat all 8 gyms beat the Elite 4 have caught Dialga and what next? You unlock a rectangular 
 island home to what seems to be home to about 100 species of pokemon and you unlock a bunch of 
 Legendary Pokemon to catch and a Pal Park to trade over pokemon from the GBA games
  
  Then those full of themselves PokeRookies think they've alccomplished a feat by catching 20 pokemon. 
 Well news to them there are still 472 to go, counting those tedious event pokemon. 
  Without the pokemon centre you have the Underground Network where you can dig up gems, battle items 
 and things like elemental stones. Then you can build a secret base and steal a flag from another 
 base.
  Theres Wi-fi connectability, Wii Connectability and enough places and ways to get pokemon that'll 
 keep you going for ages.
  
  In my mind this is the Handheld Pokemon game to get and something no horrible disney Spectrobes 
 game can beat redifining a series that will no doubt be continuing when the PS99 has come out, 
 and if it gets you sucked in this game could keep you playing for 99 months straight.
  If the only flaw was that it'll take you so long you'll get fired, get dropped from Uni or have 
 to repeat at school, leading you to realise that if this is an easy and childish game, then Grand 
 Theft Auto is like a Tea Party.
  
  A game that once again proves to re invent an awesome series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynwri8
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was hoping for it to resemble the previous games, hopefully with a punch. 
 It lived up to some pretty high expectations. I was fairly nervous about the price. Finally I don't 
 have buyers remorse. It has kept it's cute and cuddly image. It add plenty of new Pokemon. I love 
 the exploring and all the battles. It's not a short game by any means and it's even longer if you 
 work at catching everything. This game leaves a lot up to you. 
  I stand up to praise it being family friendly. A family with 6 kids ranging from 3 to 14, it's 
 nice to bring in a game and say have at it! This is another series that I can't wait to see what's 
 on the horizon. This is a truly fun series and I don't want to see it end. It's been so much fun 
 watching the kids building up their pokemon and figuring out what ones work the best against others. 
 
  I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Die-Hard-Hippie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  While the hype for Pokemon Diamond was ramping up before it was released, I must say, as a regular 
 Pokemon game player, I was a little surprised at how childish the graphics, look, and feel the 
 advertising was. What I was seeing at retailers and other places (even GameSpot) giving a "Fun 
 for the Family" and "good for all ages" feel to the game, before we even knew what the games interior 
 was about. 
  
  Imagine my pleasant surprise when I found out that, delving into the story a little deeper, Diamond 
 proves to be one of the best stick-to-the-fundamentals Pokemon games ever. And I've been playing 
 since the days of Red and Blue. 
  
  The visuals are outstanding, and at one point of the game when the Dialga/Palkia part of the story 
 start to come to a climax, it blew me away with an outstandingly rendered cutscene. (Let me tell 
 you, if there's one great thing about modern day gaming, it's how graphics generally get better 
 and better.)
  The art for every single 493 (!!!) Pokemon is also very creative and well styled. Some of my personal 
 favorites are Charizard, Milotic, and Lucario (in terms of portrait art)
  
  Storylines on Pokemon games has never been the most dynamically important aspect of the experience, 
 but Diamond delivers a believable, compelling, and interesting story that leaves you wanting to 
 find out what happens next with the notorious Team Galactic-based adventure. A main summary is 
 this:
  Team Galactic is a widespread band of evildoers who are bent on not taking over the world, but 
 creating a new, untarnished, and above all untainted by humankind sort of world. The leader of 
 the group starts mustering up a force good enough to start harnessing the power of certain legendary 
 Pokemon so that they can awaken the deity of time, Dialga. The Team Galactic boss tries to them 
 use Dialga to create this utopia and put the current world out of its misery. The hero must stop 
 this from happening and put an end to the madman's schemes. In the end, you get to battle the mystical 
 Poke-god to soothe and calm it down from its rage. 
  
  The formula for Pokemon games such as this have never gotten old or dated for me. The tried-and-true 
 battling method and mission to obtain 8 gym badges then take on the Elite Four are still as entertaining, 
 challenging, and overall, just plain fun. And the selection of Pokemon to choose from is astounding. 
 (Although why can't Nintendo have given us a few more Fire type Pokemon to choose from?)
  
  When you "beat the game" by defeating the Elite Four, you essentially have only just gotten to 
 the good part. An enormous amount is unlocked simply by having registered 150 "seen" Pokemon in 
 your Pokedex (which is a sort of portable database that records the many different species of Pokemon) 
 and beating the Elite Four Champion (who is quite a challenge) . The "National" Pokedex is then 
 obtained, and then you get to go from the story mode 150 selection of Pokemon to the astounding 
 493 (albeit many are unobtainable without other Pokemon games or by going to Nintendo special events) . 
 You also get access to the wide world of online competitive battling. Very cool indeed. And one 
 of the very core parts that makes this game thrive.
  
  So who cares if the game looks a little childish on the outside? What you end up getting is one 
 of the most incredible DS games ever made. You don't even have to like the premise of the game, 
 the idea of people catching and battling creatures against one another, to enjoy the experience 
 that Diamond delivers. I'd say it's certainly more than worth it; this game is destined to become 
 a classic.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zman_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow!, this game amazed me it is outstanding i love this game and i know you will too if your a 
 pokemon fan.
  
  Over 400 pokemon man thats gona be good and guess what YOU CAN CATCH EVERY POKEMON IN HYSTORY!!!!!!!
 
  WOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Yes this game is a good pick i recomend anypokemon fans to get this game or Pear no differnce except 
 that you catch Diaga in Dimond and Palkia in Pear.
  
  MAN THIS GAME HAS MADE HYSTORY!!!!!!!!!
  
  So i recomend you get this game:)
  
  Any way 
 you start of in twin leaf town were you talk to your mom and exit the house thats when the adventure 
 starts BUT WAIT WATS GOING TO FILL UP THE BOTTOM SCERNE???????
  Well you know wat you get to have a gadget that has a map a coin toss and more cool stuf dosesn't 
 that solve that qeustion:)
  
  I'm not braging but i would get this game if you like pokemon:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  The pokemon franchise has come a long way* since it's introduction way back in 1995 (in Japan) . 
 For those who are either new to the series or have just never played, Pokemon is a turn-based RPG 
 in which you typically start off as a young boy or girl who manages to get a free pokemon (out 
 of a choice of 3; a water type, a fire type, and a grass type) from a random professor in town 
 and starts a journey to see all the pokemon the world has to offer while filling information in 
 your pokedex that the professor gives you, and perhaps become a champion in the process. Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl are no different**. You start of as a young boy or girl and come across a professor 
 at the lake near your house. After they leave you and your friend notice that they left a briefcase 
 behind in the tall grass. (for those who don't know, you encounter pokemon in tall grass) You and 
 your friend take the risk going into the grass to see what's in the case. When you get there you 
 open it and there are 3 pokemon inside**. The choices are Chimchar, a little monkey who is fire 
 type**, Piplip, a little penguin who is water type**, and Turtwig, a little turtle who is grass 
 type**. Then pokemon attack you and you have no choice but to use one of the 3 pokemon as your 
 defense. After the battle the professor comes back to see what has happened, gets angry and leaves. 
 You and your friend track him down to say sorry and he lets you keep the pokemon if you take his 
 pokedex and fill it with data. And that's how the game begins. 
  
  
  The DS brings a few new elements to pokemon and most of them are great. The second screen takes 
 the clutter out of the first screen, especially during battles. The DS's power over previous handhelds 
 allow for a 2.25D (not quite 2D, not nearly 3D) overworld but to my severe disappointment, the 
 battles were left with non-moving sprites (well, they bounce around a bit when the pokemon is first 
 released) and simple attack animations. This is frustrating to me because this is the fourth major 
 installment of the series and the battles are (other than being more clearly drawn) exactly the 
 same.**
  
  
  
  In the previous pokemon titles leading to diamond and pearl, there have been a total of 386 pokemon 
 which means that there are 107 all new pokemon to enjoy in this installment... if you can find 
 a way to get them. The reason I say this is because once again, Nintendo thought it would be fun 
 to have more "special event pokemon"**. These pokemon are only attainable by going to special pokemon 
 events where you would receive special items that would unlock a sequence of in game events. These 
 steps will eventually lead you to extremely rare pokemon in the game (Arceus, Shaymin, and Darkrai) . 
 In America, these pokemon are near impossible to get without cheats. There are so few pokemon events 
 held in America, and some of them don't even release the "special event pokemon" at them, so I 
 personally am not to fond of the idea if special event pokemon (though it does add a nice rarity 
 factor, it also adds significantly to the hacked pokemon population) . 
  
  
  
  If if you think that getting all of the new pokemon in diamond and pearl because of things like 
 special event pokemon; just wait and see what you have to go through for all 493. First, you need 
 to have all of the Pokemon Ruby and/or Sapphire, Pokemon FireRed and/or LeafGreen, Pokemon Colosseum, 
 Pokemon XD, Pokemon Ranger, and a link cable from your gameboy advance to your gamecube (or wii) . 
 Then you have to get all the pokemon into those versions, and oh yes, they have special event pokemon 
 too. Once you somehow manage that, you have to beat diamond or pearl to open the pal park and have 
 them transferred onto your diamond or pearl file. Good luck! Shiny pokemon have also returned to 
 the fray and are just as rare as they have been since they were introduced in the gold and silver 
 versions except, they don't give you one in the plot like they did in gold and silver either. With 
 the Diamond and Pearl versions alone, I'm not sure of the exact number but I think somewhere around 
 150 pokemon are available. 
  
  Of course with new pokemon come new legendary pokemon and once again, this is no exception. Nintendo 
 did a great job in coming up with some kickass new legendary pokemon for diamond and pearl. Dialga 
 and Palkia are both awesome.
  
  
  
  So, what's so great about diamond and pearl then? Well, obvious reasons like the new pokemon, the 
 gameplay (though almost exactly the same as it has always been) is rock solid, new moves and pokemon 
 competitions spice it up a little, giving you so much more to do than just stroll your way through 
 the game. Also, for the in depth pokemaniac EV points were added for those who want to breed and 
 raise their pokemon to be absolutely perfect. The game's difficultly level, especially towards 
 the end with the elite 4, is a good amount higher than previous versions; but they keep it bearable. 
 The addition of online battling and trading are an incredible add on as well. Not only can you 
 just trade with people you know but you can go to the global trading center and trade pokemon with 
 people around the world. (My Palkia in my diamond version is from Japan) With a clear and easy 
 to use interface throughout the game, no one that is over 5 years old should have a problem playing 
 this game.
  
  
  
  In the end, I give Pokemon Diamond/Pearl 8 out of 10. While the new innovative features definitely 
 get the games score up, it is the lack of innovation in other areas that brings it down. I put 
 a * in the beginning of the review where I said the franchise has come a long way and ** next to 
 several things that are due for a makeover in the game. I referenced them together because the 
 franchise when you think about it, hasn't come that far at all. But don't let that discourage you 
 from the game. My note to Nintendo would be, if you keep stuff in the game from old versions, take 
 something awesome like how after you beat the elite 4 in gold/silver you could travel to the region 
 from the red/blue versions and not only catch a lot more pokemon, but also battle more gym leaders 
 and everything. I still think that the gold/silver/crystal versions are the best in the series 
 having had 251 pokemon available in game (only 2 were event pokemon: Mew and Celebi) . So all that 
 bad and still 8/10? Yes! Pokemon is a great and and always has been, it's all of the elements of 
 the game are good; they're just starting to get old. And to those who think it's just for kids, 
 you're wrong. The game is great and people of all ages will love it. The show is for kids (though 
 the movies are tolerable) .
  
  8/10
  
  -CA
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker2117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I played Ruby, and thought that that would be my last Poke'mon game ever. I resisted buying Sapphire, 
 Emerald, and the other two that came out. Then Diamond and Pearl came out, and I saw a friend playing 
 it and decided to get it. I loved it! The game has a good story, with the legendary Poke'mon being 
 integrated into the storyline so they weren't impossible to find, but also (other than the main 
 legendary) they weren't required to catch. The Poke'dex you are given is completely possible to 
 complete with only one game, and the National Dex that you gain allows you to move all of the Poke'mon 
 from your GBA games to this one. There are also numerous other things to try and do such as the 
 new contests and making Poffins. Other than the fact that the Safari Zone is still required to 
 catch some Poke'mon, and I disliked the final evolution of my starter, it was probably my favorite 
 of all the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzayas40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Good pokemon game. It's probably the best hand held system pokemon game. It has more pokemon than 
 ever. The oldest one has onehundredfifty pokemon. The second has twohundredfifty pokemon. The third 
 one has threehundredeightysix pokemon. This one has the most pokemon ever. It has fourhundredninhtythree 
 pokemon! Three of the pokemon are impossible to catch on the game without the action replay, they 
 are Darkrai, Shaymin, and Arceus. Arceus is the strongest and hardest pokemon to get. When you 
 encounter it it's at level eighty. It's a good game but hard. I've played a lot better games. This 
 game isn't that great. I gave it a 8.5. It has three-d graphics. A new trainer is avalable in that 
 game. The gym leaders are harder, the champion is nearly impossible to defeat. Thats all i got 
 to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverninga0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Lol, again, I'm late on these games. Sheesh. Anyways, this is gonna be a quick and simple review. 
 Pokemon was great like before.
  
  Gameplay: New Moves equal SUPERB! New Pokemon equal AWESOME! Choose your moves and slaughter other 
 pokemon. AWESOME! What makes Pokemon so good is that you level them and then teach em new moves 
 to make other Pokemon faint and then laugh at them. It feels so good. Using your brains for strategy, 
 for faster kills, yeah this game is good. 9/10
  
  Storyline: Eh, the usual Pokemon storyline, nothing different. Still cool like before though. 8/10
 
  
  Music: COOL! DIFFERENT POKEMON MUSIC TO MOTIVATE YOU! Sounds good. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Good graphics as usual, the moves look more realistic and the Pokemon can MOVE again! 
 The last time they moved was in Emerald. That's super cool! 9/10
  
  Online Play: This is where it gets interesting. You can go WORLDWIDE WITH THIS GAME! LIKE OMGOSH! (Note: 
 You need a wireless router or the Nintendo WiFi Adapter, btw, I'm not really sure about the router) 
 You also can use your DS headset or the mic on the DS to talk to other players. Best part is YOU 
 GET TO LAUGH AT THEM WHEN YOU OWN THEM! HAHAHA!
  10/10
  
  Overall, I give this game a 9. It's fun, and the reason I love this game is because you can brag 
 and laugh. Great time, lol. Anyways, if you guys are still reading reviews and want to buy a pokemon 
 game, then go ahead and have fun. Thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadajvince
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  This game is another awesome sequel for the Pokemon series of games. I am a fan of the Gameboy 
 games, yet not so much a fan of the Gamecube games, and i'm glad this played more like the portable 
 games. A nice adventure game inwhich it takes a long time to complete, yet never stops being fun. 
 With new and old pokemon, and three more candidates to be your 'PokePartner', its a whole new adventure, 
 in a whole new land with a whole new character and a brand new friend, playing as your characters 
 rival. The game also features the Pokemon Watch, or PokeTch for short, alot like the PokeGear from 
 Gold and Silver, which takes command of the touch screen, as adventuring takes place on the top 
 screen. The new world of Sinnoh seems bigger than previous lands of Kanto, Johto and Hoenn, and 
 gives us more wonderful pokemon, common and rare. Also featured is a new threat known as Team Galactic, 
 with a plot to create a new world older with Dialga and Palkia, and obviously the player will stop 
 them on their adventure being helped by the new Professor Rowan, and his teenaged assistant, who 
 guides the player on his/'her path to being the best Pokemon Trainer in the world. Overall i say 
 this is the best game in the series so far, unless a Gold/Silver port to the DS/Wii comes out, 
 but i recommend it to RPG fans and Pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curryburritoman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of this game. The games are all wonderful, but if i had to choose my to three, 
 this would be one. All the concepts from the old games are there, like randomly generated wild 
 pokemon, gym battles, and more recently, contests. The trading is also there, but Pokemon has advanced 
 it to a global trading system with searching capability. You search what you want, find someone 
 with it, meet their requiermants, and you can instantly trade from any where, with any one. And 
 no cable. The new pokemon are cool too. I am amazed at how many new species the game designers 
 can think of. There are now more than 500!! You don't have to be fermiliar with past games to enjoy 
 this one. The game is simple but addicting, so it's right for every one. I only wish there were 
 more things to do once you beat the elite four. I guess that's what contests are for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid pokemon game with a few things done wrong. First off let me say that I loved 
 this game but there were a few things done wrong though. For one thing they advertise the game 
 with munchlax so much and then it'ss almost impossible to get it. Also this game resimbles the 
 other games so much it's pretty much the same thing with diffrent pokemon and better graphics but 
 thats to be expected from pokemon. The worst thing is you can only play one file at a time they 
 really need to fix that.
  
  That said everything else is perfect and online trading makes it so much easier to become a pokemaster. 
 The best improvment though is the extra stuff they put after they finish beating the elite 4. (I 
 like dimond more then pearl because of the pokemon but there is no right or wrong choice This game 
 is worth the money evan with the errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotenssj45
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few weeks ago and I was really impressed with it! I guess I'll have to review 
 for you!
  
  Graphics 9/10. Some games on the DS nowadays have complete 3-D style to them. This game still carries 
 on the same sprite-ish graphics as it does from generation to generation. But this is what makes 
 it great dont you think?
  
  Story 8.5/10. This game has a pretty good story I must say! From defeating the evil team galactic 
 to saving the world never seems to get old here! Whats more cool is that you also have to do certain 
 tasks before you challenge a gym leader. Like looking for them!
  
  Sound/Music 9/10. The sound for this game is simply jaw-dropping. I especially love the the team 
 galactic battle theme. Even some sounds/music is carried on from a past generation!
  
  Replay Value 7/10. Since pokemon have special events of where you go somewhere (Like Nintendo world 
 in NYC) to get special pokemon only available there. And if you start over again you would lose 
 it all and you would'nt want that would you? = (
  
  Have I missed anything? Oh ya
  
  Nintendo WFC 9/10. Thats right. This game can go WI-FI! Although you wouldn't want to use the "Seek 
 pokemon" feature at the GTS or else you would see someone offering a lvl 18 Pikachu for a lvl 100 
 Celebi... : (
  
  Real Score:9.2/10. I can't wait for the fifth gen game to come out but I heard it will hit the shelves 
 in late japan by late 2011...
  
  I must say, there are lots of features in these games to keep you busy worthwhile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl also are just two great games!! The gameplay is absolutely awesome and 
 will keep you busy for such a long time. Not only do you might want to "catch em all", but also 
 fight online and with your friends. Its a great addition to the game and hell yah its fun!! But 
 it does get boring after about 40-50hrs of play. You can level up your pokemon to lv.100 and go 
 into pokemon contests but in the end the only thing from keeping it out of your closet after 50hrs. 
 of play is the online play.
  
  The graphics are awesome, the gameplays great, the musics cool also though its basically a remix 
 of the old songs. The sound of the pokemon thought still sound like crap. I just wish the pokemon 
 could say their names when they come out of their balls like pikachu if he could just say pikachu 
 instead of some alien type cry from the first game. Anyway its a truly awesome game from the inside 
 out and I highly, highly, highly recommend it for not only pokemon fanatics but for beginner pokemon 
 trainers too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best Pokemon games ever! It is very fun and there is much more to do then 
 the past GBA games. There are over 100 new Pokemon, touch screen, and new and improved moves. Like 
 Arseus' Judgement. A move that changes in power and type depending on the plate it's holding.
 
  
  In this game Team Galactic (the team rocket of the game) want to harness the power of Pokemon to 
 rule the Galactic. They dress up in very strange clothes, tights. I was sad to see how bad Pokemon 
 could make people dress. Like all of the other games the main character always looks weird. Like 
 in this game the boy has a weird hat on and the girl is just weird. 
  
  But anyway I would like to say that this game is fun. I love this game which is very addicting. 
 Also it's for the DS so it's cool. And it's Nintendo, which I love. If you have the Wii you can 
 send all of your Pokemon to Pokemon Battle Revolution. I say thanks for this Pokemon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy for anyone who owns a DS. It's more addictive that crack, and this time around 
 has way cooler Pokemon and moves. The effects are great, and even when you think you beat the game, 
 a new challange appears. You can transfer the Pokemon from past games to add to your team. The 
 story is the same as the others in the series: some power hungery emo dude tries to use a awsome 
 looking Pokemon diety to control the universe and create a world in his own view. Battling is a 
 blast, and the touch screen adds a few thrills during the duration, like dressing up your favorite 
 Pokemon and playing dancing games. The in game clock allows day to change into night, where different 
 pokemon appear. Contests this time around are even more challenging. Trading to different people 
 around the world is fun, and lets players see what kind of pokemon other people have. Battle tower 
 offers even more challenges than the last games, and teaming up with friends to battle is great. 
 It's fun to train you pokemon to bring out new strength and make them evolve. Building and decorating 
 bases underground then setting up traps to watch other players get stuck in is almost as fun as 
 battling. And it always is a thrill when you run into a legendary. This is the best in the series. 
 Pokemon lover or hater, it doesnt matter. This game is fun for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octochomp_5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, though. Pokemon has been going on for 10 years, with little change. One may think that 
 they would fail eventually, but they still manage to capture the hearts of many games, even adding 
 new things such as the Poketch, and differences between male and female for some Pokemon (Hippowdon 
 is a great example for this) and returned favorites such as shiny Pokemon (hard to find but still 
 worth the search) . Another positive thing I'd like to mention is that Pokemon you thought that could 
 never evolve do evolve in Pokemon Diamond and Pearl (Murkrow and Misdreavus are good examples for 
 this) . Probably the only negative things about this game is the extreme lack of fire type Pokemon 
 in the sinnoh region before you get the national dex (come on, its only Ponyta and its evolved 
 form and Chimchar and its evolved forms) and the difficulty level your rival (The only time your 
 rival should beat you is your first battle) . At least that what I think, maybe its because I started 
 with Piplup. As for the difficulty of the game the only things for me that were difficult in the 
 game were how to find Drifloon (You can find Drifloon at the Valley Windworks every Friday for 
 people who didn't know) and how to get to route 224 (Make sure you have Pokemon that know Strength, 
 Rock Climb and Defog, thats all I can say) . For those who have a DS, this is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega-Pyre
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The newest Pokemon game in the series really makes an impact on whoever plays it. With its great 
 new story and addictive gameplay this will be a game you won't want to put down for awhile. The 
 game looks almost the same as past Pokemon games, but the DS has given the artwork a boost as far 
 as making the game look more 3-D. Battles haven't really changed much with one-on-one battles and 
 the expected return of two-on-two battles. Cool new moves make the battles more interesting and 
 of course, a big new addition to the Pokemon roster with 107 new Pokemon. Online trading with the 
 Global Trade Center and being able to play against other's Pokemon online make Wi-Fi a pleasant 
 experience. Other modes in the game such as contests are also worth exploring.
  
  As big as the game is, with all Pokemon in the series appearing in Diamond and Pearl, it could 
 have been even better if we could travel to the Kanto, Johto, and Hoenn regions outside of Sinnoh, 
 as you could travel to the Kanto region in Gold, Silver, and Crystal. The game's Wi-Fi modes are 
 fun for the most part, but you're not able to play against live opponents, only being able to play 
 someone else's Pokemon roster while the computer does the fighting.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is definitely a game to keep in your collection. You're never really 
 going to run out of things to do unless your entire Pokedex is completed. Definitely something 
 all Nintendo fans expected to be excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfGames4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is classic! Simplismente pokemon is equal in all its versions, saying the same gameplay 
 as the rest changes everything (Graph, pokemons, people) , but one thing is certain ... Pokemon 
 never be bad for budding. Pokemon Diamond is the 4 th Generation of Pokemons and with it comes 
 the Pearl.
  The gameplay remains the same, so that was changed some things for the use of the pen of the DS. 
 The graphics of buildings and cities were passed to 3D, which was a little nosso the game, more 
 was cool. The gameplay that pokemon is also very good. Do not lose to the other. But as said the 
 difference in gameplay between that and the other so much, most very small. Another thing also 
 to add is that the game is very easy and the weather can stop enjooando, pra who do not like the 
 genre in general. Well, finally, for those who like Pokemon is necessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Espreon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond was a nice game to play but I was pretty disappointed. But before we get to the 
 ginormous list of disappointments lets go over the positives first.
  
  The introduction of 3D graphics was great, but it lagged in some aspects, for instance the OW sprites 
 get a little fuzzy when riding fast on your bike. 
  
  Of course D/P introduced new Pokes, new Pokes are always nice (even though I prefer most of the 
 older ones) .
  
  All of the G/S/C references and the story taking place the same time as G/S/C and even in game 
 data which states D/P is capable of communicating with possible future Johto-based games, so it 
 is likely Nintendo will make G/S remakes. 
  
  Battles over the Internet gives you something to do after beating the E4.
  
  Now for that ginormous 
 list of negatives I mentioned earlier:
  
  The one thing I was disappointed about was the lack of anything to do, other than capture legendaries 
 after crushing the E4, I mean who wants to do the Battle Tower all your life? 
  
  Another thing that made me disappointed about D/P was the heavily flawed Global Trade Station, 
 for one it allows impossible trades to occur like I could trade a Level 9 and under Skuntank over 
 the GTS and Skuntank is impossible to get at Level 9 and under without cheating, the only impossible 
 trades that are impossible to execute would be trading a Dialga/Palkia under Level 40 (well that 
 restriction allows us to use the 4th Gen cloning glitch without having to worry about losing the 
 Poke you want to clone) . Also in order to be able to obtain certain Pokemon over the GTS you would 
 have to see that certain Poke in-game, that limitation kinda defeats the purpose of having the 
 GTS (except when your looking for Pokemon in the Sinnoh region Pokedex since you can see all of 
 them in-game) since you would have to utilize a cheating device to see all of them with out trading 
 them into your game, the latter is the reason that limitation kinda defeats the purpose of having 
 the GTS exist.
  
  As I stated earlier the 3D graphics engine is a bit laggy, which is annoying.
  
  Another big 
 reason, D/P is much slower than the previous versions, this is probably due to D/P being more hardware 
 hungry but if it has nothing to do with hardware than I am really angry...
  
  And the biggest reason of all! In D/P versions sold outside of Japan the glitch that allows you 
 to get Darkrai and Shaymin without going to an event or cheating was fixed! They don't even make 
 money off of those events AFAIK so why fix a money saver?
  
  Another reason being that you can not re-challenge the Gym Leaders as you could do in Emerald, 
 if we could it would give use something to do!
  
  All right that wraps up that, despite all these negativities I enjoyed playing through Diamond 
 and I hope Nintendo will take the time and fix these horrendous problems in the Gold and Silver 
 remakes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UssDeifiant
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played. You can catch new pokemon that you couldent catch 
 in Firered, Leafgreen, and Emerald. i chose as a starter "Chimchar". At first Chimchar only knew 
 scratch, but as it leveled up he started to new moves. One day My Chimchar evoleved in to Monferno 
 . My favorite move that Monferno was "Flame Wheel". Another day when when i was checking my box 
 i`found a "Pipulap" im like what the heck is that! Then i started to train it and it evolved too. 
 i forgot what its name was but it came farther than my Monferno but they both evoved again. so 
 thats how i got my two starter pokemon. so my other pokemon stink because i barely ever train them. 
 But my friend cheated with is Action Replay and traded some of his legendary pokemon for 17 level 
 2 Starlys. and any way i cant get my Emerald pokemon to my diamond cause i cant get thoruh the 
 stupid battle tower. And my friend said that you have to go to the stupid Pal park and there are 
 two stupid men by the stupid door. Somehow i cant get my Starraivia to evolve into Starraptor. But 
 i stil think Halo 3 is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke_21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Rock-Solid RPG, Heaps of different strategies can be used and Improved Graphics
  
  The Bad
  Having to attend nintendo events just to get certain pokemon, Not being able to 
 get all pokemon off just the one game and no central change in the story 
  
  
  Pokemon is truly living up to the test of time. Once again game freak delivers a excellent pokemon 
 game. While it still has the same formula as the others, it still pulls it off.
  
  The story is your a 10 year old Boy/Girl and you go with your friend and rival to check out the 
 lake for a rare pokemon and end up getting a starter pokemon while defending yourself. From there 
 the story starts and you end up doing the same thing as the other games, Get 8 badges from different 
 towns and go to the pokemon league and beat the champ. While i make this sound boring it is still 
 entertaining and now that the pokemon games have moved from gameboy/Advance to DS it uses the touchscreen 
 very effectively) .
  
  The graphics are improved from the Gameboy/Advance games which is expected, the pokemon move when 
 first brought into battle but after that they are pretty much stationary in their position. The 
 pokemon look visually apealing which is great.
  
  The gameplay formula hasn't changed since Red/Blue/Yellow but why change something that obviously 
 works. They have gone the next step with pokemon contests with fashion accessories (i, personally 
 don't care about contests) . Pokemon can only have 4 moves which is basically all you need but it 
 would be good if they could have more.
  
  The bad things about Pokemon Diamond: Like all pokemon games the thing that really annoys me is 
 you actually can't get all of the pokemon unless you trade with friends or have 2 DS's and have 
 all the pokemon games after and not including the Gold/Silver/Crystal. The other thing is you can't 
 get pokemon like mew and celibi unless you go to a nintendo event (Why would they do that) . I know 
 it's a way for them to make money but come on that is the very definition of being greedy.
  
  All and all this game would get a higher grade from me if you could get all the pokemon off 
 the one game but it still ranks up as number 1 in my favourite ds games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Well I loved the first pokemon games that came out for the gameboy color but I hated the ones for 
 the Gameboy Advanced. the ones for the GBA were stupid looking and did not add much to the pokemon 
 games. But sience I am a diehard pokefan I thought I would give the new games a chance. So I dusted 
 off my old DS . And holy cow is it good. Finally a game that doesnt suck on the DS. The new pokemon 
 are a great addition. The game has online pokemon trading and to top it off it keeps track of all 
 the places in the world you trade with. The game it self is just like all the any of the other 
 pokemon games out there except it fixes all the problems. With over 200 pokemon to collect this 
 game will have you playing for hours. I have not put it down sience christmas. If you love RPGs 
 or you even liked any good game that does not require you to use the stylus all the time this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amek34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This is really fun to find a bunch a new things, new secrets, and new pokemon. ITS FUN you cant 
 stop playing it for quite a while, you just want to keep on playing and playing till you get stronger 
 and stronger. The only thing is the begining Its hard to train your pokemon you start with. if 
 you keep on dieing you get mad and want to turn it off. I know it happen to me XD. But, Still this 
 game is one awesome game. Its fun to get all the pokemon, You just fell like you want to catch 
 um all!!! Its awesome online. Battle with your friends and also chat with them. They also can include 
 voice chat from the ds mic. Well lets go over the story line. Pretty much the same thing. You end 
 up in your house and something about your friend wants to look for the LEGENDARY red gyrados (which 
 was in gold, sliver, crystal version) . He tells you lets go to the lake by there town. They go and 
 find the Prof (forget his name) and he's also looking for the LEGENDARY red gyrados. They dont 
 find it and then You and your friend go in the grass and get attacked by pokemon (OMFG!!!!!) then 
 you see a case ( Professors case) and you see 3 pokemon (Chimchar, Turtwig, and pipulp) And thats 
 it just the beginning to an ultimate adventure. This game deserves and DOUBLE THUMBS UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  As I just mentioned, this game is utterly devoid of even a decent story. The traditional Pokemon 
 story path of "trying to be the best trainer in the world" shows its age in this fourth hand held 
 installment and the new team of bad guys, Team Galactic, had absolutely nothing to them. However, 
 another tradition that goes along with Pokemon, extremely addicting gameplay, holds up extremely 
 well in this game. Nintendo has a habit of one-upping each previous Pokemon game in the series, 
 and Diamond/Pear blows the previous three games. The graphics and in battle animations are great, 
 the sound effects and music are solid, and, thanks to a load of new ways to play, new pokemon and 
 new moves, the gameplay is endless. There are a horde of new legendaries to try and catch, a revamped 
 breeding system, more in-depth pokemon competitions and, the crown jewel of this game, online play 
 that spans the entire planet. All you die hard Pokemon fans already know that this game is just 
 what we were looking for, but you RPGers and other gamers who're looking to give this a try must 
 be warned: the story line is pitiful, but don't let that fool you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killings
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  As the first installment of the Pokemon RPG series on the DS, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are must-have 
 for addicts. With the usual extremely long plot, it'll keep you playing for hours. The plot unfortunately 
 shares many similarities with the other games in the Pokemon collection, but there are enough differences 
 and improvements to keep you more than interested. Starting off in the small town of Twinleaf, 
 you battle your way through the gyms of Sinnoh, always one step behind your competitive friend. 
 Throughout the game, you'll run into the menacing Team Galactic multiple times, and eventually 
 ending up saving a few legendaries from their grasp while you're at it.
  If you've got your hopes up for much better graphics, you may be a little bit
  disappointed. 
 While still being slightly improved, the game still has a 2-D feel to it a majority of the time. 
 As for the music and sound effects, there only a slight bit improvement there as well. While the 
 calls of the new Pokemon are fairly nice, the older Pokemon from other regions don't have much 
 improvement if any at all. With many new Pokemon from the Sinnoh region, along with familiar Pokemon 
 from other regions, Diamond and Pearl have plenty of Pokemon to collect. While some are exclusive 
 to their version, you may have to trade with friends, which brings us to the topic of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi.
  Being one of the largest differences between the other Pokemon RPG's, Wi-Fi is the most anticipated 
 feature of the new Pokemon games. The touch screen, of course, being the second. (We'll get to 
 that later.) After registering a friend's code, you are now able to use this convenient new Wi-Fi 
 feature in several ways including battling, which also has voice chat as an additional new feature. 
 Trading between friends is another important feature, and you will most likely need to trade with 
 a friend via Wi-Fi to complete your Pokedex. In addition to the Wi-Fi features requiring a friend 
 code, there are two features in which a friend code isn't necessary. Any Pokemon fan will without 
 a doubt enjoy the Global Trade Center, and it is likely to be the most commonly used Wi-Fi feature. 
 Located in Jubilife City, within it you are able to search for the Pokemon other players from all 
 over the world have put up for trade, as well as offering your own and asking for another specific 
 Pokemon in return.
  The second newest, most anticipated feature of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl would have to be the touchscreen, 
 one of it's most obvious uses being to select menu options or commands within a battle. Along with 
 it's basic functions, the touch screen also allows the use of a new feature called the Poketech. 
 It appears full-screen outside of battle on the touch screen, and serves many functions, the most 
 basic being a clock. Many other unique and useful applications can also be included after acquiring 
 them.
  Overall, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is a recommendable, desirable game which any Pokemon fan would 
 enjoy. It is a wonderful addiction to any Pokemon-lovers collection, while remaining a somewhat 
 simplistic game for newcomers to easily adjust to. Don't hesitate to go buy yourself a copy, as 
 long as you aren't expecting a major change in the story outline or the game in general. These 
 new features and Pokemon, however, make these new RPG's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbomb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is an excellent RPG and an engaging adventure right on your DS. It is an addictive 
 and innovative game consisting of the general pokemon capturing, training and fighting but with 
 much improved interface and graphics than previous pokemon games. New pokemon and a new world are 
 its most important features. really, its a good story and an excellent game. This is no doubt that 
 this is the best pokemon game till date. This game has much more secrets to uncover and much more 
 things to do and is comprised of a huge world where you can roam around. There are more enemies 
 and more pokemon to capture. This game is very long and you can play it as long as you like i. e. 
 after completing the game you can still play and train your pokemon and then fight with other people 
 with pearl/diamond versions. 
  
  PROS: 
  1) Huge new world to explore
  2) Chalenging enemies
  3) Many new pokemon to capture
  
  CONS:
  1) None in Particular 
 
  
  This shows that if you own a DS, are interested in pokemon and hav played the previous versions, 
 u must... Must..... MUST buy this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Game Freak and myself have undergone a rather interesting love/hate relationship over the years. 
 I still remember back to many years ago, when one of my many cousins, while visiting our grandmother 
 at Christmastime, would bring along a few different Pokemon games. I didn't think much of them 
 at first, but a few years went by -- each year I played Pokemon once a year. And finally, I got 
 it. I started really having fun with these games. So, naturally, I promptly rushed out to my nearest 
 Target (or rather, bugged my mom for a week until she took me) and picked up a copy of Pokemon 
 Gold. I was hooked.
  
  Years went by. I went all retro and in the interim picked up Pokemon Red (Gasp! Downgrading!) . 
 While not as good as Gold, I still played it and enjoyed it. Finally, the much-anticipated (by 
 myself, anyway) Pokemon Ruby was released. I bought it, I played it, and sadly, I was let down. 
 What happened? Was it because I was older? What happened to all that Pokemon-ness that was so very 
 present in Gold? Shot, I supposebut regardless of how the charm of the first two games met its 
 untimely end, I had lost faith in Game Freak. They went from being my favorite developers in the 
 whole freaking world to something of a betrayer figure.
  
  FireRed was there shortly afterward, and I had fun with it -- as much as one can have fun with 
 a remake of a game one already has. And I slogged through a couple stupid Pokemon spin-offs, clearly 
 there to milk money out of people like myself: Pokemon Pinball, Ranger, and Mystery Dungeon were 
 all such disappointments (luckily, even I could tell that there was no way in hell Pokemon Dash 
 could be any good) . And at last came Diamond and Pearl for the Nintendo DS.
  
  I'll confess: even with the disappointments that Game Freak had shoved down my throat, I met the 
 release with a feeling of anticipation. Here was a chance to turn things around, to really imbue 
 the Pokemon franchise with some life and innovation. I even bothered to scrounge up the cash and 
 pick up a copy of Diamond on it's Sunday launch date. And now, more than six months later, I feel 
 about ready to write a review.
  
  First, let me begin simply and clearly: Pokemon Diamond is a good game. It's by no means the perfect 
 title that many people out there would have you believe -- but neither is it a failure as Poke-haters 
 insist. Honestly, if you've played any other Pokemon game before, you've already got down 90% of 
 this title. There are no huge additions to the game play mechanic, nothing that's all that mind-blowing. 
 Instead, it follows the traditional Pokemon formula that we've seen done and re-done countless 
 times.
  
  So, it's boring, right? The same old monotonous game play that we've suffered through the past 
 several years? Well, actually, no. While the game play mechanic is basically the same as that of 
 past games in the series, Diamond somehow manages to grasp a little bit of that charm that made 
 the first Pokemon games so much fun. So there! -- proof that it's not me growing up, but the series 
 sucking lately that's my cause for disliking recent Pokemon games.
  
  But before we go on, I'd like to bring up a point that (I hope) will make you ease up a bit on 
 Pokemon games -- I know I certainly took this thought into consideration before reviewing this 
 game. Essentially, Game Freak has two options to take when creating a new Pokemon game, correct? 
 They can either essentially remake past Pokemon games, set in a new world and with "new" Pokemon, 
 or they can try something radically different and hope that it's well-received by fans and critics. 
 Well, as we've already seen, both situations have failed, to an extent, in the past. Games like 
 FireRed and Ruby lacked the spark that made the original games such fun; newer games that deviated 
 from the predetermined Pokemon Path were generally frowned upon (think back, for example, to Pokemon 
 Battle Revolution -- a piece of crap, in case you hadn't already heard) . So, really, Game Freak 
 is in a bit of a rut with the Pokemon series -- it seems that either way, it's tough for them to 
 create a good game. Yet, somehow, Game Freak managed to pull of a game that, while not perfect, 
 is a solid title and significantly better than other Pokemon of recent release.
  
  First off is the story. While in net value, it seems to end up on top of the plots of past Pokemon 
 games, I'd still say it's one of the more painful aspects of Diamond. Why, you ask, if it's better 
 than that of other games? Well, you may be surprised to hear me say this of any Pokemon game, but 
 Diamond's story actually shows surprising potential. There are a number of times in the game (okay, 
 only a couple) where it really starts to pick up -- hell, I might even say I was excited about 
 the plot. And then, sadly, Game Freak just seemed to drop the ball. It's like they took care of 
 this game in little spurts; sometimes they cared about developing the plot, and sometimes they 
 didn't.
  
  At first glance, Diamond's story is pretty much a carbon copy of the stories of every other Pokemon 
 game ever created. You begin the game by picking out a name and gender from yourself, buried under 
 a dumb, contrived conversation by a professor who claims to know you yet doesn't even know your 
 name or freaking gender. Still, it's a tradition, I suppose, so it's got to be kept up. From there, 
 you'll begin your horribly cliched adventure as a young boy (or girl) setting out to fulfill his 
 (or her) supposedly lifelong dream to become a Pokemon master (after picking out your starting 
 Pokemon, of course! -- but more on that momentarily) . Shortly into your adventure you get a call 
 back from that shifty professor and he presents you with a Pokedex, a device that tracks every 
 single Pokemon that you ever come across or possess. He asks you to fill it up for him, for one 
 such reason or another, and you've got no choice but to oblige.
  
  And, of course, a Pokemon game would never be complete without the crazy, maniacal yet illogical 
 randomly-named "Team Blank" trying to take over the world. This time it's Team Galaxy's turn to 
 step up to the plate and give world domination a shot. As always, it's your duty to put a stop 
 to their evil deeds. But as an astute player of Pokemon games may have noticed over the past several 
 years, Game Freak seems to be getting better and better at developing their bad guys. This is no 
 Team Rocket, with stupid, selfish motivations that aren't even clearly explained within the game. 
 Instead, there's a real story behind Team Galaxy, and then certainly helps the game out. It's always 
 nice for a game to have a great story -- because if the game play starts to slow down, you've got 
 the plot motivating people to continue playing. While not great by any stretch of the imagination, 
 Diamond's story certainly has some bright spots. Let's just hope this indicates a trend with plots 
 in these games.
  
  Graphically, Diamond is also a huge step up from past Pokemon games. The visuals are really nice-looking 
 -- they adeptly combine the feel from the old 2D games with plenty of 3D effects. The result? A 
 similarly colorful, cheerful, and vibrant world, but one that feels more real. Additionally, animations 
 have been included which, though small, are nice little touches (an example: seeing your character 
 toss out a PokeBall at the beginning of a battle) . The Pokemon themselves also look great, which 
 is nice. All things considered, I'm actually quite satisfied with the visuals in Diamond, and I 
 certainly hope that future Pokemon games will continue to take advantage of the graphical capabilities 
 of whichever system they are on.
  
  In terms of sound, Diamond is similarly a step up from its recent predecessors. The Pokemon music 
 has always been catchy, but oftentimes the quality seems to have been absolutely shot -- what is 
 that crap coming out of the speakers?! Diamond, however, has well-rectified any audio problems 
 with past games, and the game's music retains that catchiness characteristic of past games but 
 at the same time doesn't play the same tune over and over again until it dies. In such a lighthearted 
 game as Pokemon Diamond, the music is honestly pretty irrelevant to the overall quality of your 
 gaming experience; however, it certainly is nice to have an excuse to play with the sound on.
 
  
  Now, to the meat of the game: the game play mechanic. Diamond earns some points for doing a fairly 
 good job of hitting that fine line between new and untested/unwanted game play mechanic and same 
 old game that we've played for years and are now tired of. Of course, the real fun to be had in 
 this game is in building up a team of six Pokemon, then facing them off against wild Pokemon, other 
 trainers, gym leaders, and eventually the Elite Four and the Pokemon Champion -- the best trainers 
 to be had. But first, you've got to pick out a starter. Pokemon games seem to be generally characterized 
 by the starting pocket monsters that they offer (I say "Charizard" and you think "Red Version") , 
 and the lineup isn't too shoddy this time around. As always, there are three types to choose from: 
 Water, Fire, and Grass. Sadly, one of them (the Fire starter) is noticeably overpowered, which 
 takes a lot of the fun (and replay value) from the whole starter system.
  
  Seeing as I've mentioned it, now's a good a time as any to discuss Pokemon types. Every single 
 Pokemon in the entire game can be classified by type -- some Pokemon even have multiple types. 
 What are types, you ask? They are usually easily determined just by observing the Pokemon, and 
 range from Fire to Ice to Bug to Ghost and many others. The strategy invoked by this type system? 
 Well, each type has strengths, weaknesses, and resistances. For example, Water type Pokemon are 
 particularly strong against Fire and Rock types, but are easily taken down by Grass and Electric 
 Pokemon. Flying types can easily KO grass or bug types and they're immune to Ground attacks, but 
 they're very vulnerable to Electric and Rock Pokemon. So, the obvious strategy here is to essentially 
 cover your ass. You want to use Pokemon that have good strengths, of course. But what about they're 
 weaknesses? Well, then you want another Pokemon that's strong against your first Pokemon's weaknesses. 
 You'll continue on like this, trying to build up a good team that can easily take care of any situation.
 
  
  Building your team is a goal that will extend throughout the length of the entire game, but it's 
 not your only focus. Of course, your end goal is to ultimately defeat the Elite Four and become 
 the Pokemon Champion, but this doesn't even really come into question until quite far into the 
 game. One of the lasting goals of this game is also to fill up the Pokedex that the good Professor 
 Birch gave to you at the beginning of the game. It keeps track of the Pokemon that you've come 
 across in battle, as well as those that you have actually caught. Filling up the Pokedex is quite 
 a lengthy undertaking, as there are more than Pokemon this time around. Back to the Elite Four, 
 however: naturally, you can't go right ahead and face off against them for a number of reasons. 
 The primary one, of course, that you're pathetically weak, and they won't fight you unless you've 
 obtained all 8 Pokemon Gym Badges.
  
  A number of the different towns throughout the world of Sinnoh house Pokemon Gyms, the training 
 ground of different trainers. Each Gym is headed by an aptly named Gym Leader, who is the most 
 difficult "trainer" there. Every Gym focuses on a specific type of Pokemon; some are like a fighting 
 Dojo and focus on Fighting types, while others feature different, unique specialties. In addition 
 to the mere trainers themselves, many gyms possess puzzles that must be completed in order to advance 
 to the Gym Leader and obtain that Gym's Badge. Of course, the fact that each gym has one dominant 
 Pokemon type will make every trainer there easy prey to a player who's figured out type advantages. 
 For example, take a Water Pokemon into a Rock Gm, and you've pretty much assured yourself an easy 
 victory -- but just don't let one Pokemon get overpowered!
  
  Each Badge isn't just for show and admittance to the Elite Four, however; they also offer you a 
 number of abilities that are quite helpful (and many of which are necessary) throughout the game. 
 Many Gym Badges allow you to use a HM (more on that in just a second) , which are necessary to 
 progress through the game. Also, many badges will allow you to control Pokemon up to a certain 
 level, ensuring that they do your bidding. For example, if you've got a badge that ensures that 
 "Pokemon level 30 and below will obey you" then Pokemon you receive in a trade (more on that towards 
 the end of the review) up to level 30 will obey your commands. If they're above your level of command, 
 however, they might choose to ignore you in battle, which is always problematic.
  
  There are a number of different attack items scattered throughout the world, called HMs (Hidden 
 Machines) and TMs (Technical Machines) . The difference? You're going to want to be more careful 
 with whom you give TMs to, as they can only be used once. On the other hand, an HM never expires 
 -- it can be used over and over again, as long as a Pokemon is compatible with it. TMs are useful 
 for attacks in battle, but many can be replaced by powerful attacks that your Pokemon will learn 
 on its own eventually. However, HMs are absolutely indispensable -- these are moves that can be 
 used not only in battle, but also in the field to solve puzzles that must be completed in order 
 to progress.
  
  Pokemon Diamond is essentially an RPG, but it's a very interesting one in that at first glance, 
 it's far simpler and shallow than other RPGs. Yes, you gain experience and use items, but there 
 may not seem to be much customization to it. However, as you delve more and more into the game, 
 you'll realize that that is definitely not the case. Of course, there's the concept of building 
 a party, which has already been discussed. But in addition to that, there's the strategy of building 
 up each Pokemon's moveset. Each Pokemon can only have four moves at any one time, and each move 
 itself is categorized by type. So, the strategy is to build up a diverse moveset so that even if 
 a Pokemon is at a disadvantage, it may still have some moves that can help get it out of a jam. 
 Another big RPG convention present in Diamond and all the Pokemon games is the evolution system. 
 Once a Pokemon reaches a certain level (it's unique for each Pokemon) they will evolve -- they'll 
 change form and gain an increase in stats. Some evolve twice, while some only evolve once and some 
 not at all. It doesn't hugely affect the way that you play the game, but the evolution system is 
 a fun addition to the game.
  
  As you might have imagined already, there's plenty of replay value to be had in Pokemon Diamond. 
 Sadly, the biggest reason for playing this game again is also one reason why you may be tempted 
 to put it down after the last battle (confusing, isn't it?) . The fact that there are hundred of 
 Pokemon will ensure that you'll need to spend many, many hours if you intend to catch every single 
 one of them. Plus, many of them cannot be caught in the wild, so they must be evolved from Pokemon 
 that you have already caught. However, the very fact that it will take so long to complete this 
 goal (by the way, you can still get the credits to roll without catching every Pokemon -- the developers 
 realize that it's a very lofty goal) will ensure that all but the most die-hard Pokemon fans will 
 not stick around with this game long enough for that to occur.
  
  Another slight disappointment is that, as already mentioned, one starter is clearly better than 
 the others. This is a pity, because I got a lot of time out of the old Pokemon games playing through 
 the entire game with each starter and seeing how it affected the way that I played. It ensured 
 a different play style, Pokemon lineup, and battle strategy, but since one starter is significantly 
 better than the other two, you kind of get a "Why should I even bother" mentality. It's a shame, 
 because this could have extended the life of the game even longer -- sadly, though, for whatever 
 reason, the system kind of flopped.
  
  Even without catching every Pokemon, though, there's still plenty of play value with Diamond, making 
 it well worth the thirty dollars you will spend on it. Even for somebody just playing for fun, 
 it's very feasible for that person to spend at least fifty hours with the game. The story mode 
 is long and involved (far more so than in past games) and the mere distance between each gym and 
 plot point really increases the time you play the game. It doesn't feel dragged out, however -- 
 the game is well-paced and generally quite fun to play without getting bored or feeling that the 
 game is just groping.
  
  If you are intent upon catching every single Pokemon, you won't have to go at it alone, thanks 
 to the excellent trading system in Diamond. In fact, even if you're just having fun with this title 
 and playing through all the plot points, you'll likely want to take advantage of Pokemon trading. 
 Just wirelessly link up with a friend (or stranger) with the game an you can swap Pokemon to your 
 heart's content. And of course, there's wireless battling, which is actually quite fun. You get 
 to pit your team of Pokemon against that of a friend's, and there are plenty of rules you can customize 
 for each battle to keep them fresh and exciting. For example, you can play a classic battle, or 
 you can opt to have two Pokemon from your party on the battleground at a time -- a decision that 
 requires even more strategy: whom are you going to pair up with whom to ensure an unstoppable duo?
 
  
  In case you're one of those people who don't have friends (let's just say your "friends" don't 
 have a DS or Pokemon Diamond) , as long as you've got a wireless router or one of those nifty little 
 WiFi USB connectors, you're covered. Diamond has got an awesome online trading and battling system 
 that you're definitely going to want to get into. You can post a Pokemon on the Trading Center 
 and let any potential traders know what you want in return -- come back in a few days, and you'll 
 probably have the Pokemon that you want! Conversely, you can peruse through the posted Pokemon 
 to find ones that you want, and then give the other guy the Pokemon he requests. It's a lot of 
 fun and actually makes catching the ridiculous number of Pokemon a bit more feasible. There's also 
 online battling, which is a lot of fun. Sadly, though, you've got to get those blasted Friend Codes 
 in order to battle online (although trading is done randomly) . Still, there's an excellent voice 
 chat feature for online battling, which is nice and helps to negate the stupid Friend Code requirement.
 
  
  All in all, Pokemon Diamond is a very solid package. The stupid, stale, and uncreative games of 
 yore are being improved upon, and that alone is enough to restore my faith in the Pokemon franchise. 
 While there are some problems with Diamond, you'll likely be able to overlook most, if not all 
 of them, and see Diamond for what it was meant to be: a fun, exciting, and accessible RPG that 
 begins to draw upon the many things that made Pokemon so great to begin with. Chances are you've 
 already picked up this game (or it's sister title, Pearl) , but if you haven't, I'd strongly urge 
 you to pick up a copy when you can. Again, while slightly flawed, it's a really great DS gaming 
 experience that nobody should ignore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game dropped sometime last Spring and I was thinking about not getting it at first because 
 i was "too old," thank God I saw the kid in me, but not like Michael Jackson, and decided to buy 
 the game. It was pretty much like the previous games in the past which is actually a good thing 
 because this franchise followed me since I used sippy cups and had trouble reading, no not five 
 months ago, which shows how good the gameplay is. The new pokemon are cool, especially Turtwig, 
 and the game has a new look to it which helps it a little. Gamespot really hit this review right 
 on and said pretty much everything that I would have said. The game is tremendously long but if 
 you are like me and put it down after getting one or two gyms in pick it back up because it gets 
 so addicting. I probably beat three fourths of the game in four days because it really sucked me 
 in. The sound still, in my opinion, is annoying but honestly i usually don't expect good sound 
 from pokemon games minus a few humorous pokemon sounds, especially the one that sounds like a fart. 
 All in all, if you are an old fan or newcomer this game is awesome because it takes a familiar 
 game adds new twists and makes heroine in the DS form. Since the game is so familiar and Gamespot 
 did a solid review that is all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrn
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Welcome, and thanks, I guess, for reading this, possibly. Anyways, I'll stop boring you and get 
 on with the review.
  
  Pokemon Diamond, simply, is a very short game. Overall, the main storyline took me about 50 hours 
 to complete. Now, I have about 250 hours of play. Guess where those 200 hours came from? WiFi.
 
  
  Pokemon Diamond harbors WiFi, which is awesome in that you can battle people from anywhere else 
 in the world, as long as you both have WiFi. I myself only use Diamond now for WiFi, whether it's 
 for IV breeding, EV training, or battles.
  
  On the downside, both Diamond and Pearl really aren't that fun for more than 100 hours if you don't 
 have a WiFi compatible router or the Nintendo USB connector (which I recommend NOT buying) , unless 
 you're a Battle Tower maniac.
  
  Overall, this new generation of Pokemon depends a lot on its WiFi.
  
  WiFi Score: 9.0 (due 
 to time you can spend in the game and elements that have stayed throughout the generations)
  
  Non-WiFi Score: 6.0 (due to elements that have stayed in the game, but loses points because 
 of its dependence on WiFi capabilities) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond was probably the game that Nintendo put some of the most thought into. With improved 
 graphics and solid gameplay, this is just another pokemon exept with better graphics and a touch 
 screen.
  The touch screen doesn't really do much though. Its just an annoying feature during games. Plus 
 if you're too lazy and have to use the button, this definently was not made for the buttons. It 
 was made for touch and mainly touch. 
  The controls are MOSTLY easy. The D pad moves you, you use B to run, there is a key item you can 
 register, but the Start button isn't the menu button. Now that might be confusing for long-time 
 pokemon fans. You have the option to make the START button your menu button.
  Mainly, gameplay is great and all, plus graphics add on to the fun and enjoyment you will experience 
 while playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokefreak113
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is one of the greatest Pokemon handheld games to date. It delivers the classic 
 adventure that previous generations did, but in a whole new way, with over 100 new Pokemon to collect, 
 trade, and battle with. Very much like Pokemon Gold and Silver, with the storyline, but Gold and 
 Silver were too short, where as Pokemon Diamond has the potential it needs to be among the greatest 
 of the handheld Pokemon games. This one particular game definately scores the same as Pokemon Red 
 and Blue on the fun meter. Pokemon Diamond also allowed you to migrate Pokemon from Ruby, Sapfire, 
 Emerald, FireRed, and LeafGreen. This allowed you to get old Pokemon like Charizard and other region 
 starter Pokemon to the DS itself using the dual-slot function. If you have not bought this game, 
 you must buy it, or it's clone, Pokemon Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl have the same basics as all the other Pokemon games dating back 
 to the earliest ones on the gameboy color. You train little monsters called Pokemon or "Pocket 
 Monsters" and you fight them against other trainers. It may sound pretty bland, but if you haven't 
 played a Pokemon game before you are in for a real treat. The object is to "Catch Em All" and try 
 to become the greatest Pokemon trainer in the world.
  
  As you progress through the game, and go from city to city, you battle gym leaders. Before being 
 able to progress through the game you must defeat these gym leaders. The Pokemon you face get tougher 
 and tougher throughout the game, so you must continually train your Pokemon. There are even Legend 
 Pokemon, which are stronger than all the rest and in some way have influenced the world in some 
 way or another.
  
  For people that have played previous Pokemon games, the new 4th Generation games are no disappointment. 
 There are a total of 493 Pokemon obtainable in the game, and they can all be obtained on Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pokemon Pearl with the new addition of the Pokemon Trade Center, which lets you trade 
 with people worldwide. Along with that addition, there are new moves, abilities, and other features 
 such as the Pal Park. These games also build on previous ideas like the Pokemon Contests.
  
  The storyline is interesting, the new 3-D look of the game looks incredible and the music is 
 tremendous as well. If you are an avid fan of Pokemon or you are looking for a fantastic RPG game 
 then you cannot go wrong with Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Setting and plot
  Diamond and Pearl are set in the region of Sinnoh, which is based upon the Hokkaid prefecture 
 of Japan. Sinnoh is characterized by both mountainous and snow-covered areas, and contains new 
 Pokmon central to the plot.
  
  The game contains 107 new Pokmon and chronicles the adventures of a new Pokmon trainer who strives 
 to become the Pokmon League Champion, collecting and training various species of Pokmon along 
 the way. [3] As do most games in the series, Diamond and Pearl feature eight Pokmon gyms led by 
 Gym Leaders, professional trainers whose expertise lies in a particular Pokmon type. Gym Leaders 
 serve as bosses and reward skilled trainers with badges of merit, key to the advancement of the 
 plot.
  
  
  The playable characters of Pokmon Diamond and Pearl. Diamond and Pearl begin in Twinleaf Town. 
 After viewing a television report about a media-conducted search for a Red Gyarados spotted at 
 a distant lake, the protagonist and his/her rival travel together to check the local lake for a 
 Pokmon like it. They spot Professor Rowan, an expert in Pokmon evolution and his assistant, who 
 is the playable character not selected: Dawn (girl) or Lucas (boy) . After a short discussion the 
 pair exits from the lake, leaving a briefcase behind. When they are attacked by wild Starly, the 
 protagonist and his or her rival examine the case. The player is then given a choice between three 
 Pokmon found in the briefcase, Turtwig, Chimchar or Piplup. After defeating the Starly, Dawn or 
 Lucas retrieve and return the briefcase to the professor. Noticing that a bond has been forged 
 between the young protagonist and his/her chosen Pokmon, Rowan offers it to him/her, asking that 
 he/she embark on a journey and fill his/her Pokdex.
  
  As the plot continues, the protagonist encounters the main antagonist, Team Galactic, although 
 their motives are unclear. (However, as the player progresses through the game, it is made gradually 
 more obvious that the leader, Cyrus, desires to end all life on the world so that he alone can 
 form a more perfect, conflict-less place.) Team Galactic captures Uxie, Azelf and Mesprit, of Sinnoh's 
 three lakes, and imprisons them, making it the player's responsibility to free them. Upon releasing 
 the trio, he/she is able to travel to the sacred shrine atop Mt. Coronet and enter the cave, where 
 the leader of Team Galactic awakens either Dialga, in Diamond, or Palkia in Pearl. Dialga or Palkia's 
 powers begin to overwhelm Sinnoh, causing the newly free Uxie, Azelf, and Mesprit to attempt to 
 stop it. It is then that the player is able to engage in a battle with (and has a chance to capture) 
 the version-appropriate legendary Pokmon.
  
  Having completed this, and after meeting requirements set by the Elite Four, the player is able 
 to contend with them, fighting its members and then the Pokmon League Champion, Cynthia.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azurenotes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond, another new pokemon game on the Nintendo DS. With an all new world to explore, 
 more pokemon, improved graphics and even an online trading system, this game is definitely worth 
 the wait. 
  
  As always, you start off with an option to choose one of a given three pokemon. From then on, you 
 start your journey collecting gym badges, beating other trainers, raising and catching more pokemon 
 in order to build a team. There are plenty of things to do and lots of places to explore.
  
  The addition of more than 100 new pokemon in the game helps spark more interest in choosing 
 a good team for players. With that many pokemon, there are a lot of choices one can make to stabilize 
 their party. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as other pokemon games, but the newest invention -- an online 
 trading and battling system -- will keep players busy. With Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, one can battle 
 and trade their pokemon with other people around the world. 
  
  Overall, Pokemon Diamond is worth playing and is a must have for any Pokemon fan. After all, who 
 doesn't want to meet new pokemon? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'm 15 years old and I never ever ever thought I would get this game. I liked pokemon when 
 I was 6, but now I hardly think of it as something to watch. I played the first 2 pokemon games: 
 Pokemon Red/Yellow and Pokemon Gold. I enjoyed the first game. It was innovative and creative. 
 Then the Gold came along. It all seemed like the same stuff with new stuff that took away from 
 it. Then came along another line of games, but I have no idea what they're even called. Finally, 
 which brings me to this review, comes along Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. I never thought I'd get 
 this game, but my friend had it and I played it and it was fun. I haven't beat this game yet, so 
 I probably shouldn't have wrote this review, because I'm not qualified, but what I've played so 
 far is incredibly fun. It reminds me a lot of the first game. This time, the new content is actually 
 fun and makes the game better rather than worse. I wouldn't say this is better than the original, 
 but it comes pretty close. Being that it's on the DS instead of the gameboy makes it a lot better 
 too. Much better graphics, Intuitive controls, and long hours of fun gameplay. The online wifi 
 makes it a huge prospect because now finally you can trade with people around the globe. You can 
 create an arsenal of pokemon so powerful that very few can withstand. You can also battle online 
 for respect. That's kinda fun too. The only thing they could've done better is add that you can 
 have leagues and stuff that way you can get ranked in a better way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I really loved this game. You start as a no-name guy and end champion. It always starts the same 
 way as the other games on game boy advance so I don't have to explain it to you. As always, you 
 have a rival. When you choose a pokemon, he chooses the one which is super-effective to yours. 
 Some puzzles are very easy and others I had to scratch my head to do them. Online WI-FI is superb! 
 You beat the game and then you just have to go to a specific building and exchange pokemon that 
 you have seen in your pokedex with people around the world! Isnt this insane! There are the normal 
 8 badges to collect then head to the league. The league is very hard if you don't have 2 pokemon 
 whose levels are 60 or higher. But still, it is possible. For the beginning, I recommend you to 
 take piplup (my personal favorite!) His last evolution is so powerful you can't believe it. I won't 
 tell you everything but I'll tell you this: it's a must-have game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorgfanger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  To me, Diamond (And Pearl, same game sans a few pokemon) represent Pokemon at its best : A fun 
 story (nothing too major, just fun) , new challenges, and of course, the classic addicting "Gotta 
 catch 'em all" formula with 493 pokemon.
  I'll repeat that. 493. 493 little, and big, critters to capture and train. That's every pokemon 
 to date, plus the 100+ they added for Diamond and Pearl. I've played for 146 hours, and I still 
 haven't gotten them all yet (I'm close though) .
  Enough of that, review time.
  
  Graphics are 2D and 3D graphics, making your character a fathead. But it makes the world delightfully 
 fresh, and feels like it should, being on the DS.
  Pokemon battles are abound with new attack animations, and new attacks. Otherwise, same old pokemon. 
 But that's not a bad thing necessarily.
  
  Gameplay and controls are the same as before. Gameplay is the classic 'build-a-team and battle 
 it against other trainers' style of play. Leveling up is the same, but with new evolution styles 
 and evolutions, you're in for a surprise, assuming you haven't read online or in a guide of how 
 something evolves.
  Controls are standard DS affair, with a few touch screen options, but nothing major. In that sense 
 it feel a little lacking, but not horribly so.
  
  Story is the same formula since Red/Bue on the original Gameboy : Boy (Or Girl) meets a professor, 
 gets a pokemon, and journeys through the world, fighting gym leaders and the generic bad guys, 
 eventually becoming the champion. While this isn't anything new, it's still plenty of fun. Each 
 gym leader has a strategy, and honestly, this is the most challenging pokemon I've played in a 
 long time.
  
  Returning features from Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald are the Battle tower, where you earn points to buy 
 items and stuff, and a ton of legendary pokemon.
  
  And the coolest feature EVER in pokemon history? Online trading. Seriously, this feature rules. 
 The way it works is this : Get a wi-fi connection, and either go to the Global Trade Center or 
 whatever, and put pokemon up for grabs, or find one that you really want. Or do the better way, 
 and go to www. serebii. net, and go to the wi-fi chat room. In there, you actively trade, like a 
 market, for pokemon, and when you find someone willing to trade, you trade your Friend Codes (Nintendo's 
 safety feature for online use) , and trade away. Now instead of taking forever to find a person 
 in your neighborhood who has a pikachu, you can trade online!
  
  So, with all the cool features explained and whatnot, should I critique this game now? Ok, here 
 it goes.
  Nothing is wrong with this game, and everything is right about it. Good challenge ratio, a massive 
 collection of pokemon, and online trading make this worth the $35 for it. If you have a DS, and 
 don't have pokemon yet, saying "It's for kids" or "Pokemon is dumb", go buy this, and enjoy yourself 
 for the next 146 hours.
  This game is a triumph of Nintendo game genius and simple RPG fun. It's addicting to the point 
 of needing to go to rehab afterwards. This game belongs in every DS owners collection, regardless 
 of age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X_Link10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I am still playing this game to date
  
  To me, the fun never stops. The graphics are incredible, and with 107 new pokemon in the mix, the 
 collection overly grows. This time around, you are either Lucas or Dawn, and you start your adventure 
 in the vast world known as Sinnoh. You do your usual pre-game things, then start the adventure! 
 You and your friend (no longer rivals) begin the adventure looking for the mystical "red gyarados" 
 in the lake beside your hometown. Once, there you meet a professor, and his assistant (the opposite 
 gender) in the grass. From that moment on your adventure begins. An all new story, and many elements 
 inside, will keep you hooked on this game for a very long time. And let's talk bout wi-fi. I think 
 this is the best game with wi-fi yet! with many options such as trading, and 3 options of battles, 
 you can even voice chat with people! A new formula that i think is just great. The gameplay itself 
 is the same old thing that gamers have come to know and love still today.
  
  The only downside to me is that the gameplay is the same old thing (as stated above) and strays 
 nowhere from any elements. Also, there are 3 event pokemon (arceus, shaymin, and darkrai) that 
 will make you search everywhere for events and such, but with the help of mystery girft, it's better. 
 But for people who DON'T have wi-fi, they will have to either hack them, have a friend hack them, 
 go and buy wi-fi, or even search for people who have gotten them (which i have noc lue why they 
 would even think of trading them) .
  
  Besides that though, the game is just like it's preceders, fun, enganging, and a plot that just 
 makes you want to catch 'em all! The game does have it's flaws, but there so tiny, that even a 
 new fan to pokemon would easily look over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeSpiegel92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is well worth playing and if you have yet to try it u should go to the store and buy 
 it immediately. The starters are pretty good and the legendary Pokemon can not be beat. This game 
 could have easily been a 10/10 if they would have made the event Pokemon easier to unlock. The little 
 tricks and unlockables can not be beat however and the game play is exquisite. Even if you have 
 not yet played a Pokemon game then this would be the perfect start for you. There is also a great 
 trading and battling system in place making for hours on end of fun with friends or people half 
 way across the world. Personally I have logged well over 100 hours on this game and I am sure to 
 log many more in the days to come. Also there is a great community of Pokemon fans on this site 
 which can help you with any problem you may encounter during game play. This game is a must have. (= 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wez_hulme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  the game is good and i enjoy playing on it because you don't just do the same thing over and over 
 again you can do lots of stuff. including goin' underground which is good if you don't wan't to 
 battle you can just go into another persons base and steal there flags. also there is one contest 
 hall which has all of the ranks so you don't have to travel all over the place like you had to 
 on ruby and saffire and also the pokemon you can catch are cool and some of them are items like 
 unknown which you can give to some one and they give you letters which you can decorate you ball 
 with. lots of the pokemon you could catch in the hoenn now have more evolutions now such as aipom 
 can now evolve into ambipom which has two tais instead of one. and also the three starter pokemon 
 which are chimchar, piplup and turtwig. i think they are great starter pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janlukky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  gameplay: i find this game it the best one out so far nintendo dusn't miss a beat with these pokemon 
 games. from when they first came out till now. it still follows the same story a trainer travels 
 the world to become master and during the travels he/she saves the world. starting from one of 
 the versons up to now we can choose gender. through pal park we don't have to leave our favorite 
 team behind we can just carry them over using the GBA slot on the DS
  
  story: Standard pokemon story... has great new pokemon to use 
  
  
  graphic: i find this better 
 than the last one what more can you ask for
  
  sound: though i don't usually use volume i find myself using sound for this one and one of the 
 GBA versons ruby
  
  overall: i find a big protental for this one and Pearl mainly because of some of its Features wi-fi 
 and if you have the pokemon battle Revolution for wii, it is even better online duels using your 
 favorite team in 3-D!
  5/5
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is the most addictive video game I've ever played. With 493 Pokemon (107 of the 
 493 Pokemon are new in this one.) , an all new storyline and adventure, new Wi-Fi features, and 
 a baseline of forty hours of game play, you really can't go wrong with this purchase. 
  
  Pokemon Diamond starts off as all the other Pokemon video games have started off. You start off 
 with either a Fire Pokemon (Chimchar) , a grass Pokemon (Turtwig) , or a water Pokemon (Piplup) . 
 Then you embark on a journey to earn eight badges, beat the Elite Four and the Elite Four champion, 
 and maybe even complete your PokeDex. On the way, you will encounter Team Galatica. They will slow 
 down your journey by battling you and wreaking havoc over the town you are in. Team Galatica is 
 mostly searching for the Pokemon of Time, Diagla. The storyline explains what they want, and it 
 isn't really all that deep. The storyline is decent, but it hasn't improved at all over the past 
 nine years. 
  
  The new Wi-Fi feature isn't implemented as well as it could have been, and it could've been improved 
 upon. Other than that, this video game has very few flaws. Some of the sound effects can get on 
 your nerves, the storyline isn't anything new, and some of the graphics seem recycled from the 
 GameBoy Advance versions, but there are very few other flaws. 
  
  If you didn't like the other Pokemon video games, then you probably won't like this, but it's worth 
 giving a shot. The series hasn't gone through a dramatic change, and as long as you can accept 
 that fact, you'll find a lot of entertainment from Pokemon Diamond. And you will be playing it 
 long after you beat the Elite Four and the Elite Four Champion. 
  
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
  Review created on April 28, 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteel13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and pokemon pearl was a hard choice to get. The hard choice was which one was going 
 to be better i knew that they had the same pokemon inside but it mattered about the front cover 
 pokemon and at the end i ended up choosing Diamond.
  
  Storyline-
  Everyone by now should know every pokemon story and this game has the same storyline but has some 
 diferent things. This game is set in Sinnoh and has new Pokemon and Characters.
  
  GYMS-
  The first 3 Gyms in the game i found the Easiest and then after it started to get harder which 
 was good because i did not want to complete it very quickly. I will tell you the order of type of 
 pokemon the Gym leaders will have so when you face them you will know what to do, the first gym 
 type is Rock type, next is grass, next one is flying type, next is water type,, next is ghost type, next 
 is steel type, next is ice type and last is electric type, so there you are all the gym types so 
 dont loose after that hint i gave you all.
  
  Battles-
  Battles are the same as uasual but you can do doubles and stuff like that. You can catch pokemon 
 as uasual ,which is still fun and you can train your pokemon to any level. The best thing in pokemon 
 is battling.
  
  What i think about the game-
  This game has to be the finist pokemon so far and has the best gameplay in it. I am glad i chose 
 Diamond but i dont know i liked diamond better than pearl even though i have never played that 
 one before. This game is far bettter than the other ones.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon, is a solid RPG, a great adventure. Its a game that almost every game would have played, 
 completed over and over again when they were younger. But the same kind of gameplay and repetive 
 fight system from the previous titles becomes boring after sometime.
  
  It has a new story and adventure, plus many more pokemons. But isnt that what every new Pokemon 
 title has? It has been the same pattern since the Pokemon Red/Blue era. Which was, many years ago. 
 We are DS now, DUAL SCREEN. i mean yes, we get new controls and all.. but the new controls simply 
 lacklustre, it's only touch screen. And every thing else is the same.
  
  After Pokemon Ranger came out, I'd expect something more different. maybe something more DS like. 
 So, last to conclude, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is actually the same old thing over again. Not 
 exactly something you will expect from a DS title of Pokemon, especially when it's the first title 
 for the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheavydrinker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Pokemon. Everyone knows what it is, so there's no point in me rambling about "catching them all" 
 or how the game is played. Some people think Pokemon is a "kids game", but in fact, not many kids 
 play the series anymore (since the original targeted audience is much older now) , so it's strange 
 to see how much effort was put into this game.
  
  With Generation 3, Pokemon changed its path. I will admit, Red+Blue and Gold+Silver must've been 
 targeted toward the same audience since Gold+Silver was more fleshed out and had a slightly more 
 mature main theme than the originals, but it was still accessible to newbies.
  
  With Ruby/Sapphire (also known as Generation 3) , Nintendo tried to simplify things by making battles 
 much faster and less strategic (some moves did insane amounts of damage) , causing defensive strategies 
 to be rendered useless. They also got rid of the Day/Night cycles taking the strategy out of catching 
 Pokemon.
  
  With Diamond and Pearl, Nintendo has looked to rectify every problem with the Third Generation... 
 And they did a fantastic job.
  
  Granted, Diamond and Pearl are based on the third games (this is obvious when Pokemon from the 
 Third Gen can be transferred over) . What they did, however is added two types to moves "Physical" 
 and "Special." This tweak caused some Pokemon that were borderline rigged in the third generation 
 to fall down, and it added more strategy to a series that had become a game about speed.
  
  While, Strategically, the game is refined (with type-effectiveness getting a couple of subtle tweaks) , 
 some imbalance does exist, but most of it can be overcome due to the massive amount of added TMs. 
 Some attacks let you actually swap your main stats- allowing you to turn the tables if someone 
 else's Pokemon is stronger (imagine that) .
  
  Also, moves that were abused in Generation 2 have been weakened like Double Team and Baton Pass. 
 Pokemon with Keen Eye are able to be accurate no matter what, and attacks like sweet scent lower 
 accuracy.
  
  Speaking of Keen Eye, every Pokemon has their own special ability now- basically a buff that makes 
 them different. An example is Staravia having Intimidate which lowers the attacks of enemies.
 
  
  The music is superb in this game. In fact, it's one of the better video game soundtracks I've ever 
 heard. I guess Nintendo realized from the terrible R/S soundtracks, that music is, in fact, important 
 because there was a ton of effort put in this time- towns even have alternate music for each time 
 of day!
  
  I'm sure you all know that this game is online, but I'll mention it anyway. Yes, it's friend codes 
 only if you want to voice chat, but there is random battles/trades.
  
  The plot behind this game is the same you know for the past (10?) years, but this time it is executed 
 extremely well. Not to spoil anything, but it might have the most interactive plot in the series.
 
  
  Oh, speaking of the past years of the series. Nintendo/Game Freak finally realized that they should 
 target this game toward original fans. The game definitely doesn't take itself seriously. People 
 will use phrases like "I got owned" "... served" and "A Winner is You. hmm... something people the 
 age of Pokemon's originally intended audience might pick up on, but not kids nowadays.
  
  This game is incredibly charming and you'll love the characters almost as much as the Red/Blue 
 ones (which is hard for me to say because I'll always have a place in my heart for Brock, Misty, 
 Surge, Giovanni, and Blane) .
  
  Oh, yeah, they also went overboard with minigames. Poffins, contests, gambling, underground CTF, 
 you name it. There's so much to do. Doing everything this game has to offer will take you longer 
 than "gettin' to 60" in WoW (I'm not kidding) - and unlike that said game, Pokemon is never tedious 
 or boring [except when a sandstorm rages or rain continues to fall] .
  
  With all that being said- there are some very minor annoyances and disappointments. Some Pokemon 
 weren't rebuffed (so no one's gonna use poor Shuckle) , and like I said two sentences ago, battle 
 effects are annoying because they keep letting you know that "rain continues to fall." Touch screen 
 control is spotty as well- you can only navigate some menus with it. I don't care about that, but 
 when looking through the Pokedex, you need to use it to select what filter you use. The problem 
 lies that sometimes you're required to use it and sometimes you can't. Why not just let us use 
 only buttons? Let me stress that these annoyances are extremely minor.
  
  In Conclusion, this is an amazing game. the subtle 3d effects blend in really nicely, but this 
 seems to be the last-hurrah for Pokemon. Everything that this game could've accomplished with its 
 2D style has been done in Diamond and Pearl. Worry not, this is a worthy way to end a historic, 
 influential, and brilliant franchise- no matter what age you are, you will love Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefanx12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  WOAH! That's the word I'd pick if I had to sum this game up in one word. I have been a Pokemon 
 fanatic ever since I was 4 years old, its sort of a family thing, my 2 older cousins, my lil bro, 
 my dad and I all play just like we have been for years, and let me just tell you, this game is 
 the absolute best in the whole Pokemon franchise. The only thing that caused me to give it a 9.5 
 instead of a perfect 10 was the lil fact of not being able to battle random people online, since 
 the battle tower is not actually live people, its just like the secret bases in earlier games. 
 Other than that, they have SOOOOOO many new things its mind boggling, the GTS (Global Trade System) 
 being the best, its almost like an auction for Pokemon world wide, you put up a Pokemon and what 
 Pokemon you want in return, then come back in a few hours/days, They also have a much more in depth 
 story line in my opinion (and a smarter enemy team for that matter, They've come a long way Since 
 Jessie and James of Team Rocket) . As well as those things they also added over 100 new Pokemon 
 making the Grand total to be roughly 503. The music is also good in this game, especially the game 
 corner. All in all, if you're a Pokemon fan, get it, If your not, this is a great time to become 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Pokmon diamond and pearl are the latest Pokmon Games from Nintendo and the first true Pokmon 
 game on the DS.
  
  In Pokmon you play as a boy or girl Pokmon Trainer and try to become the best Pokmon trainer 
 in the world. Being the first Pokmon game on the DS Pokmon Diamond/Pearl takes advantage of the 
 DS's Touch Screen and Wi-Fi capabilities. You can use Wi-Fi To battle and trade over the internet 
 To battle and trade with someone you have to have there friend code. To trade with out friend codes 
 you can put you're Pokmon up in an eBay style trade area where you can place your own Pokmon 
 and specify what Pokmon and what Level, gender ECT. The touch screen is used in two ways one is 
 for Poke aps and the other is for Berry making. Poke aps are little gadgets that go on the touch 
 screen, The Poke aps uses range from telling the time, a step counter and more. Berries are items 
 use use in Pokmon contests ( I will touch on that later ) you can now use the touch screen to 
 make them but this is only spinning circles on the touch screen.
  In teams of game play Pokmon has not changed much in the last 10 or so years you battle using 
 your Pokmon against other Pokmon and have them fight till one is left standing. if you played 
 Pokmon Ruby/Sapphire you will remember Pokmon contests where you show off you Pokmon in contests 
 to win prizes the contests are mildly amusing but are not nearly as prominent as the battles. The 
 story in Pokmon Diamond/Pearl ( or lack there of ) is largely the same as still have a rival through 
 the game and you still have to take down Evil villains that use Pokmon for EVIL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. 
 Pokmon Diamond and Pokmon Pearl have next to no differences the differences are
  
  
  SLIGHTLY different Pokmon ( that is all )
  Time wise with Pokmon D/P your millage may vary 
 if you just want to beat the elite 4 you will be done in about 20-35 hours if you want to do everything 
 that will take 400+ hours.
  
  To wrap things up pokemon D/P is still a solid and fun game but if you want a big change to the 
 series this is not it. But if you want a great portable RPG lock no further 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samslayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon games are very interesting to me. They all play the exact same, with very few changes to 
 the gameplay. This is okay though, I do not play Pokemon games for the gameplay, I play because 
 they are fun, easy, and enjoyable. I love developing characters in games, and Pokemon Diamond is 
 another installment that allows me to develop an almost limitless amount of characters. I think 
 it is great that Pokemon evolve and change as they gain levels. It is so gratifying when one of 
 your trainees reaches that level to evolve. The downsides to this game are the usual for Pokemon 
 games. The plot itself is dry and really is to easy in general. Again though, this game to built 
 more for a younger crowd and I have to be able to live with that. If you are looking for a game 
 that has deep story line, with a decent amount of challenge, don't get this game. However, if you 
 are looking for a game where you can pick it up every few days play a bit and set it down this 
 game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cat333Pokemon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  I went into my local Game Crazy on release day to pick up my reserved copy. I had been excited 
 for 8 months for the new Pokmon gems, Diamond and Pearl, for the Nintendo DS. I came home and 
 played Pokmon for hours on end. The next school week, nearly everyone with a DS had at least one 
 copy of the game-and this is high school!
  
  Story: 8/10
  The story has been the same since the original Red and Green. You start out in a small town and 
 must travel all over the new Sinnoh region to become the champion and catch 'em all!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  These are definitely the best Pokmon games yet! There are 493 monsters to catch, 
 eight badges to obtain, and an entire world (the real world) of trainers to battle! In the beginning 
 of the game, you receive one of three starters: Turtwig, Chimchar, or Piplup. You journey out into 
 the world, train and capture Pokmon, battle trainers, build a base, enter contests, trade friends, 
 and much, much more! Welcome to the world of Pokmon. At the core, this game is just like the others, 
 but it is far more in depth.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  For a DS game, this game has average graphics. The overworld looks AWESOME in 3D, but unfortunately 
 all the Pokmon are still simple sprite images. However, even though this game is filled with sprites, 
 it still looks top-notch. In-battle moves look beautiful and smooth, transitions are elegant, and 
 there are small graphics-related surprised just about everywhere in the game.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  There are hundreds of sound effects in the game. Every Pokmon has a (almost) unique 
 cry. There are lots of sounds for the various moves that the Pokmon use.
  
  Music: 10/10
  In my opinion, this game has the best music of all the Pokmon games. There are 
 so many awesome battle themes. The route themes are great and give the experience of going to a 
 new area. The music fits the mood perfectly most of the time. You might even stand around in an 
 area just to hear the great tunes this game has to offer. I almost always play with the sound on.
 
  
  Touch screen features: 9/10
  The touch screen, one of the key features of the DS, improves battling tenfold! Instead of using 
 the clunky buttons, you can simply tap options on the touch screen. The onscreen buttons are pretty 
 large, as well, so those with big thumbs can still use it. The touch screen can be used for the 
 entire battle or to operate the Poktch. The Poktch is an in-game watch-like accessory. It sits 
 on the bottom screen once you get to a certain point in the game. It's a pretty handy item with 
 interesting options. It has a clock, timer, Pokmon status bars, pedometer, and quite a few more 
 add-ons! There are a number of other touch screen features, such as the Underground and fossil 
 hunting.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  This was one of the original reasons why Pokmon was created. You can trade and battle with your 
 friends without any annoying link cables. Some newer features include the ability to communicate 
 and share data with your friends.
  
  Wi-Fi: 9/10
  One of the best features of the game, Wi-Fi allows you to connect over the Internet with just about 
 anyone else with a copy of either Diamond or Pearl. You're required to have a friend code to battle 
 or do a direct trade, but there is also the fully open Global Trade Station, which you can find 
 at pokemon-gts. com. There are plenty of opportunities to snag rare Pokmon, get someone else's 
 Pokmon, and get rid of unnecessary Pokmon. There are lots of possibilities online.
  
  Play time: 10/10
  This is one of the key features that all Pokmon games have. After you "beat" 
 the game, you're far from finished. This is one of those games that you can easily get over 100 
 hours on, and for diehard fans, over 1,000! That's just because there's so much to do to keep you 
 coming back. After beating the game, you can take on the Battle Tower challenge, continue to hunt 
 down the rest of the elusive Pokmon, and re-battle in-game trainers. Oh, you can always train 
 up new Pokmon to become level 100 battlers and go up against all your friends. I played Pearl 
 for four months straight (then I bought Diamond) ; that just shows how great it is!
  
  Replayability: 8/10
  Unfortunately, all Pokmon games have that infamous single file. If you 
 want to play again, you'll have to buy a second copy or erase your already-existing file. Most 
 people who have played for hundreds of hours usually won't want to do that, so the best option 
 would be to get a copy of the version you don't have.
  
  Final: 10/10
  This is such an awesome game that just about anyone will like. (Even people that hate Pokmon will 
 play this!) This game is so in depth, yet so simple that just about anybody can play it. Casual 
 players can just zip through the main storyline, while hardcore players can slowly go through, 
 meticulously training Pokmon to overly-excessive levels at early points in the game. This is one 
 of those games that don't really depreciate until the next generation comes out. Have at it! Just 
 about everyone plays it, so you don't really have to worry about being ashamed of playing it in 
 public. The age range on this game is everywhere from 5-year-olds to seniors.
  
  Buy/Rent/Emulate/No: BUY!
  You have a DS but you don't have a DS?! Get out there and buy yourself 
 a copy! Emulation for the DS is pretty terrible and will be for a while, and renting is just plain 
 stupid.
  
  Quote
  Pokmon: Gotta catch 'em all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I was excited upon hearing the release of Pokemon Diamond & Pearl. I chose to play Diamond though.
 
  
  Starting of with Piplup my adventure started. Great to finally choose a gender, it was getting 
 pretty boring to just be a boy with the hat on. So little girl on adventure with Piplup.
  
  All went fun & well. I love the fact I got to run all over the place, instead of walking slowly. 
 The intro is still too long and I wish to skip it, the same goes for the people you have to talk 
 with. 
  
  Effects were no doubt good, huge improvement. No complaints about the graphics.
  
  Somehow, 
 the pokemon game seemed to get easier compared to red/blue etc etc. Or is it just me, that I'm 
 used to playing Pokemon games & know how the things actually go?
  
  Eventually. I finally finally got to the Pokemon League. And I stopped playing. I guess at that 
 point I thought of giving up. Somehow I didn't get excited about the game anymore & I have neglected 
 the game. (Even let my sis delete the file, so she could start her own adventure) .
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game was fun. They had the game corner (gamble, gamble) and a new thing 
 called Poffin House (cooking, cooking) . So some little games besides it, which relieves the stress 
 you had after defeating some Gym Leaders & the bad guys.
  
  Definitely worth playing!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: 3D environments. Over 100 new Pokemon. You can transfer your Pokemon from your GBA game 
 to your DS game card. Online play.
  
  The Bad: Online play has some unnecessary constraints. The formula is EXACTLY the same as it was 
 since Generation I. Graphics are mostly 2D, and the Pokemon sprites don't look much better (in 
 some cases worse) than the GBA games. The new Pokemon are horribly unintriging. The unforgivably 
 sluggish pacing of battles takes some time getting used to.
  
  --
  
  Essentially more of the same, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is a sequel of sorts to the monster Pokemon 
 franchise. While the formula remains completely unchanged (even after a decade) , there are plenty 
 of new Pokemon and new features to keep Pokefanatics busy for quite some time.
  
  Sadly, this generation of Pokemon RPGs has got to be the weakest yet. What made earlier games in 
 the series so great were the adorable and exciting new Pokemon. There are hardly ANY Pokemon in 
 this generation (if any) that I actually like. Even the event Pokemon Darkrai, Shaymin and Arceus 
 look really, really, REALLY... bland, and NONE of the legendaries in this game could hold a candle 
 to the sheer coolness of those from previous generations (such as Mew, Lugia, Celebi and the legendary 
 dogs) .
  
  While there are some significant enhancements which make the Pokemon games even more accessible 
 than ever, sadly this games simply feels like a heartless cash-in on the popular franchise. Not 
 to say it's a bad game, but it's a far cry from the nostalgic value and replayability of previous 
 games in the series. I have very fond memories of my experiences with the Red/Blue, Gold/Silver 
 (and to a far lesser extent) and Ruby/Sapphire games, but this game was extremely forgettable, 
 as you can't shake off the feeling of deja vu considering how similar this game was to previous 
 titles in the series.
  
  You begin the game in yet another miniscule town without any noteworthy monuments, and you and 
 your rival embark on a short journey in pursuit of the Red Gyarados from G/S/C only to be ambushed 
 by Starlys. And... surprise surprise... a new professor seems to have left behind his briefcase, 
 which just happened to contain three new starter Pokemon, each one embodying one of the three core 
 starter types (Grass/Water/Fire) . I thought the starters in this generation were the blandest yet, 
 and I chose Piplup as it was the only cute/cool one of the three.
  
  Once again, you begin the game as a n00b Pokemon trainer who is in the running to challenge the 
 Pokemon league. There are 8 new gym leaders, and yet another Pokemon League challenge to muster. 
 And no Pokemon game would be complete without a team of antagonists (in this case, Team Galactic) .
 
  
  Battles are almost exactly the same as they were before. Turn-based with no sprite animations in 
 battles (apart from the two-frame introductory animation that was introduced in Pokemon Crystal) , 
 however, some subtle changes have been made to battles (such as new physical/special/other moves) , 
 and some alterations to some familiar moves (for instance, the move surf now affects ALL Pokemon 
 in a 2-on-2 battle, except the user) .
  
  The online portion of the game is a huge letdown for me. While the GTS (Global Trade Station) is 
 nicely implemented, it's a huge bummer that players can only battle with those registered in their 
 "pal pads" (rather than being randomly assigned an opponent who meets a certain criteria) . For 
 that reason, I've avoided online battling as it's a headache I'd rather do without. Trading also 
 takes forever as I had to sit through a completely superfluous 30-second long animation EVERY time 
 I traded. Why Gamefreak would want to test our patience like this is beyond me. I've noticed an 
 increased sluggishness with each and every generation of Pokemon, so I'd hate to imagine how much 
 worse it would be come next generation.
  
  All in all, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl was an enjoyable game while it lasted, and it should provide 
 players with over 100+ hours of gameplay for those who are in pursuit of "catching them all", although 
 more casual players will only be find themselves playing for around 30-50 hours, which isn't bad 
 in and of itself. Of course the game would be over much quicker if the game had not been so damn 
 sluggish.
  
  If Gamefreak expects the series to wow fans over the years to come, they need to abandon the formula 
 of the RPGs and try something a little different. I'm getting a little bored playing the same game 
 with a few superficial upgrades over 3 years. Even a new story would be a nice change of pace.
 
  
  Graphics - 7
  Good, but it's not much of an improvement over previous games in the series. Initially, I was expecting 
 a 3D game. Maybe next generation.
  
  Sound - 7
  The new Pokemon cries sound really nice, although the cries of the earlier 380 or so Pokemon have 
 been recycled from the GB/GBC/GBA games, so expect the older Pokemon to sound... well, crappy.
 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay is as addictive as ever, albeit the game isn't nearly as memorable as previous games 
 in the series.
  
  Value - 9
  With over 40 hours of gameplay, and over 100 hours for those playing online and/or in pursuit of 
 "catching them all", this game is a good buy.
  
  Tilt - 5
  Same old, same old. This game doesn't really bring anything new to the series at all. You'll have 
 a much better time playing the Gameboy oldies.
  
  Overall Rating : 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xavilt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Playing it is very interesting, I'm really addicted to it. And after beating the Pokemons Alliance, 
 a long time need to be spent to fight in the battle tower and collect all the 493 pokes. However 
 the plot is a little short .And it has few changes from the previous versions. So some friends of 
 mine said that the game isn't greative at all. And it isn't classic as the Ruby/Sapphire Version. Also 
 on the DS platform, it doesn't use much of the touch screen which will reduce much fun. And the interact 
 with previous versions is a little cumbersome. As far as I'm concerned, it is still a good game 
 which is worth spending much time on it .Since it is a Pokemon Game ,just enjoy the fun of collecting 
 and battling.
  
  
  At last, I'm a Chinese High school student and my English is very poor, forgiven my distant language 
 please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, as I usually say when you turn on the game you think the graphics are wonderful. I love the 
 3-d effect, but the biggest upgrade i reckon is the difference between the old gba pokemon games 
 graphics and the pokemon diamond graphics it doen't even compare. I'm very surprised about how 
 they've changed the game since the gba i think all the new parts to the game (all new contests, 
 lots more to do after the pokemon league) really changed the game although there were a couple 
 of let downs. Firstly the wifi connection takes so long and if you don't have the right settings 
 on your router it's not easy to change all the settings. Secondly, I believe the elite four were 
 far to easy; compare it to firered/leafgreen there is a level 75 and this game barely has a level 
 60! The music is a fairly good upgrade with some music from older games having a new sound to them 
 ( although i believe they were better how they were) . It is really hard to get your pokedex completed 
 not that it really matters after all you have done. This is one really good game definitely worth 
 looking at and definitely the best pokemon ever to be made so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ploomp89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  this game was a decent one in the fact that the graphics where good, they introduced wifi for both 
 battleing and tradeing worldwide, and yet a new 100 or so pokemon although me being a fan of back 
 when red and blue exsisted the game that impacted on me the most was pokemon SILVER and GOLD because 
 not only did they introduce new pokemon it gave the customers of pokemon to go to yet another region. 
 when i say this and i belive alot of other people that are FANS of pokemon will agree game freak 
 need to make the same effort as they did with gold and silver to create a bigger image for themselves 
 like square enix . If anyone from gamefreak read this i hope to god you do, make a gold and silver 
 remake but in future MAKE THE NEW GAME DIFFERENT!!!!, new battle system, actual battles in contests 
 like in the show, pokemon movments rather then the intro movement for anyone who reads this that 
 is what it lacks. I once tried to convince a friend to play pokemon dimond as it consisted of wifi 
 and that it would be fun and easyer to trade. His words to me was" what makes it different from 
 all the other ones eg battle gym lvl up and become a pokemon legue champion" he made a good point 
 and this pokemon game isnt much different from that so as a fan im a little dissapointed although 
 the wifi and graphics made it that little bit different but as a fan if they make a new regon make 
 it differnt gamefreak please overall fun game good for wifi and such cheers.
  
  i have added somthing to this review, i gave it extra points because id did have an impact on me 
 its a must have but it still needed a few more ajustments for it to get a perfect 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elpio_Brazil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, nintendo's popular monster capturing series makes its first entrie on the Nintendo DS. However, 
 has the series evolved enough to appeal to DS gamers?
  Graphics-7/10
  When I first booted up the game, I was surprised to see how simplistic the graphical presentation 
 was. Navigation-wise, the graphics were just simple sprites with simpler 3d elementes. When in battle, 
 there arent many differences from the past gba games: stale sprites fighting one another. It just 
 doesnt feel natural. Generally, it wont be a significant issue, but sometimes, I couldnt Help but 
 to feel the battles were elaborated on an outdated version of Flash.
  Sound-6/10
  The sound also follows the standard for simple presesntation: the tunes are all 16-bit (and mostly 
 recycled from previous games) . Worse, the pokemon cries are gameboy quality (I checked the original 
 GB games; there is little difference) .
  Gameplay-9/10
  The gameplay in Pokemon D/P is easy, and it works partircurlarly well. The batlles are classic 1on 
 1 turn-based affairs, and navigating is simple and easy ,in a good way. However, there is a lot more 
 depht in this game than meets the eye. Those who are willing to invest time and play competitively 
 will find a lot to do between bulding an efficient team, leveling up an effort valuing their pokemon, 
 and finding the perfect nature for each. This is game that is equally enjoyabe for the casual and 
 hardcore gamer alike.
  Replay-10/10
  Possibly the only good thing that came from leaving a game virtually unchanged for so long is the 
 accumulated content crammed into the game card. you can catch over 300 pokemon in this game, over 
 100 of witch are brand new. Online play adds quite a few hours of fun, and catching them all will 
 keep you busy for months, though a few are only obtainable through importing from the gba games 
 or trading with someone that has the opposite version.
  Overall- 8.5 /10 (not an average)
  Pokemon diamond and pearl remain great gamers for experts and newcomers alike, despite all of the 
 recycled content and the similarity to past games of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewilyranger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  As a player of the Pokmon series since Pokmon red, blue, and yellow I had very high expectations 
 of this game, while Pokmon Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald were good games it just seemed to be missing 
 something that the previous titles in the series had, however Pokmon Diamond exceeded my expectations 
 of what I thought the game was going to be, this game is amazing. There are plenty of the reasons 
 why this game is great but mainly is the reason that many of the elements of the other Pokmon 
 games are placed into Diamond, for example the lottery contest from Pokmon Gold, Silver, and Crystal 
 have returned, also after obtaining the VS Seeker you can battle many of the trainers you have 
 faced earlier in the game, also after obtaining the National Pokedex you can capture most of the 
 Pokmon from the all the Pokmon series, and many can be obtained by inserting Pokmon Ruby, Sapphire 
 or Emerald, however many of the legendary Pokmon from the previous series can only be obtained 
 at Pokmon events or by using a Pro Action Replay. As for gameplay it is standard for the Pokmon 
 series you can choose one of three starting Pokmon a fire, water, or grass Pokmon but these three 
 Pokmon are different than the other three starters in the series, they evolve at different levels 
 and have different second types for example the water Pokmon when it reaches its final evolution 
 gets steel added on for its Pokmon type, and as usual you can build a line up of six critters 
 of your choosing, and the main goals of the game are of course to catch all the Pokmon which after 
 upgrading your Pokedex is around 480 but instead of having to catch all 150 Pokmon to get the 
 National Pokedex all you have to do is see them, of course you have a rival and battle a evil crime 
 organization. While the game is a standard Pokmon game it is one of the best in the Pokmon series, 
 for any fans of the Pokmon series it is a must buy, but if you are new to the series this is a 
 great entry level for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itfc53
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Pokmon Diamond was the initial reason why I bought a Nintendo DS.
  
  I've been playing these games for quite a few years now (excluding games like Pokmon Stadium, 
 Pokmon Snap etc.) and I have greatly enjoyed every minute I have spent playing each game.
  
  Therefore my expectations were high for this game. I was just hoping that the step up to the 
 DS was smooth and not too ambitious (i. e. I hoped that they wouldn't make a mess of touch-screen 
 controls etc.) .
  
  I thought what they needed was a good solid base to build on and I think they've achieved that 
 with Pokmon Diamond and Pearl.
  
  The game's main strengths include the usual; addictiveness, longevity and pure fun. Also the graphics 
 are clear, crisp and colourful just the way I like to see a Pokmon game. Also the game has great 
 replayability as the game changes depending on which Pokmon you start out with and, at about 35-40 
 hours of main story to get through, you get over 100 hours of play just from getting through the 
 story with each starter. So you're already getting a lot of bang for your buck.
  
  However, as with anything in life, there are a couple of drawbacks. 
  
  The first thing I noticed 
 was the lack of variety of Pokmon you can battle and catch inside the game itself (i. e. excluding 
 trades and battles over wi-fi) . The epitome of this being that the only fire Pokmon that can be 
 obtained in the game are the starter Chimchar (and its evolutions) and Ponyta (and its evolution) . 
 Also in the gyms you seem to battle the same Pokmon over and over. Also I believe that the touch-screen 
 could've been put to better use but, to be honest I'm just glad that they didn't try too much with 
 the touch-screen besides now they can observe how touch-screen controls can be perfectly incoroprated 
 into games such as in LoZ: Phantom Hourglass.
  
  My final gripe is just that the game is a bit too easy however I understand that Nintendo has to 
 cater for its large market of young gamers.
  
  Overall, I believe Pokmon Diamond and Pearl to be an absolutely essential purchase for Nintendo 
 DS owners, regardless of age, along with the likes of Dr Kawashima's Brain Training and Legend 
 of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. Also the game is, without question, worth double its price tag because 
 of the 100s and 100s of hours of play that you can get out of it.
  
  So, why are you still reading this? Go out and buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Being a Pokemon fan since Red and Blue, Diamond and Pearl were among the list of my most anticipated 
 games of 2007, I'm glad to say they didn't disappoint. Where some will criticize the game for being 
 the same old Pokemon, it would disappoint millions of fans if they changed wouldn't it. Why stop 
 a winning formula that breaks sales records every time a new game is released. Even though it is 
 the same old Pokemon many new features and old favorites have been added to the mix. The old favorite 
 clock system disappointed so many people when it was left out of the third generation but now its 
 back and better than ever. The majority of new features improve the game like going underground 
 and the GTS. Alas some of the new features were not quite as great as hoped for but nothing can 
 be perfect. The best thing though is how much there is to do, the story took me 40 hours and I'm 
 now up to about 180 hours. There's just so much to do in this game. Overall this game lives up 
 to the huge amount of hype it had to live up to and improved on the Pokemon formula, but throughout 
 the whole game there just felt like there was something missing. It may just be me growing out 
 of the Pokemon games but who knows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRiley13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Hi everybody i'm going to review Pokemon diamond along with my friend Flygon and Salamence. Ha 
 jk. This game takes place in a town called Twinleaf town and it really take place for a character 
 name dawn but u know how it is for every pokemon game u get to be a boy or a girl. lol. Anyway There 
 are 2 different kinds of pokedex the sinnoh and the national in which the national has all in one. 
 There are 493 pokemon u could catch in the game but it will be super hard so good luck. I will 
 go simple for this review. It's a fantastic game so bye people. Oh Flygon and Salamence says bye 
 too. hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanquail57
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game is great, Pokemon Pearl is very addicting, and allows you to play in a wide world, with 
 great graphics for the DS, the story is compelling, and there will be different pokemon depending 
 on which game you get. So it's best to get both, this game will have you playing for hours to no 
 end, and you will enjoy every bit of it, it may get stressful at times, but in the end this game 
 is worth the 30 bucks, it also has a great online play, where you can add friends, trade, chat, 
 and battle in pokemon modes. This game has a lot too it, many extras, and a lot of cool tricks, 
 and pokemon to find, as well as legendaries, which are really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mag3stic5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  It seems just when they run out of ideas, they come up with new pokemon, and it never gets boring 
 cause everytime they come out with a new pokemon game the games get better and better. By far this 
 game series has proved to the gaming community that no matter how old you are or how hardcore you 
 are that you can always go back to the younger days and pick this game up and enjoy it.
  Alot of new futures come with this game from the online battling, trading, and the actuion center. 
 The games comes equiped with alot of new pokemon plus some old ones, if you dont have this game 
 yet then your missing out of something spectacular.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like pokemon alot, so I decided to give this one a try.
  This game's fun! I liked it, I don't know what to say more, I like to combine my stratedgy skill 
 with it.
  The controls are easy
  The sound and music are great
  The battling part, has improved ALOT, and it looks great
  The game play is fun
  This game gets 
 fun when battling with a friend or playing someone on wifi, they are smart. The battle tower and 
 wifi friend battle are different, battle tower is harder. You can also trade online, which is cool.
 
  you can trade friend codes at gamefaqs. com.
  I've played alot, battle alot, I got pretty tired, but this is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icemanxxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Good Story After all its pretty long and when it is clocked you can allways play on wi 
 fi with your mates or other people around the world you can trade you pokemon over the internet 
 and the touch screen adds more bonus. Game Takes Up To Atleast 20-40 hours to clock All New Pokemon 
 Added Into and more new legendry pokemon whats awesome as.
  
  Gameplay 9.7/10
  
  Graphics: Are Great For a Ds Game The Battle Scenery Looks Great the pokemon in it look good to 
 whats good but when you run around you still that small little person but yea it doesnt matter 
 this one in 3D It Makes The Housers look better n buildings.
  
  Graphics 9.4
  
  Sound: The battle attack sounds pretty good with every attack but some attacks are the same sound 
 but i doesnt reall matter the music pretty good but then again it does repeat but still good.
 
  
  Sound 9.6
  
  Ending Comment: Games Pretty Good It Updated Hugely From The Other Games.
  
  Over all 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreversai
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is quite a good improvement over the other games, even though i personally 
 had expected more.
  
  Gameplay is still the good old solid Pokemon style, with you as the main character travelling to 
 defeat each gym for all the badges, collecting and training up your pokemon on the way, and finally 
 challenging the EliteFour & Champion, and then some new areas are unlocked for more exploration.
 
  And of course, anyone who know a bit of Pokemon will know that it doesnt end there, as the greatest 
 aspect of the game has always been trading and battling with other players.
  This is where the Wifi and wireless feature of the Nintendo DS comes into play. With those features, 
 players can finally battle without the need of a troublesome cable-link, and the ability to go 
 wifi means that you can battle or trade with anyone around the world, as long as you have an access 
 point nearby.
  The Wifi feature together with the forums or messageboards on the internet makes the perfect combination, 
 making Pokemon the way it should have been.
  
  Some changes and additions have been made to the game itself, and that is the change of skills 
 to be grouped into Physical and Special. Now moves like HyperBeam are Special attacks and make 
 use of the Special Attack/Defense stats when calculating damage. 
  This actually makes more sense in some moves, but it changes how people make up their movesets 
 for their Pokemon. An example would be Hitmonchan being good with the ElementalPunches, since they 
 are now Physical and make use of the Attack stats.
  Battles now use the Touch Screen and provides easy and intuitive control, including huge buttons 
 for each command, but those that prefer using the D-pad and buttons can use them too.
  Other additions include a new set of TMs in addition to the old Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald ones, new 
 HM set, PokeTech which include various functions (such as clock, informs you when a Egg is available 
 at the daycare, etc) , the ability to move pokemons from your Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald version to 
 the game after fufilling some requirements, and of course a whole new crew of pokemon added to 
 the pokedex.
  
  Graphically, the semi-3D environment looks nice and smooth and the little "cutscene" is pretty 
 cool but battle "graphics" are basically the same as the old games. I personally thought that they 
 could have made it into the way DragonQuestMonster: Joker was done, i'm sure everyone would like 
 to have a real 3D world and battles with 3D rendered Pokemons and attacks.
  
  Audio-wise, sounds fit each scene well, but there isn't much of "beautiful music" as with all the 
 Pokemon games and some background themes soon sound stale. They should really makes some nice music 
 for the Pokemon game.
  
  This game will probably take around 20~25hours max for the player to finish the main "story", such 
 as beating the EliteFour and doing some exploration that is available after that.
  But trading for rare pokemons, battling with players all around the world or with your friends, 
 training and fine tuning your own team of 6 will take a lot more as always.
  
  I would actually recommend this game to those that have not ever tried a Pokemon game, because 
 this one is all the good stuff of Pokemon PLUS a nicer presentation and of course the Wireless 
 and Wifi.
  Great Difficulty curve as with all Pokemon games, not much "grinding" is needed for you to defeat 
 the GymLeaders/EliteFour means that it wont be frustrating.
  Fans of the series will definitely love this game with all the new features added.
  
  Overall 
 a great RPG game and the best in it's series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: short_stop
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  After playing through a lot of the older games, Diamond or Pearl weren't anything special. Making 
 little use of the Touch Screen's fantastic features, the game just feels like all the rest.
  The multiplayer is good including the underground area which i find rather amusing, and the first 
 time being able to trade to players over the world is good and helps move along the tedious path 
 of aquiring 400 and something pokemon. Lets hope they don't make a fifth Generation...
  
  Very easy gameplay leaves no challenges even to newer people to the series apart from Wifi battle 
 and Battle Tower. It would be nice to finally see strong opponents who use strategy rather than 
 lame restricitons and equal levels in battle tower and only win due the the sheer mass of different 
 teams which one team can't possible beat every time.
  
  Overall i think this is a rather poor game and i hope they can make a different style of gameplay 
 without making an abomination like Mystery Dungeon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maahin3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  
  Codes
  In-game reset
  Press L + R + Start + Select during game play.
  
  How to delete save data
  Press b + down + select. That will delete all your save data.
  
 
  Submitted By: cheat master
  Unlockables
  Lucario Egg
  After beating the 6th gym, take the boat nearby to reach some caves, where a new character gives 
 you this egg, after beating some Team Galaxy enemies.
  
  Manafi
  To get Manfi you must download it from Pokemon Ranger.
  
  National Dex/Completing the Shinou 
 Dex
  Luckily, in this game, all you have to do to complete the Shinou Dex is SEE all the Pokemon in 
 the Dex, as opposed to catching them like in previous games. And once you see all the Pokemon, 
 you unlock the National Dex. There are 151 Pokemon in the Shinou Dex, but not all the new Pokemon 
 are included in it.
  
  
  Unlockable: How to Unlock: 
  National Dex Complete the Shinou Dex (see all 150 Shinou Pokemon, Manaphy (#151) is not included) 
 
  
  Elekid and Magby
  When you have Pokemon FireRed/LeafGreen version in your GBA slot, it will unlock two Pokemon that 
 cannot be found elsewhere:
  
  
  Unlockable: How to Unlock: 
  Elekid Have FireRed in your GBA slot; search in the Power Plant 
  Magby Have LeafGreen in your 
 GBA slot; search in Hard Mountain 
  
  Pal Park
  Pal Park will be on route 221 when you get the National Dex
  
  GBA Insert Pokemon
  Insert 
 the following games to and then go to the location to find the pokemon.
  
  
  Unlockable: How to Unlock: 
  Arbok FireRed/ safari game 
  Caterpie FireRed/ route 204-south 
 
  Ekans FireRed/ route 212-south 
  Elekid Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Fire Red in the cartridge slot and search for Elekid 
 in the Power Plant. 
  Emuritto Meet at Trust Lake, then go to Shino and look in the grass. At random, a wild Emuritto 
 will appear. 
  Gengar Any GBA pokemon game/ forest mansion-the room with eyes on the wall 
  Giradina Go to Return Cave to catch Giradina. 
  Gligar Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon 
 Emerald in the cartridge slot and search for Gligar. 
  Growlithe FireRed/ route 201, route 202 
  Haunter Any GBA pokemon game/ forest mansion 
  Hiidoran 
 Go to Hard Mountain to catch Hiidoran. 
  Kakuna LeafGreen/ eterna forest 
  Kureseria Meet at Full Moon Island, then go to Shino and look in the grass. At random, a wild Kureseria 
 will appear. 
  Lombre Saphire/ route 212-south, route 229 
  Lotad Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Sapphire in the cartridge slot and search for Lotad. 
 
  Lotad Saphire/ route 203, route 204, route 205-north, route 212-south 
  Lunatone Saphire/ lake verity surroundings, lake verity, lake acuity, lake valdor, mt coronet, 
 spring path, turnback cave 
  Manafi To get Manfi you must download it from Pokemon Ranger. 
  Mawile Ruby/ iron mountain 
 
  Metapod FireRed/ eterna forest 
  Nuzleaf Ruby/ route 229 
  Phione Breed a Manaphy and a Ditto. When you hatch the egg, it will be a Phione. The National Dex 
 is required. Phione will not evolve into a Manaphy. 
  Regigigas Trade Regirock, Regice, and Registeel from Pokemon Ruby, Sapphire, or Emerald and keep 
 them in your team. Then, go to Kissaki Temple to catch Regigigas. 
  Rotomu Go to the Hakutai House at night and go to the television. A wild Rotomu will appear. 
 
  Ryperior Get a Rhydon, equip it with the Protector, and do a link trade. It should evolve into 
 Ryperior. 
  Sableye Saphire/ iron mountain 
  Sandshrew LeafGreen/ wayward cave 
  Sandslash LeafGreen/ route 228 
  Seedot Ruby/ eterna forest, route 203 and route 204 
  Seviper 
 Saphire/ route 208 
  Shemei Catch at Flower Elysim. 
  Shuckle Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Emerald in the cartridge slot and search for Shuckle 
 at Route 224. 
  Solrock Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Ruby in the cartridge slot and search for Solrock. 
 
  Teddiursa Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Emerald in the cartridge slot and search for Teddiursa 
 at Route 211. 
  Weedle Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Fire Red in the cartridge slot and search for Weedle. 
 
  Yukishii Go to Wisdom Lake to catch Yukishii. 
  Zangoose Ruby/ route 208 
  Zangoose Have the Game Boy Advance game Pokemon Ruby in the cartridge slot and search for Zangoose 
 at Route 208. 
  
  Trainer card ranks
  Complete the indicated task to earn stars and change the color of your trainer card.
  
  
 
  Unlockable: How to Unlock: 
  Black Trainer Card (five stars) Win 100 times in a row at the Battle Tower. 
  Blue Trainer Card 
 (one star) Defeat the Elite Four. 
  Bronze Trainer Card (two stars) Win all of the Master Rank Contests 
  Gold Trainer Card (four 
 stars) Capture 482 different Pokemon. 
  Silver Trainer Card (three stars) Complete the Underground Flag mini-game with friends 
  
  
 Beat the pokemon league very easy
  Below in order are moves and pokemon to use against the pokemon league.
  
  
  Unlockable: 
 How to Unlock: 
  AARON Bring fire flying, rock, electric, ground 
  Alakazam Use shadowball on it repeatitly. 
  Beautifly Use rock type attacks such as rock throw. 
 
  BERTHA Bring grass or water. 
  Bronzong Only fire type attacks can do good damage on this clunk of steel. 
  CHAMPION CYNTHIA 
 Bring electris, fire, flying, grass, ground and ice. 
  Drapion Use bug type attack like x scissor, but raise your speed first! 
  Drifblim Use strong 
 rock, ghost or ice types on it. 
  Dustox Use any strong move as long as its, fire, flying, rock, electric dont use ground because 
 it doesent affect it (its a one hit ko) 
  FLINT Bring electric, fighting, ground or water type attacks. 
  Garchomp Knock it out wit a very 
 strong ice type attack or dragon but dont use dragon type because it will kill you with dragon 
 type moves. 
  Gastrodon Use grassnot but dont use a grass type pokemon as its sludebomb will ko you easily. 
 
  Girafarig Use shadow ball on it. 
  Golem Golem say bye-bye cause it is so weak to water types. 
  Heracross Use flying because it 
 will trump heracross in one hit. 
  Hippowdon Use water or grass, its speed is slow so you should be able to attack first. 
  Infernape 
 Since the sun is shinning use phychic, ground and flying types on infernape. 
  Lopunny Use fighting types on it, watch out for its speed! and mirrorcoat too!! 
  Lucario Use 
 flamethrower or fireblast to ko this iron demon. 
  Lucian Bring bug, dark, fire, flying, ghost type attacks against lucian. 
  Medicham Use ghost 
 type moves ot flying type moves. 
  Milotic Use electric types because it will blast a grass type attacker with ice beam. 
  Mr. mime 
 Use x scissor or shadow ball. 
  Quagsire Hit it with grassnot for a one hit ko (possibly) or use leaf storm if you have a torterra. 
 
  Rapidash Use strong water type attacks. 
  Roserade You know this girl is easy, just use fire type attacks on it or ice types be careful though 
 its a heavy hitter. 
  Spiritomb You should use hydropump or fireblast to take down this guy because nothing is superefective 
 against it! If you are having trouble, put it to sleep first. 
  Steelix Use fire or water. 
  Sudowoodo Use ice beam because sudwoodo special defense is lower than its defense. 
  Vespiquen 
 Use rock type attacks try using a fast pokemon if you can 
  Whiscash Use grassnot ot leaf storm etc. 
  
  Submitted By: Lil B X 203
  Mystery Gift
  To 
 unlock mystery gift head over to Jubilife City. Go to the Jubilife TV Station. Go up to the 3rd 
 floor and find the man next to a woman. First say Everyone Happy. Then Say Wi-Fi Connection. He 
 will say about pulling some strings and to watch more tv. Save, shut off, and turn it back on to 
 see Mystery Gift as an opition.
  
  Submitted By: Super Goku
  Trainer card ranks
  Complete any of the following tasks in any order to earn a star and change the color of your trainer 
 card, as indicated below: Defeat the Elite Four; win all of the Master Rank Contests, complete 
 the Underground Flag mini-game with friends, capture 482 different Pokemon; or win 100 times in 
 a row at the Battle Tower.
  
  
  Unlockable: How to Unlock: 
  Black Card Earn 5 stars. 
  Blue Card Earn 1 star 
  Bronze Card Earn 2 stars 
  Gold Card Gold 
 Card 
  Red Card You start with this card. 
  Silver Card Earn 3 stars 
  
  Submitted By: DragonMaster
  Hints, Tips & Tricks
  All Pokemon
  You cannot catch all Pokemon 
 in this game. You must trade them from your Game Boy Advance Pokemon games. In this game, you can 
 get all the fourth generation Pokemon, but only about fifty original Hoenn / Kanto / Johto Pokemon.
 
  
  Experience share
  After u have seen and or caught over 20 pokemon go to the bike route and a aid will give u the 
 experiance share. If u put the experiance share on a pokemon it doesent have to battle to get experience 
 points.
  
  Submitted By: uw111die
  Calculator sound
  Use the calculator on the Poketech. If you get an answer to a problem it will make a sound oise 
 corresponding to the number/Pokemon in the Pokedex, but only if you have seen that Pokemon.
  
  Polishing your Badges
  Open your Trainer card menu. Open your badge case and rub the stylus 
 over the badges that you have won from the gym leaders. They will become shiny after a good polishing. 
 Also, each badge makes a different noise, allowing you to play them like an instrument.
  
  Easy experience
  Spend your money on any desired item. Go to the Pokemon League and keep fighting 
 the Elite Four until you lose. You will have gained, then lost a small amount of money but your 
 Pokemon might have leveled up. If not, level up. You can buy a lot of Revives and Potions to use 
 to get to the last of the Elite Four and they might just be level up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordBelgarion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  not the same thing any more
  
  Getting from one town to the next used to require a lot of running back and forth between your 
 opponents on the way to the next town, and the Pokemon center. It was quite difficult. Now it's 
 like a stroll in the park. Very few opponents, and the distances are mostly just ridiculously short.
 
  
  Which brings me to my next point: WHY does he have to run in such a retarded way? First time I 
 saw it, I thought "What the ..., HOW GAY Same thing goes for the male characters hat by the way. 
 Nobody in real life would ever even WANT to have a hat like that. Sometimes these Japanese get 
 too outrageous in their drawings.
  
  In all, its fun, but WAY too short. Beating the game is too easy. Well; I have to confess I've 
 not quite finished it yet. I'm on victory road just now though, and so far, again, nothing I can't 
 handle.
  
  Perhaps I'm just too good for the game. Perhaps I was expecting too much from the game. I don't 
 know what exactly, but I hope the extra dimensions that come after beating the league will improve 
 the level of fun.
  
  I'll have to try my luck with online battles I suppose. Hopefully that 'll be some sort of a challenge 
 to me. You know, the kind you used to have with the original games. At least back then they had 
 none of the fancy berry crap, or any of that. Fair enough, a lot of improvements in gameplay have 
 been made, and the game has gotten a lot better organised since then, but overall, this game has 
 been a disappointment to me so far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archibald_83
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  The Pokmon series has rolled yet another RPG off the production line, and it's another respectable 
 addition to the series that adds even more creatures into the mix.
  
  The graphics are reasonably good. On one hand you have the colorful presentation, stunning 2-and-a-half-D 
 over world and the great attack animations, but on the other hand, some sprites are recycled from 
 the GBA games, which really does not matter much, but still. The soundtrack and over world music 
 is okay, but some Pokmon cries are also recycled from the GBA.
  
  The new features in Diamond impress, with Pal Park enabling you to transfer your Pokmon over from 
 GBA games to Diamond, the Pokradar telling you where shiny Pokmon are (among other things) , touch 
 screen controls, the addition of 42 new TM's (Items that teach Pokmon moves) , as well as the addition 
 of the Sinnoh Region, and, the biggest addition of all, wi-fi battling and trading. Other features 
 returning from the previous games include the day-night system, Pokmon Contests (bad as ever) , 
 Pokmon swarms and the basic story-line. (Won't go into detail about it) .
  
  The quest to collect all 493 Pokmon has never been more fun, but still has its flaws, like the 
 fact that the story is bland and short, and the aforementioned recycled graphics and sounds, but 
 Pokmon Diamond is a superb game anyway, so who cares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gect91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  this game is wicked cool. Its way better than the other versions because it's on DS. I like the 
 diamond and pearl versions the best because they have a lot of cool stuff that you can do now that 
 you could not do without the stylus or the nintendo DS. This game is so cool because it is loaded 
 with a lot more pokemon. Hopefully the next versions will have even more pokemon and cool stuff. 
 This game is not as challenging if you have played the other versions before because then you have 
 more experience. If you have not played other versions that's ok to. But I think that playing the 
 other versions gives you a head up on these because its basically the same go catch all the pokemon 
 and beat the elite four but this one has a lot more adventures in it so to speak. ENJOY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Pokmon is one of those things most people are ashamed of, in other words, it's a guilty pleasure 
 for most of us who grew up as kids during the late 90's. Such was the excitement of playing Red, 
 Blue and eventually Yellow, trading with your friends, watching the show, and trading the cards. 
 Pokmon Diamond (as well it's partner, Pearl) allows us Pokfans of old to relive that wondrous 
 feeling we felt loading up our first Red or Blue game.
  
  Diamond and Pearl can be seen as a 'fresh' start in the franchise, despite the formula of the game 
 remaining more or less the same, with the exception of a few added new features. But regardless, 
 personally I see this as a more colourful and more inviting world, Pokmon has never looked so 
 good.
  
  As is the way, you begin the game as a young up and coming Pokmon trainer, about to embark on 
 your journey. You're eventually given the choice to pick from three starter Pokmon, which again, 
 are Grass, Fire and Water types. Once you've got your first Pokmon off you go, to begin your adventure.
 
  
  Diamond and Pearl come in tack with over 100 new Pokmon, bringing the total to 493. It also brings 
 with it a greater challenge than the previous installment (Ruby and Sapphire) , having the Gym Leaders 
 and subsequently the Elite Four at higher levels, making the game that bit harder. 
  
  Players are once again able to breed their Pokmon, but with added depth. There is complete connectivity 
 with Fire Red, Leaf Green, Emerald, Ruby and Sapphire, allowing players to obtain every single 
 Pokmon (par a few only available through Official Nintendo Events) . 
  
  The look of this game is a nice blend of 2D and slight 3D, making exploring the world a much nicer 
 experience on the eyes than ever before. The battle effects have been highly improved, and avid 
 fans of the previous games will enjoy seeing their favorite moves from the Red and Blue days being 
 used in full fantastic colour and life. 
  
  The sound is wonderful, of course this is a personal opinion. I have always enjoyed the music in 
 Pokmon handheld games, from the background music as you walk through the grass, to the battle 
 cries of the Pokmon has they pop from their Pokballs.
  
  Overall, this game is really just for old fans of the game, but, Nintendo have also catered the 
 game for new-comers as well, being that they provide enough information for new players to get 
 the grip of the games concept. As with all Pokmon games, it will have you playing for hours and 
 hours on end, and will continue to be a source of enjoyment for years to come. But, there is something 
 about the DS versions that is a little bit better than the old games, being that it gives you so 
 much connectivity with others through the Wi-Fi system. 
  
  So, if you're a closeted Pokmon fan and have been too ashamed to buy it, go and get it, because 
 fact: Handheld gaming is no longer the shame cliche it used to be. And if you've never played a 
 Pokmon game in your life, Diamond or Pearl are perfect games to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber_Chimp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, Pokemon , Pokemon , my childhood brother. The pokemon franchise began in 1998 when the 
 first ever pokemon video games were released for the original Game Boy. Pokemon was a first, and 
 no one had experienced anything quite like it before. Since then, Pikachu, Ash , Mewtwo , and friends 
 have all become international superstars. Nine years on, and Pokemon has become a franchise known 
 to every man, woman , and child. Since 1998, there have been various video games, anime series, 
 and the lot. Now, in 2007, the latest installments in the franchise, Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon 
 Pearl, make their way onto the Nintendo Ds. As with all of the Pokemon RPGs on the handheld systems, 
 you choose a starter pokemon out of a choice of three. You get your starter pokemon, and then explore 
 the Pokemon world, experiencing lots of different story lines, along with the main one, which is 
 to become the best Pokemon trainer in the region. You constantly enounter your rival, who coincidentally 
 picks the starter pokemon which theoretically has the best advantage over the one you chose. The 
 types of starter pokemon you can choose are fire ( Chimchar ) , water ( Piplup ) , and grass ( Turtwig 
 ) . Each has their own abilities and powers. As your pokemon gain levels, they evolve ( although 
 this is not the case for some pokemon, as not all evolve ) . As you pokemon evolves, their name 
 changes, and they can gain new abilities, etc. Their appearance also changes. When your pokemon 
 evolves, it's stats change aswell - sometimes dramatically, or sometimes by only a small amount. 
 However, stat changes vary with the pokemon. For example, a second stage evolution, when evolved 
 into it's next form, might lose a lot of speed, but will make up for that with an incredibly high 
 attack level. There are many different ways to evolve a pokemon. For example, some might evolve 
 only in the day or night, whereas others might evolve when they learn a certain move. Even though 
 a pokemon can only have a maximum of three stages of evolution, the many ways of evolving different 
 pokemon makes the evolution aspect enjoyable and varied. Experiment, and try and find out how to 
 evolve different pokemon! The graphics have changed for the better. The graphics, for a pokemon 
 game, are good, however, those of you who have played the previous installments on the Game Boy 
 Advances may not notice a significant change in the graphics, if at all. Regardless of this, the 
 game is pleasurable on the eyes, and the quality of the graphics suit the game well. As the game 
 is on the Nintendo Ds, it inevitably uses the bottom screen for the use of various new innovations. 
 These include a digital clock, a drawing pad , a step counter , among others. One of the most interesting 
 of these is a new feature - a visual insight into how your pokemon are doing at the Day Care Center. 
 This is fairly useful, as it saves you the trouble of having to trek to the Day Care Center, only 
 to find your pokemon have only gone up around two levels. In Pokemon Diamond, a total of 493 Pokemon 
 are available for capture. Yes, all your favourite classics such as Charmander and Pikachu make 
 a come back. The game, as good as it is, does have one problem in my opinion. Some of the new pokemon 
 are lacking in originality and character. An example of these pokemon is Carnivine. A name which 
 doesn't exactly invoke the highest levels of excitement, and his moveset is mediocre at best. The 
 Pokemon battles stick to their roots - you are allowed to carry six pokemon, and only one can battle 
 at any given time, although you can have two out during double battles, where there are two pokemon 
 versus another two pokemon. You are only allowed four techniques in a moveset, so sometimes you 
 will have to delete your beloved Earthquake move for something that may be more beneficial for 
 your pokemon. One of the best new features is online multiplayer mode - something that was lacking 
 in the pokemon games until now. In the previous Pokemon games, you had to use a link cable with 
 your friend to battle/trade with him. Not any more. Now, you can battle, trade , and play minigames 
 with people all over the world. Want a pokemon that your friend down the road hasn't got? Then 
 hop online and find someone across the world who has. There is also no real difference between 
 Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl, as the only differences are the unique legendary Pokemon, exclusive 
 for each game. In this instance, these include Dialga, who is exclusive for Pokemon Diamond , and 
 Palkia, who is exclusive for Pokemon Pearl. That, and some different pokedex entries, and exclusive 
 wild pokemon for each game , there are no real differences. Also, pokemon which are exclusive for 
 the version which you don't have can be gained via trading. Overall, the game is a joy to play. 
 Vastly expansive, and great fun to play, this is a must have game for any Nintendo Ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manaphy490
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  A cooooool game ive never feel bored from it till now im playing it 
  its so fun the wifi is full of ppl 
  best ds graphics , its like real if u r playing at night 
 it will be night in the game if its moringing , evening anything oit will be the same in the game
 
  i played it more than 550 hourse and my friends palyed it more than me
  its soo addicting full of fun 
  there are some dificults in battle tower its fun every time u 
 beat the battle tower they will become more stronger but if u lost it will return back to the first 
 level 
  some pokemon will appear only at night and some at morining ect...
  and there are 21 weekly /daily events like swarming and other stuffs like that
  this game soo 
 many events even real events u can get some rare pkmn via wifi or a pokemon party somewhere in 
 usa , eu or japan i think there are some events too in australia
  best game ever^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_lilpyro_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  For years, Pokemon has been the best game to play on a handheld game system. The Pokemon Diamond 
 for the Ninteno DS still delivers to this day. This game still has the original plot, you have 
 to get eight badges then defect the Elite Four while doing some side missions (such as defeating 
 Team Rocket in the first few Pokemon games for the Game Boy) . With the addition that are few new 
 Pokemon in this version (with the return of the past Pokemon) , there is also a touch screen that 
 doesn't change the pase of the game by little or none at all. Really, Pokemon Diamond is just the 
 same Pokemon game as always but yet it has a new feel to it that makes this game just as, if not 
 more, fun than the other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty421
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  pokemon well never die and never get old i got 898hours on mine there are many flaws but its pokemon 
 so you got to love it the only problem is there gonna run out of ideas for pokemon in this one 
 old ones have evolutions and there are new ways to do things if there was a pokemon mmo that was 
 just like this but online itd be the best game ever they should put pokemon on a wifi thing so 
 itll be like a mmo k im just ranting i dont really wanna reveiw this i just wanna rant about pokemon 
 cause im dumb but pokemon is the best and they should do all that yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stkr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Most of you know the entire storyline behind all of the Pokemon games and this version stays true 
 and sticks to it. You start of as an upcoming trainer in a small town who dreams of becoming a 
 Pokemon Master. You travel the entire region catching Pokemon and using the Pokemon you have caught 
 to battle tough trainers and even tougher gym leaders. Once you have collected 8 Gym Badges then 
 you are ready to face the Pokemon League and become a Pokemon Master. Just like Pokemon games following 
 Silver, Crystal, and Gold, you will have access to many more Pokemon after the Elite Four are beaten 
 and/or you regional Pokedex is complete. Completing the Pokedex only requires that you see the 
 Pokemon in this game and not necessarily catch them which makes it a lot easier. You can see every 
 Pokemon in the game so long as you battle every trainer and the Elite Four. 
  Graphics: The game looks great, but hasn't changed much when compared to it's Fire Red predecessor. 
 Pokemon Ruby was the last update in the storyline for the series, but Fire Red featured some nice 
 updates that are carried over into Diamond. Nintendo has begun to incorporate some 3D aspects into 
 the game which give it a slight "cool factor" since it's the first time. I don't think it will 
 get much more advanced on the DS, however, so Nintendo really should bring the series to their 
 home console. That probably will not happen, however, since the Pokemon Series sells Nintendo's 
 handhelds and hits the million mark every iteration. The Pokemon now have quick animations when 
 they are released or viewed in the PC or through your Pokedex. The animations do give them a little 
 bit more personality compared to the stale sprites that don't move at all. There is still no physical 
 contact between sprites and attacks and I do not think Nintendo ever plans to add this if they 
 have not done so up to this point. The region is very large and you get multiple weather effects 
 which now includes fog.
  Gameplay: I won't go into much detail in terms of mechanics since it is virtually the same even 
 when compared to the very first version of Pokemon. A lot of operations have become much easier 
 and simple since the DS have two screens. A lot of operation have been moved to the bottom screen 
 to allow more space on the top. I personally do not use the stylus for this game and prefer to 
 use the D-Pad, even when selecting on the touch-screen. The game is not that hard to get through. 
 The Gym Leaders vary from hard to very easy. The hardest Gym Leader you will face is Fantina. The 
 easiest will ironically be the last Gym Leader you face. By the time you reach him you should have 
 multiple high-level Pokemon that will easily take out his own four Pokemon. My only gripe in this 
 game is the use of HMs or at least the number of them. You, as a trainer, are allowed to carry 
 six Pokemon. Each Pokemon knows four moves which means that overall you have 24 moves at your disposal. 
 Since you have 8 HM attacks, that means you will only be able to decide on 16 moves that your Pokemon 
 know. This only becomes a big deal when you need to use multiple HMs at once which will either 
 force you to teach a Pokemon you have now the move, or switch it out with another Pokemon that 
 can learn it. This gets frustrating because it begins to feel like you have no control over your 
 team. I do not like to use HMs because they cannot be deleted whenever your Pokemon wishes to learn 
 a new move. I would rather HMs be considered a skill and not a move so that they can be used outside 
 of battle, but not in the battle. This would allow you to teach your Pokemon other stronger attacks, 
 versus weak HM moves such as "Rock Smash". You can no longer use sync cables to trade. You now 
 have the luxury, so long as you have wifi, to trade across a network with many many trainers. This 
 is great news, but there have been many problems with trainers disconnecting during battles and 
 trading and whatnot. You can import or "migrate" Pokemon from Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald through 
 the dual-slot function which releases them into a Park for 100% capture. You can only do six for 
 each game in 24 hours which is annoying and they cannot know HM moves which is even more annoying. 
 The feature is only one-way which is slightly understandable. My only wish is that this went back 
 to the GBA color games as well, but this would lead to a massive Pokedex and storing so many Pokemon 
 would likely be impossible. Replay Value: This is one of the best things about the game. Not only 
 does beating it once give a great experience, but beating it twice with a different starter changes 
 the game in many ways. Your starter dictates what other Pokemon you carry since it will be your 
 strongest Pokemon through the beginning of the game. I HATE the fact that you can only have one 
 save file on the cartridge and I hope Nintendo fixes this in the future. I assume it is because 
 of the large file size of a Pokemon Game.
  Music: This is one Pokemon game in which I do not listen to the music. Some of it sounds familiar, 
 but I would rather battle with the volume down since it gives you a headache after you've ran into 
 twenty Pokemon consecutively. I ended up listening to other music with the volume turned all the 
 way down.
  Conclusion: This is a great game, but the mechanics are not very different from previous versions. 
 Nintendo needs to experiment and shake up the formula a bit more. The game does feature some new 
 features, such as wifi , but that's only good news for those who have it. No trading cables! Not 
 having multiple save files and too many HMs are the only gripes that I really have. The music is 
 annoying, but I've never been a real fan of the Pokemon music anyhow. I recommend this game to 
 all Pokemon fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Pokem diamond is on of my favorite games for the DS. The reason why it is my favorite is because 
 of the gaphics and all the stuff you can do and all the new pokemon and how you can us Wi-Fi and 
 how you can leval up all the pokemon and just beatin down other people in the game and how all 
 the new pokemon look like and this is just a very addicting game for any one to play. I reccamond 
 any one who likes pokemon to get this game because you dont wanna miss out on this game and one 
 last thing that i like about this game is that... I dont know never mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Well another pokemon in our hands, what can I say? It' s a great game with some new features, taking 
 Pkmn to a next level but from 151 to 348?
  
  Well, the truth is I don't mess with the numbers, they don't bother me. One thing I do not like: 
 the new pokemons are horrible, I don't even like the starters I send them right away to the pc. 
 Pokemon after pokemon, after pokemon and all them are horrible. By the good side, yes it represents 
 more of a challenge for any trainer who wants to fill their Pokedex tilt' the last letter.
  
  Gameplay: the same of all the previously versions. Although you can get a help of the stylus 
 if you want.
  
  Graphics: improved, now buildings, trees and mountains are in 3-D and the environments are well 
 detailed, very simple graphics but really comfortable. 
  
  Sound: simple too, but excellent.
  
  Story: well you know you are from a little town, you live 
 with your mom, yo have a rival, you meet a professor, he send you on a travel, you get an starter 
 pkmn, there's a Evil Team involved, the Gyms, the Pkmn League you know.
  
  At the end it's a complete game that any trainer must have, and if you are looking for a good RPG 
 I totally recommend this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Admiral_T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The latest batch of Pokemon games proves that the series is still growing strong, and shows no 
 signs of stopping. Simply by keeping the same battle formula, while simultaneously adding new moves, 
 tons of new Pokemon, and new strategies, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl manage to keep the series fresh, 
 while keeping true to their roots. This time they've changed the world view to a fresh 3D render. 
 Some may argue it's merely a new coat of paint, but it adds a very modern touch. Most former Pokemon 
 return, and many even have new evolutions, some with new and interesting type mixes. Overall, the 
 next generation of Pokemon will be sure to keep faithful fans coming back, while continuing to 
 draw in new ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Im Not Going To Say Pokemon Diamond Was The Best Pokemon Game.. Or The Worst.. I Just Felt That 
 It Was Just An Upgrade In Graphics With A Few More Pokemon Slotted In And Another Region.. Nothing 
 Drastically Different.
  
  Graphics 9.0 - Good Colour And 2D And 3D Graphics Mixed To Make It A Bit Better Than Just Full 
 2D.
  
  Gameplay 9.0 - Good, 8 Badges, New Region, New Pokemon To Play Around With, But Not Any Truly Memorable 
 Pokemon,,
  
  Sound 9.5 - Very Well Done, Some Catchy Tunes.
  
  Overall 8.5 - As Iv Said This New Pokemon Game Does Nothing Completely New Which is Good And Bad,, 
 New Pokemon That I Can Hardly Remember The Names Of,, The Story Was Good Enough Could Be Better.
 
  
  I Would Say Pokemon Diamond Wasnt As Good As R/S/E As Those Were My Favourites,, I Just Felt That 
 it Was Over Fast, No Brand New Stuff Like The Way I Felt When i First Seen Ruby..
  
  I Would Recommend Buying Pokemon Diamond. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, we have all heard of Pokemon. Some people liked it for a few years, some just can't get enough, 
 and some people are down-right disgusted by the cutesy characters. But regardless of whether you 
 liked it or not, you have to admit the games were always solid, if easy, RPGs.
  
  Now after a pretty long wait, starving crazed Pokemon fans, young and old, have finally received 
 what they have wanted: Pokemon versions Diamond and Pearl. Now, let's get on with the review.
 
  
  Story (SPOILERS, sort of) : The story isn't much, but here it is: you start out as a young Pokemon 
 trainer who wants to be the world's best. Eventually you end up getting caught up in Team Galaxy's 
 plan to use legendary Pokemon (including Dialga or Palkia depending on which version you're using) 
 to rule the world. You must now stop Team Galaxy, and also become the best Pokemon Trainer as well. 
 Yeah, pretty much the same thing as before. Score (not part of the overall mark) : 6 / 10.
  
  Game Play: The game play in this game is standard Pokemon fare, with no big touch screen changes. 
 But that said, the innovation of the formula is still standing strong. The game plays out on an 
 overhead map, and when you walk into a part of the map that has wild Pokemon in it (grass, caves, 
 etc.) , you end up encountering Pokemon in random battles. You can have six Pokemon with you, but 
 usually only one out at a time. Your Pokemon can learn up to four moves and they take turns battling 
 to the death (or faint) . It sounds like animal cruelty, I know, but what's PETA going to do about 
 it? To obtain more Pokemon you use Poke Balls to capture them. Each ball has a different effect. 
 One new game play option on the touch screen is the Poketech, which has multiple functions such 
 as the time, a map, a flip a coin game (?) and more. You can get new Poketech functions by talking 
 to people in the game. Other than the new Poketech, if you've played every Pokemon game up until 
 now, the formula might be getting a bit old. Score: 8.5 / 10
  
  Graphics: For a Pokemon game, the graphics in this game are a combination of GBA and DS. Buildings 
 are now 2.5D, the tiling effects are great and some maps are much larger than before. The problem 
 is though, the game reuses a lot of graphics from previous GBA Pokemon games. Score: 8.5 / 10
 
  
  Sound: The music for this game is fantastic. It has some nice and quiet piano melodies, and even 
 some rockin' tunes! The best part about the music is how it's portrayed. It always feels right. 
 What drags this section down are the sound effects. Most of the new Pokemon sounds are passable, 
 but the sounds for some of the older Pokemon are some of the ones used on the original GB! This 
 goes from nostalgia to plain old dated. Score: 8 / 10.
  
  Value: It just doesn't get any better than this. There are so many Pokemon, you can easily be occupied 
 for more than 50 hours! The game will keep you coming back for more to have you try to catch all 
 of the numerous legendary Pokemon. I have played this game for 77 hours, and I spent 30 hours playing 
 after I beat it. There was a lot to do after I had beaten the game. This game is dangerously addictive. 
 One of the main features that will have you coming back is the GTS (Global Trading Station) . Here 
 you can trade you Pokemon globally. It may be a bit underdeveloped, but it is still fun to try 
 to get good trades (just watch out for hacked Pokemon) . Overall this game is totally worth the 
 40 to 50 dollars Score: 10 / 10.
  
  Overall: This game is a huge improvement since the last original hand held Pokemon games (Ruby 
 and Sapphire) , and it will last you a long time. Although Nintendo still has to get the hang of 
 the future of sound effects, it is great and I highly recommend it. Overall score: 8.8
  
  
  
  Here are the pros and cons!
  
  Pros: Long lasting, great music, trading is now global, 
 nice 2.5D graphics, interesting Pokemon (it's surprising they haven't run out of ideas) , Poketech 
 is pretty useful, still has the winning formula.
  
  Cons: Battle formula is losing it's pizazz, sometimes scratchy sound effects, could use some more 
 new graphical touches, W-fi is a bit underdeveloped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkkaix17
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I got pokemon Diamond in may 4th love the game the best pokemon game so far way better then pokemon 
 elemarld cool gahpics loved the new pokemon and the new features like the poketech the super consest 
 could have been better the battles just as attcting as ever if you like rpg or pokemon game you 
 have to really really really really get pokemon diamond or pearl I perfer diamond becasue of daigla's 
 roar of time is awsome attack I like they put the 24 hour day from gold silver and crystal the 
 elite four are at a higher level then the other games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaymieman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The pokemon series has had many games, but probably the best part, battling against other people 
 has been mostly ignored. Not anymore! Pokemon Diamond/Pearl offers both the traditional story (catch 
 pokemon, battle gyms, defeat league champion) and innovative new wireless battling and trading. 
 You don't need to be in the same room as your opponent anymore either! All you need is a wireless 
 access point and you can battle anyone from anywhere! There are pokemon you can't get, but someone 
 will have them and you might have a pokemon they want so you can trade with someone on the other 
 side of the world. The storyline may be getting stale, but the multiplayer is just hitting its 
 stride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShockerX01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am 24, (23 since I got D/P) , I was playing Pokemon Red/Blue when I was in HS. The hype back 
 then was amazing. Alot of friends of mine would battle each other and brag how butterfree owns 
 one of another.
  
  But hype somewhat died off during the release of Silver/Gold. I got GBA FireRed for hell out of 
 it and spent a bit of time.
  
  Now, since I heard of D/P, I got it shortly after its release. By god, how much it improved since 
 I last played. It feels like playing Red/Blue all over again, but bit less hype level. Since I 
 lasted played, it was 250 pokemon, now 493 pokemon. So basically a huge change for me. Pokemon 
 abilities, short intro battle animations, wifi, EV/IV techs (yeah, I know its in past game, but 
 never even done those before besides abilities) .
  
  Overall, the gameplay is virtually the same, but significant enhancements. The new Poketech is 
 pretty awesome and useful, alot more battle moves and TMs, few mini games (the game could use more 
 minigames. ; ( ) , and multiplayer aspect. The Elite Four are probably the hardest by far, and I 
 pretty much enjoyed that.
  
  What I like most is how the game gets pretty technical and more stragedy involved and wifi capabilities. 
 To me, it seems the game is aiming for older players instead of younger players. I have never been 
 involved in those "advance" game mechanics before, and recently learned about the natures, breeding, 
 IVs, and EVs.
  
  The Wifi is excellent, but not perfected! It could use some better features/enhancements. You can 
 technically play against anyone in the world, but you're stricted to as long you have their pal 
 code, but a bigger plus is the voice chat capability! You can basically chat with anyone, be it 
 while battling or trading, as long you're connected with each other (and you can disable the voice 
 chat) . 
  
  Collecting pokemon and completing the pokedex is never been easier. GTS I think it was called, 
 Global Trade Station. You can trade pokemon with anyone in the world and seek what you want. Tho', 
 it needs better security to deal with the hacked pokemon going on there.
  
  If you don't have the game and you always like or been interested in Pokemon, you should get it 
 NOW! There can't be any better DS title out there. I'd rate this game 9.5, but 9.0 seems to be 
 a better choice. :)
  
  And by the way, I'm looking for a good IV'ed Modest and timid Zapdos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogeymanX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond lets you take on a new adventure, filled with wonders. There are only a few problems.
 
  
  Unlike the other Pokemon games, Diamond makes you complete specific objectives before you move 
 on. I would not count that in an RPG, RPGs allow you to do stuff when you feel like it, and there 
 is more of quest where you choose freely what you want to do.
  
  Trying to throw in Pokemon a bit of 3-D, wasn't bad, but gets you confused in more areas. I remember 
 in Jublife (not sure if I spelled that right) City, that sometimes the buildings covered me up. 
 
  
  The Pokemon Watch or Poketch was a great idea, but there weren't many good functions on it, like 
 the time, calculator or the counter.
  
  There was also not much of a use for the touch screen or stylus. Half the time you forget that 
 you could use them.
  
  Pokemon Diamond is game made only for Pokemon fans, people who do not like Pokemon, will not be 
 convinced to like any Pokemon game with this either, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best ds game to date i ahve never spent so much time on one game at a time and 
 i managed to play it constantly for like 3 days non stop except for about 3 hours sleep . this 
 is one of the most addictive game i have played in ages for ds it has sweet graphics and i think 
 its a step into the future for the pokemon franchise. the only annoying things are all the new 
 pokemon and the fact that like nothing is explained so if you get lost or dont play for a little 
 while it takes for eva to get back on track.
  
  if you are a fan of the pokemon franchise then you will love it..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond... I had been waiting for this DS game since long time and I must addmit it's just 
 like it should have been:
  Story: Just another Pokemon story featuring the classic elements, the bad ones, legendary Pokemon, 
 your friends and rivals, etc.:
  7/10
  Gameplay: I really loved the idea of the stylus being used in battles because it's like innovative 
 and cool:
  10/10
  Graphics: The graphics just look great for a NDS with great scenaries in 
  3-D and that stuff:
 
  9/10
  Sound: The sound it's just ok, it's not perfect but it's ok:
  8/10
  Fun: At the beginning it is fun but when you finish it, it really gets boring, even whit the wi-fi 
 features, because it ain't got random wi-fi!:
  8/10
  Total:
  8.4/10
  Conclusion: 
  Pokemon diamond it's a great idea for the fans to continue, but it has too many pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mywii1999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  it is a great game. it keeps you playing for a long time. you wont stop playing it tell you fully 
 beat it wich is hard, or intell it brakes from all the data . it has the best story line. it has 
 a minnygame. so you realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy 
 realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy 
 realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy 
 realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy 
 realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy realy reay realy realy 
 realy realy realy realy realy realy realy got to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedGuy93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond Version is a quality game. The reason I gave it a 9/10 is because it is an addicting-like 
 game. The graphics are also way better than in the earlier games, too. Plus, the new Pokemon always 
 give you more adrenaline and rush to play it. The game is also fun because you learn new moves, 
 techniques, abilities, people, and more. A feature in this would be that you get a PokeRadar machine 
 and you can battle people you have formally battled again! (in a certain amount of time) . Also, 
 after you beat the Elite 4, and the champion, you still can collect new Pokemon, and Kanto, Johto, 
 and Hoenn Leagues, as well. The Pokemon are also exciting and very colorful. The graphics are also 
 not bad. The only reason it didn't get a perfect 10 was because of the fact of how hard it is to 
 catch Pokemon like Creseltia and legendaries on your map. It's so frustrating! Also, the credits 
 are too long. Other than that, I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuR3SkiLLZ3525
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game because Nintendo have nailed it again. It's like all of the other Pokemon RPG's- 
 a completely new world again, AND they've managed to get more than ONE HUNDRED new Pokemon somehow. 
 I don't know how they did it. It was a bit easy, but Pokemon games haven't been about being easy- 
 they're about being fun.
  With improved graphics, it just made it brilliant, and they brought back the movements from Gold/Silver/Crystal- 
 when you sent them out into battle they did a kind of movement and scream their random cries which 
 are a bit like alien warcries that kill your ears. The bike had gears this time round, but you 
 couldn't do wheelies and bunnyhops like you could in Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald.
  All in all a really great game. Fantabidosi or somthing like that which my Aunt says... my Aunt 
 is a bit weird though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lephisto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  Superb. The first thing that first comes to my head when i started to play this! This is one easy 
 game to play, and a good one. What impresses me is that the graphics have changed enormously from 
 the different games of pokemon. It has alot of features in it ,bringing back the night and day 
 change and also making poffins. This game should take you under 20 hours to clock it and beat the 
 gym leaders. After finishing the game there is way more to do. You can start doing competitive 
 battling and filling your pokedex up and getting your trainer card up more ranks. If you want fun 
 to last long, get this game! This is the best ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free-spirit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  OMG The great weakness of PokmnDiamond it's dialogues! so uncreative n unnecessary like abra gained 
 42exp or abra attack with... or staravia miss attack... and almost everything what the people of 
 the city's n town's say is borring n UNNECESSARY!, been slow the game - after various pokmn's that 
 still not is changed n is disapoitting for me *love good games* because should be a adventure 
 game! need few text n color text ... anyway same hapens in paper mario for GC or final fantasy 
 XII for ps2 *a great games but could be better*
  i hope that change for the nex pokmn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond Reveiw
  Pokemon has come so far from the 1999's red & blue on the Game Boy . Pokemon diamond is base in 
 a new regoin called Sinnoh. The is just like the other pokemon games you start as a rookie trainer 
 who goes around the world catching and rising pokemon. The good thing there are some new feature 
 that makes the game speiacl like the game is played on DS and the game tries to make use of that 
 by putting a feature called the poke'tch which has 22 features 25 with the speacil events. Plus 
 over a 100 new pokemon which are based off the 1st gen pokemon like Mr. Mine has a baby form & 
 Snorlax has one.
  
  The game use's the touch screen very well by put in the battle interface down on that screen your 
 able to click away at the attacks. But the thing is the still play like the old games which is 
 boring to play though 8 gyms, fight the elite four then become the champion they could of put something 
 like you can choose if your a battle trainer or ribbon trainer so you go around collecting badges 
 or ribbons.
  
  But overall diamond is a good game with a big story with lot of colours and effects. If your a 
 frist time pokemon trainer this would a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wee_ged_2005
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ok i used to love all the pokemon games but it could be my age or it could be the fact they are 
 getting worse and worse seriously though dont you all feel pokemon isnt as good anymore?
  
  Ok i completed this long ago but i thought to myself wow how bad was that game when i read Shadow's 
 review on it and thought i would make my own and i fully remember the game i do and i swear it 
 was so bad...
  
  But on the good side when i caught ho-oh and Lugia the game seemed pretty wicked for a short hour 
 and then everything got pretty boring again and as bad as it is the graphics in these games have 
 really improved now i know i may have slaughtered the game a little here but i think it still deserves 
 a decent 7 only for the pokemon, graphics and gameplay the rest wasnt too good.
  
  Hope you enjoyed the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  As far as Pokemon goes, this wasn't amazing, but not just another Pokemon either. The wi-fi really 
 made this game more of a revolution (pun to the Wii game) than other games. Some of the newer Pokemon 
 are uncreative or just plain weird but some of them have kind of laid marks in Pokemon history 
 like Regigigas requiring you to have 3 certain party members to face, some like Rozot making a 
 weird combination of types, and of course the cover creatures Palkia and Dialga. Beyond character-wise 
 stuff, the graphics were more of a step up than I'd thought they'd be and somebody was FINALLLY 
 smart enough to let you not only run but run inside buildings. The other flaw is in the Gameboy 
 Advance pack Pokemon , though it was a good idea and overall system to transfer Pokemon permanently, 
 there's a ton of games you'll need to get everyone without hacking or friends:
  Coliseum
  XD: Gale of Darkness
  Fire Red
  Leaf Green
  Ruby
  Sapphire
  Coliseum Pre-Sale Disk
 
  And the other version of Diamond/Pearl 
  That aside, I sold it because the story was too based on all of the little Pokemon, and not using 
 them necessarily to save people like in Silver/Gold/Crystal version (my favorites) , so I didn't 
 complete the story. Also my only friends that ever played with me would constantly be owned even 
 using my strongest Pokemon in mixed battles (another upside) . The game wasn't an amazing RPG, and 
 for that I only give it 8 for revolutionizing but not doing an amazing job overall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somedude34
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is one of the best games on DS. It is a game that is a must have for current pokemon 
 fans, fans of the old games (like myself) and people that love RPG's (Role Playing Games) . It is 
 set in a new region: Sinnoh. Some of you may be thinking which to buy: Diamond or Pearl? There 
 are no major changes to each version and it is not necessary to buy both versions. The only difference 
 between the two is that there are a few different pokemon to capture and the main legendary is 
 different. During the game you will see all 150 or so Sinnoh Dex pokemon which will allow you to 
 get these pokemon off the GTS (Global Trade Station) . This defeats the purpose of having both versions. 
 Once you have collected all 8 badges, you have a pokemon league to battle your way through, but 
 the game doesn't end there. This is when the game becomes very open and there are is no more set 
 storyline. You can travel to a new island which features a battler tower and other things as well 
 as more pokemon from the previous games. 
  
  The Online Capabilities are fantastic! Using friend codes you can Talk to, Battle and Trade with 
 your friends over the Nintendo WiFi Connection. WiFi also has many other features but the main 
 one you will be using is the GTS (Global Trade Station) . You can search for pokemon that you have 
 seen on you pokedex and if you have what the other person wants you can make a trade! You can also 
 upload one pokemon and put up what pokemon you want and at what level and gender you want. You 
 will require an computer with the internet and either a wireless router or a Nintendo WiFi Connection 
 USB Router.
  
  If you find that you are going to be using the WiFi features alot, you should join up to www. pokemongts. com 
 On this website you can discuss with other users about pokemon and on various other pokemon topics. 
 You can organize trades with other members, battles with other members as well as join clans and 
 battle other clans. Also have a go at their Gym Challenge! The best thing is that to join the website 
 IT'S FREE and they have 6,326 members at the time of this review and the number is constantly growing!
 
  
  Overall the game is definitely worth the money you pay for it! At the moment I have 173 hours and 
 12 minutes of gameplay! I payed $70 Australian dollars for it and it was worth every cent! I hope 
 you buy it and enjoy it as much as i do!
  
  10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATKisNeat
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond adds to the Franchise quite a bit. You run around catching pokemon in a new world. 
 On the Nintendo DS you use the top screen for your navigation and the touch screen your PokeWatch. 
 You have many gadgets at your disposal. 
  
  Digital watch 
  Pedometer 
  Memo Pad (president of poketch need oreburg badge) 
  Dowsing machine (route 207) 
  Calculator 
 
  Pokemon List 
  Friendship Checker (eterna city pokemon center) 
  Berry Searcher (208) 
  Day care checker (guy at daycare) 
  Counter (dept store) 
  Marking 
 map (poketch need veilstone badge) 
  Coin Toss (hotel valor lakefront) 
  Calender (show a guy a pokemon with serious nature) 
  Roulette (show quirky) 
  Pokemon history 
 (solanceon town) 
  Analog watch (poketch veilstone badge) 
  Link searcher (hearthome city) 
  Move tester (poketch snowpoint badge) 
  Dot artist (show naive) 
 
  
  Thats before the beaten of the Elite 4. So go EXPLORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Pokemon has officially moved to the DS as two new huge Pokemon games have driven fans wild. A whole 
 new world, new Pokemon and new challenges to face. Welcome to the next generation of Pokemon!! 
 Diamond and Pearl are pretty much as good as the previous Pokemon games you've played in the past 
 and there's a good chance that you will enjoy this DS installment. This is a spoiler-free review 
 so anyone who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  You know what you'll be doing in your spare time, Some really good new Pokemon, The real-time system 
 is back, Gyms have a neat formula, Pokemon can battle and/or be traded over Wi-Fi.
  
  THE BAD
  They didn't forget Zubat and Tentacool, Random battles are even more common, Everything 
 is slower, Graphics aren't updated enough, Pathways and objectives aren't very clear, Still not 
 as long as GSC.
  
  Graphics
  Don't believe the lies. Diamond and Pearl aren't 3D.... well not full-3D at least. Yeah, it's pretty 
 much all 2D however the buildings have this cel-shaded look which makes the game look a bit more 
 three dimensional. And the trees and mountains have that look as well. But other than those, it 
 isn't really 3D and still looks like a Game Boy Advance game. However apart from the outdated graphics, 
 they're pretty good and a load better than the GBA installments; But In my opinion, it still wasn't 
 updated enough. But better luck next time eh?
  
  Sound
  They still keep the formula of Pokemon. It may not be exactly the same but there is still the music 
 feel that's belonged to the series for years. Music now varies depending on what time of the day 
 it is. An example being the Pokemon Center music. It's the similar sound to the music in the previous 
 PC's but at night, it's different. This happens with every town and most routes. And of course, 
 there are the Pokemon cries which have been part of the series ever since the beginning. And because 
 there are new Pokemon, there's new cries. They are sounding more modern than the cries of the older 
 Pokemon which still sound like the original cries from the Game Boy sound. The music fortunately 
 doesn't get very repetitive as it did in the older installments in the series and I never really 
 got sick of it. In fact, some of it is actually pretty decent. I look forward to hearing higher 
 quality music in the next set of installments.
  
  Gameplay
  If you're familiar with the Pokemon games, then you'll be right at home with Diamond and Pearl. 
 It's pretty much the same; You capture Pokemon and train them with all your heart and soul; You 
 collect the eight badges and fight the Pokemon League and you pretty much know all the rest. Once 
 again, new Pokemon arrive in a new region with new objectives. But not only is your objective to 
 Obtain the 8 Sinnoh Badges but to as well stop Team Galactic. That's right, not Team Rocket, not 
 Team Magma or Aqua but Team Galactic. New starter Pokemon are included; Turtwig is the Grass Pokemon; 
 Chimchar, the Fire Pokemon; and finally Piplup, the Water Pokemon. And those are just three examples 
 of the awesome Pokemon you're yet to meet in Diamond and Pearl. The length is decent. Sometimes 
 there are huge gaps between badges which are filled with story and training. The difficulty is 
 a bit harder than before. At one part of the game you'll notice you'll be versing quite a few low 
 level Pokemon than you. But then, whoa! You then seem to be versing trainers and wild Pokemon with 
 high levels. Now how did THIS happen? During the beginning of the game wou may find a couple of 
 Pokemon that you want to train for the entire adventure. You'll have others but may end up not 
 using them anymore. But I do suggest you take at least 2 or 3 Pokemon throughout the entire thing. 
 Unfortunately there are some losses to features. There isn't any PokeNav and is replaced with some 
 weird touch screen thing, but you can't keep track of trainers. So you can't verse them again. 
 But there is also a recovery os features too. The day and night system is back. Good thing is, 
 you don't have to hassle choosing your own time as it copies the time saved on your DS. And it 
 can easily be changed by changed the time on the DS memory itself. But i'm just happy this feature 
 is back. A lot of things in the game are a bit slower which I've found a bit of a shame. Surfing 
 is loads slower as well as riding on your bike and just playing the game in general. It isn't much 
 of a hassle but you may get sick of it. As for TMs and HMs, there are definitely new ones. Although 
 not that many new ones. There are only a couple of new HM moves and they are Defog (HM05) and Rock 
 Climb (HM08) . Defog replaces Flash and clears fogs which Rock Climb allows your Pokemon to help 
 you climb scaled walls. Gyms are pretty cool. They are very creative and all have a different way 
 of passing through them and of course there are trainers to get in your way. The gameplay overall 
 in DP is very nicely done but is still kinda stuck to the past.
  
  Character Design
  You will meet a lot of new people in this huge Pokemon adventure. Your rival happens to be a friend 
 again and you have another friend who supports you as well as a new Professor. Oak, Elm and Birch; 
 now there's Rowan.
  
  Storyline
  Yeah, yeah you get the eight badges and fight in the League but it isn't just this. There's another 
 story attached which occurs during the badge gaps interestingly enough. Team Galactic are planning 
 a new world order, using extracted orbs that come from legendary Pokemon. There are four key people 
 in Team Galactic. Cyrus and his three commanders; Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Due to their help, 
 you also get the opportunity to capture Dialga (Pokemon Diamond) or Palkia (Pokemon Pearl) .
  
  Overall
  This is another Nintendo DS game that is worth the purchase. You will definitely 
 get hours of entertainment out of this one small cartridge. DP shows that the Pokemon formula is 
 still going strong is nowhere near dying out anytime soon.
  9/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1nick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  It has all of the good stuff everyone liked about the old games and it has like twice as much stuff 
 than what was in it before, like you can catch some pokemon from the old games and you can transfer 
 in pokemon from the gba games. It honestly kept me busy for months after I bought it. I would give 
 it a 10 or a 9.5 . Its fun just training your pokemon or going to the Battle Tower. Half the game 
 is after you beat the story line. There are also many new characters and little mini quests to 
 enjoy. Like I said before its absolutely stunning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinfernal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  The Pokemon franchise hasn't evolved much since the original red and blue versions for the gameboy. 
 Battles are still fought in an identical fashion, you choose from 4 moves, your opponent does the 
 same, and you see what happens. There's really no skill involved, the level of your beasties accounts 
 for too much of the outcome of a given match. The game tries to encourage you to raise varieties 
 of Pokemon for their different types so you can plan battles to exploit your opponents weakness. 
 But honestly, you could take the same fiery monkey you started the game with and never throw another 
 pokeball out because if one pokemon eats all the exp, then he'll be a much higher level than your 
 opponents and even overcome type weaknesses. So from a gameplay perspective things haven't changed.
 
  
  But the original concept of the game and depth of combat is probably just right for its target 
 audience, so I won't scold Nintendo for not overhauling the battle system and making it more meaningful 
 and complex. I would just expect after so many installments of the game, none of which I have played 
 between my old Red version and my new Diamond version, that some changes would have been made.
 
  
  The new Pokemon themselves in this latest version are pretty hit or miss for me. Many of them seem 
 like blatant knockoffs of earlier versions. The starting 3 pokemon are essentially the same as 
 in red/blue but with different names. And some of the truly new ones just aren't appealing, have 
 no relation between the pokemon itself and the name, or just make me scratch my head. (What the 
 hell is a Pachirisu anyways?)
  
  Some that I thought were cute, clever, or original: Shieldon, Spheal, Shinx, Glameow (because it 
 evolves into Purugly) , etc.
  
  Some that I thought were bad ideas: Buizel (yeah I get it, but its just dumb) , Starly (do we really 
 need another generic bird pokemon) , Bidoof (could this thing be more useless or annoying?) , Ambipom (oy...)
 
  
  Random encounters happen FAR TOO OFTEN. I estimate the encounter rate walking through grass to 
 one one fight every 5 bushes. You can't avoid combat by staying out of the grass either because 
 trainers are everywhere. I mean it's ludicrous how many kids, ninjas, girlscouts, couples, etc. 
 are just roaming around in dense forests and dark caves. And the fights with these trainers aren't 
 very interesting. How many times do I have to fight a trainer with 6 lvl 10 Geodudes? Or 4 magikarp? 
 Is there is a point to that other than to annoy players?
  
  The main quest, if you could call it that, seems to me to be all over the place. At you have to 
 do very specific things and talk to people before you can advance the story. You could find this 
 frustrating if you left a town and can't figure out why some psyducks won't move out of your way... 
 then find out you missed one person in that last town you had to talk to. That's just aggravating.
 
  
  All in all though, there's a plethora of side activities to get involved with, an enormous amount 
 of critters to collect, and the base foundation of the games battles is at least solid. Pokemon 
 Diamond/Pearl is a good game that is worth playing, but it is just more or the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  There's almost always something else to do in this game, it has a longer storyline than most other 
 pokemon games and better graphics by far. It's completely amazing that they managed to fit so much 
 data into such a small cartridge! It gives you the ability to do so much more than in the other 
 games, and it includes the ability to catch every single pokemon out there. Though I'm not a fan 
 of all the new and strange pokemon the company has been developing, and I like the old ones, (from 
 red, blue, yellow, gold, silver and crystal, all the new pokemon after that tend to get a little 
 weird and what-not) some of the newly developed ones in here are not half bad, and there are many 
 legendary pokemon at your disposal. Another great thing about this game is the new underground 
 multiplayer set up, and the global trading and battle centers. The absolute size of the game is 
 nearly unimaginable for something so small. The game play set-up hasn't really changed at all from 
 the other games but it's managed to keep it's classical set-up and keep it fresh, and like i said, 
 There's almost always something else to do in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kablay
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I like Pokemon a lot. The games were fun -- for a while. But by the time the wonderful franchise 
 made it to the DS everything that made it exciting was already there. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl 
 are good games, but in the end they're the same as any other Pokemon game (maybe worse...) .
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is extremely slow and rough. One would think that the DS would 
 be able to handle smoother gameplay, but apparently not. This is one of the main areas at which 
 this game falls. I was tired of battling pretty soon because it was just so boring. Walking in 
 the game is slow, too, and even though you can run in buildings there's a lot of lag time. So, 
 basically, slowness is a factor that makes this game boring.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are really good in this game. Everything looks really great. It's a cool mix of 3D 
 and 2D, and it works. Most of it is pretty much the same as the old games, though, and the areas 
 aren't all that imaginative or colorful. It's nothing that new. I loved the soot near the volcano 
 in Ruby and Sapphire, and the intricate places where the legendary birds resided in Leaf Green 
 and Fire Red. But the marshes that were introduced are more annoying than interesting. So, basically, 
 graphics are good, but how they're used isn't.
  
  Sound
  
  This game has some of the clearest sound on that the DS can produce, but it doesn't really make 
 a big impact and is soon gets annoying (especially the bike tune, which is important since it's 
 the fastest way of transportation and is frequently used) . SB (so, basically) , good at first but 
 not in the long run.
  
  Value
  
  It's hard to keep playing this after it's beat. All the above mentioned things drag it down and 
 make it frustrating. One of the things that got on my nerves the most was the LACK OF AN ITEM STORAGE. 
 I MEAN COME ON! I HAVE, LIKE, 100 ITEMS! I HAVE TO SPEND, LIKE, 5 MINUTES SEARCHING FOR A FREAKING 
 EXP. SHARE! Okay... yeah, you're bag will be way too full if you like to keep anything, which I 
 do, and it gets unbearable sometimes. That was one of the stupidest things Nintendo did with that 
 game... SB, bad value.
  
  Tilt
  
  It was okay. I played it for a while, but then got annoyed because of how slow and inconvenient 
 it was. I CAN'T EVEN BUY A FREAKING WATER STONE. It's not as good as previous installments. And 
 the story is worse than others. Maybe it's because I'm getting older, but I didn't feel any motivation 
 to do anything. The dialog wasn't even funny.
  
  Overall
  
  It's okay for a little bit, but gets boring. Yes I played for 100 hours, but a lot of that is because 
 it's SO FREAKING SLOW!!!!!!!!! The new Pokemon weren't even very creative. The only cool one was 
 Chatot because of it's Chatter move, but it learned it at level 40 something! I am NOT training 
 that Pokemon that much for one stupid move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svinjche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  hello there! this is my first review so its gona be quick.
  pokemon rpg games has been always prety good games so is this one.
  diamond and pearl make debut 
 on the ds, and i must say that so far this is best poke game ever. fire red and leaf green actualy 
 are litlle better but i dont care. now lets say about good things about this new edition... first 
 2d,3d grafics are realy cool, bunch of new pokemon are here... and also from past editions too,40h 
 and over main story makes me wery happy and hmm touch screen well maybe not... and other. bad things 
 are awfull sounds of pokemon copy-paste efect from blue and red versions (nintendo shame on you) , no 
 WATER routes at all, batlles get very boring over time and nothin more. so lets just say this is 
 one great game and thats it. and for then end this is not just another game for the kids... im 20 
 and i still love it! heh....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! And I thought I was a freaking pokemon Master. There are so many good trainers nowadays 
 its hard to secure a freaking victory through wifi. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl delivers though. Most 
 spent time on the DS since Advance Wars. I'm just hoping the pokemon series never dies on us. This 
 Series has always left me wanting more and more. But even if you are not familiar with the pokemon 
 series, give it a try. Most people think this game is for children becuase of its creatures and 
 all the colorful attacks. Screw those people (unless you are one of them) . They have been horribly 
 mistaken. This is most RPG you can get out of a single game. Now with over 480 something pokemon 
 to choose from, the possibilities are endless. Maybe Infinite? Good job Pokemon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  I'll just breeze over the basics really quick for the people who have played pokemon games before. 
 The same stuff you'll expect are still there so nothings been taken away from you like the clock 
 feature they took away in the 3rd gen games. What makes this game amazing in itself is the GTS 
 which means Global Trading System which allows players to trade any pokemon they want..... To be 
 honest now the GTS sucks big time.... but using your own internet and talking to people online 
 for their friend codes, makes trading what it should be like for the GTS. Basically you can truely 
 get what you want early on in the game as long as you find a nice person to trade with. All in 
 all its a great game dispite the bad looks of the new pokemon to the series. With the trading, 
 you won't have to stomach the terrible looking pokemon for long. You can trade right for the great 
 old school ones we first grew up with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebetai
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  the best game i've played in along time. the environments were so well made. although not many 
 things different for the time system. pokemon are out at all times. how did gamespot only give 
 this an 8.5? 9.0 at least. this is pure player's choice and a worthy to be in a video game museum 
 one day. my favorite feature is wi fi. i really enjoyed trading with people all over the world. 
 my current goal in the game is to have at least 450 pokemon. i got 349 so far btu another hundred 
 should be easy. i don't have pearl yet but i plan on getting it soon. pokemon diamond... is just 
 another reason nintendo dominates the seventh gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkvalen
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  The previous pokemon games I have played haven't been anything like this, it's an awsome game, 
 the interactivity is exellent, and the graphics are superb, Wi-Fi is cool because I dont have to 
 waste money buying a Game Link, just for one system, I strongly recommend buying this game, it's 
 a fun new adventure in the pokemon world, I hope they come out with more games, because i currently 
 own all of the pokemon games, including Pokemon Ranger, so this is a defenite fun game for all 
 ages, no matter how old i am i will continue to play the pokemon games, because they challenge 
 me, and basicly their is no way to beat them unless you get all the pokemon in the game, so it 
 becomes a challenge and im not one to pass down a challenge, so all gamers should really get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in it's series. It has awesome gameplay, good story, good graphics, and good 
 battles. The new pokemon are awesome and freaky. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is a must buy, and when 
 your all done beating the game, this is the best part, you can challenge the world with WI-FI. 
 You can't beat that. Overall great game for the DS
  
  Now i'm just writing crap because it must be 100 words to submit How bout' them Raiders superbowl? 
 maybe? ...... ok fine they'll be lucky if they reach 5 wins this season, but I say they go 7-9. 
 GO RAIDERS!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  As well respected (by most REAL gamers) and as popular as the previous Pokemon titles have been, 
 you should expet the fanchise to deliver another duo of fantastic games. They have done just that. 
 The Pokemon world is once again expanded with the introduction of the Sinnoh region, the new area 
 in which you're adventure takes place. The story orogressed very well, and the controls are so 
 natural that it takes no time even for a gamer new to the franchise to get used to them. In my 
 opinion, the controls are almost too simple. Besides the useful new Poketech, the touch screen 
 controls are quite under achieving, and the game could have just have easily been released on the 
 GBA. However, the turn based battle system returns as good as ever, and the simple yet complex 
 type system is quite intriguing and will have you collecting different types long after you beat 
 the Pokemon League and complete the story. Even though some battles are terribly drawn out, even 
 when the winner is clear, it doesn't take away from the experience. The games introduces 7 new 
 legendary Pokemon, and the story is long and engaging. One last gripe I have about the game is 
 that it can take a frustratingly long time to get places before you obtain the ability to fly or 
 when trying to reach a location you cannot fly todue to the insanely large amount of wild Pokemon 
 you will encounter. Finally, the newly rendered graphics add a delightful 3D element to the Sinnoh 
 region. This game duo is in my mind the best the franchise has delivered yet, and will keep you 
 busy for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomer12341
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  the pokemon series has devloped a lot since her games to the gbc and i am happy to say as a pokemon 
 fan that this game is the best yet i just can't have enough of it there always something to do 
 and i can even say and i am not embrassed that i bought both pearl and diamond one for me and one 
 for my brother. so to sum up this in my opinion one of the best game ever created to the nintendo 
 huge line of games and i hope it will only continue to grow and in a few years it will be all 3D 
 for the ds or another pocket gaming device by nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweMysterio
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Now i see pokemon diamond in a whole new way than i did before. this game is amazing with wifi. its 
 just plain amazing. The graphics are the best yet! you can get every other pkmn than: the hoen, kanto 
 and jhoto legends plus the jhoto, kanto hoenn starters! thats where wi-fi comes in. go to youtube 
 and look for vids that hav pkmn u want. this game does get boring at times but while im in the car 
 this game is perfectIn the house i get my pals to play with me and help me finish my dex. my dex 
 is 285 pkmn=/
  but its a start. i only did play for 120 hours. in like 3 months. this game is sweet. My fave part 
 is wifi. it really helpts u out with your ntl dex. now im ginna change the rating. my previous rating 
 was 8.0 i would take it to 8.8 but i hav no choice but 9.0 .and the price is great 35$ bucks for 
 like te best pkmn game ever! and also go on youtube. com/usamamalik for ur pokemon diamond help! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Everyone was saying how incredibly awesome this game is so I thought i'd check it out. Thats a 
 was a good idea! This is very fun and addicting game, like all the other Pokemon games.
  
  Graphics: This is my favorite part of the game, everything in the environment is now 3-d! Buildings, 
 trees, grass, even you! But since this game is on the DS. the frame rate isn't so good, but it's 
 nothing thats distracting even a little!
  
  Gameplay: Smooth as, well, um, me! The controls are as usual turn-based, but this time you get 
 to use a touch screen! The touch screen can be used for almost anything in the game, apart from 
 running and navigating the menu. Sound: I love the music in this game, holy crap it's awesome! 
 Especially when your fighting certain Legendary Pokemon. But the attack sounds are definitely recycled 
 from previous Pokemon games. But thats nothing to worry about, is it?
  
  Value: This game is incredibly lengthy, and you will definitely not beat it fairly in under 15 
 hours, I guarantee! Although I love long games, this is one I would NOT play over again, I just 
 wouldn't have the life in me.
  
  Here's what i've been waiting to talk about! The online play! As usual Nintendo has used Friend 
 Codes, to keep the little kids safe from scumbags, god bless Nintendo. But there are still fun 
 things to do on wi fi. You can battle (of course) with different battle settings, trade, or do 
 voice chat with someone if you own the DS headset. So this game will keep you busy for hours and 
 hours!
  
  Thats all I have to say about this incredible DS game, if you own a DS and like to see fictional 
 animals beating the crap out of each other, buy this game!
  
  Zaphack logging off! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SidshowBob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  the very good thing is you can get every pokemonand now i have all the old time legandary isn't 
 that cool that game is 1 i have to remember for a long time and how i got all the  
 1 other thing i also liked was how u can get pokemon from ur gba games to ur game by pal park.................... 
 it is very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very good game the best pokemon game from 
 me is pokemon diamond!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris-Flame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Pokemon.. Some hate it, some like it..
  Maybe the reason is cartoons, what i don't like so much, dubbed by 4kids, making it too kiddy. 
 But cartoon started from the games, Pokemon Red and Blue. It was Awesome Classic. Now i'm going 
 to review Pokemon Diamond.
  
  Story - It haven't changed at all. You start as young boy or girl, your adventure begins, when 
 you get your first pokemon and try to beat gym leaders. Also, Team Galaxy is trying plan something 
 evil.. It's still same story.. Not changed at all. Except at Colosseum, your a Pokemon thief, but
 
  it's wasn't so good game.
  
  Gameplay - It's same but you can use touch screen to choose more easier
  things, what you want 
 to do. Moving around is still fun and playing minigames with touch screen. But i wish, that touch 
 screen could have been used more.
  
  Graphics - Too much recycled, but It's still kinda charming. There are some Pokemon moves turned 
 to 3D, what is kinda good.
  
  Special - Everyone has been wanted Pokemon game go to Online.
  Our Prayer has been answered. 
 Now you can trade and battle around the entire world with other trainers. Only you need to add 
 your friends code and then your friend yours and then you can battle. You can also trade pokemon 
 at GTS, where you'll find more easily, what you want. Battle tower is also fun to show, who's No. 
 1 Yay!
  
  Overall: Pokemon still charms me, with its new pokemon and going online. I have played pokemon 
 about.. 130 hours.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatergeek
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon series has been one of my favorite series but its latest installment has some flaws.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is basically the same as the previous Pokemon games. Battle system is better 
 then the past games. I wish it had more touch-screen features. I like how they added more Pokemon.
 
  
  Sound: Has most old sounds from past Pokemon. Wish they added more new sounds.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really improved from previous Pokemon games. I like how they mixed in 
 2-D with 3-D. I think they needed to add more 3-D effects.
  
  Overall, I think Pokemon Diamond is a good game but is too short and has some flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timson622222
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Like before, let's whip up some grades.
  
  Graphics: A+
  The graphics are very colorful, 3D, and it makes you feel like you're in the game.
  
  Multiplayer 
 support: A+
  Wireless connection is much better then a Link Cable.
  
  Point of the game: A+
  The point of the game is really simple, actually, just beat the champion 
 and become a Pokemon master and get all four hundred ninety three Pokemon.
  
  Comminucation with GBA games: A+
  Although you cannot battle, you can send Pokemon from the GBA 
 games over to Diamond and Pearl. Including Legendaries.
  
  Overall: A+
  Perfect game. If you post a bad review about this, you're a loser. Well, not a loser, but you probably 
 don't like Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runehack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Where to start?........
  
  Well the game overall is very good, thought some times annoying it has it's ups and downs:
  
 
  THE GOOD: Great graphics advancement on the last games, YOU CAN RUN INDOORS!!!!! Thank Arceus 
 (lol) finally you can run indoors, it was so annoying in the old games, Pal Park its good how you 
 can transfer pokemo from your old gaames so you can accually complete a pokedex with out needing 
 some one else. GTS the global trade station, you can fiind almost anythig in there. WI FI trading, 
 finaly you can realy prov your better than some one else! take their friend code and just battle 
 them THE BAD: Same battle set up, they used the same sprites from the prvious game, no new graphics. 
 Touch screen, there isn't much touch screen involvement which was a let down. GTS the problem is 
 that the gts is used to find pokemon you don't have, but you can only search for pokemon that uved 
 seen!!! whats the point in that.
  
  Over all great game from the long dragging start to the time u battle dialga and beyond great game
 
  
  
  PS i think it does live up to it's name 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud-madhoun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Much to the delight of Pok&eacute; maniacs the world over, Nintendo and Game Freak have finally 
 brought a proper Pok&eacute; mon game to the Nintendo DS with Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl, 
 and it delivers much of what a fan would desirea richer, more detailed presentation, the ability 
 to battle and trade Pok&eacute; mon over the Internet, and of course, more than 100 brand-new Pok&eacute; mon 
 to collect. Like any of the core Pok&eacute; mon games released since the original Red and Blue 
 hit in 1999, Diamond and Pearl offer some nice upgrades, but if you didn't like Pok&eacute; mon 
 then, you probably won't care for it now. That said, it's a little surprising how well the formula 
 holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as 
 well as the quality of the execution.... and now abt the wifi wat u can do with pokemon. (wifi nintendo 
 ds pokemon online)
  Trade, Battle and Chat with Friends Locally and Worldwide!
  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pok&eacute; mon Pearl are the first Pok&eacute; mon games to allow you 
 to trade and battle with other Pok&eacute; mon Trainers around the globe via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 Here are some of the great Wi-Fi features available in Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pok&eacute; mon 
 Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond was a fun game but it got repetative after a while and it's the same thing again 
 and again beeting a gym and finding your way to another one. The really cool thing is all the new 
 pokemons and the new regions. The new cities and charecters are a good addition to your series, 
 but once you migrate your pokemons to this game from your old game you can't bring them back. Once 
 you beat the pokemon league which took about 20-hours there's nothing except battling again or 
 looking for more pokemon in a new island that has a battle tower and a few other places. It is 
 pretty cool because you can trade pokemon over wi-fi with people around the world and battle them 
 too. So don't worry if you bought pearl and you want dialga you can just trade to get it. A thing 
 that i don't like is that you can only see which i didn't like. Overall this is a good pokemon 
 game to add to your collection, but it wasn't too challenging and and you will find it very similar 
 to other pokemon games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrodri1976
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  The game lets you gain different Pokemon and let you choose different option in weapons. The level 
 starts you easy and then it starts to get a little more difficult. Its a good game for hours of 
 entertainment. I would recommend this game to every one who loves this type of games. The game 
 lets you gain different Pokemon and let you choose different option in weapons. The level starts 
 you easy and then it starts to get a little more difficult. Its a good game for hours of entertainment. 
 I would recommend this game to every one who loves this type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1914
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl are the first RPG Pokemon games on the Nintendo DS, and have 
 left quite an amazing first impression. I've already played it for 35 hours, and I will still be 
 playing it in 2 years from now.
  
  New stuff includes Wi-Fi battling and trading, touch screen minigames, 107 new pokemon, and so 
 much more. Now we have a Poketech, a wrist watch-like device with loads of nifty features, like 
 a clock, berry finder, itemfinder, friendship checker, and 21 more appts.
  
  The game looks amazing. Not to much is recycled from the past games, but the Pokemon soud almost 
 exactly the same as with the GBA, but they still sound fantastic.
  
  Overall, this is a game that any DS owner should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, it's awesome. Wi-fi is a must-have, as you can access the GTS and battle computer controlled 
 teams of real people in the Battle Tower. It's no Gold/Silver but it's pretty close. Heated battles 
 against Team Galactic (no relation to Team Rocket) have you on the edge of your seat. All new legendaries 
 and Pokemon make the grand total 493. Let's see you complete your Pokedex now, eh? The Poketch 
 is useful, but some apps. are USELESS! Diamond was a sure choice for me because I like how Dialga 
 looks. You need to own this or Pearl if you want Battle Revolution. Otherwise that game is BORING! 
 Remember this, get this and revolution for real-time battles against other people not computers. 
 Get this game Pokemaniacs and others! Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGroudon20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The features of this game are definitely flawless. In my tenacious theory, I must say that the 
 3D graphics for this game are very transcendent. Game Freak really spiced things up for a change. 
 I am actually amazed to see how the 4th generation of Pokemon games really blast away the other 
 features that other Pokemon RPG's don't have. I enjoy most of the features of the game such as 
 the GTS (Global Trade Service) which is a special way for one to trade Pokemon with others around 
 the globe. I like it because I receive quite a few shiny Pokemon but I must admit that this is 
 the best upgraded feature included in this game that ensured I was getting my money's worth by 
 purchasing it. The possibility making good Poffins isn't easy as it seems than rather mixing berries. 
 I have tried many times to get it right, but it makes no sense to me.
  
  I like the underground Secret Base features because it gives players more things to do like communicate 
 with one another and capture flags; also you can add more decorations in your base too? I don't 
 know if its possible to add more than 16 decorations. You can put your base anywhere you want.
 
  
  The Wi-Fi club is the greatest feature among the retrospectives of a standard Pokemon Center. The 
 Friend Codes give others a chance to battle you, even though you are far away. Getting all 493 
 Pokemon isn't a major cakewalk but don't take my word for it. You can get absolutely lucky if you 
 use the GTS. There is a slight possibility that one person can obtain all 488 Pokemon. The Mystery 
 Gift functions give you three opportunities to get gifts and might be able to get Arceus, Darkrai 
 and Shaymin. I like the Pal Park because the dissimilarity of the Safari Zone doesn't include catching 
 a Pokemon using 30 balls and breaking free all the time; overall, this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxx12381
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved the pokemon games. but its poupularty has always been on and off. gold and silver 
 were my favorite games of all time. diomond has many great features that make it great game. ellite 
 4, contests, underground, the battle tower, and some hidden missions in the game that result in 
 lengenday pokemon or other things. the only reason you would still play after th ellite 4 is the 
 Battle Tower. the underground is a great place to be if your with alot of people that have Diomond 
 or Pearl. the only thing you can lose in an underground party is your self respect. you would think 
 so, but geting your flag stolen is realy embarsing.
  
  The series is great but you need to be realy into Pokemon to actually enjoy the game. i think you 
 should wait for the next game before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hustler_Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  The is the not the best Pokemon I've played .... but it is the best this year!!! Well the game 
 starts with u meeting a professor! Well after that u get the Pokedex and u set out to the wide 
 world of Pokemon! Well the pokemon are cool! The gym leaders are easy and the elite four are easy 
 after u find thier weakness! Plus a small tip: to defeat the elite four its good to have an empoleon 
 with bubblebeam, surf, waterfall, and any one of ur choice! The elite four gets easy after u defeat 
 them once or twice and the easy way to train is to have a lots of money and fight the elite four 
 and if u loose pay up and again start! u will earn lots of exp.!!!! Well the game is super and 
 the contests are also good i don't have anything bad to say about it!
  
  CHIMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealightbreeze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of, if not the best Pokemon game that is out on the market today. You can play as either 
 a girl or a boy pokemon trainer. You travel all over the region- collecting pokemon and doing battles 
 to progress through the game.
  
  After the eight gym leaders, you can fight the elite four in the game. This pokemon game, is a 
 lot of fun- you can trade pokemon with anyone from all over the world once you enter a certain 
 town and a part of the game.
  
  Berries make a return this game, but instead of making pokeblock, you make poffins for your pokemon. 
 Trading, batteling, and just roaming the pokemon world with this game is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chika_chibi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Addictive as always (^_^) ... I not only have Pokemon Diamond, but Pokemon Pearl as well... (^_^)
 
  
  There are new Pokemon, new move sets, new trainers, and new goodies, i. e. wireless trading (no 
 need to buy them wireless adaptors) , GTS, Battle Tower, the underground, A whole new way of doing 
 contests... (I still cant get that dance move part (T_T) ) . And because of all of these added goodies 
 there are more things to do to fully keep the hype up for the game..... I have already completed 
 the main game, I'm still in the middle of the part two (^_^) ... There's so much to do in so little 
 time in this addictive game... I can't even put it down, lol... Still on the race to Catch'em All!!! 
 I so far have 220 types of pokemon still have a long way to go T_T anyone wanna trade??? I'm a 
 Feebas/Milotic &amp; Roselia/Roserade Breeder... Do I have any takers? (^_^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a totally awesome game, but the matter of the fact is that you get tired of freakin 
 battling for badges and defeating a evil organisation and beating the elite four and having a rival 
 you have to beat at any chance. I mean, it just gets old. Sure, the GTS and wi-fi battle tower 
 are great, but the main storyline gets real old real fast. You see that I've played 100+ hrs. I've 
 actually played 224:37 hrs. That's mostly killing my friends with the lvl 100s that I've trained 
 during this game alone... thats saying that I HAVE NO LIFE, and that the game is boring. (Preferably 
 the latter) That's all I got to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesyfx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I like the Pokemon games. They've not really changed that much over the years, the premise is basically 
 the same in each one, just in a different location and some different creatures. Of course there 
 are mini-games and Wi-Fi play included in this game, so it expands on it in certain areas.
  
  I would love this game, but theres just one nagging issue which makes me not like it so much 
 - It's the speed of the game. Everything is so slow! Battles in particular . You're waiting to 
 make a move but you've got to wait for the slow text to scroll by, the painstakingly slow animations 
 and the period between actions where nothing happens at all. It's to the point where it actually 
 annoys me. I want things to happen but I'm just sat there waiting for it to finish.
  
  If it was just a bit quicker, I could enjoy this game. But instead I'm just losing patience and 
 shutting it off.
  
  I'm not saying it's a bad game - It's well made, it's a high quality product, it's got tons of 
 features, and it will take a long time to complete, but it's way too slow for me.
  
  Maybe it's the fact that I bought this and Sonic Rush Adventure at the same time. Hmm! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  For many games, re-using a formula over and over again starts to make a series feel very bland 
 very unimaginative sometimes. But for some series, you dont need to fix what isnt broken. One 
 series in particular is Pokemon, one of the fastest selling and most popular hand-held games ever 
 made. Back in the 90s, this game was the next best thing to happen to a Game Boy since Donkey Kong. 
 And as the series evolved by adding newer features, Pokemon, and by making it look cleaner and 
 more advanced from what it was in the beginning, the original name of the game has never changed. 
 And now, after more than 10 years after Red and Blue were released for the original Game Boy, the 
 newest installment in this trilogy has been released, Pokemon Diamond (and Pearl) . With every Pokemon 
 game, you follow one common goal, to become a Pokemon Master. To do so, you have many other goals 
 that have always been in the game: Catch every single Pokemon you possibly can in the game, beat 
 every gym leader and beat the Elite 4 at the Pokemon League and be crowned Champion, and train 
 your Pokemon to become the greatest of the greatest. Of course, its easier said than done, with 
 that said, youll be playing Pokemon Diamond for Hours and Hours on end. Close to about 30-40 hours 
 of gameplay can be found in just starting from the beginning and just battling Gym Leaders and 
 progressing through the story, hundreds or even thousands of hours can be put into accomplishing 
 the goals listed above. Its a game that never truly ends. But thats what makes the series so 
 playable. The newest version in the series is easily the best looking, and best playing Pokemon 
 game yet. The gameplay follows the same pattern as with every other game in the saga. You start 
 off in Twinleaf Town and soon encounter a situation in which your friend\rival and you get attacked 
 by a Pokemon, you come across as bag with three poke balls, and you choose what Pokemon you wish 
 to take with you to battle the Pokemon, and to start off with along your entire journey. If you 
 played any other game in the series, this isnt anything new. Just feels new, however. The game 
 is updated in many ways; you now can obtain a handy poke watch that counts your steps, helps find 
 hidden items, has a calculator (this is darn good, trust me) , and even tells time! Which brings 
 me to another change, the return of times of the day is a revival of Pokemon Gold and Silver. The 
 times also correspond with Real-time occurring in reality, so its a nifty feature. Different Pokemon 
 appear at night, day, morning, afternoon etc. So its good to look around at different times to 
 see what you may find. And, just as something I noticed while playing, when you have running shoes, 
 you can even run in buildings! Its good stuff! But besides anything else, the gameplay is the same 
 as with every other Pokemon game. But the biggest difference you will notice is the new Shinnoh 
 Region, the new Pokemon, and new characters. And the inclusion of the Touch screen is also a huge 
 plus, allowing you to perform conformations, battling, and so on with the touch screen. It gives 
 it a fluid and better gameplay experience. Easily the most noticeable change in the game is the 
 graphics. They have been improved to the point that the characters are almost popping out of your 
 screen! Instead of being the 2D characters you come to know and love from the previous games, they 
 now appear more 3D and more detailed. It goes to show the DS has some graphical power behind it. 
 But dont get me wrong, its nothing spectacular, but its great nonetheless. The battle animations 
 and the Pokemon animations are pretty nice as well. The attacks are very epic at times, and they 
 look the best as they have ever been. So Id say the graphics have gotten a new bit of edge to 
 them since Red and Blue, dont you? I never thought the sound got any better since Red and Blue. 
 I admit I miss the classic music in the background from the original Pokemon games. But its not 
 that the Sound in this game is bad, but its nothing special, even if the DS gives off the best 
 sound I have ever heard on a handheld. The music is new, the sounds of the attacks still have that 
 sharpness to them, and the sound effects are quite cheap. So Id say the sound isnt a huge issue 
 with this game, so I wont get into it much. In all, Pokemon Diamond is the best installment in 
 the series yet. Its got Wi-Fi, a cleaner new look, the same great gameplay that makes it playable 
 by anyone, and its makes an awesome upgrade to the DS. Its easily the most recommendable DS game 
 out there right now besides New Super Mario bros, Mario Kart DS, or Castlevania. So give it a shot, 
 it wont disappoint. -Verdugo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonafide3210
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the better pokemon games. With pokemon returning with its initial gameboy formula, 
 things are all for the better in the series. The new graphics mix a 3d and 2d together which is 
 ok, considering its a DS game, but its not over the type. The main story is really easy to get 
 through for anyone of any age, but for the vets of the series you can take your pokes online to 
 pit your monsters against another trainer. the music in the game is about average, although some 
 parts in the game i played with the volume down, but dont let that distract you from buying this 
 game. its a must have for the DS and for any pokemon fan. ill even give you a plus for the online, 
 if you need help finding matches, look for a friend at www. serebii. net or www. pokemon. marriland. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Pok&eacute; mon is known for its formula. Catch, train, battle, repeat. Pok&eacute; mon Diamond 
 adds many new features such as a Pok&eacute; tch, new Pok&eacute; mon, and online play. But is it 
 enough to balance out the good and the bad? Also, before you start yelling at me, I said that the 
 time you'll spend playing it is 40 to 100 hours is because of the vast amount of replayablitiy. 
 I'll tell you.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond's storyline is pretty much the same as previous games. You, a young aspiring 
 trainer have started out on an adventure. An evil team (Team Galaxy in this game) is trying to 
 take over the world with the use of a fantastic legendary Pok&eacute; mon (Dialga or Palkia depending 
 on the version) . I would have really liked to see an original story. The story is very boring in 
 Pok&eacute; mon games as of the current state. I felt that the storyline was very disappointing.
 
  
  The gameplay mechanics are also pretty much the same as the previous games, but it stills seems 
 to maintain its strange charm that makes Pok&eacute; mon games so fun. You start out with one of 
 three starter Pok&eacute; mon -- Piplup, Chimchar, or Turtwig -- then train them. You catch more Pok&eacute; mon 
 along the way, and you also can battle other trainers. I find this formula pretty fun. Another 
 thing you can do if battling isn't your thing is contests. You compete in a variety of categories. 
 You dress up your Pok&eacute; mon, you make them dance, and then you finally make them act. You 
 can do certain moves to appeal to judges, and get a score based on your performance. A new thing 
 in this game is an item you get called the Pok&eacute; mon Watch (Pok&eacute; tch) . You can get applications 
 for it, like a clock, calculator, or timer. Some require you to do something for it. For example, 
 you have to bring somebody a certain Pok&eacute; mon to get an app that corresponds with the Pok&eacute; mon. 
 Something else new to Pok&eacute; mon is the online play. You can now go to the Global Trading Station 
 (GTS) and trade Pok&eacute; mon with other people worldwide. Also, at the Battle Tower you can battle 
 with preset teams online (you go online with the team you want and it can be set for people to 
 possibly battle randomly) . Your third option is to play your friends. You have to share your Friend 
 Code (FC) with another Pok&eacute; mon Diamond or Pearl owner, and then you can battle and trade 
 with them online (player controlled instead of preset) . Now, the online battling at the Battle 
 Tower didn't appeal to me much, because I would've much rather battled in real time than battled 
 with a computer controlled player, but Nintendo always makes stupid mistakes with FCs. I would've 
 enjoyed more new and fresh gameplay elements, but overall the gameplay was pretty well-done. It 
 definitely outweighs the suckiness of the storyline.
  
  The graphics in this game are a huge improvement over the previous games. As opposed to full 2D, 
 this game has 3D elements to it. For example, as you run along the buildings, bushes, fences, and 
 other background objects move as if viewing them from a different direction. All of the Pok&eacute; mon 
 have had their sprites revamped with more colors, better shading, and slightly larger. Also, many 
 of the new Pok&eacute; mon are a lot more complicated than the first, second, and third generation 
 Pok&eacute; mon. For example, compare Machop (first gen) and Dialga (fourth gen) . You'll find that 
 Dialga is much more complicated (and cooler) looking than Machop. Many other Pok&eacute; mon in 
 Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl are like that. Overall, I felt that the graphical improvements 
 were sufficient, and prettier looking.
  
  The sound ingame has also seemed to have a facelift. Although I still heard many of the classic 
 sounds (like leveling up, evolution, and a couple other themes) , most of the music was new. Although 
 none of it was extremely revolutionary awesome music, I enjoyed a lot of it (my favorite theme 
 being the Champion's theme) . The controls are pretty mediocre. I would've liked to see more touch 
 screen specific controls.
  
  Overall, this game is a must buy for any Pok&eacute; mon fanatic. If you've never played a Pok&eacute; mon 
 game, then this would be the one that you should start the series with. For those of you who don't 
 enjoy Pok&eacute; mon games, avoid this one like the plague. I, for one, enjoyed this game because 
 of its enjoyable gameplay, and many other subtle reasons. Thank you for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrushedGroove
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I have not played a Pokemon game since 'Yellow Version' came out for 
 the original Gameboy. the sole reason I picked up 'Diamond' was that I wanted an engaging, time 
 consuming game for my DS, and decided on Pokemon Diamond.
  
  With that out of the way, I can continue on to the real meat of the review.
  
  Pokemon Diamond 
 does little to advance the series in the way of graphics and game play. The system remains the 
 tried and true battles of old, and the graphics, although slightly improved, are still akin to 
 Emerald version. The story starts with our hero helping the Pokemon professor out of a tight spot, 
 and as a reward, receives a pokemon for his efforts. After you pick one of the three possible Pokemon 
 to start with, you are off on an adventure to become the best trainer in the land. Many familiar 
 Pokemon make appearances throughout, but there are a plethora of new species as well. To top it 
 all off, many new evolutions have been added for older pokemon, such as Porygon Z. One particularly 
 nice feature about Diamond &amp; Pearl is the fact that you can port over Pokemon from any of the 
 GBA versions. Simply by inserting a GBA game cartridge into the appropriate slot you may carry 
 over six Pokemon a day via the Pal Park. In my case, this became a motivator to go back and play 
 the GBA versions so I could increase my Pokedex. Add to this the recent release of Battle Revolution 
 for the Wii, and you have quite a large universe in which to feed your Pokemon addiction. In conclusion, 
 Poke-addicts and newcomers to the series alike should find plenty to keep them occupied in Pokemon 
 Diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriEdgeFury26
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Not that I dislike the Pokemon franchise, I mean I bought a game from every season and enjoyed 
 them to the end, but how far can you take a franchise like this? The graphics are as good as a 
 hand held can take them, and the sound is good. The game play has hardly changed, catch, train, 
 and battle in a repetitive but entertaining fashion. I've always been a loyal fan of the series 
 since its inception in RBY and will probably end up getting sucked into the next reincarnation 
 of the pocket monsters series. As long as the series can continue to entertain and there is a strong 
 Pokemon fan base around the world, then Nintendo will continue to crank out the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  pokemon diamond is a sweet game with new pokemon like  (prinplup, empoleon) 
 turtwig (grotle, torterra)
  and many others it's such a great game i can not discribe it in words so me finish in easy way. 
 a aa a a a a a a aa a a aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  After getting my ds ( even tho i was a little late in getting it) i decided to pick up pokemon 
 diamond. This game doesn't disappoint. I've played pokemon games ever since red and blue, and i 
 must say this 1 has to be the best. Even tho its also the newest, I'm fond on its new look and 
 of some of the new pokemon. As for the length of the game, this title is much longer than any of 
 the others as far as i am concerned. I'm already 14 hours into the game and yet i only have 5 badges, 
 and in my eyes thats pretty impressive for length. I haven't explored much of the online community 
 but i'm sure its good. The underground seems like a new and pretty cool add on, and I'm looking 
 forward to looking at that. If you are a fan of pokemon or just looking for a good ds title, this 
 is 1 of them for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I bought my copy of pokemon diamond from America (I live in the U. K so I decided to import) . On 
 my first play through I was amazed by the new story which was similar, but not the same as previous 
 games. The story seemed to flow and it made you want to get to the next town, it made you want 
 the pokemon in the grass. At first I thought the story was better than my favourite story line 
 from any pokemon game, that of the generation one remakes, Leaf Green and Fire Red. However, upon 
 buying Pearl I was proven to be wrong on my first assumptions. The problem is, that where the 'magic' 
 had encouraged me on my first play through there seemed to be nothing, like the novelty had completely 
 worn out untill the foruth gym battle. The flow for the first third of the game seemed to have 
 completely died. Basicly I am saying that these games have a more limited amount of replay value 
 than previous titles in the series. As games alone they probably wouldn't stand up much at all. 
 The graphics are far from great with some pixels blurring and slightly out of place, the sound 
 is poor, they have limited replay value and they follow the same formula as all of the previous 
 titles in the series. What saves them is the fact that they are not just games, they are Pokemon 
 games. And as pokemon games they are massive, a good 30 hours to get through just the main adventure 
 on your first try and then any training and pokedex completing may be done after that. The new 
 set of games also improve on the battling mechanics of previous titles. Moves are judged by action 
 not type in whether they are physical or special moves. There are new pokemon in every battling 
 class that vastly improve on many previous pokemon. By this, I mean pokemon like Garchomp, a physical 
 sweeper which gets around the almost regulation ultra low speed for sweepers, infact 'chomp is 
 one of the fastest. EV training could once be seen as a daunting task, macho brace used to be the 
 only EV aiding hold item avaliable. Now however, there are 'power' items which double EVs gained 
 in a particular stat. This helps and shows that Pokemon's creators are starting to cater more and 
 more for older players (who make up more of the market than they did in the G/S/C days) . Infact 
 on that subject, they show that they are catering for perhaps the widest range of people in the 
 history of pokemon video games. With the 'cute' appearence for the younger kids and precision training 
 for older players. Another vast improvement is the Wi-Fi. You can now battle, trade and more with 
 people from all around the world. This gives more purpose to competative battling and precision 
 training and makes it that little bit easier to complete the Pokedex. Finally, cross generation 
 trading, using the DS's GBA slot has been introduced. This allows players to upload pokemon from 
 third generation titles and again, makes completing the Pokedex far less daunting than before.
 
  
  In conclusion, I would reccomend his game to anyone, of any age. It cuts put much of what made 
 pokemon games hated by some groups and builds on what made it loved by many millions of other people. 
 It may not be perfect, it may be some distance from perfect, but it still makes one of the best 
 games on the DS and one every gamer should atleast try to play. Score: 91%
  
  By Ben 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plo123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I suggest u buy this game! my favourite game whoooooooo! it has new great pokemon and lots of my 
 friends love this game! if u like RPG games get this i think this the best in the series! it takes 
 a while to get the pokemon but its worth it because this game is the best! if u dont like pokemon 
 i think u should atleast rent it and if u like it buy it! also i think if u want this game get 
 fire red and emarald first! buy this game its almost perfect and also get pearl u need it to compleate 
 your pokedex thnx for reading my review!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  the main objective is to go around and train pokemon, beat the 8 gym leaders, and take down the 
 evil people (known as team galaxy in this game} , and then finally beat the pokemon league. and 
 oh yeah, collect all the pokemon if you really want to do that. the game starts off with your character 
 in a small town and has a rival, then you go to some nearby lake and you get to take a starter 
 pokemon to battle some wild pokemon that attack you. the professor dude lets you keep the pokemon, 
 asks you to fill the pokedex up, fight gyms, blah blah same old stuff.
  
  if youre a hardcore pokemon fan, then you'll enjoy this game. if you played pretty much every other 
 pokemon game and got tired of them then i'd recommend maybe just renting this game or borrow from 
 a friend. but if you really like pokemon then maybe its worth a buy. some of the main differences 
 are cooler graphics, a helpful thingy on the touch screen that can have alot of different things 
 like shows the steps you walked, the pokemon you have in daycare, an itemfinder, a clock, etc. 
 theres new pokemon in this one, some are cool, some are just plain weird and some have names that 
 are very hard to say. theres some pokemon in this game that were in the older versions like pikachu 
 for example. and of course like always, if you wanna catch every pokemon you have to go and spend 
 another 35 bucks for the other version unless one of your friends has pearl version. im not exactly 
 sure but theres something about using one of the GBA pokemon versions, and you can take pokemon 
 from that game. but they go into some park or something in diamond/pearl and you have to go and 
 catch them and you can only do a few a day.
  
  so basically, its just another pokemon game now on the DS with the same objectives but with a few 
 new things. if you didnt like pokemon before, chances are you still wont like it. you love pokemon, 
 then get this, if you got tired of it then maybe you shouldnt play it or maybe just rent it sometime. 
 it didnt hold my interest for too long though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondragon55
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I've played Pokemon Blue, Yellow, Silver, and Emerald, and I have to say, this the best one yet.
 
  
  I'm not a pokemon fan anymore, but the gameboy games are still some of the best RPG game on the 
 system. After Silver (Which was the best, until Diamond.) I saw nothing really cool and new for 
 the little monsters that really made anther different, and I'm a bit disappointed that there's 
 not anything that different from Blue or Silver in here. That's not to say that this isn't a good 
 game, because it is, but I'm saying it's the same thing as it was back in the day. Just with different 
 monsters.
  
  Gameplay: Adding the stylus (spelling?) to pick your moves is cooler then just picking them with 
 the D-pad and the A button, but the coolness affect will wear-off after a few hours of play. Other 
 then that, it plays just like every other Pokemon game on the portables. The cool new addition 
 is the tunnel were you can build your own secret base. It's also were you find someother cool stuff 
 that will really do absolutly nothing to the game as a hole.
  
  Gaphics: By far the best I've seen in a pokemon portable game. The 3D buildings are cool, and the 
 people look nice.
  
  Sound: Not really any different then Emerald.
  
  Overall: If your a fan of the series then you will like this one. If you are new to poket monsters, 
 then now would be a good time to pick this one up. If you still have the old games and only slightly 
 care about them, don't worry about this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermariorulz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has finally released their latest (and possibly last...?) Pokemon games and it's better 
 then ever. With 107 new pokemon to catch, you'll be dumping 100's of hours into the game in your 
 pocket. I highly reccomed this game to any DS owner. With new online modes battling could never 
 be easier. You call up your friend, exchange friend codes and BAM! You are in the middle of a batlle! 
 The sweet new 3D graphics are a very nice addition as well as old add ons like night and day. If 
 you own a DS, buy this game. Now! What are you waiting for!!? You should be running to the store 
 right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond represents a return to what we used to love about Pokemon: A good, less predictable 
 adventure, tough challenges, and a game that seems like it could never end, and yet could end if 
 we wanted it to. The game itself provides enough fun for a long time, but combined with the use 
 of the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, a previously impossible challenge for loners is now possible 
 for everyone. The Global Trade Station is one of the best innovations in the Pokemon world since 
 the Time Machine in GSC. Overall, the game itself finally gives us what we've craved since the 
 switch to GBA: The ability to once again, be Pokemon Masters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyo_ichgowa
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  I don't understand how they keep doing it. They release the same game with minor changes and everyone 
 (including yours truely) eat's it up. The only comp; aints that I have are very minor. 1. You can't 
 change your look anymore than being a boy or a girl, I personally like the tux look ;) . 2. The 
 souns effects are very loud and sometimes annoying (in scale of the music) and 3. you can't pick 
 what sex your friend is or how he/she looks. But I do enjoy the underground mode, though I've not 
 been able to do it with other people, and the contests are done more throughly. I also like how 
 you get a choice on using the touch screen or just using the buttons like in the old ones. The 
 watch is a cool new feature, much better than useing the item finder in your inventory every couple 
 of steps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbiesama
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played a proper Pokemon game since the days of Pokemon Red, Blue, and the special Pikachu 
 edition. So I knew there were some changes and surprises I was in for when purchasing this newer, 
 shinier version. Some obviously upgrades are there from the start. Bright colours, a  
 and the addition of constantly displayed information on the bottom touch screen make for a much 
 more pleasant play-through this time around. However, the already slow gameplay seems that much 
 more pronounced here against the glossy new backdrop. The battles lurch forward at a snail's pace 
 with constant irrelevant informational messages scrolling through. Even when I turned off the battle 
 animations, the text and attacks played out too leisurely for my liking. Also, until you get the 
 bicycle, it's almost as if the entire planet is covered in a molasses-like substance that slows 
 your character down to speeds a sloth could appreciate. There are enough good qualities to make 
 this game a worthwhile purchase, however. Easier breeding this time around (I'm told.. once again, 
 I didn't play the Gold/Silver or FireRed/LeafGreen generations) , 107 new Pokemon to obtain, and 
 the addition of WiFi battling and trading make this a giant leap in the right direction. One unique 
 feature of the online capabilities is that it allows voice chat. While trading with another trainer, 
 I gasped out loud at a certain Pokemon he had, and I heard someone laughing. I then realized that 
 chat was available as I was not aware of this before. All in all, if you've enjoyed any previous 
 Pokemon game, chances are you'll enjoy this one more with all the new features it brings to the 
 table. If you've never been interested in the series, well, there isn't anything here to sway you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendevil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  i'll keep it short, because I'm new to it, I have Emerald, so I'll compare it to that. first of 
 all, this one is the most creative, and the frame rate is much better, and realistic, so it doesn't 
 look like I'm walking 30MPH on cardboard, and the color was vibrant. it also had better music than 
 Emerald, this one sounds much more alive, and upbeat. also, the fortress system works better. You 
 can go into a maze and make your base anywhere, add any furniture, and place traps around it. I 
 don't have much to compare this to, but I can say that this is a great game, that can keep anyone 
 hooked for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspmax022
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  remember red and blue?151 pokemon. then silver gold and crystal. even more. then ruby saphire emerald. then 
 firered leaf green. NOW ITS HERE. pokemon diamond and pearl. the best game i personaly think for DS. although 
 music and sounds are re-cycled the game still rocks the top. there are now 486 pokemon i think. the 
 game is better than GBA games. its more 3Der, more pokemoner, and of course betterer. the game features 
 a new conntient new pokemon. everything. the game is very well played. also they added a brand new 
 feature. WIFI. you can challange people all over the world with your router or usb wifi thingy. lol. after 
 the elite 4 is beaten you can trade battle and chat with or without voic chat. that is what is mainly 
 what you do when your done. other than get 486 pokemon. its really fun go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richboy999
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is a great game. there is lots to do in this game such as batleing pokemon, battling 
 online, or catching up to your collection. The game includes new features like a digital clock a 
 map and even a tracking device for legendary pokemon. The gyms have gotten a lot harder which I 
 like because I found them too easy! Also there has been about 100 new pokemon to be caught. When 
 you finish this game it has a VERY high replay value because there are a ton of secret legendary's 
 to catch and hidden caves to explore. So overall this game is worth your while and would impress 
 any RPG gamer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajmaster696
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  pokemon is a game where u have become the thoughest trainer of all time.
  pokemon has good 3d graphiks and over 100 new pokeomns. . . . .. . . . . . pokemon is a very highly 
 addicting game and you will spend 40 to 100 hours but if you want to cath em all, leganderies included 
 and be the best trainer it is just a never ending game, there is always something to do.
  wifi is graet you can trade , battle , play with freinds and you can enter chat rooms. wifi can 
 be a hassle if you are tryin to play with a certain person. overall it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCHANDHAR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Diamond and Pearl are fantastis games from start to finsish (if anyone has that is?) the WI FI 
 capability really exels its power to grip you to game game and aim to be number one in the world 
 and with so many new areas to explore and combinations off teams its no easy task but is fun none 
 the less and with so many new legends dialga ,mesprit ,palkia ,cresselia and lots more yes getting 
 arthrights and migranes through continous gameplay has never been so fun another thing that makes 
 this this game so great is the dual slot mod between gba and ds eg pal park and random findings 
 like caterpie ,nidoran and even elekid the game is well worth waiting for and i cannot wait for 
 battle revolution to be released 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverRao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Ahh... Pokemon... I, like many other people have been playing pokemon for a long time. Some like 
 me have been captured by the sense of victiory after defeating a gym leader, or the sense of adventure 
 when travelling throught the various enviorments.
  But this is the first time that I have seen Pokemon like this... for it has moved on to the DS.
 
  
  When I first heard that Diamond and Pearl were going to be on the DS rather than the old Gameboy 
 Advance, I was extremely disappointed. Even 1 year after the release of the DS I didn't have one.
 
  Well, two months later, I bought my self a DS, perhaps just for Diamond, but I did buy one. And 
 soon after that, Diamond was released.
  
  What can I say about Diamond... First let me start with the visuals. The visuals are simply beautiful. 
 Without over-exaggerating on effects or anything, the environments were detailed beautifully with 
 completely vibrant and... well, happy colors. Another thing about the visuals is that there is 
 a 3D effect added in. The buildings are almost completely polygonal, and add a lot to the beauty 
 of the game.
  
  The gameplay is just the same. You capture, train, and breed these creatures called pokemon to 
 battle and eventually be the best trainer of them all. The battle system is basically and RPG-type 
 experience, in which your pokemon has 4 moves that it can use against the opposing pokemon. Stats 
 and such are also added in.
  
  With 100+ hours packed into one tiny cartridge it's hard to believe that the game is only 35 dollars. 
 Even a hard core RPG player can appreciate this, as well as, of course, us pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daddyrudolph
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  its cool and i like it lots it has been a game that i have played alot and i like the idea of ds 
 wireless communication for poffins and competions also i like the mixed batteling thing i enjoyed 
 seeing all the new pokemon and have thoroughly loved the game happy happy happy happy happy happy 
 happy happy lol its because i have just traded a bunary for a hippodon
  ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash1234
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  An overall decent game, good semi 3d graphics lots of pokemon, but way too short of a quest. After 
 30 hours, i had completed the main quest, elite 4, all the batle island stuff, captured all the 
 legendaries, got master ribbons in all the contests and had over 250 pokemon. Note to gamefreak 
 creator people, people would love it if you created a massive game with ALL of the continents, 
 each with the original stuff like the original safari zone, ect. Pokemon diamond is too short. 
 If gamefreak is going to keep up these short games, pokemon rpgs are going to lose their charm. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazaG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  A year ago, I reviewed Pokemon Ruby, and i loved it. But i was a tad weary that this game might 
 not be as good. The previews of the new pokemon weren't good, so i wasn't filled with hope.
  
  But here i am, and i am still in love with the game as much as ever!!! It's still a classic, 
 it still poons all other games of ANY type by far!
  
  The storyline is the same as ever, young kid, gets pokeon, beats bad guys, conquers world. But 
 as with most games, its the journey thats awesome!!! This game is a much better looking game, and 
 is more inventive thatn previous ones. Me and my little Turtig have seen everything and enjoyed 
 every second.
  
  And with all DS games, the touch screen is used, and with this they have chosen to use something 
 known as a poketch, which has features such as a clock all the way to a type chart. Much more useful 
 than i was expecting. It is also used to speed up battles, with touch screen menus. Very well done 
 nintendo. Now for the detailed part:
  
  Best Parts:
  
  Catching THAT pokemon that has evaded you all frickin day, Beating the pokemon league. Closuer 
 never felt so good.
  Getting your first pokemon (Turtig all the wya!!!)
  
  Worst Parts:
  
  Tad short
  Mime Jnr. : (
  The boring underground
  
  Improvements for 
 Sequel
  
  More pokemon!!! ALL POKEMON CATCHABLE ON ONE GAME!!!
  
  Overall, the game to buy a DS for. I still love it after all these years. GOTTA CATCH EM ALL!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 Again and again and again :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link1045
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG 
 OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG THE NEW POKEMON GAME IS OUT! SO 
 DAMN HAPYY, SUCH KICK-ANU S FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has gone through 11 games without something important: The ability to trade around the world 
 in 80 seconds.
  
  visual: the game now has a isometric 3d visual style, at least outside, character sprites and the 
 insides of buildings are still 2 demensional, overall the game looks good and there's no slowdown.
 
  
  Audio: the music is the best the series has seen, ranging from cheerful to dramatic though it's 
 no katamari in this department. the only complaint is that older pokemon's cries still sound like 
 they did in R&B, and unfortunately it pales to the new ones.
  
  Gameplay: mostly the same, though several modifications were made to the system, though they're fundamental. First, The 
 division of Phsical/Special attack are no longer done by type, but by nature of attack (i. e. waterfall 
 formerly special now physical) , making some pokemon more powerful while weakening others. Second, there 
 is now a decently challenging amount of pokemon to collect, (493 in all) and more importantly nearly 
 all are attainable in this version, except, you'll still need GBA cartridges to catch wild pokemon 
 that wouldn't appear othewise, and to collect past starters and legends. There are now several optional 
 quests making it harder to catch some pokemon, and a large section of the gameworld is only open 
 after the main quest is finished. And most importantly, you can now trade your hard earned mosters 
 with others around the world!
  
  Value: the game already has plenty of content by itself, but if you have freinds, a few GBA pokemon 
 games and Pokemon Battle Revolution, you'll be set for months to come.
  
  Overall, the game is fantastic, there's little reason not to at least try it, and it's the best time 
 to introduce yourself to the pokemon world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon on the original gameboy was great, it was a simple RPG where you just had to catch all 
 the pokemon as well as collect gym badges... nice!
  
  Red, Blue, Yellow, Gold, Silver, Ruby, Sapphire.... there are more colours but the premise has always 
 remained the same... catch all the pokemon and jobs done. So whats new on the DS? Sadly not alot, 
 its Pokemon which is great, its not lost any of its charm which is also great but there is just 
 nothing all that new to do which is pretty frustrating.
  
  Not to say that this game is not good. The gameplay is as good as it's ever been starting you out 
 in Sinnoh village soon enough you find yourself in the position of picking 1 of 3 pokemon. From 
 the moment you get your first pokemon the plan is simple, get all the pokemon and become the greatest 
 pokemon trainer while filling the professors Pokedex. Training your pokemon to higher levels is 
 still fun but sometimes tedious as you battle the same Pokemon over and over and the fights lack 
 any real sense of excitement. The real excitement comes from catching the pokemon you cant beat 
 the moment where your pokeball shakes and you think Have I done enough to catch it only for the 
 Pokemon to burst out shattering your hopes. The game itself looks great on the DS, the colours 
 are bright and vibrant, the towns are colourful and fully inhabited and you even get nice 3-d effects 
 before fights but it still feels so basic for the next level of handhelds. This game could easilly 
 have fitted right into the SP library when you hold it next to games like Final Fantasy 3 or Metroid 
 Hunters, 'Mon looks pretty but basic.
  
  Still you cant deny the joy that playing pokemon brings. It's cute, its fun and it has a lot to 
 offer but these days it's starting to feel old. You'll be hoping for a twist in the story but chances 
 are it wont come. Pokemon is still a good franchise but with the next RPG offering we can only 
 Ninty have some ideas to shake the series up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperMetaDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon. When the word hits the ears of any child or teenager alike, it's most likely to spawn 
 a reaction that most other games cannot. It's a 10+ year old game series created by none other 
 than Nintendo (dubbed The Pokemon Company ) , and its success has remained high for over a decade. 
 It's also a franchise that has brought forth an anime series, movies, merchandise, events, and 
 much more. Pokemon Diamond continues the Pokemon tradition by delivering a satisfying RPG adventure 
 game that can easily satisfy the needs of most gamers.
  
  What is exactly is Pokemon? Pokemon (short for Pocket Monster ) are creatures that inhabit the 
 planet's lands along with animals and humans. People who catch Pokemon are known as Pokemon trainers. 
 Most gamers will know exactly what Pokemon is because of its insanely huge popularity in both the 
 U. S. A. and Japan. The games' formula is fairly simple: find your way from town to town, while accomplishing 
 RPG elements such as delivering eggs and items, catch Pokemon and level them up by defeating other 
 Pokemon, and then defeat the Pokemon gym leader in each town. Your main goal is to defeat the gym 
 leader in each town and progress into the Pokemon League in which you must defeat the Elite 4 (4 
 difficult trainers and their Champion) to become the Champion. While many RPG twists are found 
 in the game (talking to trainers and battling them, fishing, finding items) , the game's main objective 
 is to catch as many Pokemon as you can and level them up to be as powerful as they can be. While 
 traveling from city-to-city, you can battle other trainers' Pokemon and defeat wild Pokemon (found 
 in grass, water, caves, etc.) to level up your own Pokemon. There are 493 different Pokemon, 100 
 new ones from the GBA games to this game. The game's entire combat system is turn-based (TBS, also 
 known as a turn-based strategy game) . When a Pokemon KOs another Pokemon, it receives Experience 
 Points, points that are added to a bar. When the bar gets filled, they may level up to another 
 level. Each Pokemon can be leveled up to level 100, at that point in which they cannot be trained 
 anymore. When Pokemon achieve higher levels, their stats are recalculated to a higher number. There 
 are 6 different stats, those being HP, Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed. 
 HP is how much health the Pokemon has. Attack (Physical Attacks) is a crucial partake in the calculation 
 of the damage the Physical attack of a Pokemon can do. Defense (Physical Defense) is an important 
 part of the calculation of physical damage that the Pokemon can receive. Special Attack and Special 
 Defense are the same as Attack and Defense, except they are special, non-physical attacks. Finally, 
 Speed determines which Pokemon attacks first. Natures are also random moods that determine certain 
 pros and cons of stats of a Pokemon.
  
  Each Pokemon also has a Type and a moveset. A Pokemon's moveset is limited to 4 moves, each having 
 different accuracy (chance of hitting) , base power (part of the calculation of damage) and a type. 
 Types (examples being Water, Grass Ice, Fire, Dragon) are classified for each Pokemon and each 
 attack move. Each type has its weaknesses and its resistances. Weaknesses (like pitting Fire against 
 Water) do less damage, while Resistances and super effective attacks (like pitting Fire against 
 Ice) do more damage. Also, when Pokemon are trained, they can gain Effort Value (EV) points from 
 different Pokemon they defeat. Although this is a super advanced technique, you can train your 
 Pokemon against certain others to gain EVs in certain stats, which results in some stats being 
 enormously high on a Pokemon. All of these points are the very basics to Pokemon battling. This 
 review is limited to a certain number of words, thus I cannot go into great detail of its advanced 
 features for battling.
  
  With basic information out of the way, the game's difficulty is just right. Newbies will fall in 
 love with the game's formula whereas veterans and gurus of the game will never be able to fully 
 master it. The problem with the singleplayer campaign is that Nintendo still hasn't fixed the obvious 
 problems that have plagued the Pokemon series (such as Pokemon-cloning glitches, too many wild 
 Pokemon encounters in caves and grass, etc.) . The gameplay remains solid, but there is too much 
 more-of-the-same from previous GBA games. Nevertheless, the game does take advantage of Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection, which allows gamers all over the world to trade and battle with each other. It 
 also uses Pal Park, a way to transfer Pokemon from GBA games to the DS. The touch screen is also 
 usable, but its controls fail to make a strong impression and their isn't enough use for it to 
 be justified as a good addition to the technology. However, the game value is immensely huge. Literally 
 hundreds of hours can be put into the game trading with other people, thanks to the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection.
  
  The graphics are very disappointing. The game drops its 60-fps, buttery smooth gameplay from Pokemon 
 LeafGreen and, instead, copes with a 30-fps, low-resolution, partially-3D environment that doesn't 
 justify itself for its losses. Unlike previous Pokemon games, where jumps to next platforms meant 
 major improved graphics, Pokemon Diamond still feels like a GBA game, both art-wise, color-wise 
 and graphic-wise.
  
  The sound also feels a bit bland. Artistic-wise, some songs feel like they have the style of Animal 
 Crossing or Paper Mario, which is excellent. However, some songs are recycled songs from previous 
 generation-Pokemon games. While this is actually a good thing instead of bad, the better songs 
 have been cut and the ones that remain are remixed in an odd way. Nevertheless, the soundtrack 
 is still very good. Technology-wise, however, some songs feel like 5-minute fan-made MIDIs over 
 a PC and most songs can only be fully appreciated if they are listened with earphones. The audio 
 in this game does, indeed, have various standing points.
  
  In conclusion, Pokemon Diamond is a great adventure-RPG that no DS owner should miss. It fails 
 to bring innovation that many have expected and it still plays much like a GBA Pokemon game, but 
 regardless, it delivers hours of fun. Pokemon gamers will feel right at home with this new, hyped 
 installment and almost anyone can enjoy this game, regardless of your age and gender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_chaos_god
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  It has the night and day time of pokemon gold, silver, crystal, and the gameplay sort of like ruby, 
 sapphire, and emerald. It is a great experience to play this game. the thing that is really great 
 about this game is that it has wifi. You can go ask someone for there friend code and battle and 
 trade online. It is very addictive. You start out like you do in other pokemon games and u begin 
 your quest to become a pokemon master. Along the way, you can do side quest like catching all the 
 uknown, catching the three mirage pokemon, and other side quest like that. I recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  POKEMON DIAMOND IS GREAT WITH ALL THE POKEMON AND SIDEQUESTS. THE GYM LEADERS ARE STRONGER THAN 
 THE OLD LEADERS AND IS JUST AS FUN AS ANY OTHER POKEMON GAME. INSTEAD OF BERRY BLENDING NOW YOU 
 HAVE PUFFS. THEY ARE FUN TO MAKE BUT SOMETIMES CAN GET ANNOYING. BUT THE GAME IS STILL WORTH BUYING. 
 I SAY THE BEST THING ABOUT THIS GAME IS THE WI-FI IT ALLOWS ALT OF FREEDOM AND MAKES GETTING THE 
 POKEMON EASIER. THE ONLY THING I WISH IS THAT YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO BATTLE PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD 
 LIKE IN MARIO KART DS. THE ONLY BAD THING ABOUT THIS GAME IS THAT IF YOUR LIKE ME AND LIKE TO GET 
 YOUR POKEMON SUPER STRONG BEFORE A GYM BATTLE ITS SO EASY YOU USUALLY SPEND MOST OF YOUR TIME TRAINING 
 AND NOT FIGHTING. MY EMPOLEON IS LVL 83 AND IM UP TO THE SIXTH GYM LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warcrafted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond and pearl continue the saga of the previous games and improve on them 10 fold. 
 The main gameplay mechanics ar still the same. Catch pokemon... raise them and take on gym leaders... become 
 the champ. But diamond and pearl add much to this.. first one to take note of is you can now trade 
 and battle anyone around the world with nintendo wifi. To think to be able to trade with someone 
 with japan... or battle or perhaps trade with a friend that moved away.. a very welcome addition 
 and one i hope to see in the future pokemon titles. Next is the games are now 3d... the buildings 
 and enviroment are well detailed and one can get lost just staring at the details they put into 
 the games. Last but not least is the additon of 107 new pokemon to add to your ever growing collection. 
 Pokemon diamond and pearl are a must if you have played the series and the perfect place to start 
 if you have never tried the games before. trust me you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyrulz893
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome picked it up and played it for seven hours straight its that good , and the 
 online feauture is awesome , trading battling has never been better . Also being able to transfer 
 pokemon from old games is great. My only downside to this game is the stupid pokemon chingling 
 why would you call a pokemon that , or even make a pokemon that looks deformed . The 3d graphics 
 are very nice touch to the game , you will be in awe at some of the 3d , pokemon is evolving!! 
 :D
  Vvery good game non the les a must buy for pokemon fans and ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icup01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  This is the best in the series and with out a doubt, fun, just the taste of anew game with the 
 new pokemon just wants to make you want to catch them all, i think the Gym Leaders are a lil beat 
 easy and Emeralds Elite Four and probably, harder then Diamnonds, Ibeat emeralds Elite in like 
 3 days and Diamonds in one day, well after i got out of the victory road which took like a week 
 cause i was just to lazy to get out of it. the only thing that sucks is that you cant transfer 
 your pokemon back to you Game Boy Games. i would recomend this over pearl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraSaint24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good thing for the already popular series. All the new Pokemon are great. The 
 3D graphics are smooth on the eyes. The Touch Screen innovation is very cool. The ability to Migrate 
 PKMN from the GBA games is very useful. The Wifi Trading, Battling, Underground, and Chat is the 
 most awesome thing in the Pokemon Series since Pikachu! The only things bad about this game however 
 is that you are not allowed to Trade with old GBA games, you can't Migrate until you see all the 
 Sinnoh Pokemon, and if your a Fire Type Trainer your out of luck because total there are only 3 
 Fire Types in the Sinnoh Region (Not Including Fire Arceus) . This is Still a very good game for 
 any RPG fan and is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie-27
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is a great game for Pokemon fans it still offers you the same 10/10 gameplay, but 
 i fell that Pokemon games have lost there way over the years. Pokemon blue and red where great 
 games, then came my favourite game of all time in the Pokemon series Pokemon yellow, i loved the 
 way that the screen was color and the fact that you really felt like a Pokemon trainer. i wasted 
 all of my childhood years playing on that game never taking my eyes of the screen. Always playing 
 to beat the Pokemon league and become the Pokemon master! 150 Pokemon to know and learn, perfect. 
 Then came Pokemon gold and silver again great games, and followed by Pokemon crystal, the possibly 
 longest Pokemon game, another 150 Pokemon to learn... fine i can handle that. The fact that there 
 are 2 islands that you have to do is brilliant, love the game. And the graphics were brilliant. 
 Again 10/10, Unfortunately it didnt stay that way as soon as it hit the game boy advance and they 
 introduced Pokemon ruby and sapphire. This was the time when Pokemon had changed, and i started 
 to fell empty inside when i played them it was a great game but no excitement and that same warm 
 satisfying felling i got from the old games had gone. Pokemon emerald was a little better but didnt 
 fill that warm happy felling i got from the older games. It just didnt fell as much fun and exiting 
 anymore. Now onto the new games Pokemon diamond and pearl. I fell i shouldn't waste my money on 
 buying them because i properly never get that same felling i once had, i have played Pokemon diamond, 
 and i must say that i fell like the 3D world doesn't soot Pokemon games, i felt like it didnt go 
 with the game. I think that it is just like the other pokemon games, but something is missing. 
 Conclusion: Great game for old and new gamers, just don't be expecting to much, the 3D graphics 
 may sway in gamers, and it will be interesting what they have done with that, but the simple birds 
 eye view is good enough and the simple one on one battles is how pokemon games should be, so try 
 the game, i recommend it. Thats why i fell like the Pokemon magic in Pokemon games has gone. PLEASE 
 leave a comment on how you feel about the issue and Pokemon games, and how they have changed. Thank 
 You for reading.
  
  P. S, I do know about Pokemon leaf green and fire red, i have fire red love the game reminded me 
 of the good days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond is another classic Pok&eacute; mon game: you choose your starter, catch new 
 pok&eacute; mon to fill up your pok&eacute; dex, train them up to become the champion and on the 
 way you meet an evil team that you just have to destroy and foil all their evil plots usually leading 
 you to a legendary pok&eacute; mon. Yes, pok&eacute; mon Diamond delivers the classic style that 
 the pok&eacute; mon games always have. Pok&eacute; mon Diamond, however, doesn't stop at the end 
 of the Pok&eacute; mon League. Like its predecessors, the story continues to some extent allowing 
 you to catch more pok&eacute; mon and chase down those legendaries (Supposedly the best pok&eacute; mon 
 in the game but at lv 50 the psychic trio's best psychic move is confusion!???! What was that about 
 the best in the game?)
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond lives up to its expectations. It has improved graphics, new pok&eacute; mon, 
 a new region; most things about it are new! You can Migrate your beloved pok&eacute; mon from previous 
 games too! After the league and the story is about complete, many players consider experiencing 
 competitive play: this is where the Kid's game can grow surprisingly complex. Just taking a bunch 
 of random pok&eacute; mon trained up on anything isn't going to get you many wins in this world. 
 The art of breeding, calculating Individual Values (IV's) , Effort Value (EV's) training and pok&eacute; mon's 
 natures will soon be absorbing most of the time you spend on the game. When your team is finally 
 ready then, and only then, should you attempt competitive play. You wouldn't want your record shattered 
 with 15 losses before you went in depth now would you?
  
  The Wi-Fi abilities of the Nintendo DS make it much easier to trade and get any pok&eacute; mon 
 you want (If your using the Global Trade Station [GTS] you must have seen it first) and battle 
 with people across the globe!
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond hooks you in - You start playing with your brand new pok&eacute; mon knowing 
 of the adventure that lies ahead.
  
  The line is drawn - The story unfolds.
  
  And sinker! - You're so addicted you just can't put the game down: you may even find yourself just 
 randomly EV training any pok&eacute; mon then releasing it straight after or training as many pok&eacute; mon 
 as you can to lv 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_at_sonic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is great but if they keep some old ideas and think about new ones for the next game they 
 might get more games out at the same time it will build up more anticipation from people like us. 
 Pokemon diamond kicked with me one reason is it had more legends than the other games and you have 
 to do more than go to one place that is put in front of your face so you know exactly where to 
 go even though diamond has some like that you have alot more to look forward to. The Poke' tech 
 is a amazing new thingy-do from pokemon it; s a watch, pokemon health keeper and bijillions of things 
 packed into a wrist watch. If your looking for the best hand held game (actully voted on a TV show. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I had just stopped playing Emerald when they released this game. I had spent so much time playing 
 Emerald, and I wanted to have time for other things. But alas, I couldn't hold off forever, and 
 so I went to my local Gamestop and bought this game. At first the game is not that great, slow, 
 and missing something. But keep playing, because it gets a lot better once you beat the first gym. 
 The graphics are a big step up from the other games, they are now 3D and the game is smoother, 
 and the battle graphics are improved too. Another good thing is that the citys are now realistically 
 sized, being much bigger than they were in the GBA games. And the classic elements of this series 
 are still present, from the evil teams to the gym leaders. This game is awesome and addicting, 
 if you have a DS, you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowTheHHFan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, and most games in the pokemon series is. But it maybe my age ( 14 now :/) Or 
 the 3D or something. But I just found this game to be smaller then the others.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same as the other games. Which is good in a way because its the gameplay 
 that revolutionised Turn based RPGs. You walk around in the pokemon world. With wild pokemon here 
 the there, a couple trainers, Some gyms, the usually. But they actually changed the fighting a bit. 
 The first noticeable thing is the speed of the fighting. And well the game itself. It seems slightly 
 slower then usually. But you get used to it. The other difference is the touch screen. Instead 
 of having a menu, You have the touch sceen during the battles. ( Other then that the touch screen 
 is useless almost) . The game does have almost 500 pokemon. So its kinda fun to collect them all. 
 PS: Swimming is slow. Avoid it as much as you can. seriously.
  
  Graphics: The 3D graphics are interesting. and different. But this maybe where I find the game 
 un-settle. In some weird way the 3D graphics make the game feel small to me. ( It also could be 
 the fact I haven't played a pokemon game for 5 years and you know how it works, The younger you 
 are the bigger it seems) . Theres another thing that bugs me about the graphics. The attacks in 
 the game are a lot less impressive then usually. And the pokemon little move thing the pokemon 
 do when you see them seems half ass-ed, You'll probably understand once you play it. ( If you've 
 played Crystal or Emerald before) Replay: Replay value as in re-starting it and playing the game 
 over isn't very good. I find the game maybe a little small to me, But the hours rack up. Re-starting 
 it seems like re-starting a completely beaten game. So I suggest no re-starts unless you really 
 are bored.
  
  Story: The story is the usually. Which is kinda boring. Theres a team trying to get a super powerful 
 un beatable pokemon and rule the world. You stop them and catch the pokemon. THE DAY IS SAVED!. 
 Yeah its kinda... Yeah.
  
  Well thats all for this review. Please recommend if you found this to be useful, And please don't 
 be bias.
  
  Gameplay: 910
  Graphics: 7/10
  Replay: 6.5
  Story: 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loumoxy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  although there are changes to this pokemon including the graphics!! thank gos! although the graphics 
 aren't the best for the ds, its still good, music is better, although you will be able to tell 
 which parts have been recycled from previous games.
  its also nice to see new pokemon. overall the game does what pokemon games do best a good long 
 entertaining game. the battle system is alot nicer as well, you will be able to use just the touch 
 screen while battling. which i found particulary nice when starting out, or while walkin through 
 fields, as i was able to watch tv or search the internet lettin the game get on with battling. 
 also 2 on 2 battling, you can fight to trainers, or you and another trainer battle at the same 
 time, in the same battle!! nice touch
  overall i think everyone will love the game. I SERIOUSLY RECOMMEND IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcobbler
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  even after you beat it you need to have beaten all of the other Pokemon games in order to truly 
 beat it you also need to wait until the events come out then you need to get all the items then 
 ........ well you get the point at times you get bored with it and don't play it for a year then 
 you remember that you have it and jump right on it it is a really fun game and whatever you do 
 don't restart or you'll be sorry unless you just started the game and right now i am rambling so 
 i can get my 100 words good luck with the game you're gonna need it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tg1413
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  Being a teenager, the novelty of Pokemon had worn off a few years ago, after playing pokemon crystal. 
 But Pokemon diamond has taken the old Pokemon games, which were very good games in their own right, 
 and given them a fresh modern style. The game still has the same addictive game-play that keeps 
 you playing for hours - i had beaten the elite four after about a week and i doubt that's through 
 that much skill, it just shows something does'nt it. The 3D graphics on the environment give it 
 that special touch and go really well with the 2D graphics of characters, Pokemon etc.. Although 
 the storyline is roughly the same as other Pokemon versions - you start off with a friend and you 
 each get a Pokemon, you find a professor and he sends you off to fill up a Pokedex, you battle 
 an evil corporation trying to take over the world and take away Pokemon, and you eventually beat 
 the elite four to find out that your friend has become one of the greatest trainers in the world, 
 just like yourself - it has a few twists and turns in it that make it that bit different and that 
 make it stand out from the rest. It even promotes looking after the environment - The Valley Windworks 
 - and it promotes getting exercise, from the way you're running, walking, or cycling around the 
 world. The only thing is, some of it feels a bit easy. It is challenging at most times and is always 
 exciting, i found it a breeze defeating the gym leaders though. I recall playing on game boy versions 
 like yellow and crystal and having real trouble just defeating the easiest of gym leaders, but 
 i suppose once you get further on in the game, the challenges get to you, and the most challenging 
 of all, finding 484 Pokemon, which will probably take you years, and a lot of cheats to get them 
 all. But thats a good thing. It means you could be playing for years on this game, which has lots 
 of surprises along the way so that you won't be looking around for hours just to find the same 
 pokemon over, and over, and over again
  
  The new features such as the poketch, making Poffins, Pokemon contests and wi-fi make it more special 
 than any of the others, and most of all using the DS's double screens and stylus. Playing on a 
 game boy was enjoyable but with two screens, the game really feels spread out, spacious, and everything 
 fits into place. As the man in Pastoria City says about the Great Marsh, I'd recommend it without 
 hesitation, I would definitely say that about this game, you can play it whether you are young 
 or old. A word of warning though, i promise you, if you play this game you will be so addicted 
 to it that you'll play it for hours and hours and won't be able to turn off your DS. I've had my 
 version for just under two weeks, and can i just say, thats 87 hours of amazingness. So what are 
 you waiting for, go out and buy this game, do it, do it, DO IT! I might just go and buy a GBA Pokemon 
 game myself, hooray for DS-GBA pokemon migration! Are'nt the Pokemon people so sly, making us buy 
 another game to get more Pokemon, just so we can spend hours on that!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloX5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  The Diamond Version is the Special for Dialga the Steel/Dragon Type Pokemon and a few other pokemon 
 aswell. The new version alows more new features since its for the DS and since its for the DS they 
 included Wi-Fi and the ability to import games from Saphire, Ruby, Emerald, Fire Red or Leaf Green 
 which makes the game much more interesting. Eventually if you complete the game you unlock more 
 secrets like all the other Versions like the National Pokedex which lets you collect the other 
 340 Pokemon. I would say the is the best and most advanced Version yet and the best since you can 
 catch almost all 490, sadly some of the Pokemon are unlocked by special events and cannot be catched 
 unless you get the Special Item. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Raven92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Ah, I know what some of you people are thinking - yet another Pokemon game. Been there done that...
 
  
  And honestly, for me it was a really familiar experience. Going from town to town as usual, getting 
 the badges, having a run in with your rival, events involving an evil organization - but really, 
 all of this repetitive Pokemon action ain't too bad. It's basically what we are used to, and didn't 
 people like that?
  
  Enough blabbering on, heres my opinion!
  
  Graphics: 7/10 - As usual, this game is set from a birds eye view, but the environment seems slightly 
 more 3D. The battle animations are okay, but some animations have been recycled and are too basic. 
 Also, because your current Pokemon's graphic doesn't move (apart from the intro animation when 
 it is sent out and the sprite rotation during some attacks) some of the attacking animation looks 
 weird, like when you see a stream of water fly from a Pokemon's forehead... There are some nice 
 animations throughout the game, but as we all know Graphics has never been Pokemon's strongpoint.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - Okay, game play. As usual, this game sticks to the basic formula. But seeing as 
 some readers of this may be newbies, I shall elaborate. When you are in battle, you have the choice 
 of sending out a Pokemon, and during some cases (double battles) you can send out two of your six 
 pokemon. You go through turn based combat, selecting which move to use. The more you battle with 
 your pokemon, the stronger they will grow and they will learn more attacks (although you can only 
 have 4 moves at the one time assigned to a single pokemon) The battle combat is Turn Based. You 
 get to select an attack to use while the opponent chooses theirs, and judging by your Pokemon's 
 stats (speed in this case) you may attack before your foe. Depending on the Pokemon's type, and 
 the type of the attack he is using, he will dish out varying amounts of damage. Outside of battles 
 you walk around the over world, traveling from town to town battling gyms to earn badges. You also 
 fight trainers and random encounters with pokemon in the wild, which you can catch and train. There 
 is originally only 150 something pokemon obtainable in the game, but after defeating the Elite 
 Four there will be many more available to catch or trade from other versions. Even after defeating 
 the Elite four, there is heaps of things to do. You gain the ability to trade with older generation 
 pokemon games, allowing you to upload them into your Diamond game so you can catch them (in pal 
 park) There is also places where you can engage in combat with new trainers and a few new quests 
 as well (which generally end with you being able to catch a powerful legendary pokemon!) The multi 
 player is another one of Pokemon's strong points. You can battle and trade with people wireless 
 and online wifi. You can also play in the Underground with people wirelessly, or by yourself. There 
 is a heap of other things that I really cannot be bothered reporting at the current moment ^^ Breeding, 
 Contests, Battle Tower, Mansion, Pokeradar - so much to do. The reason I gave the gameplay a 9 
 because the game was pretty easy.
  
  Sound: 7/10 - Lets be quick shall we? Musics okay, background music is catchy. The sound for attacks 
 can sometimes sound distorted and not fit in very well, but overall its good. The cries for the 
 older pokemon have remained the same. It contains the originality sure, but maybe some Pokemon 
 (Murkcrow for example) should have their cry not updated, but cleaned up a bit (so it sounds newer 
 and more clear)
  
  Value: 9/10 - As I said in the gameplay, there is allot of things to do in Diamond. It is certainly 
 worth the money, and you can waste so much time playing the game (lots to do)
  
  Okay, i'm finally done. Overall, i see pokemon diamond as one of the best ds games because of the 
 long game basically, I've spent a good deal of my life and time playing the pokemon series, and 
 as I see, they were seconds unwasted! Pokemon seems to be continuing to grow and get better by 
 the seconds. This game is a MUST have for ALL DS OWNERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-lewiis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The UK has been forced to wait an unforgivable amount of time for the release of Diamond and Pearl, 
 so when these gems washed up on our shores we were expecting so much from them. But it didnt deliver 
 in all areas
  
  The game starts as quaintly as any of its predecessors, youre a young Boy or girl ready to take 
 off to the world with your first Pok&eacute; mon in tow, a choice between the usual 3 elements: 
 Grass (Turtwig) , Water (Piplup) or Fire (Chimchar) and as usual you are presented with your rival, 
 but this time rather than it be a detestable ego on legs, the son of a major crime boss/Ground 
 type gym leader or the bit of alright from next door, this game demonstrates the friendlier side 
 of rivalry, in the form of your life long best pal. In addition you also get an ally to who will 
 help, or ask for help in tight situations such as 2 on 2 double battles. With your Pok&eacute; mon 
 on your belt, its time to see Sinnoh!
  
  The Good:
  
  The graphics have been immensely improved since Fire Red/ Leaf Green (Emerald was just a cheap 
 knock off so we wont count it) . All the towns now have more character to them than they did, though 
 the landscape will seem like its jumping at first. The towns and citys now have a more 3D quality 
 to them and put the place into perspective, the first time this really shines is when you get to 
 Jubilife city, the largest city ever seen at the start of a Pok&eacute; mon game.
  
  Whilst having another 100 or so Pok&eacute; mon piled onto the 387 that were already knocking around, 
 catching them would seem a daunting task. Oh yee of miniscule faith! The DS has a couple of tricks 
 up its shoulder buttons, you can now battle and trade Pok&eacute; mon over the Nintendo Wi Fi connection, 
 in addition to that, once you get to Jubilife (which is early on) you can enter the Global Trading 
 System or GTS for short. This allows you to put a Pok&eacute; mon of yours up for offer and ask 
 for another Pok&eacute; mon in return. The system then puts it on a virtual marketplace for other 
 trainers to search, which means you can play the game whilst your Pok&eacute; mons up for trade. 
 You can also search what Pok&eacute; mon other trainers have on offer and trade for a Pok&eacute; mon 
 in your position. Unfortunately in order to ask for a Pok&eacute; mon in return for yours, you have 
 to at least have seen it first.
  
  Sinnoh has a bizarre and fantastic feature to it. The Underground. In basic terms its a system 
 of tunnels underneath the main map of Sinnoh where you can dig up treasure and lay traps. You can 
 also exchange your treasure for trinkets for use in another returning feature: the secret base. 
 You can also play a minigame with a friend on wireless to try and upgrade your secret bases. The 
 underground is also vital for trying to catch the powerhouse Spiritomb.
  
  Gold/Silver and Crystal brought a beautiful feature to the game, day and night. However this vanished 
 in Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald for no readily apparent reason. Well it makes a joyous return in Diamond 
 and Pearl, as well as adding transition times like Morning and afternoon, which were previously 
 only acknowledged in dialogue from the nurse in Pok&eacute; mon centres. This helps greatly if your 
 trying to get that pesky Umbreon or catch a Noctowl.
  
  New evolutions have now whiled their way into the fourth generation, like in GSC where previous 
 gen Pok&eacute; mon found a new form. The Pok&eacute; mon now affected include Likitung, Rhydon, 
 Porygon2, Electabuzz, Eevee (yes more of them) and Dusclops. With these new Pok&eacute; mon come 
 new evolution methods, including new element stones, trading with items attached or levelling up 
 at day or night with a certain item attached. An unusual one is levelling up whilst knowing a certain 
 move, for example levelling Likitung up with Rollout wil evolve it into Likilicky.
  
  The Bad
  
  Through all a games brilliance, comes the things which were overlooked. The first 
 word that comes to mind with the game is SLOW. Without even mentioning the waiting the UK, and 
 indeed Europe had to do for the game, the games pace is now much more lazy than before, for instance 
 in the old games the Pok&eacute; mon would all be set up very quickly, whilst now your there waiting 
 for 30 seconds whilst the trainer retreats, the Pok&eacute; balls thrown, the Pok&eacute; mon comes 
 out and does a little dance and then for the options screen to appear. The animations with the 
 moves are now also intolerably long winded and in some cases are so hideous your eyes bleed! Then 
 theres the surfing, oh God the surfing! Its less riding on Starmies back and more like floating 
 around on a dead Snorlax. Unforgivable.
  The next problem comes with the underground. Theres a lot to do in Sinnoh that relates to the 
 underground, so it would make sense to have it in Wi Fi yes? Well guess what Game Freak have gone 
 and done? Yup, its all in short range wireless, which means if your in the remote chav infested 
 wastelands of Bredbury or in the middle of nowhere like Stranraer, youre screwed. Also Genius 
 sonority have rubbed it in by putting the king of tanks in your face: Spiritomb. First let me explain 
 what it is, Spiritomb is a Ghost and Dark type (which means NO weakness) and its defences and 
 HP all average 300. But, you have to talk to 38 people underground in order to activate the Hallowed 
 tower to catch it. Nightmare.
  
  The game also has a number of annoying features that will knaw away at your optic nerves after 
 20 mins such as the unbelievable lack of decent EXP when levelling up your pokemon, and also the 
 lack of diversity with types, for instance there are only 2 fire types in the whole of Sinnoh (only 
 one if you didnt choose Chimchar) yup, thats right the only fire type you can catch is Ponyta. 
 In addition the whole of Sinnoh is infested with rock types, particularly Geodudes, which even 
 spring up on routes where its raining! Also the GTS will have you ripping your DS apart, for instance 
 it is nearly impossible to search for a legitimate trade, most wanting supercharged legendaries 
 for something which has clearly been rotting in the PC.
  
  These flaws aside Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl are fabulous additions to the Pok&eacute; mon 
 franchise, the graphics are a brilliant makeover for their predecessors and offer a fresh experience 
 with intuitive controls and utilizing a surprising amount of what the DS has on show, ultimately 
 its a diamond in the rough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj-andy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Firstly, the gameplay is solid and remains mostly unchanged from the older pokemon games. That 
 said, new additions have made the game all the better. Older features such as double battles remain, 
 but many are performed with a CPU team mate. While this may sometimes hinder you, it allows you 
 to really experience 2-on-2 battles.
  With the touch screen controls, selecting and executing moves is easier and faster. This, along 
 with many more new features, create an immersive 100+ hours adventure.
  CPU enemies are cleverer and always look for your weakness. Some of the later battles feel as though 
 you could be fighting real people. While this makes the game harder, it gives you a feel for competitive 
 battles.
  Wi-fi is now a feature and although some online features must be unlocked there are many great 
 modes. An online trade station has been step up to aid you to finally catch them all. Anyone can 
 post a pokemon with a want and even overnight it might be traded. One problem with this feature 
 is the ability to only search for pokemon you have already seen. This makes certain legendaries 
 and starter pokemon hard to get, even with this feature.
  
  With the graphics, it remains as colourful as ever with bright sprites and lush backgrounds. With 
 the DSs power behind it, it renders 3-D worlds to explore, with certain areas being more concentrated 
 than others.
  
  While the music is chirpy and creates a nice atmosphere, the game still uses many old sounds from 
 the old Game boy games. Cries of the new pokemon sound more realistic but the old Pokemon lack 
 these sounds, and are dumped with their old screeches. This game is great value as it can last 
 a good 70+ hours completing the main story. Then more things are unlocked and take up more time. 
 If you lack a Wi-fi connection you find this game a little shorter although much of the game can 
 be played without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is exactly the ds adaptation of the pokemon series that we all expected, theres 
 nothing revolutionary except for online, but its still a great game.
  It was a pleasant surprise to hear of the ability to own EVERY kind of pokemon in this game and 
 import them. This definitely got me drooling. there are so many options for putting together a 
 team of your greatest from the other games!
  The slight graphical upgrade to *near* 3d was a breath of fresh air and the world looks bright 
 and vibrant (on the ds lite screen at least) The graphics arent the reason I play the game so it 
 doesnt really bother me that it looks largely the same as ALL of the other iterations...
  The ebay style of pokemon trading was an absolutely great addition to the pokemon world and its 
 very addicting (too bad you cant grab ones you havent got in your pokedex...)
  The online battling is severely limited by the fact you can only battle friends... I wish you could 
 battle random dudes like mario kart, but alas, this is not the case.
  Most of the new monsters in this game seem to be lacking in the creativity department, and rightly 
 so, the developers must be at the bottom of the barrel in terms of pokemon creativity... I would 
 have liked to see more of the old greats appear in the wild in this game... (and maybe pikachu not 
 be there)
  
  Overall its another must-have for fans on the series... the scope of the game is very limited for 
 those who dont-have/didnt-play other pokemon games. I would also recommend it to ALL rpg fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is without question the best Pokemon game to date. The gameplay is the same as 
 always, but a new twist is that NPCs will sometimes follow you, help you in battle, and heal your 
 pokemon. The graphics are great. 3-D prerendered backrounds and 2-D character it really looks great. 
 The sound still really isn't that great it's not bad, but nothing to remarkable. After finishing 
 the game you can go back anywhere and catch all the pokemon so the game has a lot of replay value. 
 Anyway this is without a doubt in my mind, the best Pokemon game ever made and is currently the 
 best DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokemonNovice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  Awsome, but like I said in the title, the sounds are probably from the earliest pok&eacute; mon 
 games.
  
  Also, some graphics are way to pixel-ified, and the Gym leader's opening pixels are about [ ] big 
 per block.
  
  Still, 9/10 :D
  
  
 
  
  Multiplayer is absolutely astounding, but the trade function has a lot to be desired.
  
  Gameplay is great, and I'm about half way through, and currently at 30 hours, so I'm expecting 
 around 40 - 50 hours more, since It's getting harder.
  
  This is my first Pok&eacute; mon game, and I haven't been disapointed :)
  
  
 
  
  Loads of Gyms, and the story line is perfect, and is so addictive, it's unbelieveable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam_marks900
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  This is my First review so bare with me. Pokemon Diamond... One of the best games for the DS. It 
 kept me busy for a long time. Im still playing it! Its great online because you can chat to people 
 and you can test your skills against them! The story line is awesome and even the new pokemon look 
 awesome and perform even better! Even the music is good! But there are some Problems... The battle 
 scences are still pretty 3D they Could have at least made it a little better. Some sounds you can 
 tell have been recycled. But Apart from that its a great game! If you dont have it already i recommend 
 you go and buy it!
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reznahawks
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Pokemon Red and Blue took us into a world we wouldn't forget. Pokemon yellow gave 
 us a new adventure with color and bright pretty maps to look at. A good little game with lots to 
 do. For most of us, this was far more than enough. Alas, pokemon has grown into a world of repitition 
 and boredom for the average gamer. I do not bash the game for its content, I merely want to state 
 for the sake of gamings own sanity... when is pokemon going to stop producing the same game over 
 and over. Ask yourself this before you buy Pearl or Diamond, am I going to really going to get 
 something out of this? For me, the answer was no many games ago. For the love of all that is sacred 
 in gaming... Stop this Madness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Too long? Scroll down to the end to read my summary!
  
  It all started back in the mid 90's, when Nintendo struck gold with their latest franchise, Pok&eacute; mon. 
 As the fan base grew and grew, Nintendo released two video games for the Game Boy - Pok&eacute; mon 
 Red and Blue, which rose to becoming an international success. Now, over 12 years later, Pok&eacute; mon 
 has still stood the test of time. Nintendo have released dozens of Pok&eacute; mon games over those 
 years, but now their latest true Pok&eacute; mon games have come to the Nintendo DS, but how does 
 it square up?
  
  Here is my personal review of Pok&eacute; mon Diamond (and Pearl) :
  
  --- GAMEPLAY ---
  
  Ever since the debut of Pok&eacute; mon video games on the Gameboy, the 
 series has been a game that seemed like a simple role playing game on the outside, but in the inside 
 was a game that involved a tremendous amount of strategy and thought.
  
  Even now, in 2007, the gameplay in Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl have barely shifted. The concept 
 of Pok&eacute; mon is quite simple to understand - the land is inhabited by a large amount of creatures 
 called Pok&eacute; mon. As a Pok&eacute; mon Trainer , your goal is to capture Pok&eacute; mon in 
 the wild to use them for batting, collecting etc. What makes the gameplay in Pok&eacute; mon so 
 great is that it's flexible enough to work for practically all ages. You don't have to be particularly 
 capable of thinking strategically to get somewhere in the game.
  
  For most of the game, you'll either be exploring or battling. Running in certain areas on the game 
 will trigger a random battle with a certain Pok&eacute; mon. You can weaken it and eventually capture 
 it, or you can make it faint and receive experience for doing so, which in the long run will strengthen 
 your team of Pok&eacute; mon. A Pok&eacute; mon's strength is measured by several stats and an overall 
 level . The higher the level, the higher the stats will be meaning your Pok&eacute; mon will be 
 stronger (just like in most RPGs) .
  
  Players can also encounter other Pok&eacute; mon trainers along their journey. These computer controlled 
 trainers have a stash of their own Pok&eacute; mon which you cannot capture, but can earn experience 
 from. There are times when you'll have to take on a double battle , where you'll use two Pok&eacute; mon 
 instead of just one.
  
  So, how do the battles actually work? Well, every single Pok&eacute; mon in the game has a type 
 . They also have a set of four attacks with a type of their own. Certain types will be weaker or 
 stronger against others, which is why using the right attack types is vital. For example, lightning 
 attacks won't affect rock Pok&eacute; mon, but water attacks will deal more damage than usual. However, 
 lightning attacks will do more damage on a water Pok&eacute; mon. Understanding how each type affects 
 another is the key to being good at the game. The battle is over when a Pok&eacute; mon's health 
 has depleted to 0 (zero) , or you or a trainer runs out of conscious Pok&eacute; mon.
  
  Interestingly enough, Nintendo have added in a long awaited Wi-Fi feature in Diamond and Pearl, 
 allowing players from across the globe to battle and trade Pok&eacute; mon, adding possibly hundreds 
 of hours to the game's lasting value. To use the online mode, you'll need to exchange a 16 digit 
 friend code with someone else, otherwise you won't be able to battle them (or trade with them directly) . 
 However, you can trade without friend codes and also battle to a certain extent. The only problem 
 is that the battle mode (at a place called the Battle Tower) without the friend codes can feel 
 redundant. Players can also play with friends close by, with several types of mini-games to choose 
 from too.
  
  --- GRAPHICS ---
  
  I've yet to hear a reviewer compliment the graphics for Diamond and Pearl without including some 
 negative comment. The presentation for Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl is very well presented. 
 In fact, it's clear to see that the series is slowly but surely evolving into 3D.
  
  You'll notice as you play that the characters are still simple 2D sprites. Not that this is a bad 
 thing. The most interesting thing about the graphics that you'll notice is that there is a slight 
 3D effect with the environments.
  
  People have often critisized the Pok&eacute; mon series for failing to branch out into 3D properly, 
 but I almost completely disagree with what these people think. Pok&eacute; mon has and always will 
 look presentable in 2D. Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl almost definitely back up this statement 
 too, with their colourful and vibrant designs.
  
  --- SOUND ---
  
  Possibly the biggest gripe about Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl is the fact that the Pok&eacute; mon 
 still have their traditional and somewhat aged beep sounds they make (and have made since their 
 debut on the Game Boy) . To make matters worse, the newer Pok&eacute; mon included in Diamond and 
 Pearl seem to have been given higher quality sounds, if only in the slightest, meaning there seems 
 to be a rift between the new and the old Pok&eacute; mon in terms of sounds. These minor gripes 
 are trivial and aren't something particularly problematic.
  
  --- VALUE ---
  
  Pok&eacute; mon games can last you a LONG TIME. The main quest can take up to 40 hours or more, 
 which is almost standard for an RPG. However, collecting every Pok&eacute; mon can slap on a couple 
 of hundred hours, with the online mode still to cover. So really, if you get every last minute 
 out of Pok&eacute; mon, you're looking at an incredible amount of play time. Pok&eacute; mon is definitely 
 great value for money and may well last you for months to come.
  
  Overall, I strongly reccomend this game. It's great value for money and it's a hell of a lot of 
 fun for anyone who enjoys video games. You'll find yourself addicted to the game in no time. To 
 date, it stands as one of the best titles on the Nintendo DS. I'm giving this game a 9.1.
  
  To summarise:
  
  GOOD:
  Flexible gameplay with a touch of strategy
  An interesting 
 online mode
  Amazing presentation
  Massive lasting value
  
  BAD:
  Some of the sounds haven't really moved on 
  Areas of the online mode feel redundant and rushed.
 
  The gamplay seemed a little easier this time round.
  Touch screen controls aren't particularly useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jkranzler
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  It is amazing, you can do a huge variety of things from breeding, battling, and participating in 
 contests. There are a over five legendaries including Diagla (the cover legendary) Azelf, Uxie, 
 and Mesprit (three lvl 50 psychic pokemon) Heatran (A level 70 steel-fire Pokemon) , Rotom (a level 
 15 electric found in a TV) and various others. There also is a neat-o pokedex that can be upgraded 
 to national pokedex by seeing every single pokemon in Sinnoh (which is the region you play in) 
 Having the national Pokedex come with a lot of perks to including Pal-park dual slot trading (which 
 allows you to import Pokemon from your Gameboy Advance games to Diamond and Pearl. It is a great 
 buy that gives you endless amounts of gameplay. And the music is pretty cool for fighting legendaries. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  When I heard this game was gonna come out, I freaked out and reserved it as soon as I can. When 
 I got it, I opened it right there in the store and started playing it. Hey if uwere tired of playing 
 2 versions of spinoffs, in the same old regions, ud b exited as I am. This is worth the buy. Whats 
 new in the game is that u have 490 pokemon!!!!!!!!! Most of them r evolutions of previous pokemon 
 though but still.....490 pokemon. U have 100s of new items and moves. U obviously have a new region. 
 At the end of the game, u have pal park. And then u can import ur pokemon from the GBA. And of 
 coarse u have Wi-Fi where u can trade, battle, etc. This game is a must buy. If u don't have it 
 and u have a 'DS ur a loser. lol. Also, buy the Pokedex 4 $20.00 its worth every penny. Its every 
 classification: Amazing, best in the series, grows on you, highly addictive, instant classic, immersive, 
 just plain fun, masterpeice, revolutionary, and worth the wait.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Buy this game or DiE!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lol_Bidoof
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  ts been 9 years of Pokemon and only 7 years since anything good came out the series. Ever since 
 the 3rd generation Pokemon (in my opinion) has taken a wrong path and wasn't as much of a thrill 
 as the past 2 generations were. But on April 24-th 2007 the awesome gaming company game-freak brought 
 something to all us long time Pokemon fans and who have been waiting for this moment for at least 
 7 years And the newcomers who are looking for an enjoyable gaming experience for them to get started 
 into the game. A Pokemon game that brings back the good old times with a new way to play. And by 
 new I mean 493 new Pokemon a whole new region of the name sin noh with new villains and friends 
 and new gyms and the ever so painful but fully enjoyable elite 4 experience but with new characters 
 that are sure to be memorable for years too come. Its a whole new way to play Pokemon now
  
  story:8/10
  The story and premise behind Pokemon is simple. You are a young 10 year old boy 
 who has gone off with you're friend (who later becomes the rival) to lake verity to find any legend 
 Pokemon that lives there. But you are out of luck, Until you spot the professor and his young assistant 
 dawn. They leave but you notice they have a small bag they left. So you and you're friend go over 
 and check but while looking a horde of starly come and attack. So you and you're friend choose 
 one of the 3 Pokemon in the bag. One is piplup the small water penguin Pokemon, chimchar the energetic 
 fire monkey Pokemon and turtwig the playful grass turtle Pokemon. after winning the battle you 
 both leave but see the professor and dawn standing and staring at you. they found out you took 
 the pokes and they tell you to come to the lab. So once at the lab the professor notice you're 
 Pokemon's liking to you and lets you and you're chosen Pokemon to go on an adventure with. But 
 thats just the beginning. Later on you're journey after a few battles with the gym leaders you 
 come across and yellow haired girl dressed in all black named Cynthia (who you find out later is 
 the champion of the elite 4) She noticed that a crazy group of evil maniacs called team galactic 
 have came to sin noh on a mission to take the 3 legendary elf Pokemon Uxie, Mespirit and Azelf 
 and store them into a factory to get the energy from them to give to the all mighty creator of 
 the planets either dialga or palkia (depending on which Pokemon game you play diamond for dialga 
 and pearl for palkia) But you must later on in the game go to the top of mount coronet to defeat 
 the boss of team galactic and save the world from being destroyed. And once after those epic strings 
 of events have past you are now on you're way to the elite 4 the biggest challenge you will get 
 out of this game... yet. If you want to know what i mean by that then beat the elite 4 and get the 
 national Poke dex by seeing all 150 Pokemon in the regular sin noh Poke dex then you will see what 
 i mean about a bigger challenge . So anyway it may be the same old Pokemon story but if you do 
 pay close attention to the story you can see its different in many ways and more involved than 
 any other Pokemon game before it which is a good task this game achieved
  
  game play: 10/10
  We all know Pokemon. catching and battling Pokemon to get stronger and evolve 
 into even bigger and stronger Pokemon. Trading also is a big part too. And the same old rivals 
 trying to take over the world. Well this time we have we have team galactic and there goal is to 
 make another universe to rule. But as usual you stop them and save the day again. But apart from 
 the old style from the other past Pokemon games we have a more advanced way of playing. With the 
 introduction of EV training Pokemon has been becoming more competitive and more of a strategy game 
 then it has been. Boosting the stats can be tedious but if done the right way you can get the strategy 
 down and face the world with you're new and highly improved team. And then we come in with the 
 breeding, yes we had breeding in the other previous Pokemon games but it hasn't been as important 
 as the past games. Back in the simple times of gold and silver we just breed so if you're friend 
 wanted the Pokemon you had you could give another one to them, But now we breed to get the right 
 nature for stats and the right attacks you only get from breeding which are called egg moves that 
 are only learned from hatching the newly born Pokemon from an egg. Well even with EV training and 
 breeding in the mix its still the same old same old with the contests and such but its still the 
 Pokemon game play we know and love but its fun again.
  
  sound: 8/10
  Yup its time to discuss the Pokemon sounds and music. Nothing new here. We still have the same 
 Pokemon cries but with a bunch of new and a lot better ones for the newer Pokemon. For example 
 some Pokemon like kricitune have crazy and well done electronic sounding cries while others like 
 skuntank is just a bunch of loud growling and some fart noises mixed into the jumble of sounds. 
 The sound affects in and outside the battle have a better tone to them that are more of an easy 
 listen for you're ears. no more beeps and bops We finally have the crunching noise of you're small 
 little character running in the vast land of snow. Oh we couldn't forget about the sounds the attacks 
 make like the eerie tone of dark pulse and the rumbling action of the massive and deadly attack 
 of self destruct. And for the music it's a lot more enjoyable this time around. Like the soothing 
 sounds of snow point village or the pulse racing elite 4 challenger battle will sure make you impressed. 
 But as usual in most Pokemon games the soundtrack can get repetitive and would make you want to 
 turn of the volume and put some of you're own music on but really is that even a really big deal, 
 Most games out now are like that. So yeah the sound affects and music are really good this time 
 around. But we still hope for improvements the next time around.
  
  graphics: 9.5/10
  Wow the big jump from the game boy to the DS was a big huge improvement in the graphics engine. 
 The world, the people and the surroundings are fully 3d now. But for the sprites they are the same 
 as they were in the GBA version but a more fresh color and a cleaner look of design. And for the 
 new Pokemon they have some incredible designs on them. For example lucario had lots of detail on 
 his human like figure and the bold colors match his look. And with the legendaries they are incredibly 
 detailed at every last bit of design with cressila's unique shape and vibrant colors across its 
 polygonal body. Even if graphics are not a big part of gaming it still helps the feel of the game. 
 And diamond and pearl sure do that, and a very good job of it too.
  
  wi fi: 9/10
  yes you head it right. On line is finally available for the first time in a Pokemon game, And it 
 turned out to be an excellent experience also. Now you can battle and trade over wi fi with friends 
 to show off you're skills or get that mew two you always wanted. But on downside is that you need 
 a friend code in order to wi fi with someone. So you must find someone willing to exchange friend 
 codes with you. But on line forums like gamefaqs are a great way to find those type of people who 
 are always up for a battle or a trade. But battling against you're friend with out a link cable 
 sure is a treat and it always feels good knowing many people around the world are willing to have 
 some poke fun with you too, And it feels even better when you get that one Pokemon you always wanted 
 or you just owned some person you don't even know across the globe. This is by far the best experience 
 of wi fi on the ds so far.
  
  Alas my long read of a review is done. As you can tell this is the #1 Pokemon game out there for 
 Pokemon fans and beginners as well. And now for the long awaited question. Is Pokemon diamond and 
 pearl a rent or worthy of a purchase. Well my good friend this game is well worthy of a purchase. 
 It's my favorite game of all time and gamers of all kinds especially the Pokemon lovers and rpg 
 fans will have a huge blast with this game. Now over 400 Pokemon to collect, trade and battle with 
 the new vast sin noh region we have a truly precious gem of a game that deserves the title of diamond 
 and pearl. But this game shines brighter than all the diamonds and pearls in the world and then 
 some. Heck it probably even shines brighter than that. So if you got 35 dollars burning in you're 
 money pocket take that money right now and rush over to you're nearest gaming store and try you're 
 best to get these two gems. Cause as you know gems are pretty hard to find now these days. Happy 
 diamond hunting :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict190
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond... well.. It's exactly the same gameplay as EVERY pokemon game in the past. And 
 thats how they should keep it because it is so perfect. Well all new pokemon are back including 
 some pokemon from older games. I have to admit some of the new pokemon are extremely cute. Everything 
 is not all the same except new pokemon there is also wi-fi which is AMAZING! And GTS which allow 
 you to trade with people around the world and use the microphone on the DS to talk to each other 
 (I didn't know that and i though my DS was talking to me =P silly old me) . Also there is the underground 
 where you can chat wirelessly and find evolution stones and all that. All is perfect in this poke 
 happy community but gosh.. the music kinda gets on my nerves. So a little advice from me, GET THIS 
 GAME, turn down the volume, complete the story, and trade on wi-fi with friends! GOD BLESS THIS 
 GAME AND GOD BLESS THOSE SUPER SMART JAPENESE PPL!!!! FARWELL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Takisuteni
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all let's talk about the game play and storyline. The game play is almost like the previous 
 Pokemon games except some new additional features with the touch screen. However, the storyline 
 seems to be always within the same idea. Second of all the Graphics right? yeah right for me it's 
 the most amazing thing alongside the online play mode. Thirdly the surrounding sounds. They are really 
 compatible with the game play barely flawless specially when fighting a legendary. Lastly the value 
 of this game. This game is totally worth your money no doubt about that. You can play it for about 
 100 Hours with an ecstasy and enthusiasm. Let's not forget to mention the Online mode which is awesome.
 
  Now about the good thing and the bad thing. The good thing is everything i mentioned up there. The 
 bad thing is that some people may become addicted to it and never quit playing it. Fortunately, 
 this game had been released at a good time just before the summer vacation so students can enjoy 
 their time playing it. If you are a Role-playing fan u MUST NOT skip this game. Come on this one 
 can be considered a Massive Multi-player online game. You better wake and run to the nearest video 
 game store and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougphisig
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Well I have been playing the Pokemon Series since I picked up Pokemon: Yellow, and I've always 
 enjoyed putting tons of hours in to beat the game and always trying to catch as many as I can. 
 I will admit I've never caught them all in any single game, but the thought of doing it keeps you 
 coming back even though it gets tougher and tougher to catch them all as they keep adding more. 
 One thing i like about these games is they always add more, but you still get to catch the old 
 ones and they get updated with brand new moves and skills. I keep thinking one of these times I 
 will get bored with the series but they continue to not disappoint with new features that keep 
 me coming back. In this one they have brought it to the double screen and done a graphics overhaul 
 to make the game look so much better and sounds great as well. Also some of the new features such 
 as pokemon swarms and Poke Radar have added possiblities to get some of those old pokemon we all 
 love. To this point i've put in over 100 hours and still find myself coming back trying to catch 
 more and i've still only seen like half the number of pokemon available now. If you enjoyed the 
 series before definately think about playing this one it is a nice revamp of the series as moves 
 and the pokemon themselves just look that much better. Even newe people to the series can jump 
 right in because the game has a decently easy start as all of them tend to have. Overall this is 
 the best one in the series to this point in my opinion and i look forward to more pokemon in the 
 future. I definately recommend this game for pokelovers that own a nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This Pokemon game is outstanding. Simply outstanding. There is enough new and enough old that the 
 game is balanced out very well (Even though a bit more innovation would have helped!) .
  
  Like every other pokemon game this one starts with you getting a free Pokemon form your small town 
 professor and starting your quest. What is your quest? Thats hard to narrow down because there 
 is just so much to do in this game that it's awesome. You can become the ultimate pokemon trainer 
 and defeat all 8 gym leaders to move on to the elite 4, perhaps you'ld rather enter your pokemon 
 in a contest to win ribbons or maybe you just want to complete your pokedex and well you at it 
 Catch em' all! 
  
  The developers went all out with this game including tons of fun things to do. Innovative things 
 like the 3D touches to the graphics and the poketech (a watch that takes up the bottom screen which 
 has several applications that are fun to play with) really make the game shine. They also including 
 online play, which is good, but jumping through hoops just to get to talk with the trainer your 
 facing isn't really worth it.
  
  I haven't played a pokemon game since Pokemon Silver and I'm am throughly impressed. A game with 
 hundreds of hours of enjoyable game play for $44 (Cdn) is definitely a steal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is the first pokemon game for a handheld console i have played since the crystal version, 
 so no wonder there is a lot of new stuff. There are tons of new items, new TM's (and some new HM's) , 
 not to mention there are very few old pok&eacute; mon. Unlike the games I've played earlier, you 
 don't go to a pok&eacute; mon professor to get your first pok&eacute; mon (choose one of three) . 
 This time the professor loses his suicase and you and your friend/rival is attacked when you go 
 to get it. You have to choose one of three pok&eacute; mon in the suicase (and your friend takes 
 one of the others) , to defend yourself. Later the professor will give it to you. The graphic and 
 design in this game is new and it looks awesome and more 3d. The battle animations are also cool 
 and I never had a need to turn it of. Besides that, it is the game we know and love. You go from 
 city to city to collect gym badges and eventually enter the pok&eacute; mon league. You also have 
 to follow the story (it is an RPG after all) and stop team galaxys crazy plan. On the way you figth 
 trainers, catch pok&eacute; mon and pick up items and HMs which you need to get through the game. 
 It's important to talk to people so you don't miss finding a HM or a key item. The story is classic 
 and of course you will have the chance to catch a legendary pok&eacute; mon with your only master 
 ball. Dialga will be a great addition to your team. I have put the learning curve on 4 or more, 
 because you keep learning all the way. That is what makes the conscept so great, you just keep 
 getting better and better using smart tactick and the best items. You have to use your head all 
 the way and calculate the odds to know which move you should use or if you should change pok&eacute; mon 
 or whatever. Time spent: 40-100h. I actually played it for 24 houres the first two days (I had 
 very little else to do) . All in all, it is old school, but still with some new elements. In other 
 words, a perfect pok&eacute; mon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesemonkey199
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  one word is crucial in this review and that word is wifi , thats what makes this game stand out 
 from the others in the series.
  
  pokemon is my favourite long running videogame series and i had been waiting for the DS adventure 
 ever since it was announced. its fantastic. im praising quite a lot because i like pokemon and 
 im not ashamed to admit it.
  
  there is only one small problem with this game (which is why it doesn't receive full marks) , and 
 the problem is the single player mode is almost exactly the same as the others, im not saying its 
 that bad because the main mode has always been the best part, but it fells a bit old after 10 or 
 so years.
  
  this game shines through that problem in its fantastic multiplayer, whether its in the same room 
 with friends or against a complete stranger on wifi, the multiplayer is incredible and it feels 
 so good to have no more wires when playing against friends. the graphics and some gameplay elements 
 have been tweaked for the DS version as well, and not only that but like all pokemon games it has 
 extremely good replay value to keep you going for ages.
  
  overall a definite buy and most certainly the best DS game of the year so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4Link432
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the best pokemon game so far. The graphics make it look like it has 3-D 
 feel to it outside of battle. Inside battle the sound is better than the last installments because 
 of the two speakers. Also the attacks look great. If you've played any other installment of pokemon 
 the time it takes to learn the controls should take about 3 minutes because of some new features. 
 Thats when you just begin the game. later when you get the national dex or beat the elite four 
 you can battle wirelessly thanks to the ds wifi connection. To do it from like far away (like with 
 the xbox live faraway) you need a usb wifi connector though. Also the palpark allows you to transfer 
 pokemon from your gba pokemon games into Diamond. This really makes it easier to catch em' all 
 in this game. Also the new pokemon are cool too especially the legendaries they have. This game 
 really isnt much diffrent from pearl ecxept a few things like certain pokemon can only be caught 
 in one version, so you really wont have a hard time picking which game to buy. A lot of people 
 have bought a ds just to get this game. I've only played this game on my friends ds since i dont 
 have one. (prolly only kid in the world who doesnt currently have a ds or this game T~T) . So better 
 start savin if you dont have this game cause it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Yay a new polemon lets do the same thing all over again! Yes again this game gets very repeatitive 
 just like all the other pokemon games. What really saves this game is the new pokemon. The new pokemon 
 really get you excited since there is a whole new look. The game is quite long especially with 
 all extras. The game is about 30 or maybe 50 hours with Everything done. The game really falls 
 with all the back tracking. Another problem is the GTS (Global trade center) , Its a way for trainers 
 to get pokemon they cant get normally such as the other starters. The big problem is you cant request 
 pokemon you havent seen so all your dreams come crashing down lol. Which means Its going to be 
 REALLY hard to finish the pokedex. The Legendarys in the game are really fun to catch. There are 
 about 9. They are Dialga, Palkia, Mespirit, Uxie, Azelf, Heatran, Gratina, Rotom, and Regigigas. 
 The game helps in finishing the pokedex is because you can trade pokemon from your GBA slot to 
 the DS cartridge. The problem is YOU CANT TRADE THEM BACK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a Pokemon game, I bought this game with few expectations, but was soon a Pokemon 
 addict. I even played it for 6 hours solidly.
  
  For those who don't know, the basic idea of Pokemon is to find, capture and then use all the different 
 creatures in the region of Sinnoh. Seems simple on paper, but take into account the sheer quantity 
 of species (over 400!) , and that's quite a challenge. You also have to see off the sinister Team 
 Galactic, whose secret plans seem to have something to do with a legendary beast.
  
  This is a top-class RPG, and also includes various minigames and challenges. There's a huge amount 
 of online WI-Fi stuff too (but I am unable to access such features as I don't have broadband) . 
 Even so, there is enough in this game to keep you going for weeks on end.
  
  The only faults in this game are the sounds (which are criminally cheap-sounding) and the gameplay, 
 which can seem a little repetitive at times, proving you can have too much of a good thing. But 
 it still remains a very good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfox15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After a few years of ignoring pokemon since Crystal's release, It seemed about time I hop back 
 on the tracks and ride the pokemon grind again. The first two generations of pokemon were fantastic, 
 but it seemed like generation 3 did little to add to what pokemon already was. I've always been 
 a pretty devoted fan of the pokemon series. Ever since its insurrection in the U. S. with pokemon 
 blue and red, the game has been a staple of my life. I was never a huge fan of RPG's but after 
 playing for a short while I fell in love with the little blue cartridge. Pokemon doesn't have the 
 magnificent musical scores that some other RPG's boast or particularly fantastic visuals, but what 
 it has it has in spades: gameplay. Pokemon has and will hopefully always harbor some of the most 
 addictive and intricate gameplay mechanics for years to come. It's been over a decade since the 
 first games, yet the series still feels fresh and new. A testament to the creative minds at Game 
 Freak and Nintendo. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for the Nintendo DS is a godsend for the series. 
 Not because of what it does differently, but what it does better. Every new series of pokemon games 
 comes with a few new add-ons, new features, and new gyms, but for Diamond and Pearl, the features 
 are simply perfect. D/P come with the customary roster of heroes. The scientist of pokemon that 
 gives you your first pokemon, the eight distinct gyms, and of course, the elite four. The storyline 
 is in the same vein as the previous generations with a team of people going for world domination. 
 (This time it's team galactic.) Find them, get rid of them, take out the gyms, and defeat the elite 
 four. End of game right? Wrong.
  
  After finishing what I call act 1 of the game, you begin the second section of the game. Doors 
 open to new pokemon to catch and train, namely almost all of the previous generations, a few new 
 islands open up to explore, etc. Then comes the kicker. The reason in my opinion to upgrade if 
 you're feeling apprehensive. The online features. You and your pokemon can take the fight online 
 in a series of towers of Gods of the game waiting to see what you can do. Also as a huge and very 
 convenient bonus, there is a wonderful little tool called the GTS or global trade station. Here 
 you have the opportunity to sift through almost any pokemon in your pokedex and see if you can 
 trade for them online. It also has a feature that allows you to send a pokemon online, shut off 
 your DS, and wait for as long as you want to finally get that rare pokemon. Convenient yes?
  
  The complete list of features of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are simply too numerous to list. 
 You'll just have to crack a copy open and find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSkirbi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  it is clearly the best game out for the ds so far; because we all know fantom hourglass is going 
 to be the best ds game ever but so far this is the best game ever on ds. You get really cought 
 to the game if you have wi-fi you get really caught .
  if you still ain't got a good R. P. G game yet for the ds then this game would be great for you it 
 is one of the last ds games you will ever get.
  take it from a person who owns both (me) trust me at &pound;24.99 it is the best game in a budget 
 contest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyernix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Without too much of an introduction here, we all know about pokemon RPGs, there the main flagship 
 for the franchise, in a nutshell, this is the one fans have been waiting so long for. so how does 
 it go?
  
  you basically get through the whole classic introduction of meeting the pokemon professor and assigning 
 your name and gender, and get your firast pokemon out of three. However instead of one rival, your 
 given two rivals. The same formula of getting gym badges and catching pokemon are ever present. 
 but rather than spinning out a same old formula, the game graphically makes it enjoyable and fresh 
 rather than feeling outdated and giving you a slice of storyline pie.
  
  Ok, so your thinking, bah, same old game but those with the 3rd generation pokemon games can upload 
 thier old pokemon onto the new one after completing the game and pit them across Wifi battles.
 
  Wifi battles are kinda done in different ways. one is exchanging friendcodes and battling in real 
 time. the other is battling other peoples pokemon whilst AI controlled at the battle tower, which 
 too be far isnt that good. what wopuld make me personally feel better about the wifi system is 
 to randomly meet online people, but for secruity reasons I guess its for the best. the voice chat 
 works quite well too.
  
  the game has so much complexity to the battling system it has over hundreds of hours of value in 
 the game (I myself am 325+ hours into maximizing 4 teams) . the touch screen ultilities are a bit 
 pointless seeing as most input requires the buttons anyway, and the sound of all the pokemon really 
 does sound old, whereas the music seems more upbeat and jazzier, its just sound effects that fail 
 for me.
  Anyone with a DS really should get the game... case closed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allhailthetv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has always been fun to me. I've owned Yellow, Ruby, Sapphire, LeafGreen, and Emerald. And 
 each new region to explore introduced something big to the series. Johto added eggs, and Hoenn 
 introduced contests and double battles. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl marks the series' first installment 
 on the DS, and is every bit as addictive as the others. It has 3D graphics, new contest modes, 
 and is pretty long. But, it's just not as good as the games in Hoenn. Let me explain.
  
  While the series has never been known for its difficulty, I made it through the main storyline, 
 and only lost a battle once. The Elite 4 were easier than they've ever been. The vast stretches 
 of land inbetween each town aren't as inviting as they've been in the past, and the enormous gameplay 
 periods between gym battles will have you wondering where it is you should go next. At one point 
 in the game, you have to talk to an easily missable guy, chase him, talk to him again, chase him 
 again, talk to him again, and battle him. That was really unfun, let me tell you.
  
  But, the game is not all bad. The touch screen is used for your Poketch, 
  a watch with over 
 20 different applications to be unlocked. They can be used to check up on your Pokemon, see the 
 time, or even flip a coin! (I'm serious) The new contest modes of Visual and Dance are great fun, 
 and have you dressing your pokemon up, and also competing in a follow-the-leader-like dance competition. 
 The 3D graphics are great, especially considering this is a DS game! While I prefer the games set 
 in Hoenn, Sinnoh is alright for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Pokemon was all the rage I bought blue all my friends bought red and I'd kick all 
 of their sorry ..... So in a desperate attempt to recapture those nostalgic days I went out to 
 buy another installment of the now legendary Pokemon series. Not playing a game like this since 
 the originals came out I was slightly confused, I fumbled through the game trying to get as much 
 advice from other characters as possible, turns out they are not very helpful, when you are trying 
 to get somewhere someone or something will always attack every 3 seconds its 'Wild blah attacks' 
 or 'trainer whosit' want a battle. It gets very annoying and repetitive extremely quickly so I 
 am baffled at how this game kept me playing it. Not very original but it certainly has had some 
 major changes since original release a solid game that should keep the average non-hardcore gamer 
 going for a while, multi player options are good but again repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigJay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Out of all the Pok&eacute; mon games, at least the portable ones were amazing, this one is no different. 
 It's just amazing, addictive fun. The only problem is that I don't watch the TV show etc so I have 
 no idea about these 100 new Pok&eacute; mon, but you learn to love them, even if you have no idea 
 what the hell they are.
  
  The negativity surrounding the sound is a load of bull really, you can't tell which is the old 
 sounds and which are the new, even if you do it takes you back to the games where you saw that 
 Pok&eacute; mon etc. In conclusion this is a brilliant game where the graphics are a whole lot better 
 and the gameplay is as excellent as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi892
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  It's here. This best Pokemon game to date has arrived and even with 'the same old formula it plays 
 like a dream. It tells the story (like all the others) of a boy/girl who wants to become a Pokemon 
 Master and beat the Elite 4. They battle there way through 8 Pokemon Gyms and collect badges to 
 enable them to compete in the final showdown. This series however still feels fresh with new Pokemon, 
 colourful 3D graphics, excellent music and edge of the seat gameplay.
  
  The Wi-Fi features of this game are however what gives this game such a high score. The Global 
 Trade Station (GTS) is amazing. It allows you to trade with anyone from anywhere in the world. 
 Simply select what Pokemon you want to get rid of and selct which Pokemon you want in return. Then 
 you can check as often as you want to see if someone has taken your offer. You can also have online 
 battles but rather unfortunately you cant battle who you want. You need the friend code of the 
 person you want to battle which is hassle to obtain and makes this wonderful feature not as asscesible 
 as it should be. However it is made up for by the Chatting Function where you can talk to who you 
 are battling.
  
  The graphics have been updated slighly for this new Pokemon outing. They are colourful and feature 
 a top-down 3D look. It works well and is not overdone. Sound has also been updated for this game 
 and whilst the tunes aren't as good as Pokemon Red/Blue you will still be humming or whistling 
 them when you're bored. One gripe about the sound however is that the Pokemon cries of the earlier 
 Pokemon (Pidgey, Rattata, Nidoran etc.) still sound really bad and GameBoy Pocket quality. Times 
 have moved on and it's about time this did as well.
  
  Overall this is by far the best game on the Nintendo DS at the moment. It combines old-skool gameplay 
 and combines it with new elements like Wi-Fi which together makes a fantastic combanation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I just got Diamond about 2 1/2 weeks ago, and I have to say this is the best Pokemon game I have 
 ever played and the largest library of monsters than any game EVER made.. I really didn't believe 
 some of the things that I have heard about this game, and so I just decided to get it and I beat 
 it pretty quick, but that is nothing new... I do that with EVERY game I get, but WHOA this is an 
 awesome game, for both just RPG lovers and Pokefans, you this game is just hard to put down. I 
 highly recommend this game for any and every one with a nintendo ds or lite Guys this is one game 
 that you can just pick up, learn, play, and enjoy playing for hours and hours.... there is just 
 SOOOO much to do on this game, its kinda like all the pokemon games in one... with new features.. 
 I guarantee you that you will love this game.
  
  Pick this one up please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777jon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is awsome!!!!:) !!!! It is the best pokemon game they ever made! it has awsome graphics (2-D 
 or 3-D) ! and now its on ds it has doule screens! you can just touch it the moves you want in stead 
 of just pressing a! thats why its so great its on ds! I've been waiting so long for this to came 
 and it did! I practicly have all the games so i know how to play. Diamond is the best because you 
 can migrate all your good pokemon from Pokemon Emerald, Leafgreen, Firered, Ruby, and Sapphire! 
 It's the best pokemon game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShippudenNaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Much to the delight of Pok&eacute; maniacs the world over, Nintendo and Game Freak have finally 
 brought a proper Pok&eacute; mon game to the Nintendo DS with Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl, 
 and it delivers much of what a fan would desirea richer, more detailed presentation, the ability 
 to battle and trade Pok&eacute; mon over the Internet, and of course, more than 100 brand-new Pok&eacute; mon 
 to collect. Like any of the core Pok&eacute; mon games released since the original Red and Blue 
 hit in 1999, Diamond and Pearl offer some nice upgrades, but if you didn't like Pok&eacute; mon 
 then, you probably won't care for it now. That said, it's a little surprising how well the formula 
 holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as 
 well as the quality of the execution.
  
  The core Pok&eacute; mon games have never looked better.
  
  Sticking to the script, Diamond 
 and Pearl start out the same as any other Pok&eacute; mon game, and though the specifics are different, 
 the story plays out in a familiar fashion. Playing as either a young boy or girl living in the 
 out-of-the-way hamlet of Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region, you and your highly competitive best 
 friend are sent into the world by Professor Rowan to collect as much data on the Pok&eacute; mon 
 that inhabit the region as is possible, which you do by capturing and fighting. During your travels, 
 you will battle plenty of wild Pok&eacute; mon and other Pok&eacute; mon trainers like yourself, 
 as well as face off with the leaders of eight different Pok&eacute; mon gyms spread across Sinnoh. 
 And, in the tradition of the nefarious Team Rocket, Diamond and Pearl introduce the shadowy and 
 oddly self-righteous Team Galactic, a new Pok&eacute; mon-obsessed organization for you to square 
 off with. The plot doesn't tread much new ground for the series, and it generally keeps things 
 real light and breezy. They won't dazzle you with the complexity or originality of their storytelling, 
 but Diamond and Pearl are still packed with lots of sharp writing. There are hundreds of people 
 for you to meet, and though they don't always offer lengthy conversations, they all have something 
 to say.
  
  The story is ultimately in the service of the gameplay, which fans and newcomers should be able 
 to leap right into without much fuss. You start off with a single Pok&eacute; mon companion by your 
 side, which serves as your proxy in battleyou might be calling the shots in a fight, but it's 
 your Pok&eacute; mon that do all the heavy lifting. As you wander through forests, fields of tall 
 grass, underground caves, and a myriad of other locations, you'll regularly be attacked by wild 
 Pok&eacute; mon, which, if you're able to wear down their health without defeating them entirely, 
 can be captured in a Pok&eacute; ball, effectively taming them and turning them into companions. 
 You can have up to six Pok&eacute; mon with you at once, and each of your Pok&eacute; mon can learn 
 up to four different abilities. These abilities can come naturally as they earn experience in battle, 
 or you can teach them new tricks using technical machines and hidden machines, which can be earned 
 in a number of different ways. As they grow stronger, many Pok&eacute; mon can also evolve, effectively 
 turning them into an entirely new and more powerful Pok&eacute; mon.
  
  The combat is turn based, and it's mostly about the rock-paper-scissors nature of the different 
 types of Pok&eacute; mon. The only difference between Diamond and Pearl is the Pok&eacute; mon contained 
 within each game. With the addition of 107 brand-new Pok&eacute; mon, Diamond and Pearl raise the 
 grand total of Pok&eacute; mon to capture to well over 480. Every single one of them can be categorized 
 by type. Some of these types are defined by elements, such as water-type Pok&eacute; mon and fire-type 
 Pok&eacute; mon, while others are determined by more specific, functional differences, such as fight-type 
 Pok&eacute; mon and poison-type Pok&eacute; mon. Each type of Pok&eacute; mon is inherently weak to 
 the attacks of another, so the key to combat is having a well-balanced team of Pok&eacute; mon with 
 you that will be able to handle whatever types of Pok&eacute; mon get thrown at you. It's a simple 
 enough concept to grasp, but there are enough different types of Pok&eacute; mon out there that 
 you'll find yourself constantly tweaking your roster of active Pok&eacute; mon and laboring over 
 which abilities you should be giving to which of your Pok&eacute; mon. The fact that you're constantly 
 running in to, and thus capturing, new Pok&eacute; mon makes the process that much more involved. 
 And that's just the basics. Aside from wandering around the Sinnoh region and getting into countless 
 Pok&eacute; mon battles, you'll fish, harvest and plant berries, cook up special treats for your 
 Pok&eacute; mon, enter your Pok&eacute; mon in a pageant, set up a secret hideout, and more. These 
 games are long, with the main stories clocking in at well over 40 hours, and those intent on hunting 
 down the rarer Pok&eacute; mon will spend far more than that.
  
  The bulk of the activities in Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl aren't new to the series, so what 
 separates these two from the Pok&eacute; mon games that appeared on the Game Boy Advance? For starters, 
 the presentation has been improved to take advantage of the superior DS hardware. Though the game 
 is mostly still presented in 2D, there's improved detail to the 2D and you'll notice lots of nice 
 polygonal touches. For example, buildings and windmills are rendered in 3D, and it's enough to 
 give the 2D world a little depth. The game also has a bright, highly saturated color palette that 
 makes it a pleasure to look at. When in battle, the Pok&eacute; mon are still static 2D spritesmuch 
 of which appears to have been recycled from the Pok&eacute; mon games on the GBAbut in general, 
 the 2D art still looks sharp. The dynamic battle transitions look great, as do the numerous attack 
 effects. Diamond and Pearl also feature some catchy music, and there's a whole lot of it, with 
 a special theme for virtually every location or activity. As clean and upbeat as the music is, 
 though, some of the sound effects from the Pok&eacute; mon themselves sound screechy and lo-fi. 
 It's out of place, considering how great the rest of the game looks and sounds.
  
  There's also a little touch-screen support in Diamond and Pearl, letting you use the stylus to 
 select menus during battle and play a few simple, rather forgettable minigames that crop up. During 
 most of your travels, the lower screen on the DS is occupied by your Pok&eacute; mon watch (Pok&eacute; tch 
 for short) . In addition to telling the time, you can install a number of applications, some more 
 useful than others, on your Pok&eacute; tch. There's a calculator, a pedometer, a status screen 
 for your Pok&eacute; mon, a metal detector of sorts, and more.
  
  Online play means it's that much easier to find others to battle and trade with.
  
  What's 
 probably the most significant new feature in Diamond and Pearl is online play, which lets you battle, 
 trade, and chat with other players over the Internet. The trading system is surprisingly robust, 
 letting you put any of your Pok&eacute; mon up for trade on a global market, while specifying which 
 Pok&eacute; mon you'll trade it for. Once you define the terms of the trade, the Pok&eacute; mon 
 is transferred to a server, and you can set it and forget it. Your DS doesn't even need to be turned 
 on for someone to agree to your terms and complete the transaction. The online battle options aren't 
 as immediately accessible. Early on, you'll need the game-specific friend code for anyone that 
 you want to battle online, and it will take dozens of hours of single-player action before you'll 
 be able to battle with random strangers. The game also supports voice chat using the newly released 
 DS headset, but you can only use it with other players whose friend codes you've already registered. 
 Of course, you can also still battle and trade with other people through a local Wi-Fi connection. 
 Diamond and Pearl also promise connectivity to the upcoming Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution for 
 the Nintendo Wii, purportedly letting you use your DS as a controller and take the Pok&eacute; mon 
 you've collected on the DS into battle on your TV.
  
  Between the 100-plus new Pok&eacute; mon, the improved presentation, and the online play, this is 
 a must-have game for established fans. The new features also make this the most well-rounded Pok&eacute; mon 
 game to date, and if you've never dabbled in the world of Pok&eacute; mon before, there's no better 
 game to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is the 3rd generation of the classic Pokemon RPG. After 10 years, this franchise 
 has basically remained untouched. You start off with one monster, and your tasked with filling 
 the Pokedex. This time, you have to catch more monsters. You have to bring in everyone from the 
 1st gen, to the current, if you own the respective GBA editions. As stated before, not much has 
 changed. It's still the same rock, paper, scissor, turned based gameplay. You travel, battle, catch, 
 and evolve your monsters. With 400+ monsters, this RPG is certainly long lasting.
  
  The game does sport some new features of course. Now, you have a poke watch. It tells the time, 
 tracks your monsters stats, and does a lot more. It fits into the game and makes tracking monsters 
 a lot more easier. Of course, you have to save the world from evil. While doing so, you have to 
 teach your rival a lesson, save the damsel, win 8 badges to beat the elite 4. It's a lenghty process, 
 but your money is well spent.
  
  The newest feature to Pokemon here is the onine. Users can trade wirelessy, battle, and even just 
 hang out underground. This maybe a few years late for the franchise, but loyal fans have made it 
 worth wile. The game even has this ebay style pokemon auction, so you can just trade your monsters 
 without you being there. Overall Pokemon Diamond is what should've launched with the DS. It's solid, 
 fun, and simpy old-school. The global community is made stronger, but Nintendo's ability to restrict 
 codejunkies from hacking the game simply ruins the time and effort people put in to get those special 
 rare monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora250
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and game freak are back with Pokemon Diamond for the Nintendo DS. It been three years 
 since the last two real games so Nintendo is counting on this game but with over 450 Pokemon this 
 time, what could go wrong with this game?
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  It your normal runs of the mill Pokemon story. You are a new trainer (boy or girl) who wants to 
 become a Pokemon master and defeat the evil team. This time being Team Galactic who are trying 
 to get Dialga (who can control time) and Palkia (who can control space) . This is just another normal 
 story for Pokemon; you will have your rivals and beat the entire gym leader. Nothing-new here but 
 it still good.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics are still more 2 D looking but some areas are 2.5 D. The Pokemon look great for 2 
 D and all the places look nice and clean. This is one of the more better points of the game.
  
  Sound: 8 /10
  
  Some music is memorable in this game while others are not. Pokemon have 
 their cries when they come into battle and nothing really seems out of place in the game sound 
 department but they seem outdated which is why I am scoring it a eight here.
  
  Game play: 10/10
  
  This is where the game shines. It has the best game play out of all Pokemon 
 games. It easy to understand but hard to master which is great for all players. You go around using 
 your Pokemon to fight other wild ones or trainer ones. A new addition to this game is wi-fi which 
 allows you to take your Pokemon on line against the world only you need friend codes to be able 
 to fight other people so that a real let down but not much to tell the game play is still great.
 
  
  Rent, Buy, pass: Well, if you are a new fan of Pokemon or been a fan since the start, then it a 
 buy. If you are into rpg and not Pokemon itself then rent and try it out but if you hate Pokemon, 
 this game is not going to make you love.
  
  Overall: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Vampire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998 a new craze captivated the imaginations of kids and adults alike, and that craze was 
 known as Pokemon. While not as popular as it once was, Pokemon is still going strong with great 
 games to keep us occupied and Pokemon Diamond is no different. Diamond keeps to the tried and tested 
 formula of previous Pokemon games but adds plenty more to keep the game fresh and entertaining. 
 You start your adventure like previous games. You are given an introduction by Professor Rowan 
 (Diamond and Pearls Pokemon Professor) and in it you are given a chance to choose your gender, 
 your name and your Rivals name. After that youre transported to Twinleaf Town and your adventure 
 begins! Soon after that youre taken to nearby Lake Verity by your Rival, there youll meet Professor 
 Rowan and his assistant Dawn wholl leave shortly after and leave a suitcase containing three Pokeballs. 
 As you go to check out the bag youll be ambushed by wild Pokemon and will have to choose one of 
 the three Pokemon that reside in the Pokeballs. After that you and your Rival try and become the 
 greatest Trainers in all of Sinnoh and try to fill your Pokedexes up. Pokemon Diamond features 
 one of the longest and most challenging stories yet seen in Pokemon game and gives Pokemon a refreshing 
 challenge from what its been lacking over the past few games.
  
  The game utilizes the DSs touch screen capabilities and utilizes them well. The top screen is 
 where the exploration and battling will happen but touch screen can be just as important. Pokemon 
 Diamond brings in a new item called the Poketch, similar to the Pokenav and Pokegear from the previous 
 games, but it relies completely on the touch screen. The Poketch has many different applications 
 such as; digital clock, pedometer, calculator and a screen displaying your Pokemons health. To 
 use the Poketch all you simply do is touch the bottom screen, which is taken up entirely by the 
 Poketch and scroll through which application you want. All of the applications are helpful and 
 even more applications can be found during your adventure to display a town map or even having 
 a game of coin toss.
  
  Like previous games, each new Pokemon game provides you with new Pokemon to catch and Diamond is 
 no different. Adding over one hundred new Pokemon to the list, making it just under four hundred 
 and fifty Pokemon to obtain however youll need to finish the game to be able to capture Pokemon 
 from Ruby, Sapphire, Fire Red or Leaf Green. Pokemon Diamond features a Migration system where 
 you can trade Pokemon from the Game Boy Advance games to Pokemon Diamond. This is a neat feature 
 but is let down by the fact that you cant trade Pokemon back to their original Game Boy cartridge.
 
  
  Exploration has always been a key part of previous Pokemon games and Diamond has improved on yet 
 another section of the series. Unlike previous games where you talk to people and theyll give 
 you hints, in Diamond when you talk to people theyre more likely to give you an item and thus 
 the game inspires you to go and talk to everyone you can. The world has also grown in size as now 
 there are more cities, caves and other places to visit; this is great as it gives plenty of places 
 for new Pokemon to hide and new trainers to face. Battling has been another key part in the franchise 
 and once again Diamond has improved it, mainly due to the DSs abilities. The main action of the 
 battle will happen on the top screen while the touch screen will give you a menu of options which 
 you simply have to touch to open up. On the menu you will have the option to choose a fighting 
 move, use an item, switch Pokemon or run away. When using an item youll be greeted by another 
 menu which has four more options to choose from, splitting the item list up into four different 
 sections makes it a lot easier to navigate and makes the presentation of the game better too. Making 
 these options accessible by Touch Screen use makes the game a lot easier to play and not to mention 
 a lot quicker.
  
  The battle animations look as good as ever. The new moves look amazing and really blow you away 
 when you see them in battle. Even the older moves have had a remade animation and it makes them 
 feel fresh and new. Lots of the character models from previous games have been taken and somewhat 
 half heartedly thrown in Diamond as youll see older Pokemon look exactly the same as they did 
 in the previous game.
  
  Through your travels youll encounter wild Pokemon and Pokemon Trainers. Wild Pokemon have the 
 ability to be caught and can be met in all sorts of places such as grass, caves and the ocean however 
 what game makes up in land it loses in how much water it has. This makes it harder to find water 
 Pokemon but a lot easier to find any other kind. Pokemon Trainers are the people who share the 
 same dream as you, to become the greatest trainer in all of Sinnoh. They are situated on every 
 route and will have a host of Pokemon for you to battle against. When beating Trainers youll receive 
 money to buy supplies at the nearby Poke mart but if you lose youll be escorted back to the Pokemon 
 centre to heal your Pokemon plus youll lose some of your money you had.
  
  Pokemon Diamond has the ability for you to Trade or Battle online using Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. 
 This is really a great feature as you can test your skills against various people online and get 
 that urgent Pokemon you require from a trade. To do this you have to go to a Pokemon centre and 
 talk to the nurses on the bottom floor. To battle you need another Trainers friend code, this 
 is bad as you cant battle anyone and youll need to organize the match somewhere else. During 
 battles, its the same as a normal one except the speed in which Pokemon do their moves is slower 
 but thats understandable. You can also trade online but unlike battling you can trade with anyone 
 even if you dont have their friend code which makes the whole thing a lot easier.
  
  In local multiplayer you can also commence battles and trade but there is also a new feature called 
 The Underground. In this space you can build secret bases and look for treasure. It is a series 
 of tunnels you can use something called the Explorer Kit to find treasure and purchase items for 
 your secret base. Once you have made your base you can play with your friend and you can check 
 out their base and they can see yours too.
  
  The sound quality in Pokemon Diamond is great. There are many catchy tunes in the towns and the 
 battle theme has been remade into a more modern techno type of mix however the game seems to have 
 used Pokemon cries from the previous games and this makes them sound slightly distorted on the 
 DS. Graphically speaking Pokemon Diamond is smooth. The textures are nice and all the new and old 
 Pokemon look great but seeing old character models doesnt look great and they feel like they have 
 been thrown in.
  
  Overall Pokemon Diamond is the debut proper Pokemon game for the DS and it does not disappoint. 
 It has new Pokemon, all of the old ones and an entirely new world to explore. It utilizes to DSs 
 touch screen very well and gives you the longest adventure ever seen in a Pokemon game. Not only 
 that but the Graphics and Sound are great to except for a few minor errors. Pokemon Diamond is 
 not a game to be missed and could possibly be one of the best Pokemon games created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Ever since the original Red and Blue games launched in Japan, Pokemon fever has gripped millions 
 of fans all over the world. Its incredibly addictive mix of collecting, training, and battling 
 has remained at the core of three generations of Pokemon games. Pokemon Diamond doesnt stray very 
 far from this formula, but why fix what isnt broken? It manages to retain everything thats great 
 about the previous games, and it takes advantage of the DS improved hardware abilities without 
 feeling tacked on.
  
  The adventure begins in the humble beginnings of Twinleaf Town, a small settlement in the Sinnoh 
 region. Shortly after entering the name and gender of your Pokemon trainer, youll acquire your 
 first Pokemon and be on your way. The bulk of the single player game takes you across Sinnoh to 
 complete the Pokemon gym circuit. There are eight gyms in the region that award badges to trainers 
 who can overcome the powerful gym leaders. Once youve collected all eight badges, youll have 
 your chance to become the Pokemon Champion and be named the greatest trainer in the land. As is 
 the case in most RPG storylines, it isnt quite that simple. A sinister organisation called Team 
 Galactic wants to harness the power of Pokemon for itself, and youll run into them more than a 
 few times as you walk the path to becoming a master trainer. Before you get carried away with becoming 
 a champion, youve got to start small. Youll need to catch and train some Pokemon before you can 
 expect to trounce the gym leaders. The concept of capturing a Pokemon is simple: lower the health 
 of a wild Pokemon as much as you can and throw a pokeball at it. With a bit of luck, youll capture 
 it. What then, you ask? Start training it. Battling with your creatures will make them stronger 
 and allow them to learn new attacks; some Pokemon will evolve and change forms with enough training.
 
  
  There is a lot of scope for customising your team and formulating strategies. Every Pokemon has 
 a type associated with it, and each type has specific strengths and weaknesses (e. g. electricity 
 is strong against water) . Keeping a broad range of types in your team is a good idea so you can 
 adapt to whatever Pokemon youre up against. There are so many levels to battling that I simply 
 cant convey within the confines of a review. That may sound intimidating to prospective players, 
 but its paced well and is never forced upon you. By the time youve completed the main quest, 
 youll have a good understanding of the battle system. Building the ultimate team after the main 
 quest is an adventure in itself and adds considerable value to an already huge game.
  
  The touch-screen has been used effectively to improve the players experience, whilst all the action 
 takes place on the top-screen. You can tap commands with the stylus to navigate through battle 
 menus, although you can use the d-pad and buttons if you prefer. Outside of combat, the touch-screen 
 functions as your watch, or poketch. It primarily serves as a clock (which is set to your DS 
 internal system clock) , but youll pick up many useful applications for it as your adventure progresses. 
 These include a pedometer, map, and item radar to detect hidden objects. Many of the applications 
 are very useful and easy to use. The touch-screen controls have been implemented perfectly here: 
 they work well and are there if you want them, but they arent forced upon you, nor do they feel 
 tacked on.
  
  There is no doubt that battling is the main part of the game, but as the Pokemon series has evolved, 
 it has provided the player with mini-games to break up the battling side of the game. Diamond has 
 plenty of fun distractions that you will appreciate just because it spices up the gameplay. You 
 can try your hand at gambling to win some great prizes for your Pokemon; you can breed Pokemon 
 to pass on attacks that a certain breed wouldnt be able to learn normally, and much more. The 
 most fleshed-out of these distractions is by far the Pokemon Contests. Your Pokemon competes against 
 others in various different events to determine who is the coolest, toughest, smartest, or most 
 beautiful. These events include a beauty contest, a performance event, and a dance contest. Each 
 of these quirky competitions are great fun, and its nice to have something light-hearted to fall 
 back on if battling is wearing you out.
  
  Diamond is Pokemons debut on the DS, and while it isnt as visually breath-taking as other games 
 on the system, it is a huge leap for the series. For the first time, there are 3D environments. 
 The game is still played from an isometric viewpoint; its just been tilted more to show off a 
 3D edge to buildings and the environment. 3D handheld games have been around for a while now, but 
 its nice to see it in a Pokemon game. Asides from this, everything is sharper-looking and more 
 colourful. Veterans of the GameBoy Advance Pokemon games (or earlier games) will really see the 
 difference. The audio quality has also seen a notable improvement, though it isnt as big as the 
 visuals. There is no voice acting present, but the cries and howls of your Pokemon benefit from 
 the improved DS sound system. The background music also benefits, although you wont find yourself 
 humming tunes after youre finished.
  
  The most exciting thing about Pokemon Diamond is its utilisation of the DS Wi-Fi hardware. For 
 the first time ever, you can trade with and battle people from all around the world. It is easier 
 than ever to find the Pokemon you want because the world is in your hands. The Global Trade Station 
 (GTS) allows you to search for the monster you want and see what people want in return. If you 
 dont have the means to get your DS online, you can trade and battle via local Wi-Fi with friends. 
 This wireless technology has also given birth to the Sinnoh Underground, a series of subterranean 
 tunnels where you can meet other players and compete in a capture-the-flag game. You dont need 
 to be online to access the underground though; you can dig for fossils and rare items in a neat 
 mini-game that implements the touch-screen.
  
  Pokemon Diamond doesnt take too many risks; in actual fact, its cut straight from the classic 
 Pokemon mold. However, youll find that this is the best version of the game by far. The core mechanics 
 have been refined to near-perfection and the audiovisual package is as good as its ever looked. 
 There is so much to see and do in Pokemon Diamond that newcomers and veterans alike will appreciate 
 discovering it all. Excellent gameplay, comprehensive online support, a solid audiovisual package, 
 and the potential for hundreds of hours of play makes Pokemon Diamond a game you can recommend 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reven101011
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Pokemon, what can I say? Each game brought something new to the genre, Blue and Red defined the 
 game, Gold and Silver brought colour into our lives, Ruby and Sapphire created dual battling; and 
 the final Game Boy Pokemon game, the remakes of Red and Blue. FireRed and LeafGreen, well that 
 reminded us where this legend began. The newest instalment in the series, Diamond and Pearl exploded 
 onto dual screens with vibrant colours and a sexy 3D curve that will forever change our outlook 
 on Pokemon. On that note however not everything has been improved, someone really needs to buy 
 Shigeru Miyamoto an iPod, because, well he just hasnt got a clue when it comes to music. Well 
 its not that bad as these things go but the screeches or crys of the Pokemon still sound like 
 the original Game Boy games, no effort it seems has gone into improving them. Dont get me wrong 
 I love the games, detest the cartoon, but love the games. A fantastic opportunity has been created 
 and should not be missed, add in the new Wi-Fi trading and battling and you get the most intricate 
 Pokemon game to date, not to mention the coolest looking legendaries yet (Dialga, Cresselia and 
 Palkia) . It is a definite must buy for all pokemon fans out there, it is also a good game to begin 
 learning on, easy controls, and for a first timer it would take a maximum of 15 minutes to get 
 to grips with it. Definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan-15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I Really enjoyed it, I could sit around and play it for hours. You can play it online thats a first 
 for a pokemon game, and I hope thats not the only, all they need to do is perfect the pal pad, 
 and thats it. You are done, perfect gam, really really great. They better make more or I am gonna 
 get mad. Good job Game Freak you did good. They couldn't have done much to improve Diamond. I love 
 going underground, that was truly innovative. I bet Pearl was just as good, I am going to buy that 
 next. I have played pokemon games since the days of Blue version and haven't stopped. I don't plan 
 to stop any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowKid96
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game.... was awesome. The graphics were wonderful. What I thought was very cool was the use 
 of Wi-Fi, the GTS is a wonderful creation. Ive Traded with 4 people from japan and 3 from USA. 
 It makes the world much smaller, i also liked the Wi-Fi clubs. The voice chat is just so cool. 
 Ive really liked all of the pokemon games so far. But this game was probably the best. The new 
 ledgendaries are wicked cool looking and prety awesome in battle. I LOVE this game. I cant wait 
 for the next one! Keep up the great work. In your next game, please include wi-fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  If you have a ds and you havent got this game you should get off your backside and get it ever 
 since i bought this game i have just never been able to go a day without playing it. it is highly 
 addcitive, the storyline can take and easy 40 hours before going to the elite 4. as most of you 
 already know there is over 100 new pokemon to choose from. Lots of new evolutions and a new reiogn
 
  
  graphics: the graphics have been very improved since firered and leafgreen the buildings are much 
 more 3d than usual. the battles have new animations for the pokemon and moves
  
  gameplay: As i have already said the gameplay for the storyline can take up over 40 hours unless 
 you have no intentions of trainig all your pokemon apart from one which is stupid.
  
  sound: the sound is good and the same as usual you get souns for the moves pokemon when coming out 
 and fainting and you can see there cries in your pokedex
  
  value: Well the replay value is good you could play thsi again and again but it would become more 
 obvious. but after you defeat the elite four you can go to snowpoint city and take a boat to the 
 fight zone it is on an island in the northwest of your map. So tht also lots of fun hours as well
 
  
  well this game also has wifi making it fun get your friends fc's and you can battle it out only 
 or trade. also there is wifi in the battle tower letting you face the best from all over the world. crikey 
 lots to do
  
  with all these things to do i think thsi game gets a 9.5 for exclellent gameplay and graphics and 
 is a must have for ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Several things come to mind when you think of Pokemon, especially in the UK. First, Red and Blue. 
 Everyone played it, almost everyone loved it. It had kids at schools trading, interacting with 
 each other, and girls screamed when they first saw Pikachu. Then the anime came. it was alright, 
 might be a lot of peoples first anime. Then the TCG came, people traded cards, battled, stole of 
 other kids, (I confess to one act of that, but the kid was notorious for stealing cards of others, 
 it was justice!) etc. By this time, most kids outgrew it, and suddenly thought, God, why did I 
 spend money on this?! 
  
  Gold and Silver came out soon after, while some still loved it, it wasn't as much of a hit as Red/Blue 
 was, but it was an epic RPG, with another land after Johto to play in. Such a great innovation. 
 Years after that, Ruby/Sapphire came out on the GBA, and again, things got better, but also it 
 wasn't as epic as Gold/Silver. It introduced new things, that only added to the series. Now we 
 have Diamond/Pearl, which on top of a new visual style, adds even more things to the game.
  
  You start out simple enough. You and your rival find a suitcase and are almost instantly attacked 
 by Starlys. After the battle, Prof Rowan gives you the creature you used. You have two rivals, 
 one who uses the one your weak against (and you'll be battling) , and one who uses the one your 
 strong against (who you'll occasionally fight alongside with.) . There is a sub-plot thats pretty 
 good, involving Team Galactic, who intend on re-awakening an Ancient Pokemon, using the three hidden 
 ones from the three lakes. The main story lasts over 15 hours, depending on playing style.
  
  The most obvious update is the 114 new creatures (+3 for Events) , which vary from new creatures, 
 to baby's or evolutions of the other 386. You can't see all of the new ones straight away, since 
 the Sinnoh Pokedex contains 151 that you can see before the games first run-through ends. They 
 look mostly great, and some of them even look slightly less cute to what the least cutest looks 
 like. Another update is the variety of Evolution types. You still have level up evolutions, stone 
 evolutions (three new ones) , item held evolutions (again, some new ones) , Happiness Evolutions, 
 and trade evolutions. There are also location specific evolutions, which are essential for Eevee's 
 new forms, and evolved forms of previous editions of Pokemon creatures. The creatures also move 
 in the beginning of the battle, much like the Crystal and Emerald versions did.
  
  So how does it play? Well the visuals in towns/fields/caves, etc are easy to navigate, and the 
 grasses are clear still. The game always sounds great. Trainers will still battle you if they see 
 you, and you'll still catch creatures using balls. There are differences though. Firstly, attacks 
 have always been Special Attack or Attack based (using the stats from your creature with the move) , 
 but they've previously been sorted by type. In this version, moves are Attack, Special or Other 
 varieties, and type doesn't matter. Icons on the moves display what type they are, so you shouldn't 
 have much trouble. Natures and IVs, which were introduced in the last game, are still important 
 to development. There are no new types, which is a shame, since they introduced Shadow types in 
 the Gamecube game.
  
  Since its on the DS, the game needs touch features. While battles can be controlled by touch screen, 
 Item menus require switching from touch screen to buttons, which is more than a little frustrating. 
 The game also has one or two mini-games, such as the Underground (where you can find hidden items, 
 and interact with players) , and the Poffin game, where you make bread by stirring a pot with your 
 stylus. For the latter, berries are used, which makes its third appearance in these games. One 
 decent use of the stylus is the Pokedex, which has a search function and scroll function on the 
 touch pad. You can interact and find out anything you want. The DS' ability to connect to the internet 
 is also exploited here, as you have the Wi-fi Club in every Pokemon Centre, and the Global Trade 
 System in Jubilife City. The main functions are good and all, but in the interest of protecting 
 children, there are some restrictions, good and bad. The game utilises a Pal Pad and Friend Code 
 system, which means nobody can contact everyone unless they use other means. This includes battles, 
 etc. This also means that unless you have the means to communicate with anyone and everyone, Wi-Fi 
 club is pretty much useless. The GTS is also flawwed too, in that you can't get what you haven't 
 seen, and 99% of people are looking for, and I quote. A Lvl9 or under Mew . While its great that 
 you can interact with anyone around the globe, you have to be patient when trying to find what 
 you want.
  
  That said, when you complete the game, you can play through more, collect more creatures, access 
 daily functions such as the Pokemon Mansion and Swarming creatures. The battle tower is also around, 
 and you can obtain over 400 creatures with one version alone. There are some you can and can't 
 get depending on versions, but thats to be expected.
  
  The game is far from perfect. Some added touch screen features could have been nice and less restrictions 
 on what you can obtain and what you can't. What the game does right is that it is incredibly addictive, 
 the ability to trade online is a fantastic addition, and the game is solid and has a decent sub-plot. 
 With the Mystery Gift function, soon you can get events via the web, which is a huge benefit to 
 those who can't get them normally, and with the Wii Stadium game coming out soon, its time to train 
 your team and make the most of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowlord
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  The game interface is the same, you are a trainer, you choose an starter pokemon, a water, fire 
 or grass type, and start an adventure capturing other pokemons, training it, and win contests and 
 gyms to become a pokemon master. The essence is the same.
  The use of the stylus isn't very amazing, for example, in battles, you can use the stylus to choose 
 you're move, or it can be used in a kind of minigames.
  Now they're a lot of pokemons, they added more than 100 pokemons to the game. So, nice try to catch 
 em' all, will you?
  This game is amazing, in never ends, they're things to do after you pass the elite four, a lot 
 of pokemons for train, contests to win...
  but, the only thing that don't like me, is the use of the FRIEND CODES for wi-fi play, yeah i know 
 that isn't very friendly and makes you get anger if you don't have or know people who what the 
 game, and then, they give you their codes. But, at the end, that doesn't matter. You can obtain 
 friend codes, in pokemons forums, and places like that. so the wi-fi play can be enjoy itt by you 
 after all.
  
  So... have fun! catching em' all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: use_da_schwartz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Pokemon game I'm reviewing. It's weird cause I have the first 6 on Gameboy and 
 Gameboy Color. Not that it matters.
  
  One of the things that I've always disliked about Pokemon is how slow everything seems to move. 
 However, I do like the storyline, more than any of the other games that I've played. Of course, 
 you've got the whole get eight badges, enter the Pokemon League, beat the crap outta the Elite 
 Four, get into the Hall of Fame, and you're done. This game has another story involving the evil 
 Team Galactic, who is a carbon copy of Team Rocket except crazier and just more epic if you ask 
 me. Another thing that kinda bugs me is that instead of an arch rival, you've got a hyper-active 
 friend who challenges you every so often, like Gary, except this guy is believed to be doing crack. 
 Still, with hard to solve puzzles, and many tough battles, this game has many great moments.
  
  By God are the graphics great. Someone said that events involving the legendary Pokemon were 
 some of the coolest looking in any Pokemon game, and I have to say that I agree. Nothing in any 
 Pokemon game has ever been as epic.
  
  Music is also very well done. Final boss music is probably my favorite. Many other boss battles 
 have great music as well.
  
  This game has some replay value. Probably one who beat the game once will want to beat it again 
 knowing where he or she has to go and what to do. That'll Probably be the extent of it.
  
  I have to say that I hate the people who made me quit this after the Crystal version. I regret 
 it and I'm glad that I'm back into it. However, another qualm of mine is that there are TOO MANY 
 POKEMON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyztraonfire
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  i started out full of excitement and anticipation, and my expectations have been matched and exceded. 
 Personally i think Diamond and pearl are the best games in the PKMN series, and are well worth 
 the 24.99 i paid for it. I only own Diamond but Pearl would have been the same, but i prefer Diamond 
 because it has Cranidos and Murkcrow, i only like Cranidos because of its evolution.
  
  Graphics: Great made the new pokemon look outstounding.
  
  Gameplay: Extremely fun and challenging, 
 also excitement round every corner!
  
  Sound: N/A
  
  Value: N/A (Depends how much you paid)
  
  reviewers Tilt: extremely fun and astounding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman13579
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is the new intallsment of the Pokemon Franchise. The game is based on 
 You completing the Sinnoh pokedex by seeing them. Over 100 new Pokemon. Plus Team galactic the 
 new team rocket of the Sinnoh region. So we'll talk about the Gameplay. It's bassically the same 
 as it was in the previous games. Battle as soon as you see a trainer. Wild pokemon appear in tall 
 grass and caves and you're trying to become the champion trainer of Sinnoh. Basic but very very 
 fun! The moves have been updated and look quite cool but some make no sense at all like fly I didnt 
 know birds went up in balls! But the gameplay has remained the same but still great. Next the graphics 
 have improved to 3-d which looks really good. The battles look more alive now with the colours 
 in the background. The sound. Well not very much difference except from new music witch is much 
 better than previous games. The pokemon sounds seem all the same from every single game in the 
 pokemon series.
  The value is worth it. I preorded mine and got it for 25 quid. Great value for the game.
  My 
 overall review is that this is an excellent game even newcomers will be able to like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mega_gamer101
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I ve been playing pokemon since it came out, and this is a dissgrace to pokemon games and i never 
 thought i would do this but give it a bad score (Come on its pokemon!)
  Good: Everything about other games
  Bad: No new fetures, bad graphics, Wifi crap.
  i serosely 
 think they rushed through this game. They made it and let people wait for it,. This game is full 
 of Bullcrap, New fetures Contest, Battle System and Pokemon *Not* the pokemon a rip off to others 
 Pachrisu: Pikachu ChimChar: TorCHICK + CHARmander Turtwig: Cickorita + Squirtel the little bird family 
 squaly i think Havent play the game since the week it came out. Pidgey family and many more .The 
 best part of the whole preorder was the case and bookmark, Witch is all worn out and used in about 
 a 100$ bucks of books, so that makes up for it so it wasent a complete waist of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokeCinder92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  *Insert a smart comment here pl0x*
  
  If you are going on a long trip this game will last you for there and back with no stopping. There 
 is so much to do with breeding battling on wi-fi. Or just following the storyline (which has to 
 be one of the best ones yet) . Trying to collect all the pokemon is also nice. The Poketch is a 
 nice feature with tons of uses ( my favorite being the daycare application) . Getting the National 
 Dex is fun and just right when it comes to gameplay. Trying to fill it will be close to impossible 
 which will waste more of that time in the car or possibly a plane =] . The lengendaries in this 
 game (Dialga and Palkia depending on Pearl or Diamond) have awesome ly destructivemoves. Though 
 the other three pixie pokemon seem dumb ... but i still wasted my time captureing them. Not really 
 worth catching but i still caught them. Being able to transfer your pokemon to battle revolution 
 for the Wii is cool too (i have like 5 battle cards. Over all worth your money, and your soul being 
 poured into it like the devil itself. o_O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purarnick
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are going on a long trip this game will last you for there and back with no stopping. There 
 is so much to do with breeding battling on wi-fi. Or just following the storyline. Trying to collect 
 all the pokemon is also nice. The Poketch is a nice feature with tons of uses. Getting the National 
 Dex is fun. Trying to fill it will be close to impossible which will waste more of that time in 
 the car. The lengendaries in this game (Dialga and Palkia depending on Pearl or Diamond) have awesome 
 moves. Though the other three pixie pokemon seem dumb. Not really worth catching but i still caught 
 them. Bein able to transfer your pokemon to battle revolution for the Wii is cool too. Over all 
 worth your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadster101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I've never been that much of an RPG guy. The only RPG's I've really enjoyed have been 
 the ones made by Nintendo and a few Square games ( like Kingdom Hearts ) . The Pokemon games have 
 always been great. Well, MOST of them... but this one is easily the best. Gameplay: Pokemon D/P 
 shares the same type of gameplay experience as the previous titles. You go around catching Pokemon, 
 raising Pokemon, and battling. Surprisingly, all of that is VERY addicting. I can't stress the 
 would VERY enough. Hell, most of you probably already know what Pokemon is all about. The biggest 
 addition to the game is the new Pokemon and new moves. This makes battling deeper, and more strategic. 
 Some of the new Pokemon look like ****, but most are great. Battling in this game is great! Instead 
 of cycling around your moves with your tired thumb, you can simply tap the move you would like 
 to use. This makes things quicker and easier. However, battles in this game are longer than previous 
 games. Everything just moves slower. I'm fine with the slower pace, because it makes things more 
 realistic. Most of the time people play Pokemon if they have time on their hands, so don't worry. 
 You can save at almost any time ( a staple to the serious ) , but you can save during a battle. 
 New to Diamond and Pearl is the Poketch. Its a device you control using the touch screen. The Pokecth 
 acts as a watch, a timer, an egg counter, and TONS of other stuff. If you ask me, the best part 
 of D/P is online. You can hook up with Nintendo Wi-fi connection and battle trainers online. A 
 Pokefans dream...
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are good. They are very similar to the previous games in the 
 graphics category, but are different because they try to incorporate 3D. By 3D I don't mean full 
 3D, I mean slight 3D. It causes the game to look more up-to-date and again, realistic. There's 
 not much I can explain...
  
  Sound: Compared to the other Pokemon games, I was disappointed in the sound, but that doesn't stop 
 the music in this game from being masterful. Some of the tunes are just superb, others are completely 
 forgettable. The part I was disappointed in is that there is no advancement in the Pokemon cries. 
 8-bit is not acceptable...
  
  Reply: Do I even have to explain? The replay value in this game is ENDLESS. Raising your Pokemon 
 too high level is fun, but thats nothing compared to mastering EV'S and IV'S. If you want to know 
 what those are, I suggest you get th game first! There is so much to do. Catch all of the legendary 
 Pokemon, evolve Kanto Pokemon into they're new evolutions, grow berries, explore... the list goes 
 on.
  
  Buy, Rent, or Leave: If you own a DS, this game is a MUST! I've always hated renting RPG's, because 
 then when I have to take the game back, all of my data will eventually be erased by a 6 year old. 
 Some people will pass this masterpiece up, because they think Pokemon is kiddy. Its not. I bet 
 you money a 6 year old doesn't know what to do. It may seem kiddy because of that awful Anime series, 
 but its far from that. Pokemon is a REAL man game!
  
  Conclusion: Not only is this one of the best DS games, but its probably the best Pokemon game. 
 I can't urge you enough to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  When they say, Gotta Catch 'Em All, they mean it. This is the first time I've ever played a Pokemon 
 game and now I'm addicted. I'm going to have to go out now and get the other Pokemon games so that 
 I can get all the Pokemon out there. Very fun, but the only thing I have to complain about is the 
 story. There's not much there. I think that they could add more story and it would be perfect. 
 Granted it's not for everyone, but I think that everyone should give it a try. Mostly to say that 
 they've tried it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Pokemon finally made its way up to the nintendo ds! With all new features like wifi, underground, 
 new world, and many other new things make this a very successful game! Other than the new stuff 
 that kept the game mostly the same such as raise your pokemon, beat gyms, defeat team galactic, 
 and beat the elite four. Another thing they added was pal park which lets u upload al of your pokemon 
 from emerald, ruby, sapphire, leaf green, and fire red. Very fun game for the nintendo ds. It is 
 one of the most fun and have to have games for the nintendo ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brucinater
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I have played the pokemon series most of my life, and this game really brings out pokemon's greatness, 
 and is further enhanced by wifi, If you have a DS, and you don't have this game, then you are missing 
 out on nintendo's best.
  If you spent a long time on one of the gba games, then you can just import your favorite pokemon 
 into the game, with nothing changed. Your objective is the same as always: Beat the elite four, 
 finish the pokedex, but now theres something else to do afterwards, with wifi you can participate 
 in tournaments and trade
  
  Basically, this game is a must-have for ds owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan001
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game delivers an awesome value of pokemon and characters. This game is definitely what every 
 pokemon fan should be looking for! Pokemon diamond is yet the best in its series from pokemon sapphire, 
 to pokemon pearl version!! I highly reccomend this version of pokemon to anyone looking for another 
 awesome gaming experience from the pokemon series for the DS. I think that this game gives out 
 so much to play that it deserves a way better score than what it got by many people and gamespot. 
 If you have a DS and you are looking for a game I highly reccomend to choosing this game as it 
 has awesome gameplay and an easy ( 0-15 ) learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  The pokemon games have come along from the colorless pokemon to color to emotional pokemon, to 
 now diamond although the same action sequence as before the game feels different almost as if a 
 new story has began the graphics are great the combination of 2d and 3d graphics, also the introduction 
 of the poketech is a great addition to the series. The game in my opinion could not have been better 
 the wide range of pokemon make the game worth while the whole ability to use pokemon from other 
 pokemon games is great . The hours spent on the game are well rewarding, if you want a game that'll 
 keep you entertained and leave at best without the feeling of boredom this is the game to get. 
 The story is at best the same the whole fill the pokedex son and be the best pokemon master Also 
 a finaly great thing is that the whole team rocket family is no longer in the loom, but a new group 
 Team Galactic who seem to want a new world, sort of like the terrorist of today but with crazier 
 ideas. The game is great worth buying I wont say that it met all my expectations, now all that 
 needs to be done is create a pokemon game that combines all the journey from pallet town to the 
 johto league to hoenn region to the now sinnoh region. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  It has been two or three years since the last time I had picked up a Pokemon game for one of my 
 hand helds. I remember the classic games and the hours of fun they brought me when I was younger. 
 My first thought when playing this game was just wow. Nintendo has kicked out another great Pokemon 
 game that everyone will love. In this review I will be covering most of them. Starting up the game 
 was just like the old days. Listening to some professor talk about the Pokemon world and how it 
 was changing. In was something that I didn't really enjoy reading for the fourth time. Since it 
 was almost the same and really didn't have much to tell me I just went ahead and skipped the text 
 and went right into the game. The game felt and acted just like the older games of my childhood 
 that I loved. Going through the level and trying to figure out how to get my Pokemon was one of 
 my favorite parts. Just thinking of all the fun to have around this world which just so happen 
 to be not as small as some of the other games. The first thing that caught my attention really 
 was that the new breeds of Pokemon really weren't that special of course you have to expect so 
 with four-hundred plus Pokemon and alot of them being in this game. The second thing that really 
 grasped my attention was the fact that the touch screen was used mostly in battle and I though 
 that improved the game alot since not having everything bunched on the one screen like in older 
 generations. My favorite part had to be though the verity of moves and Pokemon meaning that you 
 could customize the Pokemon in nearly anyway. A new feature that was interesting to me was the 
 underground part of the game. Allowing you to contact with other players over Wi-Fi. Also the underground 
 part had a small part in the game allowing you to teach your Pokemon moves that the player had 
 already delete for other moves or teacing it moves that it didn't get a chance to learn through 
 collecting Heart Scales and taking them to the Move Tutor. The A. I. in this game did lack. The 
 fact that i knew they would be able to KO my Pokemon because of the move they used before yet using 
 a move that did no effect the next turn made me wonder some. One more thing that was able to make 
 me surprised was that the contests in the game became more challenging to the player and it went 
 more in depth like on the show but the dancing part wasn't to my liking. The one thing that I didn't 
 like about this game though was it seemed the touch screen could have been used much much more. 
 Because of the gameplay alone this has become one of my favorite and most addicted to games. I 
 loved the looks in the old game. The nice 2d environments that seemed to work so well on the GBA 
 and past systems was replaced this go around with a better mix of 3d and 2d graphics which worked 
 very nice together making this game good to look at as well play. Each of the Pokemon looked well 
 made and seemed to look decent in battle as well. Something new this time was the fact that female 
 and male Pokemon looked different in most breeds. For a game on the DS these have to be some of 
 the best graphics that I have seen on a hand held for a while. Still with some of the Pokemon though 
 it seems that the creators didn't spend as much time as they could on making the Pokemon look better 
 in design. In the Pokemon games one of my favorite things in each game has been the music outside 
 and inside battle. The sound in this game makes everything seem more dramatic. From the calm music 
 in some areas to the greater and more fitting music in gym leader battles and against the legendary 
 Pokemon. Each Pokemon also has a cry that they let out. Some of these sound very weird and like 
 real animals but some sound like the Pokemon could have been right next to you making you think 
 that it is the sound of a real Pokemon. Personally this is the best sound I've heard in the all 
 of the Pokemon generations. Honestly this is one of the best games on the DS to date and all owners 
 of one should get this game at sometime or another. Even none Pokemon fans will like this game 
 enough to but a lot of hours on the game. Some times the game isn't as good as other parts but 
 it is something you have to get used to. It is really easy to get into and get addicted to this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edmen_Tam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, no doubt about it. it is certainly a refreshing mix to the original genre. 
 Cel shaded like enviroments, really cheerful and beautifully coloured enviroments, cool mix of 
 2D and 3D enviroments, and most of all, a really addictive and fun role playing experience. First 
 of all, presentation, really good enviroments. Gets u into it right away. Graphics, its good, not 
 the best. Cool mix of 3d and 2d enviroments give the game a fresh new feeling. Tough its good, 
 i wish during battles, the pokemon are all in full 3d. I WISH THE WHOLE GAME WAS IN 3d!!! nevertheless, 
 the graphics is still good. sound, excellent. the original pokemon like soundtrack, really cheerful, 
 and sometimes dark!! excellent. but still, noticed a few recycled sound from previous pokemon titles. 
 but very few were found. gameplay, same old addictive gameplay we all pokefans know and love. tremendously 
 fun gameplay. pokemon watch/poketch wasnt a bad idea too. best thing about the poketch? having 
 a map on the bottom screen. made everything a whole lot easier. lasting appeal. INGENIOUS. the 
 guys at nintendo/game freak really put in a ton of stuff to do. it doesnt end there, you might 
 still want to level up your pokemon and CATCH EM ALL!!! overall, a 9.6 for me. good job nintendo!! 
 excellent stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenshow222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Pokemon game ever made. Its certainly a game worth having.
  
  Pros
  - The Wi-Fi connection makes it a lot easier to get the Pokemon you want and battle with your friends
 
  - Friend Codes make Wi-Fi safer because they keep everyone away from hackers or cheaters and close 
 to friends
  - The game looks much clearer and some non 2D graphics have been added
  - The sound is truly astonishing, I haven't seen sound this catchy or additive in almost every 
 other game I've played.
  - This game will last a VERY long time before it gets dull, boring or unenjoyable
  - Adds many 
 new features like the Poketch, Super Contests, Touch Screen Interface, and much more.
  - Amazing new Pokemon
  Cons
  - The Pokemon cries could be a bit clearer
  - This may not apply 
 to everyone but if a Pokemon is traded from a Japanese game to an English game the Japanese characters 
 in its name will not go away unless the Pokemon evolves, and even if it does evolve the characters 
 will only be English characters if the Pokemon was not given a nickname. This is a real pain on 
 Wi-Fi if your trading Pokemon with someone who has the Japanese version of the game, especially 
 on the GTS where many Pokemon have japanese names. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamChris04
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Much to the delight of Pok&eacute; maniacs the world over, Nintendo and Game Freak have finally 
 brought a proper Pok&eacute; mon game to the Nintendo DS with Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl, 
 and it delivers much of what a fan would desirea richer, more detailed presentation, the ability 
 to battle and trade Pok&eacute; mon over the Internet, and of course, more than 100 brand-new Pok&eacute; mon 
 to collect. Like any of the core Pok&eacute; mon games released since the original Red and Blue 
 hit in 1999, Diamond and Pearl offer some nice upgrades, but if you didn't like Pok&eacute; mon 
 then, you probably won't care for it now. That said, it's a little surprising how well the formula 
 holds up in Diamond and Pearl, which is a testament to the strong fundamentals of the series as 
 well as the quality of the execution.
  
  The core Pok&eacute; mon games have never looked better.
  
  Sticking to the script, Diamond 
 and Pearl start out the same as any other Pok&eacute; mon game, and though the specifics are different, 
 the story plays out in a familiar fashion. Playing as either a young boy or girl living in the 
 out-of-the-way hamlet of Twinleaf Town in the Sinnoh region, you and your highly competitive best 
 friend are sent into the world by Professor Rowan to collect as much data on the Pok&eacute; mon 
 that inhabit the region as is possible, which you do by capturing and fighting. During your travels, 
 you will battle plenty of wild Pok&eacute; mon and other Pok&eacute; mon trainers like yourself, 
 as well as face off with the leaders of eight different Pok&eacute; mon gyms spread across Sinnoh. 
 And, in the tradition of the nefarious Team Rocket, Diamond and Pearl introduce the shadowy and 
 oddly self-righteous Team Galactic, a new Pok&eacute; mon-obsessed organization for you to square 
 off with. The plot doesn't tread much new ground for the series, and it generally keeps things 
 real light and breezy. They won't dazzle you with the complexity or originality of their storytelling, 
 but Diamond and Pearl are still packed with lots of sharp writing. There are hundreds of people 
 for you to meet, and though they don't always offer lengthy conversations, they all have something 
 to say.
  
  The story is ultimately in the service of the gameplay, which fans and newcomers should be able 
 to leap right into without much fuss. You start off with a single Pok&eacute; mon companion by your 
 side, which serves as your proxy in battleyou might be calling the shots in a fight, but it's 
 your Pok&eacute; mon that do all the heavy lifting. As you wander through forests, fields of tall 
 grass, underground caves, and a myriad of other locations, you'll regularly be attacked by wild 
 Pok&eacute; mon, which, if you're able to wear down their health without defeating them entirely, 
 can be captured in a Pok&eacute; ball, effectively taming them and turning them into companions. 
 You can have up to six Pok&eacute; mon with you at once, and each of your Pok&eacute; mon can learn 
 up to four different abilities. These abilities can come naturally as they earn experience in battle, 
 or you can teach them new tricks using technical machines and hidden machines, which can be earned 
 in a number of different ways. As they grow stronger, many Pok&eacute; mon can also evolve, effectively 
 turning them into an entirely new and more powerful Pok&eacute; mon.
  
  The combat is turn based, and it's mostly about the rock-paper-scissors nature of the different 
 types of Pok&eacute; mon. The only difference between Diamond and Pearl is the Pok&eacute; mon contained 
 within each game. With the addition of 107 brand-new Pok&eacute; mon, Diamond and Pearl raise the 
 grand total of Pok&eacute; mon to capture to well over 480. Every single one of them can be categorized 
 by type. Some of these types are defined by elements, such as water-type Pok&eacute; mon and fire-type 
 Pok&eacute; mon, while others are determined by more specific, functional differences, such as fight-type 
 Pok&eacute; mon and poison-type Pok&eacute; mon. Each type of Pok&eacute; mon is inherently weak to 
 the attacks of another, so the key to combat is having a well-balanced team of Pok&eacute; mon with 
 you that will be able to handle whatever types of Pok&eacute; mon get thrown at you. It's a simple 
 enough concept to grasp, but there are enough different types of Pok&eacute; mon out there that 
 you'll find yourself constantly tweaking your roster of active Pok&eacute; mon and laboring over 
 which abilities you should be giving to which of your Pok&eacute; mon. The fact that you're constantly 
 running in to, and thus capturing, new Pok&eacute; mon makes the process that much more involved. 
 And that's just the basics. Aside from wandering around the Sinnoh region and getting into countless 
 Pok&eacute; mon battles, you'll fish, harvest and plant berries, cook up special treats for your 
 Pok&eacute; mon, enter your Pok&eacute; mon in a pageant, set up a secret hideout, and more. These 
 games are long, with the main stories clocking in at well over 40 hours, and those intent on hunting 
 down the rarer Pok&eacute; mon will spend far more than that.
  
  The bulk of the activities in Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl aren't new to the series, so what 
 separates these two from the Pok&eacute; mon games that appeared on the Game Boy Advance? For starters, 
 the presentation has been improved to take advantage of the superior DS hardware. Though the game 
 is mostly still presented in 2D, there's improved detail to the 2D and you'll notice lots of nice 
 polygonal touches. For example, buildings and windmills are rendered in 3D, and it's enough to 
 give the 2D world a little depth. The game also has a bright, highly saturated color palette that 
 makes it a pleasure to look at. When in battle, the Pok&eacute; mon are still static 2D spritesmuch 
 of which appears to have been recycled from the Pok&eacute; mon games on the GBAbut in general, 
 the 2D art still looks sharp. The dynamic battle transitions look great, as do the numerous attack 
 effects. Diamond and Pearl also feature some catchy music, and there's a whole lot of it, with 
 a special theme for virtually every location or activity. As clean and upbeat as the music is, 
 though, some of the sound effects from the Pok&eacute; mon themselves sound screechy and lo-fi. 
 It's out of place, considering how great the rest of the game looks and sounds.
  
  There's also a little touch-screen support in Diamond and Pearl, letting you use the stylus to 
 select menus during battle and play a few simple, rather forgettable minigames that crop up. During 
 most of your travels, the lower screen on the DS is occupied by your Pok&eacute; mon watch (Pok&eacute; tch 
 for short) . In addition to telling the time, you can install a number of applications, some more 
 useful than others, on your Pok&eacute; tch. There's a calculator, a pedometer, a status screen 
 for your Pok&eacute; mon, a metal detector of sorts, and more.
  
  Online play means it's that much easier to find others to battle and trade with.
  
  What's 
 probably the most significant new feature in Diamond and Pearl is online play, which lets you battle, 
 trade, and chat with other players over the Internet. The trading system is surprisingly robust, 
 letting you put any of your Pok&eacute; mon up for trade on a global market, while specifying which 
 Pok&eacute; mon you'll trade it for. Once you define the terms of the trade, the Pok&eacute; mon 
 is transferred to a server, and you can set it and forget it. Your DS doesn't even need to be turned 
 on for someone to agree to your terms and complete the transaction. The online battle options aren't 
 as immediately accessible. Early on, you'll need the game-specific friend code for anyone that 
 you want to battle online, and it will take dozens of hours of single-player action before you'll 
 be able to battle with random strangers. The game also supports voice chat using the newly released 
 DS headset, but you can only use it with other players whose friend codes you've already registered. 
 Of course, you can also still battle and trade with other people through a local Wi-Fi connection. 
 Diamond and Pearl also promise connectivity to the upcoming Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution for 
 the Nintendo Wii, purportedly letting you use your DS as a controller and take the Pok&eacute; mon 
 you've collected on the DS into battle on your TV.
  
  Between the 100-plus new Pok&eacute; mon, the improved presentation, and the online play, this is 
 a must-have game for established fans. The new features also make this the most well-rounded Pok&eacute; mon 
 game to date, and if you've never dabbled in the world of Pok&eacute; mon before, there's no better 
 game to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakin-tendo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  like i said in my quick word of the game it has lived up to the all the hype and perhaps, gone 
 past my expectations for a pokemon game. at first glance it may seem that this game is yet another 
 long sequel. but upon further inspection youll find its considerably bettler looking better feeling 
 and the online features are one of the main selling points. after all this is the first game for 
 a nintendo console that actually had internet available. Definatly not like the gamecube did. i 
 guess what im really getting at is that of three things which are great and two things that ar'nt 
 so great.
  GOOD
  1= the trading is much faster than previous titles and the fact that its wifi and wireless fells 
 better than ever.
  2= battling is fantastic now that you can import your pokemon from other games.
  3= you can import 
 your pokemon from other games. nuff' said.
  BAD
  1= the box faction is still a bit confusing and yet to be perfected.
  2= some extremely hard 
 pokemon to find would be nice. i mean, with online now, its even easier to get every single pokemon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antiman90
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  It seems like we get about 2 doses of Pokemon for each generation of a Nintendo portable, and round 
 1 is here. Pokemon fans will appreciate this game for what it is - it has new Pokemon, a new story, 
 and a new region to explore. Everyone else will look at this game with the same scepticism they 
 always have about Pokemon. The bottom line is that Pokemon Diamond and Pearl do nothing to expand 
 the series in any way. That said, it's still a fun game.
  
  The game starts out with you meeting your rival at a lake that was rumored to have a rare Pokemon 
 in it, and you see a briefcase lying around in the grass. Your rival gets the brilliant idea to 
 go into the tall grass and try to get it. He obviously never played any other Pokemon games because 
 you get ambushed immediately. Predictably to those who played Ruby or Sapphire, the suitcase contains 
 the three starting Pokemon, and whichever one you choose is the one that you will end up using 
 for the rest of the game.
  
  If there is a difference between this new game and the older ones, its that Diamond and Pearl are 
 much bigger. It will take you close to if not more than 40 hours to beat the game, and the post-game 
 activities might keep you interested for another five hours. The game has more towns than ever 
 before, but there are still only 8 gyms. Also, the game has more trainers in it then ever before. 
 Also, call me crazy, but leveling up your Pokemon seems much harder in this game.
  
  The story in the game is the same twist of Red &amp; Blue we've come to expect. Team Galactic is 
 looking to awake a sleeping dragon and it's up to you to stop them. Like I've said before, this 
 is a long game and it will take you a good 40 hours or so to complete the story and beat the Elite 
 Four. Once you've done that and seen all 150 Pokemon in the region, you get the National Dex, which 
 is essentially your ticket to the post-game areas. It's three zones on an island that allow you 
 to train your Pokemon more, and there are some extra quests you can go on. The problem is that 
 you really don't have any motivation to do any of this because you've already beaten the game.
 
  
  The game is a Polygonal 2D game, if such a thing makes any sense. You can see that the buildings 
 have a 3D look to them, but the game is still essentially 2D. The battles, save for some new move 
 animations, don't look any different. In several cases, the sounds have been recycled, although 
 the soundtrack is new. The A/V presentation is good, but nothing special.
  
  The game suffers from nostalgia. The game has nothing new to offer to fans of the series, or potential 
 new ones. The game is ultimately what everyone expected it to be: a Pokemon game. Weather or not 
 you want to spend $35 on what is essentially a copy, is up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorIng
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I think the game could be a lot better but it's fine the way it is.
  
  The game follows the basic concept go around collect 8 gym badges and challenge the elite four 
 and the champion but unlike the former games it actually has story afterwards.
  
  Storyline: There are several inconsistancies in the weak storyline. The gym leaders are supposed 
 to be the top eight in Sinnoh side from the pokemon league. Crasher wake the 4th leader says he 
 isn't challenged often yet there is over 100 (probably more) trainers you face stronger than him 
 Volkner the 8th says he never gets a good match and there are several trainer stronger than him. 
 Also the battle tower is filled with trainer much stronger than the champion and there should be 
 an area where there are pokes stronger than level 60 so you can get to level 100 in shorter than 
 forever. The story is bare bones and adds nothing new to the series. I recently played red version 
 again and really liked the house in cinnabar where it had the mew/mewtwo journals was a good element 
 that I was surprised they never built on but they do have the fake history of the world waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay 
 farfetched (no pun intended) . I'd like a mystery behind it. WIth team galactic there they had their 
 own new world theory but there were never any questions thoroughly answered or they weren't answered 
 well. Storyline Solution: What it needs for the next one is a solid, unique, immersive story that 
 keeps the suspense going and takes you all the way to level 100 through all the past regions. The 
 new pokemon are solid and fine just keep it coming. Graphics: I was stunned by the graphics they 
 truely blew me away however the in battle graphics are still 2D and some scenes are heavily pixelated 
 (bad)
  
  Graphic Solution: 3D battles; may kill the pokemon stadium series (somewhat of a good thing)
 
  
  Sound: The sound quality in this game is mediocre at best and the cries of the pokemon are recycled 
 maybe even from the original red and blue versions Sound Solution: redo all the sound Gameplay: 
 Solid immersive gameplay, however can get repetittive random battles are a nuisance late game. 
 The levels are WAY too low and battles are too short and easy, making status moves pretty useless. 
 HMs are a HUGE pain in the ass
  
  Gameplay solution: nat dex from the start 4th evolutions at later levels more pokemon in the wild 
 (like old starters and older pokemon instead of totally relying on the migrate feature (I like 
 it but the game is too reliant on it) No more event pokemon I'm not going to one of those events 
 with all the 6 year olds and the 40 year old geeks. Make them hard to find and get but not impossible 
 to catch or a runner. Long dungeons to catch arceus like pokes. And either stronger HMs or less 
 of them Surf is the only one worth using out of 8 that's pretty bad Make the legendaries better 
 uxie azelf and mesprit were abyssmal I never used them Giratina and Regigas were stat kings but 
 had terrible move sets. The Game Corner games should be easier.
  
  Value: great game just wifi is nearly worthless because of friend codes raising pokes to lvl 100 
 and EV training are mindnumbingly boring Value solution: no friend codes EVs and IVs and other 
 hidden stats visable story should take you much closer to level 100 the first time I beat Pearl 
 I didn't have a poke over lvl 60 although much improved over ruby/sapphire's lvl 58 metagross and 
 wimpy steven cover Kanto Johto Hoenn and Sinnoh plus a new, unique region through all the you should 
 have 4 or 5 level 85-90 pokes if you hit most of the trainers and clear most of the game.
  
  Pros: Great addicting play, online play is available, post champion storyline, great out of 
 battle graphics, challenging gym puzzles migrate feature is great, lots of non event legendaries 
 rares. Has a lot of bright spots, hard to put down, new evolutions, poketch&gt; pokenav, lots of 
 good little features. Underground is a good addition Cons: Weak online, weak trainers, gym puzzles 
 are harder than the gym trainers, HMs can't be overwritten some legendaries are useless  
 sound is bad, HMsingame graphics are no different, weak forced-to-team-up-with trainers, HMs dumb 
 AI, repetitive encounters especially late game. EVs and IVs Leveling, story can be very kiddish 
 at times lacks comedy, weak storyline, HMs. Needs Improving: Longer but fewer battles would be 
 better, AI, sound, No EVs and IVs and hidden stats no natures shorter contests better storyline 
 more regions never battled Dawn. Anything that's not here I probably forgot I hope this helped! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coca-Cola153
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I thought this was the best pokemon game so far. With its many new pokemon and wifi system, this 
 pokemon game is one that you must just have. My favorite part of this game was the ability to use 
 Pal Park. If you dont have the game, Pal Park is a building in Shinnoh where you can transfer Pokemon 
 from earlier versions of the Pokemon franchise. You choose 6 pokemon at a time and go catch them 
 in the wild in a secluded building . Really easy actually. The starters, as usual, are fire, water, 
 and grass types. There names are Chimchar (fire) , Piplup (water) , Turtwig (grass) . My personal 
 favorite of the three would have to be Piplup only because of his evolution stages. All and all, 
 this was one of the best games I've played in a long time. Hopefully you like it as much as I did. 
 I'd give it a 10 out of 10. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacs_25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Going back to 1998 to the Red and Blue era, we have seen how much Pokemon has changed. From the 
 small map of Kanto, to the grand land of Hoenn, Pokemon has always captivated us with the same-style 
 formula, this on the other hand can turn into a double-bladed sword when time passes and 13 games 
 have been made. "If it's not broken, why fix it?" could describe Pokemon through the years, and 
 people do expect new things to appear, and they do... just that sometimes they are not what was 
 expected, but then it is near impossible to add something new and radical into a Pokemon game without 
 breaking the beloved formula that has created fanbases of millions. Diamond and Pearl feel the 
 same and acts the same, which is what makes it great, and what makes it the base of many critics.
 
  
  A fun and enjoyable game that will please the fans will bring new ones to a scenario of many hours 
 of gameplay. While some stick to main quest and after defeating the Elite Four they go and buy 
 another game, others however will start their new journey with the few good new things new in this 
 generation, like Wi-Fi battling and trading which adds a whole new experience to the franchise.
 
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are both great games. Just don't expect much new things from them, just 
 the old style that will suffice the Pokemon trainer inside you with countless hours of entertainment, 
 typical of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  After playing through this game i feel as if i was playing any other pokemon game, encounter pokemon, 
 use pokemon to weaken, use a pokeball, catch, move on with life, use it to battle, move on with 
 life again , it will eventually turn u off after a while of catching and finally notice that you 
 achieved your goals and stuff, then toss it somewhere and when ur friend wants to play ull find 
 it and stuff, it seems like what it has been for years. Overall this game just improves on stuff 
 that many people may want, such as slightly better graphics, more amazing pokemon, and a new adventure, 
 well not too new, but at least it will seem a bit different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Even though the Pokemon series has long since passed its peak, it is fun to return to Pokemon, 
 for old times sake. The Pokemon adventure is just as intense as ever, catching Pokemon, battling 
 Gym Leaders, and foiling the game's evil organization's plots is just as fun as ever. With new 
 Pokemon, attacks, and features Diamond is a mixture of old and new.
  Even after beating the 30 or so hour long adventure, there are many new Multiplayer modes. The 
 underground, for instance is a fun place where you can go treasure hunting and play CTF with you 
 and your friends' (secret bases) .
  Contests (with dress-up and dance-off) and poffin making are also multiplayer. With the new GTS 
 (Global Trading System) , you can trade pokemon with people from all over the World. And Battling 
 over WiFi is just as fun as ever! Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is just one of those games that you 
 can never get bored of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatzmyer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  What should you expect from a new Pokemon game after all these years, well regardless of what you 
 expect, I think you will be happy with the best in the series.
  
  Not a lot has changed in the basic Pokemon formula, it works so why change it. You collect the 
 little monsters, you level the little monsters, you fight the little monsters, it's as simple as 
 that. There's always something about it though that keeps us coming back for more, and Diamond/Pearl 
 does an excellent job adding just enough to make it feel fresh yet all so familiar at the same 
 time. They've added a few new Pokemon to the mix, along with some wireless capabilities that include 
 battles and trading of course. There is also a new underground mini-game if you will, that is for 
 the most part entertaining. The story is the same as always, which is the one place I think this 
 series could improve on the most. You'll find yourself ignoring the dialog so often that sometimes 
 you'll miss where you're supposed to go next. You're never too confused to handle the next task, 
 but the game is more challenging than previous entries in the series.
  
  The graphics have been updated enough to notice the improvements and the music is the norm for 
 a Pokemon game. Some of the noises that certain Pokemon make will throw you for a loop though. 
 The touch screen doesn't add a whole lot to the mix, however it does free up some extra space to 
 see the little monsters do their thing. Most of the mini-games do use the touch screen and it seems 
 like this is the reason they were put in.
  
  The new mixed with the old make for a fun game you just can't put down. Fans of the series will 
 love every minute of it and new players couldn't have picked a better time to join in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Wow. Just, wow. You'd think after all of the other Pokemon games that have been released the Pokemon 
 experience would start to feel repetitive. On the contrary, playing a Pokemon game is still as 
 fun as it was years ago, and I seriously doubt that there will ever be a traditional Pokemon game 
 that is actually bad.
  
  Unless you were just born, you know that the concept of Pokemon Diamond is to go around catching 
 monsters and using them in battle against other people with monsters, called Pokemon. Throughout 
 the game, your goal is to beat the stronger people (Gym Leaders) to earn badges in order to be 
 allowed to fight in the Pokemon League so you can be considered the Pokemon Champion of the region, 
 in this game, Sinnoh.
  
  There are a lot of Pokemon in this game, but instead of just focusing on younger or older versions 
 of past Pokemon, there are quite a few original Pokemon. This is a major breather for a Pokemon 
 fan like myself. Also, there is an excess amount of Legendary Pokemon this time around, especially 
 compared to previous games. In my opinion, some of these Legendary Pokemon are actually cooler 
 than their predecessors.
  
  There isn't really much to do with the DS's unique features, which is very sad as if there were, 
 Diamond probably would have received a perfect score. Don't get me wrong, there are minor and optional 
 instances where you can use the stylus (besides for just battling) like making poffins (a mix of 
 berries) to make a certain stat (s) of your Pokemon become greater. You use the stylus to mix the 
 batter of the poffins, but the poffins burn way too easy and the whole poffin thing is an optional 
 sidequest involving a talent show to get ribbons and it's honestly not really that worth it.
  
  Fans who are dying for classic Pokemon action will be glad to know that the game once again 
 incorporates another island inhabited by Pokemon from previous games (and a few sidequests, quite 
 possibly making this the biggest traditional Pokemon game to date) . You'll have a welcome wave 
 of nostalgia as you battle these classical Pokemon and complete these extra sidequests.
  
  One complaint that I did have with Pokemon Diamond (which also hindered it's perfect score, but 
 minorly) was the weather ailments. They didn't really effect that battle, but just made the battle 
 text drag on forever. This can almost make you bored with this game. Almost, but not quite.
  
  Random battles later in the game are often an nuisance, especially since they are so damn often 
 and easy. However, you can prevent this by buying a Repel at your local PokeMart.
  
  Instead of multi-player just being limited to battling and trading, Diamond adds some quirky new 
 multi-player features that take advantage of the touch-screen (though very discreetly) . The major 
 multi-player feature is an Underground area where you can mine for various treasures like evolution 
 stones or cash. You can set up your own base and buy traps to hinder the other players in the Underground 
 with you. If you get caught in one of these traps you'll find that you need to use either the microphone 
 of the stylus to get you out of the situation most of the time. Some of the situations, however, 
 just invert your controls or something to that extent so all you really have to do is walk it off.
 
  
  Speaking of trading, who can remember having all of those Pokemon that couldn't evolve simply because 
 you couldn't get your hands on a Game Boy connectivity cord? Well, since the DS is wireless, the 
 classic Pokemon that appear immediately to you (without having to beat the game at least) are mostly 
 the ones that evolve by trading! This was a very smart move by the developers.
  
  By switching out the graphics of the previous top-down view of the classic Pokemon games, Pokemo 
 Diamond incorporates a fresh new look that's very easy on the eyes. The game is played in semi-3D, 
 while still being traditionally top-down, everything in the game just has more to it. I was impressed 
 with the way these graphics were implemented, and I'm sure any other gamer would think the same 
 thing.
  
  The classical Pokemon tunes return for this title, which is also a relief for Pokemon fans. Who 
 can't love it?
  
  There is some replay value after beating the game, including sidequests, catching Legendary Pokemon, 
 plus connectivity to other games like Pokemon Ranger, the traditional GBA Pokemon games, and Diamond's 
 counterpart, Pearl. All-in-all Pokemon Diamond just isn't the best DS game I've played, but the 
 best game I've ever played by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it no matter who you are there is never going to be a time when you say hey Poke'mon 
 are stupid. Or wow that stuff is kiddy. Nope I thoght like this at one point but I soon realized 
 what better to do than to raise an unstopable force that will rule this world that is revolved 
 around Poke'mon? Huh so lets just say hey this game takes the basics that are installed in every 
 Poke'mon game and throws into the concausion and some new elements as well like a 3-D world? How 
 insane is that!? Much Much indeed. Also with the new addition to them all! They just keep making 
 it harder and harder for us to catch 'em all oh well. I highly recommened anyone getting this game 
 if your a die hard fan or if your looking for something to do during a plane ride pick up this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyhead1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the most anticipated Pokemon game ever. I knew about it about a year and 
 a half about it and as soon as I found out I wished I hadn't. The wait was pretty much unbearable. 
 And the day it came out I had it. The hour the mall opened. And I nhave to say that I was not dissapointed. 
 In fact, the game was even better than I expected it to be. And I expected pretty amazing things 
 from it. I couldn't believe it. A real Pokemon game for the DS!!! The gameplay was PERFECT, as 
 were the graphics, and everything else about the game. If you own a DS and like Pokemon, I command 
 you to run to the store right now aqnd buy this game. You won't be dissapointed. I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The point of this game is to beat eight gym leaders in different cities and get badges from them. 
 After you do all that you have to go to a place called the pokemon league. At the pokemon league 
 you battle trainers. Once you beat all the trainers in the pokemon league you have finished the 
 game.
  
  The Gameplay in this game is awesome. I can not find one problem with the gameplay.
  
  The 
 graphics in this game are pretty good for nintendo ds. Unlike the other pokemon games, sometimes 
 when you walk up stairs it looks 3D.
  
  The sound in this game is not that good. It could have been a lot better. Sometimes i think it 
 gets a little repetetive. It is like all the other pokemon game sounds.
  
  The value in this game is really good. It takes a quite a while to finish it.
  
  Overall this 
 is a great game that all pokemon fans should buy. Even if you don't like pokemon you'll probly 
 like it. I don't like pokemon that much but i still really like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrellmt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Great! I have been waiting for a pokemon game to come out for the ds. I have liked pokemon since 
 i was 3. I collecteed the cards then. Then when i was 5 i got blue version. Ever since i have been 
 loving and playing pokemon a lot. This new game is highly addictive and is a great game. I diffently 
 reccomend this game and hope you have fun playing it too. The game graghics were amazing and way 
 better than the other games. The sound effects were nice and did not sound messed up. The game 
 is diffently worth the 35 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Finally! After 2 Years, and countless spinoffs, we get a new pokemon game!
  
  The two new versions are called Diamond and Pearl. Both with its own exclusives. This Review will 
 be divided into parts. The parts will be:
  Story
  Music
  Graphics
  Battles
  Misc.
  Well, I hope you like my Review!
  
  Story:
  You start off as a regular kid watching a news 
 story. The story says that the Red Gyrados just went missing ( Did you catch it in Gold Version? 
 Bad boy/girl) and you and your rival to to lake Verity (I think thats the lake) to investigate. 
 Well I'm not going to spoil the story any further. The story is long and engaging, but nothing 
 new. Its your basic same-ol' pokemon story. You have a rival, stop the evil team from conquering 
 the region (Sinnoh) and blah blah blah. Notheless, its a fun story worth playing through.
  
  Music:
  This is where the game shows its best. The music is fun, serious, and well-played. I 
 loved listening to the music in battles and still do.
  
  Graphics:
  This is definately a step-up from any other pokemon game. It blends 2-D and 3-D nicely, its what 
 pokemon fans all over hoped for.
  
  Battles:
  With a ton of new moves and animations, the battles are more fun than ever. A new battle system, 
 multi-battles, allow you to fight with a partner during 2v2 battles.
  
  Misc.:
  The is a new place in the game called the sinnoh underground. It allows you to go mining for various 
 items like orbs and stones used for evolution.
  
  You can transport your pokemon from 
  
  There are over 
 100 new pokemon. Including quite a few new legendaries.
  
  Overall I loved this game and will be playing it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond keeps the feel of the older games while still adding new features that make you 
 stay hooked. Brand new pokemon cover the Sinnoh region as well as some old favorites.
  
  Gameplay: Diamond still has the RPG elements that made the series popular while adding more depth 
 for the newer generation. Gone are the old Team Rocket who had no real agenda and were basically 
 fodder for your pokemon. In Pokemon Diamond your main adversaries are Team Galactic. They don't 
 sit in some secluded hideout looking like they have nothing better to do then wait for you to come 
 say hello. They have a mission and if you don't stop them it could mean disaster for the world. 
 Of course, even Team Galactic won't stop you from battling your way through the 8 Gym Leaders and 
 the Elite 4 to reach your goal of becoming Champion. The battle system is much the same as all 
 of the other pokemon games: turn-based. The touch screen is extremely helpful with battling because 
 it allows you to make many commands faster, which ultimately makes your battles play out faster. 
 Battling isn't the only thing you can do to compete with your pokemon. Like Sapphire/Ruby/Emerald, 
 the Sinnoh region has a Contest Hall where you can compete in contests to earn ribbons. Unlike 
 the older GBA games, the contests are a lot more complex in Diamond. Contests are comprised of 
 3 parts: decorating your pokemon, a dance contest, and an acting contest. As you can see there 
 is plenty of stuff to do to keep you busy for many, many hours.
  
  Graphics: With the move from GBA to the DS, the graphics of pokemon have really changed a lot. 
 It might not be apparent in the majority of the game at first. But if you put in a GBA game and 
 start to play it after playing Diamond, you have to admit there is a boost in the quality of the 
 graphics. It still keeps the look and feel of the old games that lets you know you are playing 
 pokemon.
  
  Other: This section is for some of the added perks and features that are in Diamond. First off 
 is reintroducing the Day/Night feature from Gold/Silver. It is based off of real time so if it 
 is night outside it will be night in the game. Certain pokemon may only appear or appear less/more 
 frequently during certain times of the day. It can determine if certain pokemon will evolve and 
 what it will evolve in to. Next is a place called Pal Park. Pal Park becomes available to use once 
 you have beaten the Elite 4 and have obtained the National Dex. The Pal Park allows you to transfer 
 Pokemon from you GBA games to Pokemon Diamond. This feature is great because you do not need any 
 other system or connection. Just put Diamond in the DS slot and one of the GBA games in the GBA 
 slot and you can transfer pokemon. The pokemon transfered have the same level, stats, abilities, 
 moves that it had when it was on your GBA game. This includes ribbons you may have earned in the 
 Hoenn region as well as Champion ribbons. A note of caution though: Once the pokemon is traded 
 to Diamond it can not be returned to the GBA game. Wifi connection allows you to trade and battle 
 with people from around the world. It can help you complete your National Dex by helping you trade 
 for version exclusive pokemon.
  
  Overall: I really could go on longer about all of the features and things to do in this game. It 
 will definitely keep you busy and entertained. It is by far the best pokemon game to date because 
 of all of the added features, many of which are possible because the series has moved to the DS. 
 It is a game for pokemon fans and new gamers to the series to enjoy. A perfect addition to any 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  If played asmost all the pokemon games And i was born at a super time When i was 5 Pokemon started 
 on tv , the perfect age too like it and after 10 years ( im now 15 ) i still like pokemon , im 
 not ashame , and if people say pokemon is childish... hmm thats there chose.
  
  Me?.. i like pokemon i played
  
  Pokemon Red , bleu , yellow , gold , silver , cristal , ruby 
 , saphire , fire red , leave green , emerald , pkm dungeon red/bleu rescue team , pkm ranger , 
 and now i have pkm Diamond , mayby il play Pearl some day i wont buy it but mayby borrow from a 
 friend so i know the diffrence between games , Its always the same , always pokemon , buth does 
 that make it boring ? i say no : you have your own choise play it and than dislike of like it
 
  
  If you dont know pokemon you should try read summary of the games Like pokemon ? buth never played 
 a gamae : try it you wil like it
  enough talking back too my game l8rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok, time for my first thoughts!
  
  1 - Great graphics for the ds
  
  2 - Very addictive, you want to just keep playing.
  
  3 - Graphics have deffinately changed 
 since pokemon blue, red &amp; yellow
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So in the game you start off putting in your name and choosing boy or girl. There's a vast range 
 of new pokemon to collect and lots of new trainers and things to do. The game's graphics are great 
 and you seem to really see some new and better pixelated items like the big tv in houses. So like 
 you might know you get to choose 1 of 3 pokemon in the start. The pokomon are A fire monkey pokomon 
 [ CHIMCHAR ] , A grass turtle-like pokomon whose name i have forgotten, lol and a blue water bird 
 [ PIPLUP ] .
  I really would not like to spoil the game anymore so i'd just like to end on a good sentence ...
 
  
  My favorite DS game for 2007 because an rpg like this just is magical 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shishio817
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan and veteran of Pokemon games past, I feel that I know what a good Pokemon game is. 
 Pokemon Diamond has all of the same things as previous installments; catch Pokemon, train Pokemon, 
 battle Pokemon, and travel. However, it just wasn't as enjoyable or memorable. 
  
  
  There are many good things about Diamond. Obviously, the graphics are very good (I wouldn't say 
 amazing or anything) and provide a much needed enhancement in the series graphical presentation, 
 with the improved top down/3D perspective, etc. The fact that it's on the DS means that battling 
 wirelessly with your friends is achievable without the purchase of an adapter (provided their nearby) , 
 which is a very good thing. The story is lengthy enough, and the world is big enough. Also, once 
 you get the National Pokedex, obtaining every Pokemon (using previous games, etc.) becomes a fun 
 achievement that is satisfying to attempt to complete (and it 's great that they included so many 
 legendary Pokemon in this game) . But, for me, that's where the good things end. 
  
  
  Overall, the negative slightly outweighs the positive. When you play it, you'll find that the variability 
 of wild Pokemon is incredibly low, and you'll encounter the same few Pokemon over and over. On 
 that note, not to beat on the artists or anything, but the creativity of each Pokemon seemed lacking, 
 unlike in Emerald or others before it. So, those two things make it boring after some time. In 
 addition, the sound is unimpressive and, frankly, isn't nearly as catchy or enjoyable as before. 
 It seemed to be a bad rehashing, something that the game consequently suffers from. The main enemy 
 group, Team Galactic (like Team Rocket, only more boring) , is the most uncreative, predictable, 
 and unsatisfying to battle yet in the series, and that's saying something. Stemming from that is 
 the story being, despite its length, well, boring. Also, some of the additions, such as the underground 
 feature, seem tacked on, and at least for me ended up being underused. It would've been better 
 if they had simply expanded on a few things, like the hidden bases for example, not replace them 
 with dumb features that they think will be cool. Last but not least, the environment. In Emerald, 
 I found myself immersed, traveling to a city built on trees, going underwater, traveling through 
 volcanoes and deserts, and exploring ash-covered mountains. Sadly, you just don't get that in Diamond. 
 Sure, there are some changes here and there, but overall, it is very monotonous and drab. I truly 
 think the developers could've spent much more time on it, and put a little more thought into its 
 creation. 
  
  
  Well, there you go, those are all of my thoughts on Pokemon Diamond. A good game, but that's it. 
 Given some more work, it could've been much, much, more, and much, much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  When I went to a local wal-mart Sunday, May 20th,2007 exactly 1 month since the most famous RPG 
 among children was realeased I was stuck between two games Spectrobes and Pokemon Diamond (Pearl) 
 Anyway the wait was a dumb thing to do I said I wanna get it exactly a month after it's realese 
 to see what people are/were saying! So on that exact day I got pokemond diamond and scince that 
 day intill May 29 I played intill like 1 o'clock in the morning I was hooked! But then I lost my 
 pokemon game ME the one whom never looses ANYTHING! So it was lost intill June 13th but then my 
 friend Borrowed my game without asking and I didn't know he gave it back on July 8th just two days 
 ago! luckly he didn't do anything with my game (Dumb@$$) anyway enough about me I must be boring 
 you. It's been two years I believe we have waited for another pokemon game even though it's really 
 been long since like Pokemon Fire Red/Leaf Green were updates of Blue and Red. Pokemond Diamond 
 (Pearl) is a very good game. While staying true to the amazing gameplay the people at Nintendo 
 did something to spice it up! First they added 3-D graphics, they added new pokemon, they made 
 the vast world of Sinnoh come alive, then they made the new team rocket, but then something amazing 
 happend they did the unthinkable by making your rival have ADD sindrome (I'm not kidding.) As a 
 result of those thing I listed above and more Pokemon Diamond (Pearl) was born and you the consumer 
 were on your quest to be the best and your trial to beat dinial anyway Pokemon Diamond unlike previous 
 games is now in 3-D! The two characters Do_The_Mario and Dawn are both in the game if you pick 
 Do_The_Mario then Dawn is a third party that does absouloutly nothing excapt give you some advice 
 and stuff. You Rival Do_The_Luigi is out to be the best just like you but your gonna stop him arn't 
 ya? The audio is good but sometimes you just turn the volume down so you don't hear repeditive 
 sounds in battle. The pokemon are way cooler and some/all older pokemon are in the game but some/most 
 you need to migrate apposed to saying Wassup Charmander?
  Now for the foundation of any pokemon game the Legendaries Palkia and Dialga are the two EXCLUSIVE 
 legendaries that only appear in their games after you get the seventh badge. Now for the legendaries 
 you can find regardless of your game the three Brothers/Sisters Mespirit, Uxie, and Azelf are the 
 worst legendaries and should only be normal pokemon not Legendaries but here we come to the better 
 legendaries Gritiana, Arcius, and Heatran all kick some heavy @$$ especial Arcius whom is the hardest 
 legendary to catch oh I forgot Cresselia and Darkius or something. Gameplay is still solid but 
 once you do everything the only thing left to do is to battle via Wi-Fi or wirelessly. I give it 
 a 10.0 although it should be like a 9.9 also I wanted this Review to have spelling mistakes cause 
 I'm too lazy to spell check! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_mask_91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely for any Pokemon fan, whether die hard or even newbies. I loved this game 
 i have at least 115 hours on it as of now. But i have to admit, if you don't have the WiFi connection, 
 it does get old a little quick after you beat the elite four and further on. But There's lots of 
 needed and exciting upgrades and the DS touch screen is a blessing for those who don't want to 
 become just 'button tapping mode' through the game experience. With over 100 new Pokemon, a great 
 over world look and 3D/2D comparison, you will look back at your hold games, even Ruby Sapphire 
 and Emerald, and you will not be disappointed. The sound is still about MIDI quality, but the graphic 
 upgrades make it oh, so pretty! Thanks to the Pal-Park you can trade with 3rd generation, which 
 rules! Daily events will bring you back, since the Poke-radar and Pokemon Swarms are constantly 
 changing daily, and you actually win the lottery in this game! (or at least higher chances than 
 the older games) . I do wish there was a bit more challenge, but all Pokemon games get like that 
 after awhile. BUY IT! PLAY IT! LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame_Blade88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I'm going to say right off the bat that I am a big fan of Pokemon games. You can definetly say 
 that they are my guilty pleasure in gaming. Pros: Battle system fun as usual, fun little mini games 
 such as the poffin mixing, WiFi is well ultized, touch screen plays a useful role such as adding 
 depth in Super Contests, familiar gameplay, you don't actually need to catch Pokemon to complete 
 your Pokedex you only need to see them, and lastly, not as much slow surfing unlike Ruby, Sapphire, 
 and Emerald.
  
  Cons: Pretty much the same game you have been playing for almost 10 years with a few touch up, 
 most new Pokemon aren't that great.
  
  Gameplay: Well, basically if you played any other Pokemon game, you should know how to play this 
 one. Send out a Pokemon and choose attacks to defeat the opposing trainer or wild Pokemon. Train, 
 catch, explore, Diamond still sticks to the 3 main parts of Pokemon games.
  
  Graphics: A slight step up from previous versions, nothing too noticible, the buildings are all 
 in full 3D but mostly it looks like the preivous ones, just with better looking attack animations.
 
  
  Sound: The all too familiar remixes of the Pokemon Center and Pokemon Gym themes make their return, 
 it's just a nice soundtrack, not as memorable as say Blue Red or Yellow versions. Value: In my 
 opinion, this is the best RPG for the DS right now and most likely the best game FOR the DS right 
 now and probably will be for a long time unless Fire Emblem or Golden Sun get installments on the 
 DS.
  
  Overall, this was a very good step up compared to previous versions, the underground adds more 
 depth to the game for replayability, and is just downright a fun game. So far, this is the best 
 RPG of 2007 as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelpiedog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Even after ten years of Pokemon, I never seem to get bored of it.
  
  Same thing goes. You get a starter, rival, Pokedex etc. to play with. Not much as changed.
  
 
  Saying that, though, means you'll be just as addicted.
  
  The changes they made from GBA to DS were outstanding. No more annoying music in caves or forest. 
 Nice 3D graphics have been added to the landscape, too. The battles are now animated beautifully. 
 There is now an entire underground world to explore.
  
  Not to mention the fact that it is set in an entire new region, with lots of new Pokemon in it. 
 But who doesn't know that?
  
  If you're like me, though (which you probably aren't) , this game is going to be terribly addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crapyourheadoff
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this is one of my favorite game to play i stoped for a while but came back and beat the rest of 
 the game and got to the extra part of the game so now i just get to mess around the game catch 
 some new pokemon get new legandary pokemon tip ( get the stratagy guide it will be much easier 
 to beat the game ) so i think that you should get this game if you wanted to get any pokemon game 
 i would sujust pokemon diamond ( or pokemon pearl ) i like diamond alot better well that is it 
 good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_hero_riku
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  I've been playing pokemon since red and blue and none have had me play them like diamond has. What 
 makes pokemon so great? There's over 483 pokemon to make a six man team with. (493 alltoghter) 
 With 16 diffrent types 100's of moves to use. And now they have wifi, so you can battle and trade 
 over the internet. There are a few problems with wifi. Start off this game uses friend codes so 
 you can't do random battles, also you can't do direct trades. You can go to the GTS (in game buliding) 
 and trade pokemon thet people have put up for offer, but that's a little broken down becasue people 
 think there newly obtained pachirius will get them a lv100 Lugia, which is not going to happen. 
 You can still go to fourms and talk to people, exchange FC, and do normal trades but that takes 
 up to much time, and work. Also the pokemon sprites are still the same staic sprites. While some 
 have new sprites some keep the same old ones. The core of the game has not change much, which is 
 good the game is very fun to play and will last a true gamer at lest 70 Hours ( I've played mine 
 for a total of 195:37 game time.) So if you looking for a great rpg game, and need a break from 
 FF, Pokemon is a great choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyforkittens
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The new pokemon dragged me right into the gameplay. I also like the fact that you can trnfer other 
 pokemon that you've worked so hard to train right into diamond and pearl. Even after you defeat 
 the game, there's still much to do! After defeating the game, it unlocks different legendary pokemon, 
 and allows you to catch different ones in the games itself! The graphics might be simple, but I 
 like that simple look. There's a few puzzles in the game as well, not as difficult as legend of 
 zelda, but sometimes enough to make you really think. I highly recommend this game to previous 
 pokemon fans, or those who are interested in becoming one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smith_45
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl are the first games in the continuing series for the Nintendo DS.
  
  The gameplay remains much the same, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. There are random battles, 
 and pokemon takes turns depending on speed. Although there were some features added to the EV system, 
 such as the ability to take away points by feeding certain berries to your pokemon. The graphics 
 in the game looked considerably better, than in pokemon emerald, with vibrant colors. Also the 
 game mixes 3D and 2D backgrounds, so there is some variety in the presentation. The sound is probably 
 the most disappointing area in the game, since it recycles many of the melodies found in previous 
 games, and also the sound quality sounds almost exactly the same as it did in the GBA games. The 
 game has an incredible amount of replay value assuming you want to try competitive battling and 
 spend dozens of hours trying to build the best team. Also Wi-Fi allows you trade and battle online, 
 and there's the GTS, which all allow for an almost endless amount of replay value. The main quest 
 should take about 20-25 hours, but most people will probably continue playing beyond it.
  
  Pokemon Diamond is a huge step in the pokemon series since it introduced online play for the series, 
 and should not be missed by fans, or anyone interested in a good RPG for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluffalubigus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  You won't see many things that seperate Diamond from most of the other Pokemon games, but that 
 might be for the best! Pokemon Diamond keeps the exact same Pokemon formula that every other version 
 has managed to mantain. New creatures, new legendary creatures for the story for base itsself around, 
 and a new team bent on ruling on the world. Now, if you're new to the Pokemon world, this might 
 not make much sense. In fact, you might be raising an eyebrow right now, even! But not to worry. 
 Diamond is still a good place to start your adventure. Honestly, any of the versions is a safe 
 way to start out! So, be sure to give it a try even if you ARE new to Pokemon. Okay, now to back 
 the review. First, the plot. Now, like every other Pokemon game, the plot revolves around defeating 
 eight beefed up Pokemon Trainers (called Gym Leaders ) , and collecting the badges from them. Also 
 like the other Pokemon games, there's an organization trying to rule the world that YOU have to 
 stop. Which also adds a little more of a story than beating a few trainers. In THIS version, you'e 
 up against Team Galactic . They wish to control the legendary Pokemon (Palkia for Pokemon Pearl 
 and Dialga for Pokemon Diamond) to re-create the universe. Not only that, but the new universe 
 is one where Team Galactic rules! Shocking, no? Well, okay, it wasn't, but I didn't make the game, 
 so shut it! Anyways, that's basically the story. You travel the brand spankin' new Sinnoh region, 
 beat trainers, gym leaders, and Team Galactic. Of course, that's not NEAR all the game has to offer! 
 There're also various NEW Pokemon to fill up your Poke-Dex! Which is good, since you now have a 
 fresh selection of Pokemon to look at while filling up your Poke-Dex. And, of course, there're 
 still the old Pokemon. However, most of them can only be seen by getting the National Dex, a nice 
 upgrade only given to those who've seen all 150 Pokemon in the Sinnoh Region. There's also still 
 the Elite Four (or Pokemon League) , which really hasn't changed much. However, there ARE a couple 
 new things added into the mix! First off, there's an extra part of Sinnoh only accessable after 
 defeating the Pokemon League. This area has three new islands, as well as stronger Pokemon and 
 trainers for you to keep battling even after beating the game. Another thing worthy of mention 
 is the Pal Park! After getting the National Dex, you can go to a newly built park, called the Pal 
 Park. What you do is, if you put a GBA Pokemon game into the GBA slot in your DS, you can transfer 
 6 Pokemon everyday into the Pal Park for you to catch! What happens is, you search the different 
 areas of the Pal Park (the Pokemon's type determines where it'll be hiding) to find your 6 transfered 
 Pokemon. When you come across one, you throw a ball (it's not a real battle, it's a lot like the 
 Safari Zone) and catch the lil' booger. And, the Pokemon will be at the same level, have the same 
 stats, and have the same item (s) it had while it was in your GBA game! It's a useful way to Catch 
 'em All . ;o Now, with what's been said about Pokemon Diamond (or Pearl) , I hope you've been persuaded 
 to give it a chance. Simply because, Poke-Fan or Newbie, this game is simply fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Squall_
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, another Pokemon game... even though this ones the same as the other games, it has a bunch 
 of different and new stuff to keep you interested.
  Theres brand new pokemon! And who here doesn't like new pokemon? Theres a brand new map to explore! 
 New evoloution methods, new items and new minigames.
  One of the new minigames is the Sinnoh Underground. You dig a little hole, and fall in it, taking 
 you to the underground. Here, you can dig for spheres, which buy you itmes and traps for your secret 
 base, which is alos built underground.
  The contests have changed, instead of just performing your attacks, you now have to dress them 
 up, and dance!
  The game is s lot harder than the previous ones, it's still pretty easy though.
  The Pal Park 
 is a cool new feature, this place allows you (once you get the national dex) to trade pokemon from 
 your previous GBA games onto Diamond. But the catch is, you have to catch them, but you get supplied 
 with 6 park balls, with 100% capture rate.
  The sprites are easy one the eyes, they are pretty awesome actually. The buildings, and some the 
 attacks look 3-D, which gives the game a nice touch.
  The music is cool, there are a lot of new battle tunes, which is good.
  Yea, the game might be 
 a little easy, but it has a bunch of small, and big things that make the game a whole lot better. 
 And anyways, once you get bored of the game, you can get wi-fi and battle your friends all over 
 the world!
  If you own a DS, and like Pokemon, i strongly reccommend you get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addicting games ive played. Basically you're this guy or girl and you go 
 around battling monsters and challenging trainers and gym leaders. When you get spotted by a trainer, 
 or walk in the tall grass, you are challenged to defeat a pokemon.
  
  The game is turned based, and when you encounter a monster, you throw out a pokeball and step back. 
 The pokemon take turns attacking with a variety of moves, and also have power up moves. Each time 
 you defeat a monster, you get experience. Get enough experience and you level up. Level up enough 
 and you evolve. From time to time, your pokemon will want to learn a new move, but that means that 
 you have to sacrifice another one of your 4 moves Also, if your pokemon's health is low and you're 
 fighting a wild pokemon, you can escape the match. Unfortunately you can't escape trainer matches. 
 There are lots of good things about this game. The value is excellent, and it will certainly take 
 you a long time to finish. The gameplay is also good, and pretty much anything else you can think 
 of is superb.
  
  The most annoying thing about this game to me though is the random encounters. Some areas you have 
 to walk in tall grass and if you simply want to get across you are encountered usually at least 
 once. Other bad things about this game are the graphics aren't exactly breathtaking, ditto for 
 the sound and that's pretty much it. So if you own a DS, then you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_brawl
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  there is a very lengthy storyline so if u buy this game it will keep you entertained for a long 
 period of time not to mention online play, trade, bluetooth and rubbing into someone's face once 
 you beat them with the mic.
  
  people keep saying stuff about pokemon games being all the same but they're not those guys are 
 losers and as for those who gave it a 7.0 rating they probably havn't even played it yet, they're 
 just guessing well shame on them i say.
  
  buy this game right man it's so cool, everyone knows that, those losers who gave it 7's don't know 
 what they're talking about look at gamespot they rated 8.5 + gamespot is harsh they never rate 
 anything in the 9's and out of like 1000 ds game diamond is ranked 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heroofthewind
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing to sneeze at, but something is missing. Definetly not more pokemon. (There's 
 like, nearly 500, for God's sake) Maybe a match call or the radio from pokemon Gold, Silver, and 
 Crystal, or maybe being able to go to Kanto, Johto or Hoenn, like in GSC, or maybe being able to 
 get every starter without trading, like in Pokemon Yellow. Maybe what I'm saying is, go back to 
 the classics, you know? But nevertheless, this is one of the best Pokemon games around, but it 
 could have been better. But like I said this does not take away from this game's UBER PWNAGE!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame4lyf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, the best Pokemon game to date!!!!!
  
  This is just like the previous generations of pokemon, but about 100 times better... One of the 
 best things about this is that there are oh soooooo many pokemon, you can get every pokemon from 
 absolutely every generation.
  
  The statrers aren't the best, but they are all great. If you hate levelling up pokemon, you might 
 have a tough time in this game, because they gyms, elite four, and champion are waaaaaaaaaay waaaaaay 
 harder then in the previous pokemon versions. Not only does this game have all the pokemon, but 
 it brings some new evolutions to old pokemon as well. An example would be this: as you all know, 
 magnemite evolves into magneton... well, magneton evolves into magnezone in this version. The absolute 
 BEST thing about this game is the online play... You can battle anyone from anywhere in the world, 
 or trade with them... After you get the first badge, you can go on to something called the GTS, 
 which is the Global Trading System. You can offer or seek any pokemon for trade. (To seek for a 
 pokemon, you must have seen it first and have it in your pokedex before you may seek for it.) As 
 long as someone is offering one, and you have what they are looking for, you can get almost any 
 pokemon at any time.
  
  This game was more than amazing... I HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend it to anyone who has, or hasn't ever 
 played pokemon before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy7786
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely for any Pokemon fan, whether die hard or even newbies. I loved this game 
 i have at least 115 hours on it as of now. But i have to admit, if you don't have the WiFi connection, 
 it does get old a little quick after you beat the elite four and further on. But There's lots of 
 needed and exciting upgrades and the DS touch screen is a blessing for those who don't want to 
 become just 'button tapping mode' through the game experience. With over 100 new Pokemon, a great 
 over world look and 3D/2D comparison, you will look back at your hold games, even Ruby Sapphire 
 and Emerald, and you will not be disappointed. The sound is still about MIDI quality, but the graphic 
 upgrades make it oh, so pretty! Thanks to the Pal-Park you can trade with 3rd generation, which 
 rules! Daily events will bring you back, since the Poke-radar and Pokemon Swarms are constantly 
 changing daily, and you actually win the lottery in this game! (or at least higher chances than 
 the older games) . I do wish there was a bit more challenge, but all Pokemon games get like that 
 after awhile. BUY IT! PLAY IT! LOVE IT! *pokeball go!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl are the latest entries in the handheld series, and bring plenty 
 of new content to the table, while still giving players the same Pokemon theyve experienced time 
 and time again for the past ten years or so. The most notable additions to the series are touch 
 control, voice chat, about 100 new Pokemon, and of course, online battling and trading over Nintendo 
 Wi-fi Connection.
  
  Lets start with the basics, though. The graphical style of Diamond/Pearl is essentially the same 
 as its always been; an overhead view of the world map with the player and his/her surroundings. 
 But, with the hardware of the DS, the developers were able to add a few 3D items into the mix. 
 For example, youll be walking through a field of grass going about your adventuring routine, and 
 youll pass in front of some windmills. You, and the grass, will all be in 2D, but the windmills 
 blades will be rotating and will seem to pop out at you. This is a very nice feature and works 
 remarkably well on the little handheld. A few other 3D pieces include trees, houses, and skyscrapers.
 
  
  During battle, (Theres plenty of battling, as with all the traditional Pokemon games) , all the 
 fighting will be displayed on the top screen, while the menus and such are located on the bottom 
 screen. You have the option of touching to select everything, or using the D-pad and buttons. All 
 of the Pokemon have new sprites and animations. All the old moves have new animations, and of course, 
 there are plenty of new battle techniques, all of which look very nice. My only gripe with the 
 graphics is that sometimes pixels will the misplaced and things will look a bit choppy. This is 
 mostly on the 3D textures, but isnt really all that noticeable.
  
  That brings us to the sound. There is a bit of new music, and some old music. Most notably there 
 are new arrangements of old songs, which are very well done. All of the Pokemon have their own 
 distinct cries that youll hear in battle or you can listen to in the Pokedex, although this brings 
 up some good and bad aspects of the sound. All the new Pokemon have cries that are smooth, and 
 sound good, but all the old Pokemon have their same cries from the GameBoy Color games. This isnt 
 too big of a problem, though.
  
  The story isnt anything new. You collect and battle Pokemon to become the best trainer in all 
 the land, while meanwhile and evil group tries to take over the world, or in this case, create 
 a new one. Team Galactic are trying to capture the Pokemon of Time and Space to harness their power 
 and create a whole new galaxy. Its basically the same as the other games, except with a new group 
 and a new objective. Although it can be interesting at times, its not very deep and not all that 
 important, either.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as its always been. You get a starter Pokemon, you run around 
 collecting, battling and trading, eventually rising to the top and becoming the Pokemon League 
 Champion. The Gym Leaders serve as the bosses in the game, but youll also battle your rival every 
 now and then. In this installment of the series, you get a Poketch (Pokemon Watch) that gets displayed 
 on the touch screen. Its a handy device that serves as a little PDA. It has few applications right 
 when you get it, but youll receive more as you progress through the game. Not all of them are 
 completely useful, but some are kind of interesting like the Move Tester, which lets you see which 
 type of attacks work well against whatever type of Pokemon.
  
  Probably one of the coolest new features of these games is the ability to upload your Pokemon from 
 any of the GBA Pokemon games by using the DS dual slot capabilities. The most anticipated feature, 
 though, is the ability use Internet functions for trading and battling. You need friend codes to 
 battle, but if you trade with a random person over the Internet, their data will be added to your 
 Friends List automatically.
  
  The Global Trade Station lets you trade Pokemon over the Internet with random people. You can search 
 for the one you want, and if you find one itll display the trainer who has it and what type of 
 Pokemon they want for it. Its very easy to use and very helpful. The online battles also work 
 very well. Theyre very fluid and easy, but can lag if you or your opponent doesnt have a strong 
 connection. The game also keeps record of your wins and losses.
  
  After you beat the main quest, which can be up to about 45 hours, theres a ton of extra stuff 
 to fill your time like competing in contests, fighting in the battle tower, or simply just trying 
 to collect em all. The extra content might not change the core gameplay much, but is a lot of 
 fun and will take up a good deal of your time. These games serve the series justice and are great 
 additions to your collection, so if youve ever been a fan of the series, or are completely new 
 to it, this game will most likely satisfy your RPG needs for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top_Bloke
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  This is just plain awesome the way it is set up and the good pokemon like Rampardous i say it is 
 a must get! Non stop fun and the way it is set up is awesome! This makes perl look soo it is not 
 funny! The pokemon in this that perl does not get is awesome. I think the graphics are beter to!! 
 It is almost hard to disclibe how much beter it is than perl and how good it is. you can be playing 
 it for ages and not get bord! The things you can do is AMAZING!!!
  My conclusion is THE BEST GAME YOU WILL EVER PLAY ON DS IN EVERY PERSPECT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Looking back ten years, one can see why the Pokemon series was to be such a big success. Cute monsters 
 and traditional role-playing mechanics all wrapped up in one portable package for children on the 
 go. It was played outside of homes, schools, malls, and everywhere kids seemed to wander back then. 
 The fact that there were loads of merchandise, trading cards, and a television show about the growing 
 phenomenon did nothing but nurture the growth of the entertainment giant. The idea behind it was 
 simple; churn out a new game every two years or so, while introducing new monsters and keeping 
 the core game-play the same. While this may have worked for the first two or three games, after 
 a few years the whole thing had become stale, example being the Game Boy Advance versions of LeafGreen 
 and FireRed. Fans of the series needed something fresh, and as time went on they began wondering, 
 where is the title that will allow the Pokemon series to become as fun as it was nearly ten years 
 ago?
  
  Well, they need not suffer any longer.
  
  How though? What could be so special about this particular version of Pokemon that sets it apart 
 from all the other rehashes? The answer can be summed up in two words: online play. One can only 
 wonder why Nintendo took so long to get this series online, given the amount of replay-ability 
 they could have added onto the already monstrous time needed to build up your intimidating team 
 of monsters. It could probably be attributed to the fact that Nintendo has never been much for 
 Internet connectivity, as it was their president a few years back that said that Internet gaming 
 wasnt going anywhere. It can be forgiven, as it wasnt until XBox Live emerged onto the scene 
 that online console gaming took off. Though late to catch onto the craze, Nintendo has finally 
 brought the series online, allowing for nearly infinite replay value, providing that you have access 
 to a wireless router or USB cable. While this is all well and good, the majority of the time you 
 spend with this feature is toward the end of the game, and as everyone knows, adventures start 
 from the beginning.
  
  As with all Pokemon titles since the early days of Red and Blue, you take control of an aspiring 
 young ten year old ready to begin his/her adventure in the world of Sinnoh. After choosing a boy 
 or girl (each with an odd sense for fashion) , you will run into your first dose of trouble, giving 
 you the opportunity to pick one of three unique Pokemon: the water penguin Piplup, the fire chimp 
 Chimchar, or the grass turtle Turtwig. Once obtained, your mission will be to visit city after 
 city in the hope of collecting eight gym badges; signs of victory that show proof of your battling 
 prowess against some of the leaders of the Pokemon League. If you have played any of the Pokemon 
 games in the past, you will have no problem getting into the swing of things. And even if this 
 is your first time, there are plenty of menus and help screens to guide you along through your 
 confrontations.
  
  Battles are played in a one versus one format, with the occasional double battle thrown into the 
 mix. One of your six Pokemon will take the stage, with up to four moves being available to use 
 against your opponent. Damage is dealt in a rock-paper-scissors format, meaning that if you use 
 a ground attack on a rock Pokemon it will have a greater effect than if used on a flying type. 
 Though some knowledge will have to be acquired through the use of game guides, everything becomes 
 pretty straightforward thanks to some interesting gadgets you gain throughout your progression 
 of the game. Again, while all these elements may sound familiar to most players, there is one big 
 change present that alters the layout quite a bit: the touch screen.
  
  It has been seen before from probably everybody who owns a DS; a game comes along that is moderately 
 good, but couldve taken advantage of the touch screen a bit more. There are also times when there 
 is no use of the bottom screen at all, with the exception of maybe a map or fancy pause menu. Frustrating 
 isnt it? Its like buying a Wii game only to find out that it isnt compatible with the motion-sensing 
 feature. And while Pokemon Diamond and Pearl dont add anything relatively new to the game-play 
 through the touch screen; it does make the title a lot easier to play. Though the player can still 
 use the control pad and basic buttons to select attacks and equipment, the simple layout and item 
 shortcut feature are so convenient youd have to be a masochist to pass it up (not the kind youre 
 probably thinking of) . Along with these helpful options, the games bottom screen also functions 
 as a watch, with as many tricks in its programming as one worn by James Bond. It is known simply 
 as the Pok&eacute; tch, and with it, you will have a clock, calculator, treasure detector, type 
 chart, and dozens of other features at your disposal, some useful and some . . . not quite as useful. 
 The way Diamond and Pearl uses most of the hardware capabilities of the DS is commendable, as is 
 the way Game Freak and Nintendo stuff enough content in each version to hold the player over for 
 hundreds of hours.
  
  Yet, if there is one thing one could take from the game as being aggravating, it would be the mind-numbing 
 repetition of leveling. Sure, if it aint broke, dont fix it, but it would help if there were 
 more places to gain experience points toward the end of the game. Players that have followed the 
 series for years know that the Elite 4, most of the time, is the final confrontation in the single 
 player mode. But what if you want to continue to the coveted level of 100 to battle your friends? 
 Well, prepare to battle these same trainers over and over again. With the amount of memory that 
 the DS cartridge can hold being quite large, it is disappointing that there couldnt have been 
 an additional continent or island to traverse to. Even Gold and Silver on the Game Boy Color had 
 one for goodness sake. Nevertheless, the online battle modes that Diamond and Pearl provide, help 
 us time deficient players out exponentially by allowing for open level, level 50, and level 100 
 battles. Only level 60 and want to take part in a max level fight? Then just select the level 100 
 option and your Pokemon will be leveled to 100 as if it was trained manually. The individual stats 
 of that Pokemon may not be as solid, but it doesnt make enough of a difference to be a detriment.
 
  
  Speaking of online again, probably the greatest game-play addition to the latest in the Pokemon 
 franchise is the Global Trade System (GTS for short) . Provided you have seen the Pokemon somewhere 
 in your travels, you can trade for that creature by putting up another of your choosing. You can 
 even decide the gender and level range if you so desire. It usually takes a few hours for a trade 
 to happen, but with thousands of people on the wi-fi system daily, you can be assured that you 
 will get the one with the preferences you want. A small bit of advice though; dont go trading 
 a level 5 Bidoof for a level 100 Dialga or else you might be waiting a little longer than usual 
 (forever) . Providing you dont abuse the system, the GTS is a fantastic way to acquire Pokemon 
 that you cant get in your particular version of the game.
  
  Catching the previous 396 Pokemon, as well as the 100 new ones, has never been easier.
  
  One 
 thing youll notice through your travels is just how different this particular world of Pokemon 
 looks and feels. That is because the environments have evolved to full 3-D. This allows the world 
 of Sinnoh to look far more spectacular than it would have with the limitations of previous handheld 
 systems. Water flows, flowers sway, and buildings stretch, even the character models are more detailed 
 than in the past. With enhanced lighting and color, attacks actually appear intimidating. Theres 
 nothing quite like watching your solarbeam or flamethrower fill the screen with a bright spark 
 of light, then witnessing the opponent fall to the ground in a daze. To add to the already great 
 atmospheric visuals is the reappearance of weather effects. Heavy downpours in swamps, blizzards 
 on mountaintops, and blinding sandstorms in deserts, each are impressive in their own right and 
 add their own unique strategic element in the heat of battle. From top to bottom the graphical 
 presentation of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is flawless, and is among the upper echelon of DS games 
 thus far.
  
  The audio department is another story though. Why, oh why couldnt they have updated the sound 
 effects for some of the earlier Pokemon? How many times do we have to hear the same ear piercing 
 screeches of Geodude, Zubat, and Gastly? Returning back to memory size, wasnt there a possibility 
 that the Pokemon calls from the television show couldve been implemented? With voice acting being 
 a dominant role in gaming today, there was easily enough space on the cartridge for some stand-able 
 dialogue. Come on, even the Nintendo 64 had voice acting; example being the flight sequences in 
 the classic Star Fox 64. The music fares slightly better, but most of the themes are far too short, 
 which in turn, causes them to recycle too often. Sure keeping things simple allows for some nostalgia, 
 but that feeling wears thin after the first few hours. Some words of advice, keep the volume on 
 low.
  
  At the end of the day, you cant really go wrong with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl. With improved visuals, 
 100 new Pokemon, online play, and a new continent to explore, the latest generation in the series 
 is something to get your RPG-loving hands on. Whether you have been catching them for nearly ten 
 years or are just now getting into the craze, there is more than enough here for everyone. The 
 game is simple enough for beginners, but has deep enough of a meta-game for pros to go crazy with. 
 If there is any advice to give, it would be this: get a wireless router or USB cable. There are 
 too many players out there that thought the previous versions were over too soon. Seeing their 
 finely trained teams go to waste by having no one to play but the computer. That time is over. 
 As a long fan of the series, it is good to see the franchise head in the right direction, and hopefully, 
 it can only get better from here on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that I am a Pokemon fan. I was a fan since the first games were released for the GB, 
 and I am still a fan now... even if I am old enough to vote. Regardless of age, Pokemon has an appeal... and 
 Nintendo knows this. That's why they released rehash after rehash of Pokemon games, milking every 
 cent, until they finally released a new chapter in the series. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. To be 
 clear, I own the Diamond version -- but I have also played Pearl and know the differences amongst 
 them. Anyhow, Pokemon D/P starts when you and your friend decide to investigate the lake near your 
 town of Twinleaf. There you meet Professor Rowan and his assistant, who leave behind a briefcase 
 and some Pokeballs. When you investigate the case, however, you're attacked by wild Pokemon and 
 must defend yourself by using the Pokemon the Professor had left behind. This type of story sparker 
 is reminiscent of Pokemon Ruby and Sapphire, and of course... the story is in general, rather similar 
 to every Pokemon game's story. After you defend yourself with your chosen Pokemon, you embark on 
 a mission to defeat every gym leader in the Sinnoh region and become the best you can be. Along 
 the way you'll meet the no-good Team Galactic who have dreams of recreating the universe using 
 the power of legendary Pokemon. Really general stuff, actually.
  
  However, what shines in Pokemon D/P is what is different. In this release, a new boat load of Pokemon 
 have been unloaded. Many old Pokemon have new evolutions, or babies. The double-battle system has 
 been fine tuned and the ability to actually battle with an NPC on your team has been added. Pokemon 
 nature, berries, abilities, and hold items have all been tweaked and new additions have been made. 
 Among the completely new additions, however, is the ability to mine underground with friends and 
 form secret bases; take place in multi player contests; create berry-made 'poffins' with friends 
 to increase a Pokemon's contest stats; and connect to the internet using Nintendo WiFi and trade/battle 
 with friends from miles away.
  
  I really enjoy the game, and I'm still playing it after 200 hours of game time. The ability to 
 constantly improve your team combination and duke it out with living people is actually pretty 
 cool and involving. It seems to be a piece that was missing from the older games, and it finally 
 clicks in place here. I do have a few minor complaints, however and that is with the variety of 
 some things and the complications with others. For one, even thought Sinnoh has a lot of new Pokemon... it 
 doesn't always feel like it. For instance, there are NO new Fire-Type Pokemon which can be caught 
 in the wild. In Sinnoh, the only new fire types are the starter 'Chimchar' and a legendary known 
 as Heatran. Now while I really like some of the additions, I just feel like they could have taken 
 just a little more time and thought the whole make up through a little more. It isn't a crippling 
 factor, but it is very noticeable. My other complaint still deals with the Pokemon themselves, 
 in particular, the legendary Pokemon who are available only through events. I just really find 
 it bogus that Nintendo is encouraging the use of WiFi and yet it wants the players to be tied down 
 to the real world if they want to unlock some of the secret legendaries. For instance, to unlock 
 the one Pokemon, you had to/have to actually see the movie and take your DS a long with you. At 
 least that's what I'm told... and it may not even be available to the US. These event Pokemon need 
 to be taken care of in another manner.
  
  Anyhow, graphically this game takes a step forward. The top screen is where everything game play 
 wise is displayed. It uses a psuedo-3D look that works well for the game, and the sprites and Pokemon 
 graphics are all nicely don and actually animated. That's right, you don't have to wait until a 
 second release to have animated Pokemon sprites. The bottom DS screen is used to display a new 
 invention in the series called the Poketch. (Pokemon Watch) . The Poketch displays all kinds of 
 information once you acquire the specific applications. You can even see things like how much your 
 Pokemon like you, or if your day-care Pokemon have hatched an egg yet. Finally, after you beat 
 every gym leader and bash the Elite Four -- there is still some hunting to do. You'll gain an item 
 which allows you to find Pokemon at any time, as long as you are standing in the grass. This also 
 allows you to find previously uncatchable Pokemon from other regions like Tyrouge or Ditto. There 
 is also an area previously unreachable where you can not only catch different Pokemon from other 
 regions, but finally take part in the Battle Tower. This time the Battle Tower is fine tuned and 
 ready for your challenge. A variety of battle modes exist and it will take some Pokemon mastery 
 to win them all and achieve total victory. Basically, if you liked Pokemon before, Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl put the icing on the cake. If you hate Pokemon, well then, you're still going to hate 
 it. The point is however, the game finally makes a significant step forward in this release and 
 it is visible in just about every area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohantech00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  What a long, anticipated wait this game was. Pokemon Diamond (and Pearl) are the next full fledged 
 Pokemon games to come out since the enhanced Fire Red and Leaf Green versions. But since those 
 are remakes, it would be wiser to mention that Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald were the last original 
 RPG Pokemon games to come out. It was a satisfying experience, seeing new Pokemon and exploring 
 new lands. Pokemon Diamond is basically the same situation, only with a few more factors that make 
 it one of the best Pokemon games since the Blue/Red versions.
  
  Back again is the old-fashioned battling system, the gym badges you have to win, the Pokemon League, 
 and almost the same story as the previous Pokemon RPG adventures. The only difference in the story, 
 really, is that the villians are now called Team Gallactic. There are also a bunch of new Pokemon 
 to catch and see in this game, which is always a good surprise. Along with the new Pokemon come 
 a few new evolutions or baby forms of old Pokemon, which makes the surprise even better. The problem, 
 though, is that some of the brand new Pokemon just look goofy looking, and are poorly designed. 
 You'll recognize some that just make you think, What? Were the developers actually serious about 
 this? But overall, there's some pretty sweet new additions to the Pokedex.
  
  As well as the Pokedex, you get another device called a PokeTech. This is where the stylis comes 
 into play. Throughout the course of the adventure, you'll get new PokeTech enhancements, such as 
 a calculator, a hidden object finder, a calender, and dozens more. Most of them are worthless, 
 though, as I found myself mostly using the hidden object finder the whole time. It's a nice gimmick 
 to the game, though.
  
  The main quest itself took me almost 70 hours to complete, because there is so much to see and 
 do in this game. You can participate in contests (which I completely despise and think it takes 
 away from the actual Pokemon training experience of the game) , you can find certain Pokemon that 
 a newspaper editor wants you to find, you can capture all the different Unown so this Ruin Maniac 
 can complete a cave, you can dig underground for many majestic items, you can go to the Game Corner 
 to win fabulous prizes, and countless other side quests to accomplish. And even after beating the 
 main storyline and kicking the Elite Four's ass, you've STILL got more to accomplish. Also, when 
 you have seen all of the 149 Pokemon in the main quest, you get to unlock the National Pokedex, 
 revealing TONS more Pokemon in the game itself. This is one of the best moments in the game, because 
 you'll start battling trainers who reveal Pokemon that you'll recognize in the old Pokemon games, 
 and you'll be able to catch them to keep with your old roster. You also get a chance at migrating 
 Pokemon from the Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, FireRed, and LeafGreen versions as well, so if you have 
 one of those games, the experience becomes a whole lot better.
  
  Of course, there are also Wi-Fi capabilities, too. You can trade with a friend far away now using 
 the Friend Code system (even though I haven't tried it out yet) , and you can battle while chatting 
 as well. But the most handy Wi-Fi enabled function on this game has to be the Global Trading System 
 (GTS) . What you can do is leave a Pokemon you want to trade away, and then ask for the Pokemon 
 you want, as well as what level and gender, and you just leave it for about a day or too before 
 you get the Pokemon you want. I've done it about 5 times already without fail, so the system works 
 pretty well. Just try not to rip anybody off, though, because that's a good chance it won't work, 
 which is another problem in the game. When you're the one doing the seeking, all you'll find most 
 of the time is people demanding for outrageously leveled rare Pokemon in exchange for the one you 
 are wanting. It gets ridiculous. So that's why I just stick to trading away my Pokemon instead 
 of looking for a trade. It makes things easier.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, blending 3D architectual landmarks with the classic 2D sprites of 
 characters. The battles systems are colorful, with each move becoming exciting to see. The Pokemon 
 all look great, as they all have a distinct animation with them as well. A cool feature added onto 
 this game is that the female and male Pokemon all have some sort of tiny characteristic about them 
 that is different, even if it is almost impossible to spot out. The music is the classic Pokemon 
 themes you know and love, from the theme of the battle music, to the theme of victory. And, of 
 course, there's the sounds each Pokemon makes when they appear into battle. You'll probably be 
 able to recognize old favorites, since they haven't changed much, but you'll hear a big diffenence 
 in quality from the older Pokemon to the newer Pokemon, since the old Pokemon make such simple 
 cries, while the newer ones are more complex, due to being on the DS. This was a hard decision 
 deciding whether or not to buy this game because:
  
  1.) I am 17 years old.
  
  2.) I grew out of the Pokemon phase back when I was about 12.
  
  3.) I was worried about my 
 parents or friends knowing about it and getting nagged on.
  
  Well, it doesn't matter what age you are or what other people think. This is still an addicting 
 game for all ages, and I highly recommend it. In fact, I think it's one of the best DS games to 
 be released so far, and out of all the games I've played in 2007 so far (which aren't very many) , 
 this one is my favorite. So what are you waiting for? GO BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaasz
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the famed Blue and Red versions on the Game Boy in 1998, Pokemon has 
 been a wild success. The popular license has spawned card games, television shows, spin-offs, and 
 sequels to the original games. Its been a good two years since anyone has had a true Pokemon experience, 
 but with the release of Diamond and Pearl on the Nintendo DS the wait is finally over.
  
  Taking on the role as a male or female trainer in the brand new region of Sinnoh, you set out to 
 become the best trainer in the land. But thats not without some roadblocks in your way. Youll 
 need to clear eight Gyms all with their own Gym Leader, fight rivals, and deal with a new menace 
 by the name of Team Galactic who desires to reface the surface of the world. So grab your Pokeballs 
 and fire up that Pokedex, its time to become the best and save the world while youre at it.
  
  Lets face it, the Pokemon franchise is not known for its story so expect more of the same. 
 While Team Galactics part, especially their leader Cyruss, makes for a pleasantly menacing background, 
 they dont do enough with it. Its over before you know it and just as in previous titles, youll 
 find yourself pushing through the rest of the Gym Leaders in a very uneventful manner. Though that 
 endeavor can last you well over 60 hours, it would have been nice if they added more spice to an 
 otherwise stagnant and forgettable story.
  
  As expected, the core gameplay for Pokemon has not changed. You carry around a max of six Pokemon, 
 every type has a certain weakness to another, and each can have up to four moves in their arsenal. 
 Pokemon also still evolve and gain new abilities as they achieve experience from battling. While 
 it can be fun for a time, it all ends in tedium. Pokemon still learn absolutely useless moves and 
 unless youre a Pokefreak its almost impossible to understand how some Pokemon evolve unless you 
 look it up online. For example, there are kinds who only evolve if you have a specific Pokemon 
 in your party, level at a certain time of the day, or are given a special item found in the world. 
 While this sounds deep and intriguing it can be downright frustrating.
  
  One major catch is Pearl and Diamond introduce over 100 new kinds of Pokemon, making the grand 
 total close to 500. It also introduces a day/night cycle and certain Pokemon can only be caught 
 during those times. Each version also has Pokemon exclusive to it, so if youve gotta catch em 
 all youll need to trade via the new Wi-Fi system. This new online functionality is a welcome 
 addition to the series and makes for a fun time battling or trading with people all around the 
 world. Its pretty easy to set up but its bogged down by the increasingly annoying friend codes. 
 If you dont already know, friend codes are a unique set of numbers that identify you. No one will 
 be able to connect to you unless they have your unique code, but at least you can still trade anonymously 
 with the public.
  
  Graphically, Pokemon isnt too impressive. The visuals are noticeably upgraded, but they retain 
 much of what they looked like on the older hand-helds. Fortunately, the sound fairs better with 
 some great new tunes along with old favorites. Unfortunately, the noises Pokemon make are all recycled 
 from the original games. This doesnt have an effect on the overall gameplay, but youd think the 
 next generation of pokemon would sound a bit better than they do.
  
  Innovation isnt what Pokemon gives us, but the second screen does add a few fun aspects including 
 the somewhat useful tool called the Poketch. The Poketch is a watch that comes with a slew of different 
 applications youll discover during your adventure. While they arent all incredibly useful, some 
 are decent additions (portable map, battle weaknesses) that make it useful to have around. But 
 since the Poketch cannot be displayed in battle, the second screen allows you to see and select 
 all your Pokemons abilities and items via the stylus. Thats around the extent of the DS touch 
 features. Though theyre not exactly ground-breaking, it does add a flavorful new taste to rather 
 old insipid gameplay.
  
  While Diamond and Pearl bring a variety of new Pokemon and touch features to the series, it cant 
 hide the fact that the game hardly differs from previous titles. Even so, its lack of innovation 
 and change wont stop Pokemaniacs from gobbling it up. As for the rest, if youve caught them all 
 before, theres really no need for you to catch them again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Using the touch screen to choose your attacks is exactly what youd think it would be. 
 I dont have to explain that, do I? With about 100 new pokemon, youre set for another great adventure. 
 The sense of adventure in the game is terrific, even though after all these years, its slowly 
 starting to wear on me. However, that is definitely my favorite part of the game. The battling 
 is as fun as it ever was, with numerous trainers waiting in between every town, and the great gym 
 leader battles that youve come to expect. Team Galactic is the group of bad guys in this game, 
 and theyre exactly what you had in mind, and you get plenty of fights with their grunts. Like 
 in all pokemon games, if you train your guys evenly, then you should have little problems going 
 through it, and of course you have to train extra hard at the end. At the end of the game, there 
 are plenty of fun things to do, though its actually a bit of a step back from Emerald in this 
 area, even though there are some new things you can do. You dont have a huge place to battle (though 
 there are a couple of big places) and you cant fight the gym leaders again, though you can fight 
 regular trainers, but a lousy item is what decides if they will actually play you or not. You have 
 more useless HMs to give your guys, which really hurts in parts of the game where you need a full 
 team of six, and not a bunch of lame guys using their HMs. The rest is mostly what you expected; 
 similar to the other games.
  
  Multiplayer- There are more multiplayer options in this game than the rest, like the Underground 
 minigames where you get to build a base and make traps and try to get into your friends base first. 
 Good fun that is. You can also battle friends in a variety of ways, like double battle, level rules, 
 etc. Now to the online.... You can battle people online with rules of you and your opponents choice 
 and you can choose the way you want to fight (like double battle) . Its great fun, but the biggest 
 problem is the fact that you need friend codes to play them. If it werent for that, the online 
 would be perfect. You do get a record for wins and losses, and believe it or not, that is a plus 
 over Pokemon Battle Revolution. The game also connects wirelessly with PBR, and can be sued as 
 a controller when playing against friends.
  
  Graphics- The character and creature models during battle are pretty much the same as in the last 
 generation. They are not 3D, and the only big improvement is that they are brighter. Outside of 
 battle, the environments are great. Character models arent terrific, but improved. The buildings 
 and outside structures all look good and some push the DSs 3D capabilities to their greatest extent. 
 There are also some extra touches every now and then that look really good.
  
  Story- Pretty much the same as every other pokemon game with some extra tweaks and whatnot. You 
 helping to save the world with other main characters has been around for quite a while. Team Galactic 
 seems to be the most evil of the bad groups so far, and what they do (I wont tell you) is worse 
 than what any other group has tried.
  
  Sound- Contains advanced theme songs and music that you have grown to love in the pokemon series. 
 Everything youve ever heard is here, and sounds so much better! The battle sounds are no more 
 or less than you probably thought they would be. Replay Value- If you can find enough people to 
 play online, you should be set to go for a very long time. Along with all the other things to do 
 (and training for PBR if you were stupid enough to get it) , the replay value is indeed very high.
 
  
  Money Value- With all the content, great graphics, great online if you can find enough people, 
 and a great adventure, totally worth the $35!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsakuraHao2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Ahh.. My first review in like ages. Its long, but when i review a game, i always want to dig deep 
 into the details. Especially for such a hyped game as this, I cannot afford to do a short and sweet 
 review.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the main entries in the fourth generation era of Pokemon. What you 
 get here is still more of the same. Except now you can go online, theres new pokemon (as expected... big 
 surprise) , and its on the DS.
  
  First lets break down the basics. (the same basics that have still not changed)
  
  1. ===== 
 The Basics ====
  
  As with every pokemon game, you begin as a young trainer wanting to explore the world. Something 
 happens, you get a pokemon, a pokedex to research for the professor and you want to be the world's 
 greatest trainer.
  
  Well that hasn't changed in the main entries.. at all. You of course still have your rival, whether 
 he be a snobby jerk or a pretty nice guy. The rival in the game will have the opposite gender as 
 the gender of your character.
  
  The game play is still turn based. You bring out your pokemon and you battle trainers and wild pokemon 
 to get experience to level up your pokemon. You still have 6 pokemon in your party. Nothing seems 
 different.... yet.
  
  There's 8 gym leaders in the game, whom you defeat one by one , to collect 8 badges. These badges 
 will then allow you to ge the opportunity to defeat the Elite four. And when you defeat them, you 
 go on side quests, and get to catch the legendaries.
  
  There still isnt much plot in the game, and its still some team who's trying to take over the world. Theres 
 still the exclusive pokemon found in each version so you need someone else (or you need to own 
 both versions) to get complete your pokedex, which now totals 493.
  
  That means there is 107 new pokemon in these titles. It also happens to be significantly less than 
 the ones on the GBA... weird, is something many might take from this observation.
  
  Those are the same basics you would expect in the main titles of Pokemon. Now that is finally out 
 of the way, we could really get into the review.
  
  2. ==== Anything new? =====
  
  First, there are no new types. Which in my opinion isn't a big deal at all. We do however get some 
 awesome type combinations. Like Ghost-Dragon.
  That does sound awesome, doesn't it? ADMIT IT!
  
  Also, after many demands, they have finally 
 brought back the day and night time system. Which is refreshing to see, as to how unique it was 
 in Gold - Silver. So now there are certain pokemon that could only be caught in certain times of 
 the day.
  
  What they added as a bonus to that, is that the fact, that if its night, the battle screen will 
 be blue-dark hue for the battle. So now the battle screen reflects the time of day.
  
  There's now a new application called, the Poke-Etch. This is basically a huge, super application 
 of all the minuscule apps youve seen previously on a handheld pokemon game , plus much more.
  
  The applications are actually pretty useful. There's one to locate Berries, a calendar, a friendship 
 checker and even a calculator. Those are only some of the few.
  
  There's even one that counts? That wouldnt sound too useful, now would it? But ask someone who EV 
 trains , and they might say it could actually prove useful. And perhaps ease the burden, of writing 
 on paper and tallying values. Yes, EV training is still in the game.
  
  Now there's that final something that is in fact new , and quite possibly the biggest addition. Its.... New 
 TM's and HM's! Naaa.. its not.
  
  But it is in fact new. I'll get to the online aspect in a minute. There are in fact 42 new TM's 
 and 8 new HM's (Technical and Hidden machines) . If you dont know what they are, in fact these portable 
 machines that teach a pokemon one move and vanish after they are used once.
  
  HM's do the same but they could be used an unlimited amount of times. There are two all new HM's 
 as well. No, that doesn't bring up the total, it in fact stays the same.2 of the HM's became TM's 
 like Flash .
  
  OK, now its time for the real draw of the game (well, now really ; but its exciting)
  
  3. 
 ==== The Online Play ====
  
  Yes, the online play. So now you can play online with your friends. You could now battle, trade, 
 and trade records with your friends. I use the term friends very strongly. The online is very good 
 with friend codes, if you procure them , which shouldn't be a big deal, but the fact that its needed 
 in a game like this is flat out annoying.
  
  Yep, the friend codes come into place once again. This time you actually need the darn things to 
 really enjoy the wifi aspect of the game. Basically if you dont have any, the game's online is washed 
 out completely.
  
  First, you can trade pokemon online without any friend codes using the GTS which stands for Global 
 Trade Station. Oh, there's another problem with the GTS, you cant use it after you get a badge, 
 its only stationed in one city, and you cannot request pokemon you have not seen or caught.
  
  You basically upload one your pokemon into this mechanism, and request the gender and level 
 and whatnot. This is actually quite useful for some people. However... then we get to the battles.
 
  
  No friend Codes? Then come to the Battle Tower... Which you could go to AFTER you beat the Elite 
 4...
  
  For your hard work, you get to upload your pokemon into a machine. Eh? 
  is what you must be thinking right now. Yes, guess what for your hard earned efforts you get to 
 fight a Computer..... Online!
  
  You could upload your team as well, so people without friend codes can battle a computer controlled 
 team with pokemon originally belong to someone else. How lame is that?
  
  This is why without a doubt you need those numbers... The online play is almost practically ruined 
 without it. The WiFi is great with the friend codes, but is horrific without it.
  
  4. ===== The visuals And Sound =====
  
  That brings us to the visuals of the game. The visuals 
 have improved greatly since the last incarnation of the main titles (Ruby , Sapphire.. and Emerald) .
 
  The pokemon do in fact make their animation movements as they are sent out or as you encounter 
 them.
  
  However, there's a big difference to that now. Now there are differences in what the models of the 
 pokemon look like depending on the gender. This may appear to be a slight change, but its a huge 
 step forward.
  
  For example lets take Luxray , an electric pokemon that appears to resemble a lion. The male gender 
 of this pokemon will have a larger and fuller mane than the female one. Lets show another example.
 
  
  There's Scizor, the evolved form of Scyther and a pokemon that resembles that of a praying mantis. The 
 female gender will have a much larger lower abdomen than the male one. The differences actually 
 resemble those of creatures in real life.
  
  The battle visuals have gone through some major improvements, as the animations appear to be very 
 fluid and detailed. The detailed 2D-3D graphics of towns themselves are revolutionary for a game 
 like this on a handheld. They'll even appear to fade out, as you run past them.
  
  There is one gripe i have with the visuals though. Its the fact that the 2D-3D animation makes the 
 characters look a bit blocky. You might be thinking why your character had suddenly gained weight. Maybe 
 not, but its a thought that has in fact crossed my mind.
  
  The sound.. well it sounds like almost every other pokemon game. You'd think there would be some 
 major tweaking by now. There's some cool tunes, but it basically sounds like a major rehash. I don't 
 know what else to say about that...
  
  5. ==== Final Impressions and What the Game's Worth ====
  
  All and all, Diamond is definitely 
 worth the price. There are some flaws, being the:
  
  Lame online without friend Codes
  
  Sound being rehashed and dated
  
  Basic story being used again and again
  
  Once you get 
 those friend codes, the online is much more appreciated. Its a lengthy RPG thats easy to learn and 
 fun. The game almost swimmingly passes those flaws, that might make it annoying. it another solid 
 entry into the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky7s76
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When I got my first Pokemon game back in the late 90's, I was obsessed with catching every last 
 one of the little creatures just to fill my Pokedex and fulfill my perfectionist nature. Today, 
 with Pokemon Diamond, the same idea lives on. In fact, few things have changed over the years.
 
  
  Like previous Pokemon titles, you start out your adventure as a young boy or girl raised in a small 
 town. This time around, you and your best friend (who, ironically, functions like your rival from 
 previous games) investigate some odd events that take place at a lake not too far from your town. 
 Upon arrival, you meet a Professor and his assistant, who leave shortly after, forgetting a briefcase. 
 Your friend gets excited and decides to have you look inside the briefcase, engaging you in a battle 
 with a wild Pokemon. You now take a Pokeball from inside the briefcase and battle off the wild 
 Pokemon. This Pokemon is now considered your starter, and your Pokemon adventure begins with you 
 receiving a Pokedex from Professor Rowan, this Sinnoh's Pokemon Professor.
  
  The story is actually very interesting, and seems much deeper than any other game before it. A 
 new band of Pokemon fanatics, known as Team Galactic, have started stealing Pokemon from people 
 and plan to use them for global, maybe even galactic, domination. Your mission, along with collecting 
 gym badges and Pokemon, is to stop them from accomplishing their task.
  
  The graphics in the game are a very impressive mixture of 2D and 3D, people being represented by 
 a 2D sprite in a 3D world. The game is still viewed in a top-down fashion, only the camera is slightly 
 angled to accommodate the 3D buildings and environments. Battles are still waged between 2D versions 
 of Pokemon, but they are animated upon entry into battle. The commands for battle are handled on 
 the DS's touch screen, and are pretty much the same as previous Pokemon games.
  
  The Poketch, short for Pokemon Watch, is a really neat addition to the game. It takes up the entire 
 bottom screen, displaying information which may or (in most conditions) may not be useful. The 
 Poketch has a wide variety of applications that can be interchanged by pressing a button. It starts 
 with a few apps, some of which are a clock, a pedometer, and a status checker, which lets you see 
 the condition of the Pokemon in your party. Unfortunately, the Poketch quickly become bogged down 
 with lots of almost worthless apps.
  
  Not exactly the most innovative of Pokemon games. The 100+ new Pokemon don't seem all that great... 
 anyone who has seen Combee would know what I mean. The game is still very good, and offers plenty 
 of hours of gameplay. Veterans and newcomers alike can easily enjoy this game, and it is a must 
 for Pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ive been waiting for the pokemon DS games for years now, so dont think im a fanboy just sticking 
 to kanto and johto because they were the original. i am totally open to a new experience.
  The new pokemon are great, but they really gotta stop. and when i told some co-workers about the 
 new legendary who supposedly created the universe they laughed; i did too. the games are great. 
 catching pokemon, getting badges, becoming the champion, its all a lot of fun; always has been. 
 but the story lines ARE getting ridiculously out there which makes being able to ignore the storyline 
 of games a good choice to have.
  
  the good: the conveniencies in the new ones make the game very... convenient! from running boots 
 all the way to wireless multiplayer, the game is easy to play where ever you are. and now, if youre 
 in a battle, feel free to close your DS and the game will pause ENTIRELY. new pokeballs, custom 
 pokeballs, underground mine, new devices, and more legendaries than ever. its full of greatness.
 
  
  the bad: if youre looking for the old puzzles or any sort of mind benders, go buy fire red or leaf 
 green. the new games are almost for preschoolers. if they substituted gameplay for more pokemon 
 they made a big mistake because only a handful of the new pokemon are beyond generic. it was cool 
 when there were 3 minor legendaries, one major, and one impossible (birds, mewtwo, mew) but now 
 there are so many unique pokemon its not so unique anymore.
  
  overall, if you like pokemon, get it. you wont be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon games have slowly evolved over the 10+ years that they have been in circulation. The battle 
 system, a main staple of the game, has changed little through this time. Diamond and Pearl have 
 changed the design of the battle system to accomidate the DS's touch screen. It's a nice feature 
 for those who cannot get on without a stylus, but I still prefer the buttons.
  In the second generation Pokemon games, gamers were introduced to a day/night feature, allowing 
 certain Pokemon to only be caught at certain times. This feature makes a welcome return in the 
 Diamond and Pearl games.
  The new games offer more than 100 new Pokemon, bringing the total up to 493 creatures. What I don't 
 get is why Nintendo feels the need to make certain Pokemon only available through events? (Mew, 
 Celebi, Jirachi, Deoxys and now Darkrai, Sheimi, and Arceus) . This is the only thing that makes 
 me upset over the franchise... and seeing that this isn't that important, isn't that a good thing?
 
  A big advertizing point for the 4th Gen games is the new Wi-Fi capabilites. I have yet to use 
 them. I don't really see the need to play roulette with the Global Trade Center, where you don't 
 know if you're getting a glitched up Pokemon or not. I'd prefer to get my Pokemon from someone 
 I know, thank you.
  
  The new graphics (on another note) are very good. They add a new dimension to the Pokemon World. 
 The sounds... meh. First, Second and Third Generation Pokemon retain their original sounds, which 
 is a good idea for continuity... but come on, can't you update it up a bit?
  
  Anyway, Diamond and Pearl are great additions to the Pokemon franchise. If you have a DS, and want 
 to recconnect with the Pokemon world, this is a great game for you.
  
  PS, does anyone see the connection?
  Red, Blue Yellow - 1st Generation
  Gold, Silver, Crystal 
 - 2nd Generation
  Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald - 3rd Generation
  Fire Red, Leaf Green - 3rd Generation (1st generation remakes)
  
  So with Diamond and Pearl 
 in the 4th Generation, will we be seeing 4th Generation remakes of Gold and Silver? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  The game is basically a remake of the old ones with new and better stuff added on. You have to 
 beat the generic 8 gyms, get a crappy bike, fight your cocain addicted rival, stop team (insert 
 space name here) , and rape the E4. It may be the same old stuff but it is still pretty fun, and 
 I'm not even a real fan of the series. The graphics are ok, but they rreeeeaaalllyyy should've 
 animated the fights better, I'm tired of looking at shaking sprites.... Also the buildings and 
 walls and such are rendered in 3d so its quite passable for the ds. The sounds is nothing special. 
 The older pkmn recycle their old cries which is very very annoying but I don't play pkmn to listen 
 to them yell XD The online trading system kinda sucks. You can only put up 1 pkmn at a time and 
 its all just a bit of a let-down. It works but it should have been better. Also with a huge % of 
 pkmn players using action replay there is almost no point in trading. The online battling is ok, 
 slow as heck and not very flashy but it works. :)
  Sadly most ppl use cookie cutter teams or action replay aquired pkmn so only battle with ppl that 
 don't use these. I won't comment on the breeding r the ev training cuz they are pathetic grinding 
 instances and are against logic! There are an arse-load of pkmn to catch, especially after you 
 beat the E4 so thats pretty awesome.... although the majority of pkmn are useless with all of the 
 other alternatives.... I mean wtf, why can Lucario use ghost, psychich, and dragon attacks?! Nintendo 
 needs to fuggin even things out.
  aaaaannnnddd the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel2005kc
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Think of this... try to put red, blue, yellow, gold, sivler, crystal, ruby, sapphire, firered, 
 leafgreen and emerda together.. still it wont be better then diamond. Diamond is like the best 
 Pokemon in 10 years... like its got everthing you need.... 8 gym leaders, all pokemon.... the most 
 powerful elite 4 as far as i know, battle frontire.... weather (snow, rain, dust storm, sunny, 
 and night time) and best of all it has wifi.... like you can go online to trade or fight people 
 at the battle frontline... ummm you can make your own secret base underground also mine gems to 
 fossils. And can go fishing.... go explore a volcaneo.... you can breed pokemon, man theres so 
 many say about this game...
  
  This game deserves a 10........ out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich1115
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Pokemon fan since I was 8 and I haven't stopped being one... these games make you think 
 they let you interact with others and your pokemon... All I hope is that they make another one 
 for the DS and since this one was a blast, the newest one will be unbelievable.... If you haven't 
 played the Pokemon games before I would suggest that you go buy one at least Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, 
 FireRed, or LeafGreen, so that way you can get used to them... and when your ready you can step 
 up and buy Diamond or Pearl... or maybe both it wouldn't hurt... But all in all, this game is awesome 
 and you can never get tired of it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jericoY2J
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  man I thought this would be pretty bad since it jumped into 3D but its still kinda the same...100 
 new pokemon to catch and train. theres online so thats cool.. you can battle or trade with people 
 around the world with is anzing how technology has advanced. you can trade for other pokemon games (sapphire, ruby, 
 fire red, and leafy green) so you know what that means??? treeko and squirtle for everyone!!! so 
 yeah this game is lengthy and it will keep you coming back for more. also old things from the series 
 come back. safari zone, bike riding zones, beauty contests, etc. sure, it still has the tried true 
 pokemon formula with a dash of DS tricks too it but in my mind is the best pokemon to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Pokemon returns to the handheld system with the ds release of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. Both these 
 games were feverishly anticipated after the arguably dissapointing Ruby, Sapphire and Emerald versions 
 for the GBA. But with a whole new battling system, new story, wifi, and something like 100 new 
 pokemon it gets fans and new comers alike back into the franchise.
  
  Gameplay: Just like every game before it, it is all based on a young, up coming trainer that wants 
 to be the 'best in the business' so to speak. The game is set at a similar time to the much loved 
 Gold, Silver and Crystal versions of pokemon released for the GB and the GBC. The game has a whole 
 new system with battling and trading with the inclusion of wifi (online) capablilities. This means 
 people can battle and trade without having to be 30cm away from each other. With this new trading 
 function, a building known as the GTS (Global Trading System) was started in an 'ebay' like trade 
 in which you can search for a wanted pokemon and you can also put up your own pokemon and say what 
 you want in return.
  
  Graphics: Many people were dissapointed when they found that the games battling graphics were not 
 in 3D, while that would of been nice, the 'outside world' is in 3D which is well used in the gyms 
 in particular. Even still, the game has great colours and looks good
  
  Sound: As usual, the pokemon games have the same music played over and over again, which can be 
 irritating. It is nice that they actually bothered to change the music from previous games though. 
 The pokemon's crys sounds really good though, the new ones in particular. They sound much different 
 and better compared to others.
  
  Value: This game will last you a long time! with something like 490+ pokecom to collect and raise 
 and you own team to perfect will take many hours. Even then you can find people to battle and take 
 your skills to a new level.
  
  All in all: a great game good for old fans of the games or new players. a fantastic game for the 
 ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game as highly anticipated seems to be having a lag of options. The first part is the interface. 
 The game is truly exceptional this way. The people behind this caper made one hell of great interface. 
 Pokemon DS is a true quality DS game that way. The story has been told before. It starts like all 
 other Pokemon games and this is not a bad thing it allows for new players to get into the game.
 
  Graphically this is more then the next level. the two screens are used to it's maximum potential, 
 the colors more radient and the drawings finer then any other DS game produced.
  There are also a few sides in the game that open other sides. Some pokemon that could only be gotten 
 by trade, can now be caught. not sure if this is a good thing, or a bad thing. So far the game 
 is also unclear to connect to the other games, but perhaps this can only be done be completing 
 this game. So where are they losing the edge? Well, the game itself has many newer sides, so that 
 this game is a challenge. However, the parti seem to miss is that unlike Sapphire and Ruby, Pearl 
 and Diamond seem less to be at odds with each other. The storyline seem to be identical and even 
 the need to cooperate those two versions seem to be lacking as far as i can see at this point. 
 This is the losing edge. i am refering to.
  So overal a great game, but still a little in the shadow of Sapphire and Ruby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegiNightmare
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are just what you were expecting from the pokemon series. It has many 
 features one of them is the time aspect of Pokemon. You may have seen in Silver/gold/crystal that 
 the day change from Day to Night well they brought that back to diamond and Pearl. Now there is 
 Day/Sunset/night. And some of the pokemon you can catch in diamond and pearl have something do 
 do with time like only some pokemon can be caught or evolve. You may have seen in some of the ds 
 games it has the wi-fi symbol on the box. That means its wi-fi adaptable. So now they added that 
 capability to Diamond and Pearl now you can fight people over the earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokeking777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon is back and better than ever in the new Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for the DS.
  Just like every other game in the series, you start off as a young boy or girl in a small town 
 in the Sinnoh region away from just about everything. You obtain your first pokemon much the same 
 way as always: the professer is under attack, and you must pick one of three pokemon (turtwig, 
 piplup, or chimchar) to come to his aid and rescue him from the wild pokemon. Soon after you will 
 be catching pokemon, battling gym leaders, beating your rival, and fending off the evil team galactic.
 
  The story is long and good spanning a good forty hours or so. The game is VERY easy, during the 
 main storyline, but after you're the Pokemon League Champion, it gets harder, especially catching 
 the legendary pokemon. The games use of Nintendo WiFi Connection is the best i've seen yet, allowing 
 you to trade and battle worldwide. However in order to battle ANYONE, you must obtain their friend 
 code first. If you dont have any friend codes, you can still trade, with use of the GTS.
  The game has many sidequests such as the underground, a world under the Sinnoh region where you 
 dig, explore, and set up your secret base. If you're going to try to catch every pokemon, there 
 are 493 of them waiting for you out there to be caught, trained and battled with till your hearts 
 content.
  The game will eat up your time usually well over 100 hours especially considering the addictiveness 
 of it.
  The only qualm I have with this game is that the music isn't great, and so the DS's volume will 
 usually be off, except for the awesome legendary pokemon battle music and a few select battles.
 
  So even if your new to the series, chances are you will love this game and if you're a long-time 
 fan, this is STILL an awesome game that exceeds the quality of the others by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The first Pokemon game for the ds besides Mystery Dungeon to be a hit. It has everyone thing a 
 Pokemon game needs. Great graphics, simple-to-understand gameplay and has huge replaybility after 
 the main storyline. You start off as a rookie trainer with your friend looking for a red Gyarados. 
 You meet up with the new professor, Professor Rowan. He leaves as soon as you enter, but leaves 
 behind a suitcase. As your friend and you enter the grass you run into one of the hundreds of new 
 pokemon in Diamond/Pearl. The new touch screeen allows you make precise choices instead of maing 
 clumsy ones with the d-pad and A/B buttons. This games intorduces new starters (Chimcar, PIlup, 
 and Turtwig) as well as new legendaries (Diagla/Palkia) . It also has a new 3-D-ish effect on your 
 surrounds. Also new to the Pokemon franchise is online playibility with WiFi connection. You can 
 battle, trade, and communicate the same way you do with a link cable, only wireless. They are plenty 
 of sidequests such as Iron Island and Stark Mountain to play through. Along with that are Super 
 Contests which include Visual, Dancing , and Acting parts. This a must buy for old and new pokemon 
 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMER-0-
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a basic replay of the last games, with a slight story. Ooooo big whoop, you 
 save the world in a at max 5 (it shouldn't be longer unless you are a powerleveler) hour story 
 part. But there are fun minigames, keeping you playing with friends. Diamond is based on its main 
 pokemon, Dialga.
  
  Story
  You basically stop the stupid looking villians again, who wanna recreate the world. Not a bad storyline, 
 but it should continue after the elite four so that you have something more to do, other than catching 
 the 4 more non event legendarys. After the elite four you have two thing to do. Catch pokemon, 
 or the repetitive battle tower. Rating 7/10 Underground and other minigames
  Now here is something that keepsyou playing when you beat the game. Ive spent 1/3 of my time in 
 the game underground. My friends and I like underground more than going around and repeatedly beating 
 the elite four. There are very many different items that you can add to your base. ive decorated 
 my base 100 times differently. Then comes the poffin house. The main ingredient to winning contests, 
 another minigame. And there is also Pal Park, a more fun way to get your migrated pokemon. its 
 not hard to beat your rivals score. Then there is the battle tower. Not so fun after you have fought 
 all of the trainers there, because they will reapear with the same pokemon. 9/10
  
  Ds capabilities
  They didnt exactly use the touch screen to its max potential. They could have 
 had puzzles you solve with it, or anything to do with unlocking things. There was the ever useful 
 poketch. It has a few peices of junk on it. not much fun. There was the poffin house, however, 
 which used it to stir the poffins. Then there was the underground mining which was fun. And contest 
 dancing, which reminded me of a DDR ripoff, not bad but not great. 8/10.
  
  New pokemon
  Actually theyu seemed like some of the old ones in usefulness, Pidgy - Starly, Rattata - Bidoof, 
 Torchic - Chimchar, etc. It like the old ones with a new skin. It makes it fresher, but not better. 
 There were a few new pokemon like Shinx who didnt really remind me of another pokemon. There are 
 some that made it through the entire pokemon series, like Magikarp (SUCKS, not gyarados though) 
 Zubat, Onix, Geodude, Machop, Psyduck, Gastly (always one of my favorites) , Goldeen, Ponyta, Chansey, 
 Clefairy, Pikachu, Snorlax (My very favourite) , Marill, the obnouxious Tentacool, and some others 
 if i forgot. These are those only from nationaldex and it includes their evolutions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEITH1437
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, this may be my first super hard attempt at a review. I hope you agree that this game kicks 
 butt! :)
  
  Story: The story is similar to most other pokemon games. You start out at in a sleepy little village 
 with only your mom and your pokemon by your side. You are sent on a journey to Catch 'em all Along 
 the way you meet new trainers, get to new cities, level up and evolve your pokemon, and earn gym 
 badges. You must obtain all badges before you're allowed to face the toughest of the tough, The 
 Elite Four. This is basically been the story in all the pokemon games. As usually you have the 
 bad guys who just want to mess up everything and, in this game, destroy the universe. The bad guys 
 in this pokemon game are Team Galactic . They want to use Dialga/Palkia to destroy the universe, 
 thus, being able to create their own universe. After beating The Elite Four, you go to that island 
 that you were probably wondering what that was? You also get to find new pokemon that you can only 
 find after you obtain the National Dex . Gameplay: Once you obtain your Pokemon and get into a 
 battle, you are presented with a nice battle screen where you can either use the touch screen or 
 the D-Pad to choose the attacks you want your pokemon to perform. This is great and smoothe and 
 feels very natural. When you're walking the world you use the D-Pad to move and A to talk to people.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are basic 2-D and at time you notice that the buildings look three-dimensional 
 so there basically the same as ruby and sapphire. The battle screen is improved, the pokemon now 
 move when you see them in battle. That's about it for graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is everything you expect from a high quality pokemon game, it's awesome! The pokemon 
 voices have been recycled from previous games but it just give alot of nostalgia.
  
  Online Multiplayer: Online is very robust and has a very good feel to it. You can do GTS (Global 
 Trading System) and put your Pokemon up for trade online and you specifically pick what pokemon 
 you want for it. There is also an option of trading online with friends over nintendo Wi-Fi, unfortunately 
 the only problem is you both need to enter each other's friend code to play together. You can also 
 battle people in a number of events, normal battle, double battle, and level 100 battles. It is 
 good for what you would expect from nintendo. The best feature though is using the microphone to 
 actually talk to your opponents. This is awesome so that when you beat someone you can rub it in 
 their face. If you didn't have to enter friend codes, this would be the best game on DS in terms 
 of online. Overall Summary: This game in my opinion is one of if not the best game on the Nintendo 
 DS. I highly recommend you pick it up if you own a DS. That is why I give Pokemon Diamond/Pearl 
 9.9/10
  
  See you all next time! :D (took me two hours to write this review!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawg_2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this game has to be the best in the Pokemon series. Starting with the storyline, it's kind 
 of the same as the others, but huge changes like Team Galactic's plan to change the world and such. 
 And the music. MAN it's so awesome, it's easy on the ears, and I just love, love, love the music 
 when you battle a legendary (Giratina, Heatran, etc) . There's now 493 Pokemon to catch, so it's 
 a long, yet fufilling challenge (490 unless you hax0r) . And the graphics are really nice. The buildings 
 are 3D, and it looks really cool. It's just a really fun game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erlachu2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  It's everything I've loved about pokemon in the past years with a fresh coat of paint. You still 
 follow the same adventure storyline of a kid who stumbles upon a professor who gives you a pokemon 
 and battle the many gym leaders to finally defeat the elite 4. If you've never played a pokemon 
 game, now is the time to start. The battle system is very easy to understand but you can really 
 go in depth to create devastating pokemon combinations in your party. Even the pokemon you find 
 very early on in the game are useful endgame. (I've beaten my friend's team of legendary pokemon 
 with a team of starter pokemon) . You're free to express your style of play by the pokemon you choose, 
 making it very fun to show off your team in a battle. Trading is very easy and convenient. You 
 can trade with friends on local Wi-Fi, online with friends over Wi-Fi, or you can put a pokemon 
 up for auction in which you set which pokemon of which gender and level you want in return for 
 your auctioned pokemon. It will remain on auction on a dedicated server until someone makes the 
 trade. You simply log back into to the auction service to receive the traded pokemon. There are 
 many other simple things you can do with friends, like an underground cavern in which you steal 
 flags from the other's base and dig for treasure. The game now has a few 3D models which make it 
 look fresh, despite the fact that most of it is 2D. The only real downfall of this game is that 
 many of the sounds are recycled from the very first pokemon games. This isn't so bad, though, as 
 it brings back good memories, but it still seems a bit lazy. Overall, it's a fun game with many, 
 many hours of game play. If you don't have this game, get dressed, go to the store, and buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBlade753
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo and Game Freak are back again with their 4th generation Pokemon game. This is the first 
 proper Pokemon game on the DS after a storm of mediocre spin-offs. Diamond/Pearl is here to continue 
 the epic Pokemon franchise. The start of your adventure begins with you picking your gender and 
 naming your little adventurer. Then you get a grand speech from the genius professor of the land.
 
  
  Thus your epic journey begins. You will begin to explore the rich and expansive with the new pseudo 
 3-D graphics which maintains the classic 2-D look while going 3-D. This new graphics style is similar 
 to older console games with the half 3-D half 2-D graphics. With this new game on the DS, Pokemon 
 Diamond/Pearl brings a two new features one of which is called the PokeTech. These are small features 
 that range from a watch to a calculator. These features are mostly mundane features that do not 
 have any real significance on your journey.
  
  The other new feature is not really all that new. Instead of using the face buttons to battle you 
 have the option to use the touch screen. This seems fine in the beginning, but as time goes on 
 you will probably revert back to using the face buttons.
  
  As you progress through your adventure you will build a team of diverse Pokemon, with over 100 
 new additions to the Pokemon universe, which you will use to battle trainers and gym leaders which 
 are littered across the Shinnoh region. The adventure will lead you to towns where you battle the 
 trainer or do the little story event and move on to the next town. You will eventually make your 
 way to the Elite Four which are the top of the top in terms of the Pokemon trainers. After you 
 defeat them is where you think the game would end however, there is still much to do afterward. 
 You can explore the Underground using the Explorer Kit. While underground you can meet with friends 
 and play some fun mini-games and dig up treasure and you can make your Secret Base which is your 
 little house underground.
  
  Also, there is a new edition to the Pokemon franchise, Online Play. You can battle or train against 
 others all around the world. This new feature adds a new dynamic to the game play. There is always 
 someone online to play against and this new feature is good for finding that last Pokemon that 
 you cant quite get. That is yet another thing you can spend your time doing. During the course 
 of your adventures there is very little chance that you will have collected everything there is 
 to see. Some go insane finding that last Pikachu while others quit because there are just too many, 
 why try?
  
  In the end, this is the same Pokemon game that you have played before with subtle refinements to 
 the classic Pokemon-RPG formula. This is a great place to start for new fans to begin and is also 
 a refined adventure for Pokemon veterans. So get your Pikachu doll and begin yet another quest 
 in the land of Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I like most people jumped of the pokemon band wagon. It just got to crazy and everything was the 
 same, the games, cards, T. V. shows etc. That was 8 years ago, now I picked up this game not wanting 
 to actually get stuck playing crap. Pokemon diamond is actually the best in the series. The total 
 of pokemon is 480, so their are quite a few pokemon to capture. Since this is a DS game the graphics 
 are okay, but they actually integrate 3-D into 2-D. The battle system is the same except for the 
 tag battles. Music in the game is quite good and they pull of all the visuals for the different 
 types of moves available to the pokemons. So this game is pretty good go out and check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's extremely popular Pokemon series has been around for a decade now, and in that time 
 there have been about 13 traditional Pokemon RPG's on the Gameboy/Gameboy Advance and now the Nintendo 
 DS. The 12th and 13th games, Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl are the first to grace the Nintendo 
 DS, the first to have Wi-Fi support and as a result, the deepest, longest and best game (s) in the 
 series.
  
  The game follows a nearly identical formula to the previous Pokemon games. Your a young Pokemon 
 trainer who aspires to become a Pokemon Master. When the game begins, you'll meet your Rival and 
 Dr. Rowan. Dr. Rowan will of coarse let you choose 1 of 3 Pokemon to start your quest with, and 
 of course, your rival will chose a Pokemon too. Anyone who's played a Pokemon game before should 
 be familiar with how this works out. The game also features Team Galaxy, basically what Team Rocket 
 was to Pokemon Red and Blue and of coarse, it'll eventually be up to you to foil their evil plans. 
 Sound familiar? If you've played through a Pokemon game before it probably should.
  
  As a matter of fact, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl feature the same core gameplay featured in previous 
 Pokemon titles, so anyone who has played a Pokemon game will know exactly what to expect. There 
 have, however been some fundamental changes to the games battle system, that may seem insignificant, 
 but can actually make a big difference during some of the tougher battles during the game.
  
  As with before, Pokemon battles are still turn based battles where the two Pokemon will attack 
 each other until the other loses all of its HP. And of coarse, the Pokemon's strengths and weakness' 
 will play a big part of how the battle turns out (for example, attacking a fire type Pokemon with 
 a water type move will do 2x the attacks normal damage, but if you attack a water Pokemon with 
 a fire attack, it will only do 0.5x its normal damage) . But now Pokemon attacks have been split 
 up into two different kinds of attacks - physical and special. Basically, as you level up your 
 Pokemon, they gain stats (Pokemon stats include HP, Strength, Defence, Speed, Special Attack, Special 
 Defence) . You'll notice that most Pokemon will have a significant difference in 'Attack' and 'Special 
 Attack' stats. This is where the two different kinds of attacks come into play. Before, suppose 
 you used an fighting type move, the game would automatically consider that a physical attack (and 
 therefore the Pokemon's 'attack' stat would influence the amount of damage done by the attack) , 
 but now that there are two types of attacks, some fighting type moves are classified as 'special' 
 attacks (and in that case, the Pokemon's 'special attack' stat influences the amount of damage 
 done) . Additionally if a Pokemon uses an attack which is the same type as the Pokemon (e. g., a 
 fire type Pokemon using a fire type move) , the attack will get an additional boost of power.
  
  These seemingly small changes can make a surprisingly big difference during some of the harder 
 battles in the game (such as the Elite Four) and especially when fighting online against other 
 people.
  
  Speaking of battling online, for those who don't know, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the first 
 Pokemon games to feature full Wi-Fi support, allowing you to trade and battle against other Pokemon 
 players all around the world. The trading comes in handy especially if your planning on collecting 
 all of the 493 Pokemon (actually, its nearly impossible to collect them all without a cheat device 
 or Wi-Fi support) . But trading online isn't quite as effective as you'd think. Not because of any 
 technical flaw of the game, but you'll find that if you search for a Pokemon, most of the people 
 that have it want a level 100 legendary Pokemon or something like that for it, which can really 
 get annoying.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are easily two of the best looking games on the Nintendo DS. They don't 
 push the DS hardware in any way, but the stylized graphics style combine with the amazingly vibrant 
 and colourful colour palette in the game to create a really nice looking game. You'll also notice 
 that buildings and other solid structures are polygonal which actually adds a lot to the games 
 presentation. It helps make the game not look as flat as its GBA predecessors.
  
  Similarly, the audio in the game is nicely varied and generally has a nice sound to it. You'll 
 notice that different areas, towns and even some Pokemon battles have different sound track behind 
 them. The audio is however, hampered by the sounds the Pokemon make, which sound ugly (if that 
 makes sense) and really... not Pokemon like. Still, overall the sound compliments the graphic style 
 pretty nicely.
  
  If your expecting to collect all 493 Pokemon, complete all the side quests and unlock everything 
 there is to unlock, plan to at least spend about 220 hours in this game. There is a startling amount 
 of things to do in this game. Apart from capturing all the Pokemon, there are Pokemon contests 
 for you to take part in, items to unlock, berries to find (which help out with the contests) ect.
 
  
  So overall, if you've played a Pokemon game before and liked it, theres pretty much no way for 
 you to not enjoy Pokemon Diamond or Pokemon Pearl. The series core gameplay remains the same, but 
 with enough changes to it to make it interesting enough for long time players to come back to. 
 If you've never played a Pokemon game before, no matter how old you are, as long as you don't hate 
 RPG games or something, you should play this game, there is a reason Pokemon games are the 2nd 
 highest selling games of all time after all y'know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  what more can i say? pokemon diamond is one of the best pokemon rpg
  games in the series if your new to the pokemon series no worrys this game will teach you
  about 
 pokemon along the way, new features wifi enabled new pokemon
  great fun
  
  the good: loads of stuff to do new things new pokemon look good wifi
  
  the bad: cant battle 
 random trainers, battling can be easy sometimes,
  should have upgraded old features in previous games more
  like the contests barely any stylus 
 use should have been more 3d
  
  doesnt matter if your a kid adult, boy girl, or pokenerd
  pokemon diamond will deliver fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjata123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The first RPG installment of Pokemon on the Nintendo DS. Of course your a brand new trainer getting 
 ready for your Pokemon Adventure, just like all the other Pokemon RPGs one the recent GBA and GBC/GB. 
 Unlike the others theres a lot more Pokemon, 493 to be exact. Your first task is to complete the 
 Sinnoh Dex, in the process you start Gym Battles, and the Elite Four also. After the Sinnoh Dex 
 is completed you new task is to complete the massive National Dex containing all 493 Pokemon from 
 every region, Kanto, Johto, Hoenn, and of course Sinnoh. Once you complete the area where the Battle 
 Tower is, the game starts getting a little boring to some, for me it did. Of course theres the 
 Nintendo Wi-fi Connection, where you can battle trainers worldwide, but its won't keep you hooked 
 to the game much. Pokemon Diamond and Pearls graphics are much more improved than the Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald. 
 I do recommend this game, but don't try to finish it all in like a few days, it would seem like 
 a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangi
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  i enjoyed playing old pokemon games when i was a kid.
  i thought i was going to enjoy playing it but i guess i'm too old for pokemon games now.. i find 
 this game boring.. a total rip off for me.. but i still finished it just for the sake of my money 
 that has been spent for it... T_T.. i'm selling it online.. ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... 
 ..... ..... ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyh23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon follows the same basic formula from the original games: You go around catch your cute little 
 killing machines, and have them fight each other until one is knocked out. It's really the same 
 game as the others, except it has a longer storyline, and it makes some uses of the touch screen.
 
  
  So as usual you are a new Pokemon Trainer trying to rise to the top and become a Pokemon Master. 
 But before you get your Pokemon you get invited by your best friend to look for an extremely rare 
 pokemon in the lake not very far away from where you live. At the lake you see a Pokemon Professor 
 and his assistant, who's gender depends on what gender your character is which is chosen at the 
 start of the game. So the Professor leaves and leaves behind a suitcase which contains three pokeballs. 
 As you and your friend approach the suitcase a wild group of pokemon attack you and your friend. 
 This is where the action starts.
  
  You and your friend reach into the suitcase and grab a Pokeball. Each Pokeball contains one of 
 three starter Pokemon; Turtwig, the grass type, Chimchar, the fire type and Piplup, the water type. 
 After you and your friend use the Pokemon the Professor's assistant finds you and takes you to 
 the lab where the Pokemon Professor is located. After that the Professor sends you off on a journey 
 to get data about each and every pokemon in the region. He also tells you to collect Gym Badges 
 from the Gym Leaders, powerful trainers who specialise in one type of Pokemon. Once you beat all 
 eight Gym Leaders you can fight in the Pokemon League against the Elite Four. That's about all 
 I can tell you without severely spoiling the story. The gameplay has evolved, giving multiple hours 
 of playtime, new areas to explore, new Pokemon, and new Pokemon moves. But the battle system really 
 has not changed at all. The only two differences in the battle system, is how you control your 
 attacks with the touch screen, and how special attacks are seperated from physical attacks.
  
  The best improvement from the old games to this game is online battles using Nintendo WiFi 
 Connection, which really does add to the gameplay. The only bad part about the WiFi battles is 
 the friend code factor; a twelve digit code that you and the person you're battling/trading with, 
 which gets really annoying having to type in someones code online.
  
  After you've completed your data on every Pokemon in the region you are able to transfer your original 
 Pokemon from the past games via Dual Slot, so you do't have to say goodbye to your old critters 
 from the older games.
  
  I really recomend that you get this game if you are looking for a good RPG on the DS, or if you're 
 a complete Pokemaniac. It's a nice solid RPG with loads of play time and kid-friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: As far as gameplay goes.. its about the same as the other pokemon games but with more 
 features. I found myself stopping game progression to farm berries and make puffins, which why 
 it took me so long to finish the game. I really enjoyed my experience and now i plan to catch them 
 all! Im playin FireRed and Emerald, and going to get Leafgreen so i can have them all!!! The WiFi 
 works great and really helps the franchise go where it needed to go. Score: 9
  
  Graphics: The game looks great i love the sprite details. The Battle animations are nice and colorful 
 which is what alot of the other games didn't have. Different sprites for Female and Male Pokemon 
 is a really looked over feature. The berries look great (Ima berry farmer! ^_^) too. Score: 10
 
  
  Sound: The sounds really remind me of the older pokemon games... sometimes a little to much. Alot 
 of the sounds from the older games are re-used in Diamond/Pearl. I think they could have made some 
 new sounds. I found myself playin in mute with my own soundtrack in the background most of the 
 time. Score: 8
  
  Value: $35!!! perfect and well worth every penny! This is a must buy for every pokemon fan and 
 DS owner! I got it on launch day and haven't missed one day of playing it. If you haven't played 
 it now... stop reading and go get your copy now! Im going to go buy pearl later so i can get every 
 pokemon. Score: 10
  
  Tilt: I really like Diamond/Pearl I like what Nintendo did with the game and can't wait to see 
 Battle Revolution.. I might get a Wii if its good enough and has what i want. The WiFi is a great 
 feature and gives the game alot of replay value. Buy this game... enough said...
  Score: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto-10001
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  this game was good best in series r e y h s gf k h e f g h u f h f h f l h g s flg h s f l hf h 
 l h g lf l g h s f g h l s a l g h s a h l s a g h l a s g h l s a h l a d s g h l d h l a h l 
 a d hh f h f g h kls a l h k a d s h k l d s a l h k g d s  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camh91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This Poemon game dares to compare with the Orignial classics :]
  It has got to be the most creative one of them all. it is ectremly interactive with the whole touchpad 
 feature on the DS. It is great there are tons of new pokemon and in this game you can get every 
 single pokeon that there ever was. Which means there are 493 of the guys to pick from. That is 
 great to me, and there are all new berrys and all new TM's and HM's. The game story is stil beat 
 the gytms and become champion, but come on who doestn love doing that? :]
  Well overall id have to say that this Pokemon game is just absolutely addicting, if you bored and 
 wanna waste weeks, go for it! ANd its better than pearl, because diamonds are just cool hhah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyKingz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl add an extensive amount of new features, such as Internet play 
 over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, while building on older game concepts such as Pok&eacute; mon 
 Contests. Set in the fictional region of Sinnoh, the games cover the adventure of a single protagonist 
 embarking on a quest to capture and train Pok&eacute; mon while simultaneously thwarting the agenda 
 of the criminal organization Team Galactic. The Main Characters in this game are Dawn and Yourself. The 
 gameplay of Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl is very similar to that of previous Pok&eacute; mon 
 role-playing games, with several changes and additions.
  
  In previous generations, Pok&eacute; mon attacks were deemed physical or special based on their 
 type (for example, all Fire type moves were special and all Ground type moves were physical) . Starting 
 with Diamond and Pearl, moves are now catergorized into three groups based on how they are executed. Examples 
 of this include the move Fire Punch now being Physical, Gust being Special, and moves that do no 
 damage are now in a new group called Status.
  
  Pok&eacute; mon Contests, events where ones Pok&eacute; mon compete in a show of sorts to win ribbons, 
 return from Pok&eacute; mon Ruby and Sapphire as Super Contests, with similarities and differences. 
 Super Contests consist of three rounds. In the Visual Judgment round, players utilize the Nintendo 
 DSs stylus to place accessories and objects on their Pok&eacute; mon to appeal to a particular 
 trait, such as Cool or Cute, and earn points. In the Dance Judgment round, Pok&eacute; mon compete 
 with opponents in a test of rhythm and balance. The final round, Performance Judgment, is identical 
 in premise to Pok&eacute; mon Contests of the third generation of games; Pok&eacute; mon use their 
 techniques strategically to appeal to the judges and crowd. Assuming the same role as Pok&eacute; blocks 
 in the third generation, baked goods called Poffins can be made through use of the touchscreen 
 and fed to Pok&eacute; mon in order to increase certain traits and, consequently, the likelihood 
 of success in a relevant Contest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnikh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  JUST, if you like RPG don't miss this wonderful game ~_^
  
  because you can have more than 200 Pokemons. Besides,
  
  you will see changes when you are 
 playing this game at morning
  
  or at night ^_^ it has 2D graphics but with few 3D and some shots!
  
  --- --- --- --- --- --- 
 --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
  
  Somethings that I didn't like in this game:
  
  1- As before ONLY 4 Skills that you can keep 
 in your Pokemon!
  
  2- There are few strong Pokemons shape. --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- 
 --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
  
  In brief, another EXCELLENT game from NINTENDO ^^ Congratulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewruler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and pearl is a fun sequel with new fun arrangements. Some of these include addictive 
 game play, improved out of battle graphics, 107 new Pokemon, new moves, items, and abilities . 
 My favorite new feature is the pal park. Pal park is where you can transfer your creatures from 
 fire red, leaf green, ruby, Sapphire, and emerald into diamond or pearl. This is like a safari 
 place where you send your Pokemon through the main menu and search and find them in certain terrain. 
 You use 100% capture rate poke balls called park balls. The other great new feature is wi-fi. you 
 can be on a vacation in Europe and your friend is back in the U. S. and you can still trade, battle, 
 and mix records. All you need to do is get a wi fi connection and exchange friend codes and have 
 fun all day long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyisnumber1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  If you are a pokemon lover than this is a must buy! If you are new to the pokemon universe, never 
 fear the gameplay is pretty easy to pick up given an hour or so to learn. Ok...
  
  Cons: 1. Same old story line.
  2. Touch screen is hardly nessasary.
  
  Pros:
  1. You no longer 
 have to catch the pokemon for it to count in your pokedex, just looking at it is enough for the 
 Professor!
  2. The multiplyer is awesome.
  3. The graphics are much better.
  4. Over 100 new pokemon.
  5. Will be compatable with the new pokemon Wii game
  6. okay there are 
 Alot of pros!
  BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanop33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is a great game, but for some reason, the classic isn't classical anymore. There is something 
 missing about this game. Though it is great, with 107 new Pokemon and sort of a messy mix of the 
 past games, I can't say it is the best. To be honest, I liked the third gen better due to it's 
 'classical' style. Just the right time and just the right plot. The 4th gen was sort a disappointment 
 due to it's repeat of plot : (. The graphics (to me) makes the game boring after, like 8 hours of 
 gameplay. Still, this game is one of the best in RPG's but definitely not in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camreeno360
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Emerald isn't a largely surprising next generation for the Pokemon games and probably the 
 biggest differences you'd find are Wi-Fi, 3-D environments, and tweaked battle animations. Still 
 a fun game but not a huge blast for a new Pokemon game, while still great.
  
  If you've played previous games you'd know how the game plays.... Get your starter Pokemon, get 
 stronger, battle gyms, unlock areas, become the best.. etc. But it seems they're been pretty lazy 
 at Gamefreak lately because without the main changes made, it probably would be a clone of the 
 last games. Gameplay had a few improvements and like I said, some animation tweaks. Such as: some 
 light coming out when you throw your pokemon out, all new attack animations unlike the constantly 
 recycles last ones (great change!) . So it doesn't look exactly the same when you used say thunder 
 wave or water gun from the last games. This part really takes advantage of the DS graphics power 
 as far as that can go. There isn't any real touch screen features aside from picking your attacks 
 with your thumb (or with the d-pad) . What I like was how they display the attack type next to the 
 attack, therefore you don't have to keep looking at your Pokemon summary to remember stuff about 
 the attack. Another thing that kept the same was the traditional moves you get to get to new areas, 
 like Cut , Rock Climb etc. and kind of felt predictable. A tree. Maybe a Pokemon can cut this down 
 ... Well gee we know! If you're familiar with that stuff don't be surprised. Using Rock Climb to 
 get up cliffs is pretty fun though. The sound improved but not drastically. You have the same little 
 tune it plays when you start a gym leader battle or while pokemon encounter, but just a little 
 clearer and DS-ish sounding. Most of the sound unsurprisingly sounds like a GBA game but just a 
 little better. Just enough changed here to not feel cheated on. It sounds pretty good for the most 
 part. The graphics improved mostly on the attack animations and the 3-D environments, both huge 
 changes I've been waiting for forever! It's really an easing thing to see buildings going into 
 the sky, and cities feel really city-ish instead of what the previous games did when felt like 
 pieces of paper for buildings. Great change. Some Minor annoyances you'd find in Pokemon Diamond 
 have to be the useless dialogue and text you have to click through for useless things... and annoying 
 pokemon encounters way too often. They at least could have let you choose to skip a lot of it with 
 an option in the menu. Welcome to the Pokemon Center. We'll take your Pokemon . Ever got tired 
 of that? Oh well, not hell but it's always kind of kept it off pace and annoying. Kind of like 
 watching a movie with subtitles in English when you already know English. (yeah strange analogy) . 
 They thing I'd like changes was the frequent wild pokemon... The little tune plays, you send our 
 your pokemon, you run away... I've always wished they'd make it a little less often and and it takes 
 about 20 second to get through a whole encounter, especially annoying in caves. Altogether I'd 
 like the Pokemon games to take more chances and experiment with new things, but with Diamond and 
 Pearl it seems they didn't this time and went with the flow and stuck with everything from before. 
 Still the same great formula though. Get the game. You'll pack loads of hours and it's pretty rewarding 
 with the variety to the game. What else can I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblem_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  The Pokemon games over these year has been the most simplistic, yet fun RPG's to date!!! I am surprise 
 that this version (including Pearl) return its charm over the past Pokemon games!!! You would never 
 thought that GameFreaks added online to it in order to catch all 493 types of Pokemon in the Pokemon 
 Universe. Another interesting feature is that you can also upload your Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, 
 FireRed, and LeafGreen Pokemon to today's Diamond and Pearl games!!!
  
  Graphics-8 The graphics in the game are basically the same art style from the GBA pokemon games, 
 but this time it's full render in 3-D, but the only negative is that the frame rate isn't as smooth 
 as past Pokemon games
  
  Gameplay-9 The same as every pokemon game, collection gym badges and go to the pokemon league or 
 go to a pokemon contest and make your pokemon be stylish. But more has been added such as an underground 
 mode where you can link up to 32 people locally and place traps and find burried treasure such 
 as a pokemon's fossil. The Real-time feature is back, and finally you can easily evolve Eevee into 
 Espeon or Umbreon!!!
  
  Sound-9 The music in the game fits very well overall with each city having there own sound track. 
 The original 251 pokemon still has there cry's the same, but it brings back the original feeling 
 of the past pokemon games to present
  
  Value-10 Now there is more Pokemon than before, but this time you can trade world wide and trade 
 as many as you like in order to be the No.1 pokemon master!!! Now you can register your friend's 
 friendcode in order to battle online!!!
  
  Overall-9 If you love the original games, then you'll love this game since it brings a lot of essence 
 of the past games to present!!! I garentee that you won't be dissappointed with this title if you 
 only played the original ones!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighaben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Under everything new this game has to offer, 3d-buildings, new Pokemon, new moves, evolutions, 
 things to do, a stronger EV and Base Stat system, it is still a Pokemon game. Easy for the young 
 to pick up and play through, and easy for the seasoned pros to build mega teams, through complex 
 strategies to build absolutely devastating forces.
  
  First, this game is much longer, I believe you'll spend twice as much time on this main quest as 
 the others. This is good, because the DS lacks games that'll drag you in for so long. While on 
 that, most systems lack games that pull you in this long. You'll probably spend a good 100 hours 
 on this game before putting it down. There is much to do before and after the Elite four, and a 
 easier National Pokedex allows you to experience many more things!
  
  The graphical update is small, the 3d-buildings really look like paper cut outs standing up. There 
 is some more color. However the coolest improvement is too the moves, as many of the later moves 
 are really just cool looking.
  
  While still a great game, in the end it is still a Pokemon game. You'll find yourself, leveling 
 up creatures, battling a strikingly predictable set of gym leaders. Avoiding battles, spending 
 hours and hours running in circles to level creatures up. If you go to fast you will be destroyed. 
 And the battle system is still way to random for its own good. In the end, this is a must buy for 
 any DS owner looking for a few hundred hours of game play through the summer slump. Pick it up.
 
  
  Update: Now that I've completed the game, got the nation pokedex, and have started breeding my 
 pokemon the game just offered so much more then I thought it would. This game is the only other 
 game that I have ever put 200 hours into other then Elder Scrolls games. Training your pokemon 
 right, and making them battle worthy on Wi-Fi will waste hours of your life, and while extremely 
 tedious is very addicting, hard, and above all fun. Until you get creamed by someone who has spent 
 twice as much time as you making the absolute perfect team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Pokemon since day 1, and I will not lie...2nd Generation was definately the 
 best. When Ruby was released I was pleasantly surprised while completely dissapointed at the same 
 time. My complaints on this game are far less, read on.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : If it ain't broke, don't try to fix it. Game Freak stuck to this formula for the 
 most part and it does this game justice. The basic fun is still there. You choose from 3 pokemon 
 as your starter and then amongst 150 different Pokemon you are able to choose from you must create 
 a good team to face and defeat the Champion with. Of course there is some actual story that goes 
 along with whatever cartridge you bought (Pearl is about the dimension bending Palkia and Diamond 
 is about the time controlling Dialga) , but Pokemon still lacks in the story department. I will 
 not lie, the story is MUCH better than previous installments and there are times when you will 
 be immensely interested, but over-all the story just leaves you wanting more, and only tickles 
 your taste buds.
  
  Still, it is a big step for the series and I liked it, made things more interesting. The collecting 
 aspect is still there and with 493 Pokemon to collect now, there are plenty of choices and trading 
 to be had here. The dialogue is well done and oftentimes you will be given the freedom to take 
 multiple paths and to get to the same area and may not even realize it until later. This game also 
 doesn't hold your hand as much as far as figuring out where to go, as past games in the series 
 do. That is good because it allows you to feel more in control, which is really what these games 
 are all about. They are meant to make you feel like you are a Pokemon trainer trying to become 
 the best and this generation does a great job of this.
  
  There are all sorts of events brought back from the first 3 generations, like the contests from 
 3rd, time-based events from 2nd, and most everything from 1st. My main issue was that the time-based 
 events, though there, are not nearly as interesting as Gold/Silver's were, but the day/night system 
 does look nice. Overall you are still playing the same game as before, but the addition of the 
 new Pokemon (I don't know how they are STILL able to be so creative and make such interesting Pokemon 
 after all this time) and the Wi-Fi options make this game a very pleasant sequel to the series.
 
  
  Another thing that bothers me that is worth mentioning though, is that they could at least make 
 your starter follow you around, like Yellow version's Pikachu. There is an area where you can walk 
 around with a select few 'cute' Pokemon, which is obviously an homage to Yellow, but it just isn't 
 acceptable anymore. With all the power they wasted that could have been used with the DS, they 
 could have AT LEAST allowed your starter to follow you around. I should also add that there are 
 a bunch of new features, like double wild-battles and partnering with NPCs in certain areas... not 
 to mention the overall better interface. There are also these little applications which show up 
 on the lower screen. There are over 10 of them and each of them is fairly useful in its own right 
 (I specially like the clock) . This isn't a good balance of old and new, but there is just enough 
 new to make the game feel fairly fresh.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Overall this game does not really make full use of the DS. The overworld actually 
 looks pretty acceptable, being full of vibrant colors and nice use of 3D and 2D integration. The 
 battles still look almost the same and are dissapointingly underwhelming, though many of the attacks 
 look a lot better than they used to. A lot of the Pokemon animations a merely the Pokemon shaking 
 back and forth, and they could have been a bit more creative with that, though I am glad the animations 
 is now standard, and not a special edition exclusive (previously only in Crystal and Emerald) . 
 Still, this series has always been about being vivid and simple, and this game is in no way different. 
 You don't really notice how much better the graphics are until you actually play one of the GBA 
 games again. Even though this game does not make full use of the DS hardware, it DOES look significantly 
 better than the 3rd generation.
  
  Sound (9/10) : This is the largest noticeable improvement. The sound effects of Pokemon and stuff 
 are still mediocre to laughably horrible, but the music really shines in this game. It still sounds 
 almost GBA quality, but they managed to make a much wider array of tunes and they all sound magnificent. 
 I especially enjoy the music that plays when fighting a Legendary, fighting Palkia/Dialga and fighting 
 the Champion. Kudos to the composer for doing it right this time.
  
  Value (10/10) : Like every Pokemon game, most downfalls are made up for by replay value. First of 
 all there is a lot to do in the game itself, with around 50 hours of just the campaign... and then 
 there is all the capturing and team building you can do. There is also quite a bit to do after 
 you 'beat the game' (meaning become the Champion) which is nice, something many RPGs seem to lack. 
 There is also the Battle Tower which is a nice challenge, and you can even transfer data from champions 
 around the world to try to compete with. Speaking of around the world, the Wi-Fi in this game finally 
 makes this series as community based as it was always meant to be.
  
  You can use the GTS system to put up a Pokemon for trade and then ask for a certain Pokemon in 
 return. You can check the GTS regularly to see if you got what you wanted and you can also seek 
 for others who wish to trade. Granted, most of the time when you seek people ask for ridiculous 
 offers (imagine being asked to trade a Mew for a Rattata) , but for some reason when YOU put up 
 an offer, I find that you usually get what you want within 4 days (at least that is how it has 
 been for me) . There is also the Wi-Fi battle and trades you can do with others, which is loads 
 of fun. There is even a new function that automatically raised your pokemon to level 50 or 100 
 so you could just give them the moves they need then use this option to make the playing field 
 even. The friend code problem still exists, but thanks to the internet, it isn't that hard to find 
 somebody to battle or trade with (see GameFAQs) .
  
  There is more though. As far as local wireless goes, you can mix poffins (same as Pokeblocks) , 
 battle, trade and mix records like in past games. The Union Room makes a return with some more 
 useful functions and you can even customize your look to suit your style so that you aren't always 
 the generic male or female trainer. The options aren't too diverse, but it is much more than there 
 used to be, which was none. There is one new wireless function that stands out though, and that 
 is the Underground. This is a complete maze-like map that is as large as the overworld, and down 
 there you can do digging for all sorts of rare items by yourself or with friends. On top of that, 
 this is where you can put your Secret Base. There is an added funness to the Secret Bases though: 
 Capture the Flag. You can now go to other peoples' bases and steal their flag to put in yours. 
 It isn't nearly as fun as CTF in say Quake III, but it is a very nice and pleasant distraction 
 to the rest of the game, not to mention immensely fun when you have 3 or more people to do it with. 
 It is unfortunate that this function is only wireless and not Wi-fi, but it is still fun.
  
  I didn't know where else to put this, but I wanted to mention the touch screen before I said 
 any final thoughts I had. The use is very minimal. You use it for digging in the Underground and 
 for Poffin making, not much else. You can direct battles with the touch screen or buttons, otherwise 
 there isn't much real use for it. I will say that the usage seems to be there more for convenience, 
 and at least it isn't overused or used in boring or lame ways, so there isn't much to complain 
 about there. I don't see how the touch screen could have been used effectively anyway. There is 
 one last complaint though: and that is migrating Pokemon from the GBA games. It is simple and painless, 
 but you can only do 6 per day, and that is immensely annoying, but at least you CAN do so.
  
  That being said, this game is truly a shining star in the Pokemon franchise. It gets almost 
 everything right that it had wronged in the past, and manages to throw in a decent amount of new. 
 The addition of Wi-fi and the cool new Pokemon is a HUGE plus. The game looks pretty good, sounds 
 great, plays great, and is best where it is meant to be best: with friends. Even if you don't have 
 Wi-Fi and friends with this game, you will find around 50 hours of fun to be had from this game, 
 which is a good amount. Last point to mention is that now, with Wi-Fi, we may finally be able to 
 acquire those special event-only legendaries that we couldn't get in the past since they were focused 
 to 3-4 places in the world.
  
  So should you buy it? Definately. This is a great place for new players to begin and will not dissapoint 
 veteran players either. There is a reason why the Pokemon franchise is the best selling video game 
 franchise of all time (next to Mario of course) . Definately buy this. Enjoy.
  
  *NOTE* Version differences are minimal, so I am merely going to copy and paste my review for Pearl 
 to Diamond. Also worth mentioning is that with the GTS system, it is MUCH easier to get those exclusives 
 that could be difficult to get in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioDude1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Thank you, Nintendo. Thank you for not dumping Game Freak again. Thank you for keeping my love 
 for Pokemon alive. And mostly, thank you for making this flipping awesome game! While it is not 
 perfect, it is definitely a great game that should be a role model for other Pokemon (And RPG) 
 games. Although the core game is the same as every other Pokemon game, there have been a lot of 
 nice changes. The Underground, probably the best one, allows you to go into a underground labyrinth, 
 make a secret base inside, and set traps to stop other people from taking your flags, tools necessary 
 to make renovations on your base. There is also an E-bay style trading system that uses the Wi-Fi, 
 which makes catching all the Pokemon in the game a lot easier. Otherwise, the game is the exact 
 same as the other games, right down to the plot. If you're a veteran trainer looking for something 
 new, get Pokemon Mystery dungeon instead. Otherwise, fans and nonfans alike should be highly entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  A Diamond in the Rough 
  Yup, Pokemon is back again. Pikachu, Charmander, and the rest of the gang are back and better than 
 ever. This time around, there are 107 new species to catch, trade, battle with, whatever you'd 
 like. Pokemon Diamond is quite possibly (and more likely probably) the best of the series. Well, 
 it's by far my favorite anyway.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pokemon Diamond pushes the visual abilities of the Nintendo DS to its limits. Although the vast 
 majority of the game is rendered in 2D, there are a good amount of 3D objects (mostly buildings, 
 but other architecture is not uncommon) . Nintendo definitely put more effort into little details 
 for this generation of Pokemon.
  
  Music:
  
  Well, there's really no point batting around the bush, so I'll just come out and say it. The music 
 for this game is amazing. They've completely re-done most (if not all) of the familiar themes that 
 we've gotten used to over the years. Now, at first, you may think, WHAT? They changed the Pokemon 
 Center music?! NOOOO!!, but as soon as you hear it, you'll know that it's better. For the most 
 part, old tunes have only been sped up a little bit (well, there are an additional few notes in 
 the Pokemon Center, think beach/island kind of music) . I would seriously recommend buying a set 
 of ear phones for this game (or a DS Headset, which helps when doing voice chat on Wi-Fi, though 
 the quality isn't as good as with a set of ear phones) .
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I'm not a big fan of gimmicks. It's true, I've never been totally thrilled on the touch screen 
 (though the WiiMote is starting to grow on me) , and so the little use of the touch screen came 
 as a relief for me. For the most part, that second little monitor on the bottom of the DS is used 
 for polishing Gym badges, playing mini-games, and (optionally) choosing attacks in battle. The 
 lack of ability to use the touch screen for basically anything may or may not appeal to you, the 
 reader. I personally prefer not using it, but that's just me.
  
  Anyway, the main game is pretty much the same old, same old. You play as some random kid who gets 
 a Pokemon from the Professor, and happens to become the greatest trainer in the region (this time, 
 it's called Sinnoh) , all the while thwarting the evil crime syndicate  Team Galactic. Yeah, 
 I know, it could never happen, but it's a video game, just go along with it.
  
  Being the typical Pokemon-style RPG, you'll start out with your choice of a Fire, Grass, or Water 
 type Pokemon, quickly receive your Pokedex, and work your way up from there. Pretty soon, you'll 
 be battling other Pokemon Trainers, leveling up those little dudes in the Pokeballs, and fighting 
 Gym Leaders for their badges.
  
  Replayability:
  
  C'mon people, it's a Pokemon game, you should already know that it has near-endless replayability. 
 Pokemon Diamond has 493 Pokemon. 493. Who the moron up at Nintendo was that decided that it was 
 better to NOT make it an even 500, I'll never know. Nonetheless, there are 493 different species 
 of Pokemon. With a shiny version of each Pokemon, and new gender differences within species, that 
 number skyrockets (pardon the anime pun) . How high does it blast off again? 1,972 (it's a little 
 less because of gender-less Pokemon) . Yup, one thousand nine hundred seventy-two (again, it's a 
 little less because of gender-less Pokemon) different Pokemon forms to be collected. The amount 
 of PC Boxes in this won't even hold that many. Good luck with that.
  
  Of course, there's also the ability to access Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and battle and trade online. 
 I mean, what could be better than KOing your friend's Tyranitar with your Scizor from anywhere 
 in the world? Well, I'll tell you what. KOing your friend's Tyranitar with your Scizor from anywhere 
 in the world and being able to trash talk into the DS Microphone. Yup, Pokemon Diamond comes equipped 
 with online voice chat. Awesome, huh?
  
  Closing Remarks:
  
  Well, by now, you must be saying, Man! This game must be amazing!. You're 127.9% true. If you 
 own a Nintendo DS, make sure that you pick up this game. Even if you don't own a Nintendo DS, get 
 one and buy this game. Missing out on Pokemon Diamond (or Pokemon Pearl, but this review is for 
 Diamond) is like not getting Halo 2 if you own an Xbox - it's plain insanity. For only thirty-four 
 dollars and ninety-nine cents, you'll get hours upon hours of pleasure. I truly believe that I 
 can (honestly) say that Pokemon Diamond is in the top five games that I have every played. In closing, 
 I have just three words to say: get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erinsheats
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  ,. .,_ . . . . . . . `'-,-, \;., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . `-- \ `-. :;:;, . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \`.`-`.`.-`:;.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \.`. 
 `.`.`:`?`. . .:. . . . . . . . . . ............... . . . . . . . . \\ `'. \ `.`:??`. .%&amp;:.. 
 .  \\,.,\ `\ `:`:?`. ''' .
   `. rd;. \ `|`:??\ . .
   
 `: rd;. \ `. ,.-;
  :::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;'  `': d;.`. `v' /,.:`'
  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; 
 ,.  `\d\ `. ,;`;:;`
   ';: \ `. ':' ';;;%%&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;%;;' _.__ \ ) | |#@`.;\
 
   ,. ':. \ `. ` ,. ';;;;;;;;;;' / / /. ,|/`;!/ .
  ###########&amp;%;;. `. `-._`. \ \!\ ,. \_ / | /r. / ' ;,` . .
  ######&amp;&amp;&amp;%;' '`. 
 `. ;`: '-`.!\ `.`. ,. `-. / //r. / . .
  ##&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;%%;;' ,._ ` `. `.`. \ \!| `. `. `-.,'/ / |m. ( ........
  &amp;&amp;&amp;%%%::;;. 
 `. `' -- ..__) `. `.`.!!\ || i `. `-. _/ | /mr.|,; :.:.:.:.
  ':::::::::;. `-. `-.`-. \ \!\ \| ) \ `. `-., |/mm.// | .::::::: '::::::::::.. `-._ `-.`-.?`.`!| 
 L/?) ,.-'`.`. `;. ZZ. -- : ( .:;;;;;; ':::::::::.. `-- ..___`..`?'!?'?'-!/.-` `.`-.`. \!|,) ::;;;;;; 
 . ':::::::::..... `) ;:-;`;-`'''` `) ` \? ( ::;%%%%%% \`. '::::::' ,.`` / ( ,' ,&gt;-\  
 `.`:;.,__ ,. -- `,/ / \ .-- `---. --&lt; \| .::&amp;####&amp; `. '\ `---.... ----` ,d/ /,...,\. /|` -- ;\'`!!??,\.' 
 ::%&amp;%&amp;%&amp; . `._-`.._ ,rrnmd:/ .`; :```:;;. / // ,rd) !?,`''\ .::%%%%%%: . `. `` ---;;;:::`.` 
 .`.' ,rnd`; // ,r;` ,.; brrr.\ ::;;;;;;: .:. `-._ ,rrbyMa;` .`,` ,rriland) // ;' .` /brmnrr.\ '::;;;;;: 
 &amp;%:. .____`' -- :::;;/ ,-' (_____,.:::``) / /\//___.;._`_,`brnmmnr.\\ '::::::: %;. | .---. -----.___. --------'' -----'-' 
 `-----` _______| /@ZZ:| \___ :.:.: :: .-| |  __ /_______ 
 ,-` ...... ' |. -- ' `.@,;| `----. | |__|_ _||__| |_ / / [_/ // &lt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarator
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the best pokemon games yet.
  First of all it is wi-fi, second of all new features that accomplice more of pokemon D&amp; P than 
 any other and last but not least the fact that you can capture all the pokemon in the pokemon history. 
 It makes the game more addictive to play. Also in this game you can transfer pokemon from other 
 games, you can trade with people internationally to collect all the pokemon. The only substace 
 they are missing in this game is the ability to go to other regions and they forgot to include 
 arceus, shaymin, darkrai. Now we must get through event or trade with an owner of a japanese copy 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigcalkenobi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The latest addition to the Pokemon Franchise finally adds the online multiplayer that Pokemon has 
 always been destined to be. The game is extremely well done with the exception of the sound. The 
 gameplay as usual is still extremely addicting. Its addicting enough that I've logged over 35 hours 
 in 3 weeks. At least by my standard, thats quite a bit ( I never play handheld games this much, 
 not since the gameboy color) . The gameplay is basically the same as all the other Pokemon games 
 and even after close to a decade it still holds up quite well. The graphics are updated a bit from 
 the GBA games, but nothing too significant. The building are given a 3d feel to them and the characters 
 are slightly more detailed, but really nothing to great, nowhere near the full capacity of the 
 DS. Really I you wouldn't want to advanced graphics for the game though, otherwise you would have 
 to make everything in 3d, and then it wouldnt have the classic Pokemon feel to it. The DS also 
 uses its extra power to make some cool looking weather effects for the game. The rain, snow, and 
 fog all look really good.
  
  The next thing is the sound. The sound is still stuck in the GBC era. Some of the Pokemon still 
 sound like they do from the original game. The sound has been updated very little. The only thing 
 that sounds a little bit of an update is some of the new tracks for the game that sound pretty 
 good. You also heard some of the old tracks from the previous gmae sand they sound exactly like 
 they did in that game. So some of the classic tracks sound exactly like they are from the original 
 3, so they sound horrible, come on Nintendo we are almost a decade later and 3 generations later, 
 so now is a good time to update the classic tracks instead of reusing the exact same recording, 
 or at least thats what is sounds like.
  
  One of the high points of the game is the online gameplay for the game. You can trade and battle 
 with friends, as well as with random people and get ranking points. The system works quite efficently 
 and you don't have to use friend codes for online. Still you do have to have friend code to talk 
 to the person you are battling which is a reasonble feature to an extent, but you should really 
 have the option to talk to your random opponents. It doenst really affect the gameplay, but it 
 would be a nice feature for next go around.
  
  This game also has tons and I mean tons of gameplay value, especially if you want to fill the pokedex, 
 and if you want to do that you could spend lots of extra hours after the game to get over 400 pokemon. 
 Then you have all the legendaries to catch, not to mention the battle tower for online play after 
 you beat the game and to boost your rank. Then after you beat the elite 4 you can go down several 
 unlocked routes for more side quests. The game will take around 20-30 for the main story, after 
 that you could easily add on double that dependinfg on how much you play online and if you want 
 to perfect the game by filling up the Pokedex. To fill the Pokedex, you must uplsoad several old 
 pokemon from the other GBA games.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are solid titles. This is the first time I've actually gotten into a 
 Pokemon game since Gold/Silver games. I never liked the Ruby/ Sapphire games and didn't have a 
 chance to plar the Remakes. What really drew me to these games was the online. The online really 
 is worth it. It is a great addition and hopefully will evolve in the next-gen Pokemon. If you ever 
 thought of playing the Pokemon games again, these would be great ones to get and restart. If you 
 are looking for games to play for the DS, then this is an excellent choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  When referring to Pokemon each and every person falls into one of the following four categories: 
 The first being those that have never actually heard of Pokemon and if thats the case then give 
 yourself a sharp smack on the wrist for living in a bubble for the past twelve years. The second 
 being those who have no interest in it whatsoever and if thats the case then I dont want to keep 
 you, please take this escape rope and make your way quietly to the exit. The third being those 
 that label it as kiddy and childish and its these people who need to be double slapped by 
 a Jigglypuff because thats plain ignorance. The truth is that the Pokemon games are anything but 
 childish and probably boast more battle strategies than a grand chess master, its just a darn 
 shame that some people cannot look passed its cuteness and see it for what it really is  a full-on 
 RPG. The fourth and final group is of course the Pokemon fans themselves, the people who have been 
 eagerly awaiting the releases of both Diamond and Pearl for the best part of two years. Hoping 
 and praying that the latest additions not only live up to the mammoth classics that have gone before 
 them but surpass them by making full use of the DS and its capabilities. One thing I can tell 
 you for certain is that theyre a whole lot better than the mess that was Pokemon Ranger, the game 
 were you had to draw large rings around wild Pokemon in order to catch them. Theyre also a whole 
 lot better than those idiotic Pokemon Dungeon games in which you took on the role of one of the 
 little critters (whoever thought up that idea needs firing) .
  
  You begin your adventure in a region known as Sinnoh and just like each of the games before it 
 youre required to make a vital decision between three starting Pokemon almost immediately. Unsurprisingly 
 you have a choice between grass, fire or water and each one is pretty well balanced, although arguably 
 Piplup the penguin has a slight advantage as it evolves into a Water/Steel type and a tough one 
 at that. Soon after you bump into Professor Rowan who will give you the task of scouring the region 
 in the hopes of completing his Pokedex, this isnt necessarily as hard as it sounds but will require 
 you to uncover every single area the game has to offer. Once thats done and all 150 are logged 
 safe and sound youll then be provided with the National Dex and thats where the real challenge 
 begins, well unless you dont consider catching 493 Pokemon a challenge of course. Dont fret though 
 because if you still own a copy of Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Fire Red or Leaf Green and have it 
 placed in your GBA slot you can trade all of your hard-earned Pokemon over via Pal Park, you are 
 limited to trading just 6 a day but the good news is theres a 100% catch rate with every one you 
 encounter.
  
  Aside from your Pokedex which can take literally 100s upon 100s of hours to complete you should 
 finish the main story in around 40 hours, although most fans will tell you this is the point in 
 which the true game begins. This is the point where you start team building in the quest for ultimate 
 supremacy over your friends, just remember that finding the right balance between brute force and 
 carefully marked tactics is most definitely the key to success.
  
  Apart from a few new features the gameplay hasnt seen a radical change, probably the most notable 
 addition is the ability to battle and trade via Wi-Fi. Unfortunately though nothing can be done 
 without the use of friend codes and if you cant get your hands on them then your online experience 
 is going to be pretty limiting. The game also implements a device called a PokeTech that fills 
 the lower of your two DS screens as you play, these have several different add-ons which can be 
 used in a multitude of ways. At first you will receive pretty basic applications such as a watch 
 and a calculator but the further you progress the more useful they become, some of which include 
 a step counter to help with the breeding and the hatching of eggs, a berry map to help you keep 
 track of all your various plantations and a screen that indicates how content your party are which 
 is sure to help with those pesky happiness evolutions.
  
  The graphics do a solid enough job without ever really breaking the boundaries, yes the buildings 
 look a whole lot more impressive than they once did but thats only a small segment of what could 
 have been achieved with the hardware available. The two-dimensional grid that youre pinned to 
 just doesnt cut it anymore, neither do the cloned character models that youre repeatedly bumping 
 into around every corner. Perhaps one of the biggest disappointments for me personally though are 
 the actual battle scenes themselves, while they have been improved they still feel like theyre 
 stuck in the past.
  
  The audio also leaves a lot to be desired, the individual calls for each Pokemon were fine a decade 
 or so ago but now they feel horribly outdated, like they came from a time when Wham! were still 
 cool and slipper socks were the in thing. Thankfully the music holds steady and even though it 
 can get a tad grating after prolonged periods of play it adds to the overall feel.
  
  Despite their lack of progression Diamond and Pearl are both great games and welcome additions 
 to the Pokemon series, with potentially 100s of hours worth of Gameplay, over 100 new Pokemon 
 and the added bonus of Wi-Fi theyre not only a must for fans of the series but also DS owners 
 alike.
  
  Gameplay - Apart from a few new features the gameplay hasnt seen a radical change, probably the 
 most notable addition is the ability to battle and trade via Wi-Fi.
  
  Graphics - The graphics do a solid enough job without ever really breaking the boundaries.
  
 
  Sound - Individual calls for each Pokemon are disappointing and outdated, the music does a good 
 job but can become repetitive.
  
  Value - Aside from your Pokedex which can take literally 100s upon 100s of hours to complete 
 you should finish the main story in around 40 hours, although most fans will tell you this is the 
 point in which the true game begins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  In 1997, Nintendo released Pokemon Red/Blue for the Gameboy, and it took North America by storm, 
 with TV, movies, toys, ect. Now 10 years later, we're back with Pokemon Diamond/Pearl.
  
  The latest additions to the Pokemon library are amazing. The game play hasn't changed one bit, 
 you start with 1 Pokemon and go out to collect all 150 and become the Pokemon League Champion. 
 Now the 4th Generation of games, we've come to know 493 different Pokemon and it looks as if they're 
 not going to end there.
  
  Graphics are a huge improvement, well at least when you're walking around. The 3D look is an amazing 
 touch from going from town to town. The battles do look as if these games could have been on the 
 GBA, but the DS is a massive improvement. Even though the DS' touch-screen abilities are rarely 
 used, they are still there. You can control the battles with the screen, or just use the good old 
 D-pad.
  
  If you played the originals, or are brand new to the series, you'll still have a great time playing. 
 Especially with the GTS (Global Trade System) . Go on, trade that Pikachu for a Japanese Abra. And 
 with Wi-Fi trading, you no longer need a friend near you to trade that Haunter to evolve it to 
 Gengar.
  
  Final Word: Go out and buy this if you haven't already. It's a great addition to the DS' library 
 and you'll spend hours upon hours playing, just to try and get close to obtaining all 493 Pokemon. 
 And once Pokemon Battle Revolution is available for the Wii later this month, you'll be able to 
 battle online through Nintendo Wi-Fi with your Pokemon in 3D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSan00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The good: MORE pokemon, pal park, wifi battles, wifi trade
  
  The bad: bidoof, geodude, zubat, kind of crappy graphics, and it's basically the same game you 
 played like 10 years ago.
  
  Well, it's been a while since pokemon sapphire and ruby. Those games were awesome. And now, there's 
 a new pokemon game on the loose and I have to say, it's the best one yet. The graphics aren't improved 
 too much. everything is in 3D but with a 2D look, and although it looks nice, it still looks kind 
 of dated. Also, when you get on a battle, pokemon are static and only move a little when they attack 
 or when they roar, Still, it all looks pretty colorful and clean, there are no crappy blurry textures.
 
  
  The music is pokemon's catchy music, some songs are different, most of them and some are kind of 
 samey, but everything sounds good, although, kind of crappy.
  
  As for the good old standard pokemon gameplay. Most of it is untouched, there are some small changes 
 here and there, but it's basically the same old game from a long time ago. This is both, good and 
 bad. The old games were awesome but the formula hasn't changed much and random battles with crappy 
 pokemon are annoying.
  
  The story is pretty much the same old one. A kid becomes a trainer and must get all gym badges. 
 He must also stop an evil team, this time, TEAM GALACTIC. And in the end, capture an almighty pokemon.
 
  
  Although the formula hasn't changed much, pokemon diamond is a great game and a must have for any 
 RPG lover, or anyone with a nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameslayer3
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: same old same old. all i have to say
  
  Graphics: the best graphics in a pokemon game by far. best part about this one.
  
  sound: i 
 would like voice in it. and better screaming pokemon...
  
  Value: not worth $35 enless your a hardcore pokemon fan
  
  Tilt: nothing to say
  
  okay 
 the best thing is that its now 3d! and you can get ALL pokemon in it BUT it like every game in 
 this series makes you buy lots of stuff. im starting to grow out of pokemon at only 13 so maybe 
 thas y i dont like it as much as others. o and The start in the other games was FUN. this game 
 doesent have that now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eosmera
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I last played a Pokemon game (ahh the memories of my old GBA with Sapphire 
 in it... good times, good times) . With a plethora of Pokemon games plagueing us in the past couple 
 years Nintendo has finally released one that gets back to the gameplay we all know and love.
  
  Story:
  
  The story in Diamond/Pearl (D/P for the rest of the review) is the same story 
 we've heard since the original on the original GameBoy back in 1998. You are a novice Pokemon trainer 
 who stumbles into recieving a free Pokemon from a professor (Rowan in D/P) you then embark on a 
 quest to fill a thing called a Pokedex for the professor (hmm... sounds like free had some baggage 
 with it) while simotaneously becoming the most powerful trainer in all the land. Along the way 
 you will be stopped by various characters and asked to help them with their own problems before 
 you can advance any furthur. Also along the way you meet your rival (who is you best friend in 
 D/P) and battle with him/her. One more nusance in the game is the evil gang of Pokemon theives 
 (Team Galaxy in D/P) whom you single handed defeat by the end of the game.
  
  Well the story has never really been award winning material, but hey you aren't playing Pokemon 
 and expect a Metal Gear Solid story-line. Even thought you finish the little plot about three-fouths 
 through the game you never really feel like you accompolished much (except for catching *hopefully* 
 a legendary creature) .
  
  My one hope for this series in the future is to mix up the story a bit more, give me characters 
 to care about, give the characters some more feelings, flesh them out. I want to know why I live 
 with only my mother, I want to know how I came to live in the smallest town in the region? These 
 things are all just ideas for the future.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The core gameplay for Pokemon hasn't changed throughout the series lifespan, and it's no different 
 here. You will be walking (running) around, throwing balls, leveling up, gambling, collecting badges, 
 fighting trainers, and all the other stuff you could do before. D/P does little to touch the gameplay 
 that the series has come to adopt.... and that doesn't bother me one bit.... this game came packaged 
 with nestalgia. Even though I knew I could have the same experience with one of the older games 
 I stilled played D/P... and I still loved it like I have have in the past. They added a little bit 
 of touch-screen functionality in the form of the Poketch, a watch that can be upgraded with new 
 apps that you collect through the course of the game and range from a map to a daycare checker 
 to a berry locator. Battles are played out on the top screen with you touching commands on the 
 touch-screen (you can opt to play it OldSkOoL if you really desire to) .
  
  Another thing that they've added this time around is WiFi functionality. There are two ways you 
 can go WiFi, one is with friends to battle (via friend codes) , and the other is randomly to trade 
 your hard earned Poke-critters with one another to truly Catch 'Em All. The one thing that would 
 have been nice with the random trades would be the ability to battle randomly or aquire the trader's 
 Friend Code, other than that the WiFi is pretty useful and fun.
  
  One more way to have fun is in the new place called the Underground. You and several friends via 
 wireless play (or you can go by yourself) go down here and do a couple of fun little things, there 
 are mini-games, digging, and setting up hidden bases. This part of the game is really boring if 
 you don't have anyone to play with because it spans the ENTIRE map, so if your alone it can get 
 exreamly boring.
  
  The only thing that I have to say that I miss (and I have missed it for a few of the past games 
 now) is the ability to go back to the old regions and play there collecting gym badges and fighting 
 their elite four. That addition to the old game gave it a lot more play time than any other Pokemon 
 (maybe even Gameboy) game ever. I really wish that in the next one you can go back to ALL the old 
 regions (just think how long of a game that would be ^_^) . Overall though I am very satisfied with 
 the gameplay offered here, they have a tried and true formula that they have followed for years 
 and it still works great.
  
  Technical:
  
  Well I could split this up into sound and graphics, I decided to bunch them together so this review 
 doesn't go on forever. The graphics of the Pokemon games have all been very, very, very similar 
 over the years with little fine tunings here and there. Well this game tunes them a little more, 
 but they are still basically the same 2D sprites running around that I played with a few years 
 ago. The major upgrade this time is the environment you run around in, it is a mixture of 2D and 
 3D, or, as I like to call it, pseudo-3D. Another thing that they now have is differences between 
 male and female Pokemon, be it one having more spikes on its back, or having a longer mane than 
 the other. The sound that comes from Pokemon games has always been pretty good, the music is very 
 recognizable and adds to the nestalgia I was talking about earlier. The Pokemon themselves still 
 sound the same as they did 9 years ago, still as annoying as ever, but there is one specific Pokemon 
 that mixes it up and lets you have a little fun at the same time. The Pokemon I speak of is called 
 Chatot, it has a move that lets you record a saying and have it say that as its call (be it a little 
 distorted) . Overall the technical stuff really didn't bother me, but the one thing I would definatly 
 change in the future would be the BGM, I'm not asking for a full orchestral score, but I would 
 like something that at least doesn't sound like a computer made it (I don't care if it is the Pokemon 
 'style' I think it needs to be changed) .
  
  Value:
  
  At close to 35$ for D/P, you can't really go wrong with picking up one of these, they will last 
 you a VERY long time (I've logged in 50 hours and I just finished the elite four) . There is just 
 so much to do in this game that if you really wanted to you could play this for more than 200 hours 
 and still find stuff to do (which I wouldn't recommend) . Also a couple of months after you do finish 
 playing it, you might feel like coming back and playing it all over again (I know it's a scary 
 thought but it has happened to the best of us) .
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  
  Pokemon games have come and gone, and with the arrival of D/P many people will have their Pokemon 
 pallets wettened. Hopefully they will make some much needed changes in future releases. All in 
 all, this game is a Pokemon game through and through, from the battles, to the collecting, to the 
 repetitive battles with little birds, and you will be enjoying every minute of it wether you are 
 a veteran Pokemon player or a nOob who hasn't even touched a Cheri Berry before.
  
  SCORE: 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokemonMikas500
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game takes after FireRed and Gold, Silver, and Crystal (for the FireRed-Ruby/Saphire-ish graphics 
 and the time system from G/S/C.) , while retaining the addicting gameplay that was introduced so 
 many years ago. The new starter Pokemon are all great. Their final evolution, though, is the most important 
 thing. The Water starter, Piplup evolves intoEmpoleon, a Water-Steel type. The Grass starter, Turtwig, evolves 
 into Torterra, a Grass-Ground type. Finally the Firestarter, Chimchar, evolves into Infernape, a Fire-Fighting 
 type. Next, the thing that had us hooked even before Japan HAD the game was the Pal Park and the 
 new legendaries, Dialga and Palkia! This Is where you can use the DS's dual slot to migrate new 
 Pokemon into Sinnoh. DialgaIs Diamond's Legendary and Palkia is Pearl's. These Pokemon cortroltime (Dialga) 
 and space (Palkia) .
  In all, this is a great game and an exelent addition to the Pokemon world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirman13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  unlike other pokemon games diamond has no end after training and beating everything there's wifi. i 
 do however think the gym leaders are way too easy, getting through the gyms is harder than fighting 
 the leader. also like all pokemon video games there is way to much talking, it will get quite annoying 
 after reading it over and over and over and over and over again
  but altogether this game is a lengthy and fun video game. with an exciting new adventure. even those 
 not interested in pokemon games will enjoy diamond. a classic nintendo ds game, sure to hold to 
 the top 10 for quite a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRevan1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome and easily the best so far. Its not revolutionary, just a fantastic 
 sequel.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The same addicting RPG Gameplay is still intact, and with the addition of Touch Screen controls, 
 this category is easily a perfect 10. Graphics
  
  Theres a new 3D addition to the graphics this time around, and while its not the greatest thing 
 ever, its a welcome addition. Thats why I gave it a 9
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is the least thing I worry about, but I found myself jamming to the main battle song EVERY 
 SINGLE TIME it played. It was crazy. Plus the other songs are good as well, so this category deserves 
 a 9.
  
  Value
  
  This is the absolute best thing about this game. This game is absolutely endless!! With the 500+ 
 Pokemon to catch and train, the wireless battles and trading, and the 90 hour length that it takes 
 to see and try out everything in the single player game, this is as high in value as you can get. 
 Plus it's only $35. What more do you want?
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  
  Well, from all I've said u can see I love this game. So thats why this category gets a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard Japan got a new RPG pokemon game and we got the very award Pokemon Mystery Dungeon 
 game (yeah they had a special) I was like Why Nintendo WHY 6 mouths later I got the game and I 
 immedally went HAALILOOA
  
  Gameplay: Easy, the gameplay is like any other pokemon game. Expect now it touch screen. Which 
 mean you never miss a second of the action
  
  Graphics: The graphics BLOW MY MIND. They 3-D! Yes you actually see a real building.
  
  Sound: 
 Classic sound from the game
  
  Value: Since they added a new online feature you be coming back here like school
  
  A side 
 note is that they brought back the day/night feature. There a morning one too. But I never seen 
 that (I think you have to wake up at 5 in the morning)
  
  This game is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanny12
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  First thing is first, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is the best Pokemon game to be released on any system 
 or handheld, well it is close to Gold version. But anyway, if you are a fan of the Pokemon series, 
 this is a must have for you. I have been reading some reviews and the weakness that each person 
 said about the game was the graphics. Yes, the DS is capable of somewhat better graphics, but Diamond/Pearl 
 used the graphics that are known and loved. It's been a two year wait for the true Pokemon experience 
 to surface on the Nintendo DS platform. After ten years of Game Boy Pokemon catching and battling, 
 the core game mechanic still holds up as an addictive game design -- tons of strategic depth and 
 gameplay that's incredibly rewarding; it's one of those games that offers an enormous sense of 
 accomplishment for even the littlest things performed. And the touch screen functions of the Nintendo 
 DS help move things faster and easier with simple navigation menus The developers more capitalize 
 on the system's capabilities in function and interface rather than visual and audio presentation. 
 Sure, there are elements going on here that couldn't be done on the Game Boy Advance, but it's 
 hard to argue that the game looks and sounds a heck of a lot like the past portable versions. 8-bit 
 limitations drove the game's original style, but now that the limits are no longer there it's a 
 little bit of a letdown that Game Freaks played the whole Pokemon production conservatively instead 
 of pushing something more epic. The gameplay holds up incredibly well a decade later, but we're 
 still looking like a ten year old portable game here.
  
  Don't think for a second that this will be the exclusive Pokemon RPG experience on the Nintendo 
 DS, though -- if the past handhelds are anything to go by, we'll have multiple sequels. Now that 
 Game Freak's first one's out of the way, hopefully they can take the portable Pokemon experience 
 to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmdog101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game. It has more challenges for the players to accomplish. The new Pokemon 
 are also very cool! I also love the new poketech which is one of the coolest items yet! The only 
 thing I don't like is that when you use Pal Park, you can't transfer your Pokemon back to the version 
 it was on. I also don't really like having the Pal Pad to talk to people over WiFi. That way we 
 can have more battles and trading over WiFi. Over all, the game is really good and is great for 
 people who are Pokemon fans and love adventure games. Great Job Nintendo and keep the pokemon coming! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xhybrid_bombX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The amount of pokemon in this game is ridiculous, but thats Pokemon for it wouldn't be Poke'mon 
 if you couldn't get them all. The graphics are deffinently higher standard of the originals, the 
 cities are well... actually cities. The battles are amazing the moves are awsomly displayed, but 
 I think they are a little off balance. Contests are always fun do to. The main story line is still 
 almost the same as in the other games but they tide finding the legendary pokemon in it. The online 
 trading comes in handy when none of your friends or people you know don't play Polemon. They have 
 a great use of the touch screen in and out of battle. Sometimes it's little aggravating to walk 
 through the marsh or the snow and get stuck. But I'm not the one to decide , if you have a DS this 
 is a must have. GO!! what are you waiting for go get it! And remember you are never to old to play 
 Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earth2april18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  The game was pretty different from the rest, as there is now more legendary pokemon to chase after, 
 so there is more to look forward to after the elite four. There is also the battle tower still, 
 so you can spend some free time battling and further testing your skill for prizes. Not only that 
 , but you can unlock new areas, so you'll never be stuck in the same spot. The underground allows 
 you to have some fun mini-game style by meeting new people, playing capture the flag and searching 
 for new items that you cannot find anywhere else. The environments are more interactive, as you 
 can get stuck in the snow in Snowpoint city, and stuck in the mud on certain routes. To make things 
 better, there is an actual plot this time, one with some mystery and emotion. It just doesn't sit 
 right with people when they find out that there are innocent creatures being tortured in order 
 for some loser to destroy the world and create a new one where he rules. Simply put, it is way 
 more expansive than even silver and gold was when they let you unlock a second area after the pokemon 
 league. This game just never sets a limit for you so you never know when to stop. The only problem 
 I have is having to wait for my DS to charge sometimes... lol. But yeah, with the new expansion 
 of creatures to collect and the mixing of the old and the new, it just really doesn't end after 
 you catch (or see) them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant to buy Pokemon Diamond, and held off doing so for about three weeks until after 
 its release. Why, you may ask, would I do so? Well, simply put, when I was in 5th grade Pokemon 
 WAS my life. I was afraid that Pokemon Diamond would either a) be not as good as I remember the 
 series being, therefore killing my childhood, or b) being even BETTER than I remembered, therefore 
 killing my college years. THE GOOD NEWS: It is neither a nor b. Pokemon Diamond is pretty much 
 the same as I remembered, which is mostly fantastic. I only have a few issues with the game...
 
  
  First of all, here we are, almost a decade after Pokemon Red and Blue, yet the gameplay in Pokemon 
 hasn't been majorly improved upon. Why fix something that isn't broken? Well, because a decade 
 later it just seems kind of lazy. They throw in more Pokemon... add a different team of diabolical 
 antagonists... but it feels the exact same. It's time for Pokemon to evolve.
  
  Secondly, the graphics are just as dull as ever. The DS is by no means a powerhouse... but it can 
 handle more than what Pokemon is giving it. The cute style works, but I would like to see it change 
 up a bit. Third, the audio for Pokemon Diamond is just as bad as any of the other games in the 
 series. Ever since I was little, when I used to watch the cartoon series, I've wanted to hear the 
 Pokemon say their own names. Instead, the Pokemon still only use meaningless shrieks that are really 
 annoying. Much like I did with Pokemon Red, I wind up just turning the volume down on Diamond, 
 and opt for listening to my iPod instead.
  
  With all that said, Pokemon Diamond is a GREAT game, and anyone who has ever enjoyed a Pokemon 
 game before will more than likely enjoy this one. But I think I'm ready for change. Only when a 
 new Pokemon game comes out completely revamped will I throw away hundreds of hours of my life once 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for those alredy hardcore pokemon fans, but i think that it's more for the newcomers. 
 The gameplay hasn't really changed since ruby/sapphire (which might not be a bad thing) , and this 
 can cause the series to become a bit dull. Moving on, the graphics are historic for the pokemon 
 games - better than the rest definitely. That might be true, but the graphics aren't as good as 
 other games (not all, but some) . Sound, compared to the previous games, is a ot better. I actually 
 played this game with the sound on max, compared to the previous games - where i played with absolutely 
 no sound. Value wise - hardcore gamers should buy this game (but it might be a bit similar to previous 
 games making it a bit boring) , but is great for newcomers. And the new story line will be fun for 
 all. In the end, this is a great game that i seriously enjoyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  wen i got this game i didnt think it would be really good because its pokemon and i didnt like 
 it . well i loved it because the story is great and the graphics are good for nintendo DS the gameplay 
 is awesome exept really slow battle unlike sapphire which was very fast paced i like the fact that 
 u can catch a lot of different type and 1st 2nd 3rd and 4th generation of pokemon. pokemon seems 
 like its only for kids but teenagers can play it . this game definetly is one of the best nintendo 
 ds and pokemon games ever and even if u dont like pokemon if u play this game u will definetly 
 like it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Alot more and great new pokemon; 40-50hours long; Underground is awesome; lots of new legendary; 
 nice story; Online is awesome with chat; dozens of poketechs; awesome new moves; contest is better 
 than ever; Cool looking 3D graphics
  
  BAD: Story line hardly comes up; GAMEPLAY:
  Just like the other pokemon games for the handheld, Pokemon Diamond is a turn based RPG and depending 
 on the pokemon's speed depends on who attacks first. The battle system is still the same, it'd 
 be nice if there was a little difference. Theres a little Blue bar undernithe your HP (Hit Points) 
 which is the EXP Bar and once its filled up you'll gain 1level, if your used to RPG's it means 
 you get strounger with stats like HP increase, SP. ATK, SPEED and others will increase, reaching 
 certain levels your pokemon will learn new moves and most of them will evolve into cool, larger 
 and strounger pokemon to thrash your foe. theres other ways of increasing your stats, like GIVE 
 , GIVE is were you equip an item to a pokemon, theres so many different ones, some to increase 
 fire attack and other type attack, some to go first, better critical attack and even ones that'll 
 stop you from going into weak wild pokemon.
  
  Onto capturing pokemon, you need to capture pokemon to advance into your story, theres no point 
 in sticking to your starter all the way through, you can have upto 6 pokemon in your party. to 
 capture pokemon you must first weaken it by ighting it then throw a pokeball to get it, theres 
 so many different balls that'll help you capture pokemon, including the best ball ever, The MasterBall, 
 wich will capture any pokemon without fail.
  
  If your not battling theres tons of other things to be doing, like the Contest that was first introduced 
 in Ruby And Sapphire. the contest is set up in stages like cool, beuity, smart and tough with ranks 
 from 1-10. theres 3 things to do in a contest, a dress up, dance and show off. you can also do 
 berry mixing, you can find berries all over the world (Berries can be used on pokemon too) by mixing 
 these berries you can make Prons which you give to your pokemon too eat which'll increase its stats 
 for contests. you can also go and breed pokemon with a pokemon breeder, doing this will make pokeeggs 
 which'll hatch into Baby pokemon but they'll be Lv1. you can also go underground, this underground 
 is very fun, specily with some friends or across the world. underground you can dig for spears 
 which you can trade to a hiker for traps and accessories for you're base, you can also dig for 
 fossiles, shards and heart pieces, even items like Review or even stones to evolve your pokemon. 
 you can make bases underground which can be fun as you hide then from your friends and play hide 
 and seek.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The best looking pokemon game yet, the 3D looking buildings look alot better than the flat and 
 pixallated buildings found in previous pokemon games, they also move as you do, you can see left 
 side of the building but if you carry on walking it'll disapire so you can see the other side on 
 the building. the ingame graphics still remains the same 2D sprites but with new animated effects.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Though the music is the same as the last, there alot better, they now dont sound pixaly or distorted, 
 but thepokemon still sound distorted when you summon them out, but the newer pokemon does sound 
 better than pokemon like Koffin or Pikachu ect.
  
  OVERALL:
  By far the best Pokemon game to date and one of the best DS Game i've been on. its exstreamly long 
 and takes up to 50 hours to complette and can last for ever as theres tons of pokemon to capture 
 and many things to do after you completted the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHEWY49
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Me, I love Pokemon, ive loved it sense 3rd grade, which is why I continue to buy each Pokemon game 
 that comes out for the hand held systems. Or maybe its because it is the best RPG for hand held 
 games ever. In my opinion, Pokemon Diamond for the Nintendo DS is a fantastic game that brings 
 back those old elements from previous Pokemon games that we love and incorpartes new elements of 
 game play. Everything about this game is fantastic. Even the wi-fi is fantastic, this is one of 
 the first Pokemon games ever to go on the Internet through Wi-Fi and I must say, after using it, 
 i've loved it. Ive seen no problems through the Wi-Fi. My only complaint is that you have to have 
 the persons friend code that your going to be playing, before you start a match. You cant like 
 create games and join them randomly. But thats a problem that can be easily solved by going to 
 a forum or useing a instant messenger program with chat rooms. So other then that tiny problem, 
 id say this game is a must have for all Nintend DS owners if your looking for a good long RPG experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Now I grew up on Pokemon. I was right on the edge of its introduction in the US, being in elementary 
 school when the first Gameboy games came out. Having said that, I love these games no matter how 
 many times they re-release it with some different characters.
  
  This version of the game definitely has the most features at it's disposal, due mainly to it being 
 on the DS. The game sports the WiFi capabilities that the DS has brought us and uses the WiFi much 
 more than any other game on the DS. As you would expect you can Battle and Trade over the internet, 
 but there is also a sort of auction house called the GTS where you can trade Pokemon with people 
 from anywhere in the world. The game also features voice chat through the built in microphone. 
 Another nifty feature is the integration of the GBA slot. Once you have beaten the game you can 
 put any of the GBA Pokemon games into the GBA slot of the DS and Pokemon from that game will begin 
 to appear in the wild. You can also import Pokemon that you have caught in that game into Diamond/Pearl. 
 This functionality allows you to effectively catch every single Pokemon there has ever been... 
 ever.
  
  At it's heart though, this is just another Pokemon game. It has all of the elements that all the 
 Pokemon games have brought to you in the past. Turn based battling, 151 main Pokemon to catch and 
 raise, 8 gyms with badges, a victory road, and an elite four. The new Pokemon are hit or miss. 
 There are cool ones like Garchomp and there are also very lame ones like Bidoof. The game has a 
 long quest line though, pitting you against gym leaders and the new Team Galactic who is bent on 
 world domination through the exploitation of Pokemon. Now with all of that said, here is a breakdown.
 
  Gameplay
  With a good 40-50 hours of core game play (if you take the time to see everything) plus the battle 
 tower, battle park, and online play make for a very long, enjoyable gaming experience. Graphics
 
  Exactly what you'd expect from a Pokemon, with a few dressy details courtesy of the DS. You get 
 some 3D gyms and 3D character models.
  
  Sound
  Possibly one of the better aspects of the game, while still forgettable. The game uses classic 
 Pokemon music and gives it a boost with the advantage of the DS's stereo speakers.
  
  Basically, if you are a fan of Pokemon or if you want a lasting DS game definitely give Pokemon 
 Diamond/Pearl a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curseofpoopdog
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I was actually suprised that after all these years nintendo has kept me playing pokemon. I got 
 the game on impulse (dispite some strange lookes for the gamestop and a 7 year old) and i couldnt 
 put it down. Dispite its minor flaws (same story, few side missions) I actually liked this game. 
 The new pokemon are fairly interesting and the ripping off of old pokemon was kept to a minnimum. 
 I was a little disapointed with the limited use of the touch screen but the gimmics that were used 
 we fairly interesting. Like I said Before this is a decent game that can easily keep you occuped 
 through variouse boring moments in life (such as a study hall) an i think annyone sould pick this 
 up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foolwestcoast33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  can you recall a time when you had a class called social studies? and when you had to wear snow 
 pants in the winter, and playing pokemon on your gameboy color those were the days. this is an 
 excellent pokemon game but as a ds game it doesnt utilize the touch screen that well but who cares!! 
 It's pokemon it takes time to learn all the new names, and I can proudly say being seventeen years 
 old playing this game makes me a complete loser but I still love this game. though at times the 
 mini games can be a drag and who honestly wants to dress up a pokemon? I cant recall wanting to 
 put my blastoise in a dress and lipstick on a charmander and nickname them chevy chase and, lindsey 
 lohan. but since these are more of a side quest than involved in the main story it's alright. Pokemon 
 has lost some swagger but this game is as solid as they've been since gold and silver version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360_darkness
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Its the best pokemon game since pokemon gold and silver. New abilityes new pokemon, new moves, new 
 evolutionary methods and my favorite.... new adventure. Its worth buying if you like pokemon games. Moves 
 are split into physcial, special, and other categories counting on the stats physcial which is attack 
 and defense and special to sp. attack and special defense. What makes Diamond very fun is the Wifi. 
 You are able to trade with people all over the world with the GTS. You cannot get  
 only pokemon you have seen. In Diamond there is a new device called the poketch which comes in 
 handy all the time. There are about 23 apps, some include pokemon youve obtained, daycare checker, 
 happiness checker, etc...
  This is the most recent game to have voice chat as well during trading or battling you can voice 
 chat with your friends, pretty cool feature. There are a lot of legendaries in this game, some 
 require special tasks to be done but others dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emblazing_Sand5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  A new generation of pokemon has come. You will be amazed at how many objectives there are to do 
 in Diamond. Graphics have been upgraded to a 2-D, 3-D style. There is a tremendous amount of pokemon 
 you can catch in Diamond including the brand new ones, seen 357 already. Moves are split into physcial, special, 
 and other categories counting on the stats physcial which is attack and defense and special to 
 sp. attack and special defense. What makes Diamond very fun is the Wifi. You are able to trade with 
 people all over the world with the GTS. You cannot get  only pokemon 
 you have seen. In Diamond there is a new device called the poketch which comes in handy all the 
 time. There are about 23 apps, some include pokemon youve obtained, daycare checker, happiness 
 checker, etc...
  This is the most recent game to have voice chat as well during trading or battling you can voice 
 chat with your friends, pretty cool feature. There are a lot of legendaries in this game, some 
 require special tasks to be done but others dont. New evolution methods have been brought in like 
 item attachments and level up once, male and female only evolutions, happiness+time of day evolutions 
 and move evolutions. Guarantee you will never get bored with this game at all, theres always something 
 to do lasts a verry long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmpf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is great game with tons of new adventures, it is long enough to be good, and short 
 and easy enough to be a truly great game. There are lots of new features including the touch screen 
 use with tons of touch-screen applications, like digital clock, day care Pokemon application, and 
 many more. Also the Pokemon animation are back, giving it a wonderful look and feel. The game looks 
 a lot better and has a sort of a 3D feel. Lots of new Pokemon will make it worth the while to play 
 and now one is able to trade on-line around the world, battle with friends or rivals and meet new 
 people. This game I give a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jovan123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  The new Pokemon games, Diamond and Pearl, add never before seen features to the series. The game 
 uses the touch screen for just about everything besides walking. The good thing is that it does 
 not force you to use it. Everything is also navigable by the d-pad as well. The biggest improvement, 
 has down, is the new ability to play online. Although limited, it is a good way to verse people 
 you ordinarily would not be able to play. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, like all other Nintendo Wi-fi 
 games, requires both trainer (players) to exchange friend codes before battling. This is the only 
 way Nintendo can prevent little kids from being matched with adult predators. While playing online 
 you have the option of voice chatting with your opponents. Diamond and Pearl is considered by many, 
 the best Pokemon game since the original , and would have to agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddso1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  the last pokemon game that i played was gold and silver and i have to say this game kicks there 
 @sses its the most ADDICTIVE PORTABLE GAME EVER.
  If you dont even like pokemon youl still like this games its that good. if you dont have it youll 
 want it. if you do have it youll still want it. get it its gameplay isnt the only cool thing. the 
 story is amazing you get to learn about the origins of the world. What more could you want bye 
 this game. i know it feels kind of weird being 18 and bying pokemon game but i did it and it was 
 a greet dicistion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Being a very big craze since it was known as Pocket Monsters in Japan, Pokemon still sweeps the 
 world at now nine to twelve years. The latest installments to the second best-selling video game 
 franchise, called Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, has sold over five million in its first day. Pokemon 
 veterans should have a good idea what the story is about: youre a Pokemon trainer beginning in 
 a small southwestern town, whose main objective is to become a Pokemon master. To do so, however, 
 you need to get eight badges, beat the Elite Four, fully fill up your Pokedex, and, if you can 
 do it, catch em all. However, youll also be a hero trying to save the world from Team Galactic, 
 who are using Pokemon to rule the galaxy.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: To start off, Pokemons simple yet addictive formula is still in tact here. Your main 
 objective, for people not familiar, is to catch and raise a maximum of six Pokemon, each with a 
 maximum of four attacks or moves that can be learn through growth or by finding some around the 
 region (known as Sinnoh) . But, thats why there are manuals, tutorials, and demos; let me tell 
 you about the core gameplay. The new installments are still basically the same, but on the other 
 hand, not a lot of RPGs actually change how the game plays, such as its battle system. But, the 
 question is: whats new about the latest Pokemon batch of games? The answer: pretty much every 
 use that the Nintendo DS has is used on Diamond and Pearl. For example, the coolest new feature 
 in the game (s) is when you are allowed access to Pal Park. After you see all Pokemon in the Sinnoh 
 region, you will have the power to migrate non-hidden-powered Pokemon from your Pokemon Game Boy 
 Advance games (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, Fire Red or Leaf Green) in your GBA Slot, each game having 
 a 24-hour limit, through Pal Park. Another new feature is the Poketch, which is found on your touch 
 screen. It can do a lot of things, such as tell time, draw pictures, find out which is more or 
 less effective against Pokemon types, a map to track rare Pokemon, a map to find berries to find 
 invisible items, etc. In short, some are useful, and some just arent. But, of course, the main 
 feature on Diamond and Pearl, I believe, is the multiplayer. One of the highlights for multiplayer 
 this time around is simple: no more link cables. The wireless capability of the DS works well on 
 this game. Also, the DSs Wi-Fi feature is included in both versions of the Pokemon games, so that 
 makes Pokemons renown handheld multiplayer even better. What makes things even neater is the fact 
 that you can also trade your Pokemon via Wi-Fi. All you have to do is get hooked up online, auction 
 the Pokemon you want to trade, and wait for someone to offer that trade. Another form of multiplayer 
 is the Underground feature, which you can access after you get the Explorer Kit. This place is 
 used for mining fossils and such, making bases, and also entering bases of friends or others nearby 
 that happen to be Underground too, as well as torturing them with your traps and such. Some might 
 have some fun with it; I personally go Underground just if it can help me find Pokemon. Other features 
 include stuff thats been in previous Pokemon games, such as Ruby/Sapphire/Emeralds Contests (this 
 time with use of touch screen) , and the day-night mechanic only featured in Silver/Gold/Crystal. 
 But these features are all for a second thought. The main drawl for the gameplay is what you mainly 
 do in all the other Pokemon games: explore the world; catch and raise Pokemon. The game may not 
 be original, but, you know how the saying goes: if it aint broke, dont fix it. Its still as 
 addictive and fresh as it was back when the first Pokemon was released. The games most likely 
 going to be easy for the people that are considered veterans in the Pokemon universe. Overall, 
 Pokemon Diamond/Pearl Version has a bunch of interesting features in the game, but the games great 
 RPG design and formula is the usual, but is what makes this game fun. Its an improvement over 
 the Pokemon games that has been on the Nintendo DS, and is the best Role-Playing Game on the handheld.
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: Though Pokemon Diamond/Pearl still has the look of a 2-D, top-down Role-Playing Game, 
 it looks even better, thanks to the DSs hardware. This time, the game has the same little sprite 
 characters, but this time, with 3-D, cel-shaded-like environments. This time, elevating up dungeons 
 actually makes you feel like your climbing up a dungeon! Even the sprite characters look better! 
 Otherwise, everything essentially the same. Those battle animations have even more animations, 
 but everything is mostly stiff during battle (and really, I cant say that I dont like that) , 
 and environments look only slightly better than what they did in the GBA games. But, all in all, 
 the graphics truly gives the game an appealing and charming look.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: Pokemons main sound has been declining for the past years; however, Diamond/Pearl has some 
 great stuff going on with the sound department. The music has vastly improved, now with new re-mixes 
 of past usuals of Pokemon (such as the Pokemon Centers catchy tunes) . The music is kind of soothing 
 for some moments, such as the Pokemon Center, some cities, dungeons, etc. The sound effects of 
 the returning Pokemon, I think, still sound the same when they were first appeared in the Pokemon 
 universe. Its not bad, I just wish some would sound a little more clear. But generally, the sound 
 has improved greatly.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: The past Pokemon RPGs has always been the center of addiction for the Nintendo portable 
 systems, and still is here. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl takes around 40 hours if you want to go through 
 it quickly, but if you want to take your time, then it will take you well over 50 hours. Theres 
 also a lot of side quests during and after the game for you to go, and youll also have a lot of 
 hunting if you want to fill up the National Pokedex. Multiplayer will be something to even go back 
 to more, especially since you can find people as skilled as you easier, thanks to Wi-Fi. Pokemon 
 is one of the most addictive games Ive ever played, and Diamond/Pearl still has the same sort 
 of addiction I get from the others, but better. The value is flat-out perfect.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt: Anyways, to move on with this review, like all of the other main Pokemon games, there are 
 different versions of the game, one named Diamond, the other named Pearl. The only difference between 
 the two games is the fact you can get Pokemon you wouldnt see in the other game (the main example 
 being the legendary Pokemon on the cover; in Diamond, you can get a Dragon/Steel-type Pokemon known 
 as Dialga, where in Pearl, you can get a Dragon/Water-type Pokemon known as Palkia.) Now, if youre 
 the kind of guy thats (sigh...) hardcore enough to buy both versions (which happens to be like 
 me) , then you can go ahead. However, if you only want to buy one, then I believe it depends on 
 which exclusive Pokemon you like better (such as the legendary ones on the cover.) But, the question 
 is, is this a buy for you? Well, for Pokemon fans, then definitely (youve most likely bought it 
 anyways) . People new to the franchise or even RPGs, then give it a try; I believe that Pokemon 
 is a great starter for those wanting to try out RPGs. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl Version is by far the 
 best Role-Playing Game yet for the Nintendo DS. Its the same old Pokemon people have come to either 
 love or hate, and thats all I personally wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRAZIE_GUY
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for everyone. For hardcore pokemaniacs... this game is a godsend. A quick and 
 easy single-player mode lets experts speed through the lackluster story and get down to the business 
 of raising their all-star team for their online debut. For softcore players and newcomers... while 
 this game offers a solid single player experience that can provide challenges to those not familiar 
 with the basic of raising pokemon, the story is nothing special and the sense of wonder and intrigue 
 that seemed to pervade the earlier games is all but gone... to those gamers who want to experience 
 pokemon for the first time, i would much faster recommend Pokemon Red/Blue, and no, Firered and 
 Leafgreen are no substitute for the classics that were the originals.
  
  The game follows the same formula as all the old games... start at a little backwater town with 
 naught but several houses, obtain your starter pokemon, battle and earn eight badges from the gym 
 leaders across the land, and defeat the Elite 4 and the Pokemon champion. But while this premise 
 remains the same the execution seems faster and easier than in any previous games... the puzzles 
 of the old games are all but gone, and what attempts there are to bring them back seem easy in 
 comparison to the ice floors and team rocket hideouts that once were. Everything seems made to 
 let the players fly through so the masters can start training themselves for what remains in any 
 case the true focus of this game: online play.
  
  Now, for the veterans there are differences. The biggest one being the remix of special and physical 
 attacks, which, after the initial shock of ruining a number of movesets on the pokemon being migrated 
 from previous games, will open new horizons of opportunity. Unfortunately, as much as I've said 
 this game is made for veteran trainers, many of the niceties present in previous versions are gone, 
 such as the secretbase battles from Ruby/Sapphire and the high-level upgraded elite four from fire 
 red and leaf green, leaving players to get to level 100 and train for effort-values the hard way.
 
  
  All in all, this is an amazing game, but truthfully it is not the best in the pokemon line for 
 playing alone... however, thanks to online play it is the best for competitive play, which is really 
 what we have been waiting for the entire time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxgAmErXX6655
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, lets see Pokemon is a game where you have to catch them all, defeat a gang that wants to 
 destroy pokemon or harnest there power, defeat the Elite Four, and become the best trainer. Its 
 all the same in every pokemon game yet you push back on the thought and you still enjoy the game. 
 Here we have Pokemon Diamond and Pearl the newest install ment from Nintendo and Game Freak. Pokemon 
 Diamond is fascinating game that brings back all of those wonderful memories about the first games 
 Red and Blue. Lets see the graphics of the game are amazing they truly are. The 3-D look really 
 lets you see how much time and work they put into the game. They might've not changed that much 
 from previous ones, but they look wonderful. The gameplay of the game is all the same but who cares 
 its Pokemon thats what its about and has been about for about 10 years. The gameplay is sill fun 
 and enjoyable especially with the new feature of the touch screen, it makes everything so much 
 easier. The sound of the game is also good, the songs are familiar and they even have new ones 
 that go with the game, but they can also get very disturbing. Finally, the last thing I have to 
 write about is of course WiFi. This new feature makes Diamond and Pearl so much different from 
 any other game. You can trade, battle put it this way anything you want with everyone around the 
 world and its so much fun!!! Overall this game is a must buy for anyone who enjoys Pokemon and 
 new comers you will never get tired of it its simply AWESOME!!!
  
  -XxgamerXX6655 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melefty
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. It starts out like any old Pokemon game. And has a lot of the same features as 
 the old ones (including one of my favorites, morning, day, and night) . But the best new feature 
 is Wi-fi. You can play friends over wi-fi, you can trade with people over wi-fi, and after enough 
 playing you can battle and trade with complete strangers who you've never met over wi-fi. Another 
 sweet feature is the Underground, its a place where you and your friends if they choose to join, 
 can all run around and dig into walls, and find items that will help you in the game, and a few 
 other cool things. This game is by far the best game in the series. If you enjoyed any of the pokemon 
 games before this one i highly recommend this to you, if you've never gotten a pokemon game before, 
 then i would definatly get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doktor_Nein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Great, but not greatest.
  
  But this version of Pokemon was actually quite better than expected. Its now the 4th generation, 
 and might be hard for people to get into it if they haven't been around the pokemon scene since 
 the start. But for us old fans, I'm sure this game pleases most. -----
  
  *New Pokemon.
  As time goes by, new pokemon are introduced, normally with negative reactions from fans. Eventually 
 though, they are accepted and the new second generation becomes old generation, so on with the 
 third, and possibly someday with the fourth. But this time around there are really some mixed reactions 
 when it comes to new pokemon. As you play this game, it doesn't take long to realize that pokemon 
 ideas are starting to run thin. Bidoof, 4th generations Rattata, may stop a player for a minute 
 and have them think, Bidoof oh god what. This is exactly the reaction I and many other people have 
 had while playing this game. The evolution of old pokemon is also something that many are against. 
 Adding baby pokemon to the first generation was fun, but adding a evolution UP seems a bit drastic 
 and unnecessary. Though they did this in the past, these new versions reconfirm that ideas for 
 pokemon are drying up, and starting too look unoriginal. I have to admit that thought this new 
 gen. is growing on me, there are many new pokemon I like along with ones I do not. Some are starting 
 to become more hi-tech and lose the natural animalistic feel of past pokemon. It's ok to have a 
 few new pokemon that are not so fancy.
  
  *Game play.
  
  As usual, you are a kid living with your mom in a small town, get your starter from a professor 
 and have a rival. All three starters are used, one by your characters best friend and one by the 
 professors apprentice, who is either a girl or boy depending on what you chose to be in the beginning. 
 You make your way though towns, routes, caves, pokemon gyms and in the end the pokemon league. 
 Not much has changed considering, but thats alright for me. Pokemon level up very fast in this 
 game. So much so that its almost too easy. In Ruby ans Sapphire, it was nearly impossible to level 
 up after a certain point, but this is the opposite. There are many trainers thought the game, which 
 I think is why this is so. I prefer it this way over Ruby/Sapphire, but there just isn't too much 
 of a challenge.
  
  The basic battle system has had minimal change over the last few years, which isn't a horrible 
 thing as it doesn't change the game into something else. Each pokemon has its on ability that helps 
 it in battle which makes it more interesting. A lot of the same pokemon are used throughout the 
 game, which is strange because there is over 400 and some, when you only see about 150 before you 
 beat the game. Zubat, Geodude and many others get extremely old, and many people have a similar 
 lineup if they don't trade other pokemon to their game. The game has a fairly short storyline with 
 its bad guys being Team Galactic. They use many of the same pokemon over and over with a very small 
 variety. Their bases were short to complete and rather quite simple, unlike other versions when 
 it would take one quite some time to go through. The boss battles were a bit disappointing, with 
 pokemon on the weaker end of the scale and maybe only three or four in their party. I love the 
 bad guys in the series, normally because their catchphrases and speech are ridiculous but entertaining. 
 I just wish this evil team had a bigger or longer part in the game.
  
  
  *DS features.
  
  With the DS's wifi capability, you are able to use the new GTS, or Global Trade Station feature. 
 This allows you to trade pokemon with people all over the world. This is an excellent tool, if 
 you know how to use it right. In order to find a pokemon you want, you must have seen it first 
 in the game, whether you are offering or looking for a pokemon. This is a drag because many pokemon 
 people are looking for are older generation pokemon that show up rarely if at all in the game. 
 Having time and patience though can land you a pokemon you want for a fair price. Another downside 
 is that people will take up a ton of space asking for extremely rare, nearly unattainable pokemon 
 in return for lame, worthless ones. If you are able to filter through the filth and find a fair 
 trade, then its actually very fun to see where your pokemon came from, and sometimes you might 
 get an item left on by the OT.
  
  The new underground feature can be fun, if you have enough people and things to do. The only downside 
 is that its not supported through the wifi feature, so you have to be with a group of two or more 
 to really do anything with it. You can make your own base like in older games which can be entertaining 
 for a while, but the whole underground idea didn't seem to quite have anything too spectacular. 
 -----
  
  I really enjoy this new addition to the pokemon series and highly recommend it to anyone. Hopefully 
 in the future there will be even more neat features in the game. This is a pokemon game that can 
 be played over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  i like the original 150 pokemon 151 if you include mew... but anyways i was a kid when the original 
 pokemon came out and i mean really when you were like 5 who wasn't into pokemon! i loved the orignal 
 pokemon gameboy pocket game too (pokemon BLUE and RED) . they haven't really changed the gameplay 
 around that much other than some added feature like online play etc. but if you like to play online 
 and have a stable wi-fi connection around via DS... this is a must get ONLY if your going to get 
 the pokemon game for the wii.
  
  gameplay-8 basicly same old stuff but with new features
  
  graphics- 9 nice effects and pokemon added a sort of 3D to the game
  
  sound- 7 basic pokemon 
 screechs and some catchy tunes that will come back to haunt you!!!!
  
  value-8 worth the $34.99
  
  Tilt- 9 i dont know but each time i turn off my DS i have to come 
 back to the game its just addicting... raising pokemon, man those were the days with Ash Catchem' 
 MIsty and Brock and my favorite Professor Oak.... hahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Master359
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this Game I was so happy. When i first played it i couldn't get off of it. 
 I was glued to the screen. I recomend this game to everybody. I played it all day and all night. 
 GRAPHICS: THe graphics are amazing. The new 3-d look makes it look awesome. I love the time change. 
 THe night, evening, morning, day, and late night looks great.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The same as the other games but with a few tweaks. THe Poketch works out very good and 
 the new pokedex looks awesome.
  
  SOUND: The sound is very good. They put in new and old songs. they tweaked the old songs and put 
 a little percussion. It makes any ds sound great.
  
  THe new stuff in the contests add some fun into it . THere's a dance competition, dress up competition, 
 and the same old acting competition.
  The Pokemon are cool except the changed some of the pokemon from the old games and changed their 
 names. The names of the pokemon are alright but some fit with their built.
  
  Overall this pokemon game i could play over and over again without getting bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Wolfy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has become a great franchise over the years. Yet they never quite pulled off a good move 
 like this. The Nintendo DS opens a variety of good options to the players finger tips, or stylus, 
 in this case. the story is one that will seem familiar with all the other pokemon games. You stumble 
 upon some pokemon and get stuck in a pickle. You must use one of 3 starting pokemon just like in 
 all the other games. The game takes you to become a helper of a professor that is somewhat intimidating 
 and leads you on an adventure to battle another evil doing team and save the world of pokemon while 
 having fun catching and collecting as you see fit. The game itself sticks VERY closely to the older 
 versions. The plus is that the giant mix of nice graphics along with the dozens of features introduced 
 to make multi-play open for multiple options really kicks it up to the next level.
  
  The main game play is pretty long as it is. The trick they added to it this time around is after 
 the game is over, you WON'T be done. Normally there aren't that many one of a kind pokemon other 
 than 3 legendaries and the cover pokemon. In this version, as well as Pearl, they decided to throw 
 in another 5 or so rare one time chance type pokemon. As well as being able to transfer your party 
 from previous installments to the DS just after beating the story and connecting your GBA game 
 to the bottom slot. A do it yourself transfer method with out needing friends to help you trade 
 them over steps at a time.
  
  Multi-player is where this game really shines. With the implication of wifi to the pokemon world, 
 you now have the ability to connect, trade, battle, and with a headset chat with people from around 
 the world. all you need is there friend code of coarse. A nice way to regulate the creepy people 
 out of the mix as one plus. There is a Global Service Center where you can post a trade or search 
 for a certain pokemon from random people with out needing a friend code. It is good for when you 
 want a specific pokemon but this feature seems to be riddled with a lot of not so much worth it 
 trades as well as some impossible trades that end up stunting this feature a bit. None the less 
 there are very charitable people who will give you almost any pokemon for a simple easy to catch 
 common pokemon out of generosity so it has it's bright points.
  
  And then there is the non internet going multi-player. They packed this game full of goodies for 
 those types. Although most aren't available right from the get go they come into play as you progress 
 in the game. Eventually you can travel and mine together with a friend in the underground caverns 
 of the Region. Leaving traps and having hidden bases underground. show off your bases and decorate 
 as you see fit. Steal your friends base flag and unlock some goodies while doing it. It really 
 came off as a lot of fun when you got to digging with a friend. Lots of fun discovering what you 
 can uncover. Then if spelunking doesn't float your boat you can always do the Contest games. you 
 compete in dressing up, a simon says type of game, then acting competition. Finally if all that 
 doesn't grit your fancy then we have a simple mixing game. All you do is team up with some friends, 
 throw some berries you picked in the pot and help each other mix it so you can make some great 
 poffins which are used to boost the contest ability of certain things in the Contest mini games. 
 A nice add on to the game if i say so myself.
  
  As always they have the obvious close range multi-player options like battling, trading, and a 
 few simple stuff like just drawing together. Mixing records is fun so you can even compare your 
 stats to a friend then sometimes when you watch TV in the game you can hear reports about how they 
 did when catching or failing to catch a pokemon. Fun to see when you find out your friend got frustrated 
 trying to catch a pokemon and just knocked it unconscious.
  
  Overall the game was extremely well made and is a must to put in your collection. Pokemon gamer 
 or not. It is well rounded for all ages and your never to old to enjoy this solid RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IpodHero176
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I thought I was over my Pokemon playing years ago (or after I was done with Ruby) , but then I picked 
 up Fire Red and enjoyed it. I then told myself that I will not play another one again, but I cracked 
 and got Diamond. Lesson here: number 1: I have no self control, and number 2: This is a good game 
 to play. There is nothing relatively new with this series concept-wise, as to the last installments. 
 You go around and catch them all, while also leveling them up to beat the 8 gym leaders, which 
 then will grant you access to fight the Elite 4, the 4 most powerful trainers in the land. That's 
 how it's been since Pokemon Red, right? Well, since it's on a new system, there are a few changes. 
 One being that they add 100 new Pokemon to catch. Another thing is the PokeAPP, which is like Pokemon's 
 version of a Blackberry or an Iphone. It can tell time, has a calculator (when is that going to 
 be useful in this game?) , counts how many steps you've taken, the status of your Poke-team, a secret 
 item finder, and many more. It is very useful at some points. The main primise of the story is 
 the same as to the last games, but they changed a few things. Instead of having one rival, which 
 is usually the one who lives in the same town as you, you get two. One is the one like I said before, 
 and the other one is Dawn, who isn't a fighting rival, but is your Pokedex rival. You race her 
 to see who can catch the most, which is a good thing they are emphasizing the catching part in 
 this series (in the others, I thought they neglected this part and focused more on battling) . Your 
 Professor is Prof. Rowan, who is ok, but not as good as Oak. Now that you know the heroes, here 
 are the villians. Team Galactic are the new Rocket for Diamond/Pearl, but they really fail to live 
 up to the name. Team Rocket were like a mafia, but Galactic was very unorganized, and weren't that 
 convincing as villians. Their mission wasn't any good compared to Rocket's plan. The good thing 
 is, you fight a lot of their grunts, which means level grinding fun. The gameplay plays the same 
 as the others, but you use the bottom screen to give commands out, use items, and switch out Pokemon. 
 The top is for viewing the battle, which is alright, but I never look at the top. There are a lot 
 more people to battle (in my opinion) , but they are spaced out a little bit, so you will have to 
 walk a little. I would also advise to battle everyone in the Gyms before you fight the Gym Leader (it 
 really helps) . The graphics are interesting for this installment. Everything, of course is in 3D, 
 but it looks like you're in s pop-up book. I thought it was an interesting approach to do to this 
 game. You don't really notice it, but if you look closely, you can tell. The battles still play 
 out in 2D, as does everything inside a building. I like how it changes from light to dark as the 
 time changes. You get everything between day and night (you get dusk and dawn) . The sound isn't 
 anything new and different, but it's good. I like the music in Harthrome City the best. The music 
 is very light-hearted and upbeat, but there are some serious ones too. Some of the new features 
 are the GTS system, which is like Ebay for Pokemon. You choose a pokemon to be auctioned to someone 
 with the Pokemon you're looking for. The highest bidder is the guy that has the pokemon you want. 
 That was a great idea for this series, and whoever suggested it should be promoted on their job. 
 Another new feature is trading between Diamond and the old GBA games (Ruby, Fire Red, etc) . You 
 trade whichever pokemon (you CANNOT trade the new 100 pokemon onto the GBA games) between, for example, 
 Diamond and Ruby. After you trade them, in your Diamond, you have to go looking for the new traded 
 pokemon in a Sefari Zone- like area. That was an interesting concept, but the idea of going to 
 look for them doesn't seem worth going through all the work for. The WiFi battles are pretty good 
 and it's everything you think it is. Overall, this game is a good start for the main Pokemon series 
 on the DS. There is a little bit of lagging when you get into a battle (like with a random character 
 in the game, say, for example, a Rich Boy or Bug Maniac) , but it's like 1 second, and it won't 
 be in the next installment (the devs have to get comfortabe with the software) . I recommend this 
 game for anyone with a DS, or knows anyone with a DS. With nearly 500 Pokemon (total) to catch, 
 and battling with everyone on WiFi (which has around 5 million players) , you're going to be playing 
 this game for a very long time. Enjoy and Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguer
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 29, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I could not, at this moment, come up with a better DS game to buy that is E-rated. But I have to 
 say, the series has lost many fans to something called teenagedom. There are no real reasons for 
 the average teenager to play the game. Same basic game concept as it was eight years ago. Just 
 added features. And I must say, my younger brother is in love with the game. In all, the best in 
 the series yet.
  
  What ceases to amaze me is that Nintendo managed to sell Red, Blue and Yellow so well. How they 
 took very limited memory and created a world around it with books, the TV show, and other sources. 
 Now that technology has caught up to their dream, the game is that much more fun because the colors 
 aren't imagined anymore. Pikachu (classic example) isn't white, it is actually yellow. Again, the 
 best one yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is the fourth generation Pokemon game (fifth I guess, if you want to count 
 Fire Red/Leaf Green) . It's perhaps the most hyped game (s) on the DS, and people have eaten' the 
 game up. But is it for good reason?
  
  Gameplay: Diamond/Pearl doesn't stray far at all from the original formula Red and Blue set. Actualy, 
 to be completly honest, it does nothing at all to set it's self apart gameplay wise from Ruby/Sapphire 
 version (s) . You can carry a party of six critters to do turn based battles. The battles are kinda 
 done in a rock-paper-scissors fashion. For example, water type Pokemon douse fire types, fire types 
 scorch grass types and grass types just kick water type butt. Beyond this theres really nothing 
 else to explain about battles. You'll once again go adventuring around, collecting badges, catching 
 Pokemon and beating the crap out of evil neferious team rocket like baddies. And once all is said 
 an done, you wont find that you've done anything you haven't alredy done in past versions.
  
  Graphics: It looks like a GBA game..... Which isn't really impressive at all. The only thing 
 that really stood out were the semi 3d buildings. And it's got a decent artsy colorful look to 
 the characters. Save for the buildings, this looks dead up like a GBA game though. Also, while 
 there are over a hundred new Pokemon, alot of them pretty poorly designed compared to the last 
 three batches.
  
  Sound: The Pokemon cries are weak. All the older Pokemon carry their old cries from past games (even 
 from the Gameboy color) . The music is nice though. There are some really catchy tunes here. But 
 technically, the music quality is no different than Ruby/Sapphire's.
  
  Value: While this game makes not break throughs at all in gameplay, audio or graphics it still 
 strong in one area. Replay value. It'll take you around fourty hours just to finish the main quest. 
 After that the game gives you a little bit of extra land to explore. You can also work on capturing 
 the vast amount of Pokemon (over four hundred) . You can breed, and just train your Pokemon. Theres 
 also alot in the way of multiplayer here, with trading and battling with your friends. And you 
 can even do it online this time. And the secret base from Ruby/Sapphire makes a return, with alot 
 of tweaks made to the whole thing.
  
  Bassically it comes down to this. If you didn't like past Pokemon games, there is absolutly nothing 
 here that will make you want to get this game. If your a Pokemon nut, probably wont even read the 
 reviews before buying this. And if your a casual Pokemon fan, odds are, your going to be disappointed 
 in the lack of changes made here. And if your new to Pokemon, this is the best of the series you 
 could possibly get and it's woth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon DIamond for the Nintendo DS is an excellent rpg to add to you're collection. If you have 
 played any previous RPG pokemon (excluding mystery dungeon) then you will be in familiar territory. 
 The characters personally are ok but my rival I completely hate it. It's the blondie kid. He thinks 
 he is so strong and you beat him so many times and still thinks he is big deal stuff. On the graphics 
 it's pretty similar to Pokemon ruby and saphire, yet it features some 3-D sprites and animations 
 of building and some big objects. The update is nice, but is not that big.
  
  In the gameplay well it's still walking on grass capturing pokemon, leveling up by battling wild 
 pokemon and trainers that are around routes. Gym badges by beating each Gym leader, and then the 
 elite four guys that you got to battle. You will be impress however by the amount of women trainers 
 in the game, well at least I was. Of course there is new pokemon and some pair of new activities. 
 Yet, the main adventure is still the same.
  
  Online play is pretty good finally battling online. However, it annoys that it takes long enough 
 in the game to reach it. The Trading building appears very early on the game so you don't have 
 to wait much to trade pokemon.
  
  Overall Pokemon Diamond and Pearl it's a must pick up for all those who loved previous pokemon 
 2-D rpgs. And pokemon fans alike must pick up too! Newcomers can also check it out specially if 
 you like Rpg's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakahashi
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  All hail this game, even with a couple of it's cons!
  
  Here are some of the things I find that are great in this game : Poketch - P~Delivers a great deal 
 of functions
  C~The best apps are event-only
  
  Time Feature - P~IT RETURNS FROM G/S/C
  C~For blind people like me, it's very hard to see at late night, even with back light.
  
  New 
 Battling System - P~Takes advantage of the Touch Screen! And can be used with the D-Pad!
  C~Once again, it is a bit flat . . . Graphics - P~Suits the DS's capabilities of 3-D art
  C~What's 
 with the big heads, and flat Pokemon sprites?
  
  Sounds - P~Very cute, identical to ones from past games
  C~The tunes get stuck in your head . 
 . . FAST!
  
  Plot - P~The intro is far unlike any games before it!
  C~Why bring us to a place where a legendary is so soon?
  
  Overall Gameplay - P~Geat for fun, 
 deserves 9.6/10
  C~Too much like past games, even with the twists! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfsmwplayer346
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond has what everyone has always wanted in a pokemon game, great pokemon, compelling 
 storyline and alot to do. From the first time you leave twinleaf town, it will probably be the 
 hardest game to let go of, and with the comeback that we all loved in gold silver and crystal the 
 introduction of day morning and night features are back and better than ever and introduced in 
 a much familiar manner compared to the old games. At the same time, keeping everything that made 
 pokemon games a surefire hit to compell players old and new, and the new ways to communicate with 
 friends or even random people throughout the planet from one country to the other, it even introduces 
 some features that the old games didnt have, like being able to more easily find what you want 
 in your bag, a whole new system of interaction called the poketech, it is sure to captivate anybody 
 into saying was this a worthwile buy or what! , so in conclusion, i highly reccomend this game 
 both diamond and pearl trading via gts is the greatest thing ever introuduced with the nintendo 
 wifi connection, so if you dont have it or a ds, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_of_Hyrule
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  this was the first pokemon game i have played since silver and gold so it has been a while. first 
 of all they have added so much to the series since i have played it like double battles and a whole 
 lot of new items. i loved the graphics in this game compared to the old ones. i can actually tell 
 that the people are people. there is a whole lot of things to do after the game like battle tower 
 and pokeradar. i loved this game. i spent 85 hrs to date and i still have a lot to do like capturing 
 all of the legendaries. it is a great and long game. i would recommend adding this to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StaticPlayer
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  It's an overpriced game that is really an expansion pack. I checked around all the new pokemons 
 out there and I gotta say, I'm not impressed. Even the old pokemons that I liked from previous 
 games, aren't available until after the I beat the game. This also includes a lot of the new evolved 
 forms of the old pokemons, so that new 100 or so pokemons out there get dwindled down to like 80. 
 Ok not much but then you have to consider that out of those 80, you knock of another 10 for all 
 the new legendaries they have. so you're down to 70. Knock off another 10 for the event pokemons, 
 and now you're at 60. Out of those 60, most of them are the generic three tiered creature, bigger 
 creature, and biggest creature one that don't excite me much. so you've now effectively divided 
 that number by 3, to get 20. So then playing and beating the game is not actually the point this 
 time around. Since you cannot actually enjoy all the new pokemons or even get a bunch of your past 
 old pokemons until you beat the game, the online aspect must be what's I'm paying for. This new 
 online aspect, however can get really boring , really quick since, there will always be people 
 that live off this game breeding everything to be traded and quite frankly I cannot keep up with 
 that level of competition. Sure I don't mind having to trade my pokemons for the others I want/need, 
 but when I cannot rename them and the name given to them is dumbass or useless , I'm not quite 
 sure I want these pokemons on my team. The only other way would be the egg breeders where I can 
 get the pokemon I want from an egg, but that's also not as common and a harder trade to establish 
 in my experience. Yeah the game play is about the same, and that's not a bad thing a 9 (an improvement 
 would have been a 10) . The graphics had a nice overhaul, but nothing too impressive (I really wanted 
 something along the lines of full 3d everything, not just certain buildings. like animal crossing 
 where It's truly a 3d world) . , But they past with a 7. The sound is actually pretty well done, 
 giving me the same setting as the previous games, so I'll be generous and give that a 9 as well. 
 The value however, $34, for this upgrade, cost about 15 bucks too much. You cannot really get the 
 full enjoyment of the game without having prioir investment from past pokemon games, so they are 
 just getting more money from the same market, and not breaking any new ground. Hence a 6.
  And finally my tilt, is that I feel it is overall a B game. Definitely they have more content then 
 just passing here, but it doesn't deserve an A either. Grade A games, 9-10 value, are games that 
 are worthy to be called a game in that genre. They are the ones that you recommend to your friends 
 that doesn't play this genre of RPG/strategy. However, when the past pokemon games are quite similar 
 and they can be picked up for 20 bucks or less, I would actually recommend getting pokemon emerald 
 for the GBA, for those that are staring out in the world of pokemon. Being gamer conscious I go 
 by overall feel of the game based on my own playing experience, and whether it can be recommended 
 to other non gamers that have heard about this hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game it wasnt so much because I was a fan of the series but because I wanted 
 some nostalgia from when I was a kid obsessed with Pokemon. The show and the card game may be culturally 
 irrelevant by now, but the games sure arent.
  
  Thats because the games were the only good thing about the property. The show blew chunks, the 
 movie was the corn on the cob that finally pushed me out of the fad and the card game was just 
 a gimmick designed to hypnotize grade schoolers into channeling their parents cash directly to 
 Nintendo and Game Freaks pockets. The Chin-Pokomon episode of South Park got it absolutely right, 
 it was all a brainwashing scheme and we were sucked into it hook, line, and sinker. It was all 
 perfectly fine though, because it wouldnt have been so popular if it werent for one thing: the 
 games kicked ass.
  
  Red and Blue are two timeless classics that even I found myself playing all over again, years after 
 I got it when it first came out for the GameBoy. It was indescribably addictive trying to catch 
 em all and then simultaneously training your Pokemon to be the very best that allegedly no 
 one ever was. Now if youll excuse me Im gonna try and get the theme song out of my head by banging 
 it with a frying pan.
  
  Now that Ive gone through all that nostalgic crap we can get to the actual review of the game. 
 If youve played a Pokemon before, you already know how to play Pokemon Pearl and Diamond. They 
 are essentially the same game, and they even start out the same way. Professor Rowan lets you keep 
 one of three Pokemon as your own to start out with, and then forces you to run away from home without 
 any food, water, or a place to sleep, leaving you to face off an evil horde of villains called 
 Team Galactic and gives you no reward for doing all that god damn workbut I guess the real reward 
 is the love and friendship you have with your Pokemon. Or at least thats what Nintendos marketing 
 executives want you to think. If all of this sounds familiar to you, youre not alone.
  
  There ARE a few things that have changed since the first games. For one thing you can now battle 
 with TWO Pokemon against TWO other Pokemon. HOLY CRAP!!! Also, now the graphics are in 3D. OH SNAP!!! 
 And now theres online play. FAP FAP FAP!!! These changes may seem minimal but the most impressive 
 thing is how Pokemon has evolved into a game that has a massive world with lots of things to do 
 in it, like entering contests, exploring new places even after the game is finished, and using 
 an extremely deep and complicated collecting and stat-building system. Trying to squeeze every 
 last drop of content from this game is a daunting task to say the least, and this is the main reason 
 why Pokemon Pearl or Diamond are a worthwhile addition to your collection.
  
  If theres one complaint I have with the game, its that its all the same. For the first few days 
 I was hopelessly addicted. I couldnt stop playing and leveling up my Pokemon, I took time away 
 from everything else just to spend time with the game, but after that, I found myself neglecting 
 my Pokemon, abandoning them.. It started to get extremely annoying when I would be walking in the 
 grass trying to get somewhere and suddenly see the screen start blinking and hear,  
 and then have to wait for the run button to appear before I could spare myself the tedium of having 
 to battle another ****ing Bidoof.
  
  Other than that, theres really no reason for any RPG fan to avoid Pokemon if they have a DS, since 
 there really arent very many other RPGs on the DS that are gonna give you as full an experience 
 as Pokemon Pearl and Diamond. The 40 hour story will keep you busy all on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Hewson
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I've bin waitin for this game for so long and now it's finally out. its alot better than the gba 
 for graphics and gameplay, it still a short tho, i liked it in the old ones where u could go to 
 kanto and johto, they should do something like that again. but yeah good game worth a try, if you 
 like pokemon. the stor is okay. i like the legendary after u unlock the national dex. they are 
 fun to get. and pal park was just a great idea, i kinda think that the faact u can only upload 
 the ba pokemon once a day is gay but, yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2thedawn14
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  When I heard that they were making a pokemon game for the ds the first thing I thought was, great 
 another pokemon colleseum . But a week later i started seeing screenshots of what looked like emerald 
 and ruby 2D, but with an N64 3D look. I was floored. This time around the enviornments look more 
 real. It makes you feel like your part of the adventure, while not leaving its 2D roots. On top 
 of that they threw in a new region , Sinnoh. A continent that is divided by a huge rugged mountain 
 range. And of course, what would a new region be without the new pokemon. This time they threw 
 over 100 new species into the mix. It's weird having new pokemon, because at first you say, that 
 thing is NOT a pokemon. But then it starts to grow on you, and before you know it you dont even 
 notice the difference. They also added another new aspect to the game, underground. Once you acquire 
 the proper item, you are premitted to traverse the underground tunnel system. While your down there 
 you can basically do one of three things, lay traps and play with friends that are next to you 
 (if they are underground too) , dig in walls to find items, and build your secret base.
  
  With all of these additions plus the ability to import your gba people using pal park, this game 
 will have you training for days and days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 27, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon. What can be said about this monster enslaving series that hasn't been said before. It's 
 been parodied by South Park and has given Japanese school children seizures with the debut of the 
 animated series and now it comes back like an old familiar friend with Pokemon Pearl/Diamond versions. 
 P/D are the best in the series. They combine features from Gold/Silver/Crystal and  
 into a neat little package of goodness. Back is the day/night feature that was absent in the GBA 
 interations. Although not a huge part of the game they add to to the overall experience of your 
 journey. The combat system has been tweaked which is nice. No longer do you have remember what 
 types are considered to be Attacks and Special Attacks now each technique has an icon telling you 
 what it is. This tweak makes learning combat easier for new players. Story is the same. Save Proffessor 
 (Insert Name Here) from a wild Pokemon. Get your starter. Beat gyms blah blah blah but you aren't 
 playing these games for the shallow story lines. Although the attempt to add mythology is nice 
 it's really nothing special. As for the catch 'em all tagline. There is over 400 critters for you 
 to enslave and have battle to the death.. or until the faint whatever comes first.
  
  It is the best game in the series even with the tacked on Underground feature. Wifi battling and 
 trading keep this one from getting stale. A great buy for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NarutoLuffy
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST POKEMON GAME TO DATE!!!!!!!!!! The Pokemon Universe has been advanced with the addition 
 of Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl. With over 100 new Pokemon, making the total amount of Pokemon 
 493 (Including Unobtainable Pokemon) , this is the largest addition to the Pokemon Universe, not 
 to mention all of the brand new things! One addition is the Poketch, which allows you you to use 
 things like a calculator, watch (Both Digital and Analog) , and new Poke' Balls, new items, and 
 much more!
  
  Whether you're a fan of Pokemon or completly oblivious to what Pokemon is, Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pokemon Pearl are two awesome games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  There have been over ten pokemon games in the past few years. Some were failures such as Pokemon 
 Channel, others were a masterpiece such as Pokemon Yellow Version. But where does Pokemon Diamond 
 fit betwenn the two categories, well read on and find out!
  
  3 out of 5
  Story: If you have played any of the other GBA Pokemon games you should have learned one thing, 
 the story plot always remains the same. You are a young boy who searches, cathces, and trains pokemon. 
 With your pokemon you go to a variety of cities to defeat Gym Leaders and earn badges. But along 
 the way you have to stop a group of evil villians from destroying the world called Team Galactic. 
 After you earn a total of eight badges you go up against the Elite Four, the toughest pokemon trainers 
 around. (It should actually be called Elite 5 because you have to face the champion after defeating 
 the other four) After you do that you become crowned as Pokemon Champion. This has been done over 
 ten times but hey it's a Pokemon game after all, this may be the next generation but it still stays 
 with the old ways. 5 out of 5
  Gameplay: In Pokemon Diamond the whole entire game involves turn based combat. Whether you fight 
 wild pokemon, gym leaders, or trainers the fights are always the same. You send out a pokemon it 
 attacks the other pokemon then the other pokemon attacks you then it keeps going until one of you 
 die. This becomes extremely repetitive expecially since you need to do it over 200 times or more. 
 Although the fighting is repetitive I actually didn't care, I don't about you but there's something 
 about a pokemon game that keeps your interested even if you fight the same way a million times. 
 There have also been an update in features for the game, you can now trade and battle people across 
 the world using Wi Fi Connection. You can also transfer pokemon from your GBA versions to your 
 Pokemon Diamond version. It's amazing yet so simple. You can also do other things like enter in 
 contests, go digging for fossils, and test your luck at the lottery. These small features expand 
 your gameplay and give you other things to do besides battling. 4 out of 5
  Graphics: The graphics haven't changed much from GBA to DS pokemon games. Although Nintendo has 
 tried to put 3-D shapes and figures into the game it pretty much looks the same. The game still 
 looks great though, with a variety of colors, and blazing action sequences, and the day/night feature 
 added on Pokemon still looks good, and maybe a little better. 5 out of 5
  Music: Almost everywhere you go inthe game such as different towns and cities there are different 
 songs. Which is good since the game is extremely long, I don't think anyone would want to hear 
 the same music for 50+ hours. The battle music fits in nicely, it gives that dramatic feeling especially 
 if you're close to losing an important Pokemon match. The music is high quality and doesn't get 
 irritaing too quickly. Which is a plus for me. Overall: Pokemon Diamond is a great game, it still 
 uses the same old pokemon formula but improves it just a bit. From fighting to running around towns 
 to cathing pokemon this game has it all. If you're a huge pokemon fan, or a person looking for 
 a new game for your DS Pokemon Diamond is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Pokemon Diamond for about 53 hours. I am into it and I am not even close to 
 being bored with this game. I play it almost everyday. Yeah, I am that into it. Well here is my 
 review on Pokemon Diamond.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much the same as the older Pokemon games on the GBA. You start off with a Lv. 
 5 starter Pokemon and you travel across Shinnoh as you catch Pokemon, train them, battle trainers 
 and gyms, participate in contests, and a whole lot more. Definetly the best part about this game 
 in thee gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Very good for a Pokemon game but could have done better since it is on the Nintendo DS. 
 Still enjoyable and the people look cuter than ever.
  
  Basically that is it. It has a bunch of new features like the Poketech which has a bunch of cool 
 little applications like a clock, calendar, berry finder, and more. I love this game and anyone 
 who like Pokemon or really long RPG then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosalmon
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 26, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have been a Pokemon fan ever since the days of Red and Blue. I've stuck with the company through 
 good times (Pokemon Crystal) and bad times (Pokemon Snap) , and have been a faithful follower of 
 the company. But recently, there has been a noticeable absence of a substantial Pokemon RPG. Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon was an okay tie-me-over, but the radically different battle system left me dazed 
 and confused. Now, Game Freak has obliged its hungry fans with Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, and I've 
 gotta say, Game Freak has outdone themselves. First off, I'm going to clarify the differences between 
 the two versions. Actually, aside from about 8 or 9 different Pokemon, there is absolutely no difference 
 between the two versions. Now, most of you Pokemon Fans might be thinking: Oh great. They're doing 
 it again. I don't have any other friends that play Pokemon, so I'm gonna have to waste money on 
 getting a whole other version just to get 8 ****ing Pokemon. Thanks Game Freak. 
  
  Not So! One of the most important changes in Diamond and Pearl is the addition of Wireless trading 
 across the globe. That's right. You can now trade with people from next door, to across town, to 
 across the country, to across the continent, even to across the planet. You are no longer bound 
 to a 3 foot link cable to trade with people. Heck, you don't even have to trade with people you 
 know, thanks to the GTS, or Global Trade System. You put a Pokemon on the GTS and ask for a Pokemon, 
 so it's kinda like Pokemon Ebay.
  
  But I digress. Many of the complaints that I hear about games, and that I myself have complaints 
 about, is the length of the game. It seems that now a days games are shockingly short, taking less 
 than 10 hours to complete. If you crave a game with length, then Diamond is the game for you. The 
 main story of the game took me, and I'm not even exagerating, 60 hours to complete. Then, when 
 I was finished with the story, I started REALLY playing the game. Since I beat the game, I've spent 
 100 hours playing the game, and I've still got a lot of stuff to do on it. The graphics and sound 
 are major steps up from Ruby and Sapphire. I went back to play them for a minute, and my eyes began 
 to hurt. The games are also much more streamlined than Ruby and Sapphire. The transitions from 
 the world to battle is very fluid. The gameplay recieved a major change in this generation: a spliting 
 of attacks into Physical and Special. previously, attacks were determined to be physical or special 
 solely on their type, but now they are determined individually. Otherwise the gameplay methods 
 haven't changed since the previous generation of games. That's all I have to say on Pokemon Diamond 
 and Pearl. But I've really only scratched the surface of these games. There are so many other things 
 in these games that I forgot to mention. I would say that if you have a DS, this is a must have 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Pokemon games since I was about 5 years old. From Red and Blue all the way up 
 to Diamond and Pearl the legend still lives on. Overall I would have to say this is my second favorite 
 pokemon game, behind Silver&amp; Gold and ahead of Red&amp; Blue. Ill start out with the gameplay. 
 The changes from the last game are of course the region, pokemon, and some improved graphics from 
 Ruby&amp; Sapphire. Once I picked up this game (and this will probably be your story too) I put 
 it straight into my DS and played for about 3 hours. I don't know what it is about it, but this 
 game is seriously addicting. You catch pokemon, battle people, defeat gym leaders and the elite 
 four, catch the legendary pokemon, and stop an evil gang from taking over the world. It's been 
 the same story for about a decade, but its still fun. And plus in Diamond&amp; Pearl you can battle 
 and trade people around the world using WiFi. Now doesn't that sound like hella fun?
  
  One thing I noticed about the graphics are that in some places it's more 3d and realistic (mainly 
 in gym's i've noticed) . Other than that the graphics haven't had big changes but in my opinion 
 they don't need any. Sound gets a 6 just for the fact that it gets annoying sometimes and I get 
 forced to turn the volume off of my DS.
  
  Value, 9, becuase of all the time you can get out of this game. It takes a ton of time to defeat 
 the elite four and finish your pokedex (although now that you can trade around the world I suppose 
 it wouldn't be as impossible to have every pokemon avaliable in the game) .
  
  If you want to know my recommendation, which you probably guessed, I would say without hesistation 
 to get this game and start playing... because you don't know what you're missing out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragongod165
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon on DS. It started with Pokemon Trozei!, a fun addictive puzzle game featuring your favorite 
 Pokemon. Then comes Blue Mystery Dungeon, a unique Pokemon adventure in which you ARE the pokemon. 
 Then, Pokemon Ranger, in which you used your capture styler to use Pokemon to help control the 
 peace.
  
  But those were only tasters.
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl go into full-on Traditional Pokemon mode on the DS, all the while utilizing 
 the touch screen to control the battle interface, control your Pokemon Watch, or Poketch for short, 
 and even using your stylus to dig up fossils. With 150 Pokemon in the Sinnoh Pokedex alone, you 
 will be Catchin' 'em all in no time. Then comes the National Dex, bringing up the total amount 
 of Pokemon to 493. With eight new gyms, a new Elite Four, and hundreds of trainers, there are battles 
 all around.
  
  The mythology of the Sinnoh region is excellent. You will want to uncover every last bit of mythology 
 and fully understand the way the whole Pokemon world was created.
  
  Next we bring in the ability to migrate Pokemon from GBA Versions, which spices up your Pokemon 
 team. Super contests are also a great addition, allowing you to dress up your Pokemon for a Contest, 
 then performing moves to win ribbons for your Pokemon.
  
  Finally, the Wi-Fi. Where to start? Wi-Fi allows you to trade and battle with friends all around 
 the world. I battle with my friend from across the country almost every day. Throw in the GTS, 
 a trading station allowing you to search for or put up the pokemon you want to trade, and you can 
 trade with practically anyone.
  
  Overall, Diamond and Pearl redefined the way I look at Pokemon. With its mysteries, new Pokemon, 
 improved graphics, and new gadgets, Diamond and Pearl have to be the best Pokemon I have ever played. 
 9.8 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 25, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWSOME and I highly recommend geting it!
  So far its the best one of its series!
  And the Wi - Fi capabilate makes it all more fun to play 
 because you can battle with your friends!
  You can also collect and trane over 100 NEW pok'emon!
  I have seen all of the new pok'emon and 
 let me tell you there are some preaty cool new ones!
  The only thing I found kind of disterbing!
  Is that its just like the other pok'emon games!
 
  Same story: You wake up in your new home. Go and meet your best friend!
  And then set off on your adventure after chosing one of three pok'emon.
  You battle your best 
 friend at random parts of the game!
  And try to be the best tranier ever!
  Same old same old!
  All above: This game ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzibitnationz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond has revolutionized the way we play with Pokemon. We grew up with the simple 16-bit 
 graphics of Red and Blue and we are now into the world where Pokemon is in a 3-D format. Pokemon 
 Diamond has got to be one of the best Pokemon titles to come out.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing. Have you ever noticed that in the old games that when you move 
 the buildings move up and down without perspective? Well, in this game, you have buildings (and 
 other obstacles) moving in perspective. The Pokemon sprites (in my opinion) are the best released 
 out of all of them. The sounds pretty much stayed the same throughout the game. The gameplay has 
 changed in many ways. You have your classic moving, catching Pokemon, battling and interacting 
 with other players that never changed from the start. Now, you have real time gameplay, you can 
 trade, battle and interact ONLINE (through Nintendo Wi-Fi) .
  
  Basically, if you are thinking about buying this game, I recommend you to because it may have that 
 classic Pokemon feeling to it, but the way you play it changed alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Pok&eacute; mon series has had constant success since it was first released in Japan over 10 
 years ago in its four color glory on the classic Gameboy, with wikipedia boasting that the series 
 has sold over 155 million units as of the end of 06 (before the US release of Diamond and Pearl) . 
 This is a pretty phenomenal achievement for a game that is viewed as a child's game outside of 
 Japan, even viewed alongside Mario's whopping 193 million units shipped.
  The Pok&eacute; mon series has touched on many genres, but it's always been an RPG at heart and 
 the latest Diamond and Pearl games are no exception, the plot is really no more advanced from where 
 the series originated so many years ago. You start you off as a kid in a small town, with no Pok&eacute; mon 
 or back history, you stumble onto a Pok&eacute; mon or a Professor in the first 5 minutes of game 
 play and set about becoming the top Pok&eacute; mon trainer. Along the journey you'll come across 
 an evil gang, various other trainers and finish by defeating the gang and beating the Elite 4. 
 Like I said this structure has never changed and as far as plot goes it's like playing the same 
 game over and over. Pok&eacute; mon Blue for the Nintendo Gameboy
  
  The graphics in Pok&eacute; mon are not going to win any awards, the main game view is pretty enough, 
 the pseudo 3d effect of buildings looks good and everything moves along nicely. Sadly the Battles 
 haven't been given any real 'animation' the Pok&eacute; mon themselves are great sprites, but the 
 graphical effects of the battles are not that much more advanced than the old D&amp; D games when 
 you'll just see a few frames of animation of a skeleton taking a swipe at you. I'm not saying the 
 graphics are bad, but I still look forward to the day when the battles become a little more like 
 the arena in the Pok&eacute; mon battle games that appear on the consoles.
  The little tunes you find while walking around and getting into battles are catchy and memorable, 
 a lot of been enhanced from the classic games and are still great to listen to. Each Pok&eacute; mon 
 has a unique cry, the amusing thing about this is that the originals 150 Gameboy Pok&eacute; mon 
 still have their grainy distorted sounds like they were coming out of the GB speaker. I'm sure 
 this is on purpose, but much like the graphics, I want a little more, A few samples from the TV 
 series would be great, I'd love to hear my star Pok&eacute; mon scream SCYTHER!!! as she runs into 
 battle. Pok&eacute; mon Crystal for the Nintendo Gameboy Color
  
  All of this sounds terribly negative, and those of you who haven't played the game before must 
 be wondering why this game is so popular if nothings changed in 10 years and things look outdated 
 for the DS. I'd love to be able to summarize this in just a few words, but the series doesn't need 
 a great story, graphics and sound to be a good game, the sheer amount of things to do keep the 
 game interesting, the main plot is only a very small part of what the Pok&eacute; mon series has 
 to offer. Besides the battles you can involve your captured Pok&eacute; mon in contests, such as 
 beauty contests where you'll have to use the attacks your Pok&eacute; mon has learnt to dazzle the 
 audience and draw their attention. There are many things to collect in the game, besides the Pok&eacute; mon 
 themselves (of which there is now 493) , you can collect stickers for your Pok&eacute; balls, new 
 phrases to say, ribbons, furniture, Pok&eacute; mon accessories and I'm probably forgetting about 
 even more. Collecting all of any of these things is no easy task (epically the Pok&eacute; mon themselves) 
 so you could spend an inordinate amount of time just doing these crazy little tasks.
  After all is said and done it all comes down to getting the best team of Pok&eacute; mon and making 
 them tough, this is where the complexity of the game really shows. If your Pok&eacute; mon doesn't 
 know a move that you'll like to teach it, you can collect one of the many TMs and use it on the 
 Pok&eacute; mon, or perhaps you can breed your Pok&eacute; mon with one that does know the move, 
 then train the offspring! Although the game features 467 different moves each of your Pok&eacute; mon 
 can only know 4 at any one time this can require a hell of a lot of planning if you plan on making 
 a winning team. To raise your star Pok&eacute; mon's stats you can feed it poffins, to get these 
 you have to plant and pick berries, then put them in a berry mixer, but you can only feed it so 
 many, so even more planning is needed here. Even once you have a tough high level Pok&eacute; mon 
 with all the right moves, he's not going to be successful without a full team backing him/her/it 
 up. Only 6 Pok&eacute; mon can be with you at one time and a good mix of Pok&eacute; mon can make 
 or break your whole team. Each move can be one of 17 types, so can the Pok&eacute; mon, there's 
 a very elaborate rock-paper-sissors game at play here, so unless you have a good mix you'll quickly 
 fall to a more dynamic team. Pok&eacute; mon Emerald for the Nintendo Gameboy Advance
  
  Finally one thing the new game does bring in is multi player, you can walk around together in the 
 tunnels beneath the world and visit each others secret bases and play a capture the flag based 
 game, this is only available locally DS to DS. The most important feature available here is the 
 ability to trade and battle over Nintendo Wi-Fi, allowing you to upload your Pok&eacute; mon onto 
 the servers and await someone to trade with you. Using this you can easily trade with people all 
 over the world, so there's usually someone with what you are looking for. The battles however aren't 
 online, you'll download someone's uploaded team and then fight the team offline and upload the 
 records. It would be nice to be able to battle over Wi-Fi in real time, but this a mode like this 
 is more than welcome and offers a great challenge.
  I've clocked 60-70 hours of game play so far, and I'm not about to stop yet, with so much left 
 to do this is something that's very easy to come back to and with Pok&eacute; mon coming out for 
 the Wii there's even more reason to build up a good team. I'd recommend this to anyone who's a 
 fan of the previous games, or collection &amp; RPGs in general, with the low price of DS games 
 compared to the major consoles it really offers a lot of hours of enjoyment to your dollar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makuta46
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome. i can't tell you how great this game is. Pokemon gets a perfect 10 it 
 should have and hopefully always will be. When i first picked up pokemon diamond i thought it would 
 be the best geme ever. and you know what i was right. I couldn't put it down when i started playing 
 it. The nintendo wifi makes the pokemon series enjoyable to people all around the globe. Thank 
 you nintendo thank you game freak for making another succesful addition to the pokemon series. 
 The pokemon series will pwn overall the other competition. Thanks. And once again special thanks 
 to game freak and nintendo for making yet another great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Konda
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the original Red/Blue versions came out, the Poke'mon RPG series created by Game Freak 
 has been a wonderful success. This fourth generation title proves no different. For you fans who 
 enjoyed R/B/Y, G/S/C, and R/S/E, then you guys will all defintely enjoyed Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. 
 The concept of the game is still the same, get a pokemon, train it, battle other people, which 
 is a great thing. However, in addition to the original concept, Game Freak added many new things 
 like over 100 new pokemon, many new items, 42 more TMs, and new HMs. The graphics have received 
 an upgrade from the original 2-D to a almost 3-D feel to the environment. However, the game is 
 still mainly 2-D except for the buildings and the Pokemon sprites are still all 2-D. The Pokemon's 
 attack animation have ALL been redone to make every attack look cool. The sound could get a little 
 annoying at times but it featured one of the best soudtracks of any Pokemon game. You could play 
 this game for like hundreds of hours and still not get bored because there are always other pokemon 
 to train and more people to battle online. The new functions of the Global Trading System (GTS) 
 and the online pal pad battles have added great depths to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreFullCircle
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Those monsters who love to shack up in balls have returned for their first proper DS treatment, 
 bringing along a few new tricks and old favorites. After selling a million plus games a few weeks 
 ago, does it live up to expectations? Yes, sir. It  
 story is a basic carbon copy of every game before it. Kid finds professor, professor asks kid to 
 collect Pokemon, evil corperation shows up, etc. Some people call it predictable, I call it tradition. 
 In this game, it seems like the story takes slightly longer to get started than in the past. It 
 could be due to all the new features implimented, which I will get to later. The story's just a 
 reason to get you out and about, kicking Poke-butt without  
 Getting to the gameplay, the game incorperates aspects from pretty much every game in the series. 
 The mechanics are sort of like a greatest hits spanning the entire series, from the basics of Red/Blue, 
 to the berries, breeding, and day cycle of Gold/Silver, and a few things from the Advance Generation. 
 There are also new minigames and activities which use the touch screen, but for the most part, 
 it's the same tried and true formula we've come to expect. It doesn't alienate fans of the series 
 or shake things up by trying to improve the unimprovable. In the DS iteration, there's much more 
 to do after you've beaten the Elite Four and fill up the Shinnoh PokeDex. Also, if you have a previous 
 version of Pokemon on GBA, you can put it in the second slot and it will make Pokemon from that 
 game appear in the wild, and you'll also earn the ability to upload them from the old game pack 
 and capture them in the Pal Park.  graphics in the game have 
 been updated nicely. I've heard far too much critisism over the suppesed lack of updates, but from 
 the first few seconds on, there will be something that reminds you that this is a DS game. Houses, 
 trees, buildings, windmills, and other structures have been rendered in cel-shaded 3D. It fits 
 right in with the series, and invokes memories the Pokemon games on the Gamecube. The camera pans 
 and makes all sorts of movements not seen before. The basics of the game, such as your character 
 model, the Pokemon, and the interiors and ground look only marginally improved, but you can tell 
 the difference from an older game. There are textures here and there that look nicely, such as 
 wallpaper and  
 audio in the game is a mixed bag. The sountrack is vastly improved from the MIDI-ish scores of 
 the past, and have a different feel than previously. On the flip side, is still no speech, and 
 the older Pokemon cries are pretty much unchanged, save for slight clarity. It's understandable, 
 seeing as how there are so many Pokemon at this point, but a few of the more popular Pokemon could've 
 used their cries from the show for a change. The D/P Pokemon obviously sound the best, as their 
 cries are higher quality than the older ones. -----------As the first online Pokemon game ever, 
 Diamond's inclusion of Nintendo's Wi-Fi service fits seemlessly into the single player mode. Trading 
 Pokemon with players around the world is a simple process. You can either put up one of your Pokemon 
 or search for the one you've had a hard time finding. Battling sounds like a good idea on paper, 
 but it's extremely annoying to have to seek out friend codes and not have any sort of lobby where 
 anyone can tap in and find opponents. It will only get easier as more people take the game online. 
 It's only a month in, so us early adopters have to be patient. Online has amazing potential and 
 I can't wait to see how it is in a few  
 in all, Pokemon Diamond is a must buy for fans. It's also a good place to start for anyone else. 
 It's all the best of the Pokemon games in one package, while adding innovative features that make 
 for the most satisfying game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbz987
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  There are about 493 pokemon in Pokemon Diamond also Pokemon Diamond features a lot of legendaries 
 more than any pokemon game ever.
  Pokemon Diamond features the same gameplay (turn based) it surprised because it was somewhat tough. 
 Pokemon Diamond is nor easy or hard but it is the hardest pokemon game ever. Well again you have 
 to pick a starter between Turtwig (grass) Chimchar (fire) and Piplup (water) and also you have a 
 rival who is always a bit of a rush. The group villian is Team Galatic, you the hero have to defeat 
 them they want to control time and space. The Gym Battles are more challenging than the past Pokemon 
 games because sometimes type advantages doesn't work. Pokemon has day and night thing just like 
 Gold an Silver, that means some pokemon could be caught in the day and some will be caught at night. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bender_Rox
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for beginers to pokemon and to people who have played pokemon all there life. 
 Its just like the older pokemon games but better it has tuns of new features like the poketech 
 its basicly a decked out pokedex and better graphics, theres a tuns of of new featurs but i dont 
 wont to list them all but theres one feture that everybody loves witch is the new pokemon. Theres 
 allot of great stuff about this game but Iam to lazy to tell you so just go buy the game and youll 
 see that it was the best 40$ you ever spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sims2linkkh
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 20, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Well pokemon diamond is preety good, with it's 3-d and new pokemon and you can corinate now. I 
 mean it's so asome moves have updated and boys and girls pokemon look differnt! It's pretty cheap 
 so It was easy to get it. Wi-fi is also great with it since you can play around the gloabe and 
 you can hook it up with the wii and use your ds as a controller. Pretty asome
  All in all if you have forty bucks to spend buy pokeomon Diamound or pearl.
  And Stay away from 
 boy Jinxes. Random words HI MY NAMES BOB AND I LIKE GIRLS POKEMON PUBERTY LOCKERROMS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond / Pearl is another game in the Pokemon series and thank God, this one's not a spin 
 off like Trozei or Dash or Ranger which were n't really that good and its got a whole lot of new 
 Pokemon in it. Whats not to like about this game?
  
  Gameplay: I give it 8. Gameplay's the same as the other Pokemon games in the past. You choose the 
 starting Pokemon then go out and catch more Pokemon. Raise them then beat all the other trainers 
 and become the best trainer ever. But theres a little bit more in D/P, You can now battle people 
 online. Unfortunately, the online system ain't that good since you NEED a friend code to be able 
 to log on to Nintendo Wi-Fi which is kinda lame for those people who just want to battle random 
 people. Although the GTS is a nice feature in the game. You can trade pokemon with other people 
 in the world. The story's also quite interesting and might keep you occupied for quite a while
 
  
  Graphics: I give it 9. The graphics have really improved since the last game. Most of the stuff 
 in the game are 3D and its a really nice touch. Of course, the Pokemon are still 2D but that doesnt 
 really matter. The moves of the Pokemon also look much better than before. Really good looking 
 all in all
  
  Sound: I give it 8. The sound has also improved since the last game but some of the sounds aren't 
 really good such as music from certain cities and certain routes. I can't remember which one but 
 there are some that don't sound too good. Thankfully, the rest is alright.
  
  Value: I give it 8. I think its really good value this game. It will keep you occupied for quite 
 a while and theres some added replay value with the online battles too. You can always EV train 
 and complete the Pokedex if you really want to but thats really optional. Tilt: 9. I really enjoyed 
 this game a lot. Its a great improvement to the past Pokemon games are its quite lengthy too. Online 
 battles are fun if you manage to find a friend and everything. GPS is also good. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone out there looking for a new game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so this game is awesome. This is why:
  
  Gameplay: The game runs very smoothly, just like all the rest. But the sheer content is just staggering. 
 It is easy to pick up, easy to beat, but the process is very enjoyable and satisfying, even though 
 never once in the entire game will you lose. Graphics: This is a mixed bag of sorts. Compared to 
 all the other Pokemon games, this is the biggest step forward. The game looks good, but not great. 
 What it does have, which counts for a lot, is the same recognizable and very friendly pokemon style 
 that I like and don't mind at all. Sound: Sometimes, the Pokemon music is underappreciated. There 
 is virtually a new song for every town, when you are using a bike, inside a cave, when you fight 
 different kinds of trainers, a legendary pokemon, and several others that I might be missing. Overall, 
 Diamond and Pearl are great games. They improve on any single complaint I had about Ruby and Sapphire 
 (which were many) , but I get the feeling that they are running out of ideas for new pokemon. Some 
 of them (Spiritbomb, Combee, Bronzong, etc) are simply dumb. But the adventure as a whole is deeper, 
 longer and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond Review
  The Good: Major improvements in terms of multiplayer, and functions of the Nintendo DS. Many new 
 Pokemon to catch. Improvement on the graphics from previous entries to the series. Sound is better 
 than before. Numerous new items scattered throughout the game.
  The Bad: Battle system may get boring after a while. While this game has the best graphics of the 
 whole Pokemon portable franchise, it isnt the best for the Nintendo DS. It isnt the most challenging 
 of the series.
  From year to year, I have been into Pokemon, particularly the portable RPGs. Ever since Red/Blue, 
 I have enjoyed these games. I wasnt into the series much after Ruby/Sapphire- until I heard about 
 this incoming launch. I bought this game and it is well worth purchase. This new journey may take 
 up to 40 hours to complete but I have found other entries in the series to be longer. Nonetheless, 
 check this game out.
  Diamond starts out like any other Pokemon game in which you begin your quest to become a Pokemon 
 master. You journey through many towns and cities defeating gym leaders located in certain places. 
 With 8 badges you then proceed through Victory Road and defeat the Elite 4 to be known as the greatest 
 Pokemon trainer in the world. This game sounds simple but it is very complex. In between collecting 
 badges, many events will happen. This adds to the length of the game and it does keep players occupied.
 
  Game Play- The most important factor in all video games is the playabilityIs it fun? Pokemon 
 Diamond is very fun. There is so much to do in this game. The variety of Pokemon able to be caught 
 makes this game replayable too. The controls are the same in this game with the addition of the 
 great touch screen. You can fight touching the screen to input your commands. Its great. Controls 
 run smooth and couldnt be better. I would hate to have played this game with too much touch screen. 
 Running with the D-Pad works perfectly. The story of the game is different as far as regions, but 
 it still has the old school feel. The basic idea is all too familiar to Pokemon hardcore gamers. 
 The whole collect 8 badges, fight off Team Rocket (now known as Team Galaxy) , and beat the Elite 
 4. Luckily there are too many new things to keep players from being bored all too soon. There are 
 new Pokemon, to start off. In fact, there are many new type variations, making that strong team 
 in the past weaker to type combinations such as Poison/Dark, or Ghost/Dragon. Next, there are new 
 locations. Gym leaders are stronger and have a variety of types. In this game, leaders do have 
 one main type, but they also have Pokemon that may not even be that specific type. It adds difficulty 
 to the game. This also happens in the Elite 4. Another new change is the moves your Pokemon can 
 learn. There are new attacks and even HMs (Hidden Machines) . Over 90 attacks can be taught to 
 your team, rather than the usual 50. These new moves are excellent adds. These three changes are 
 major, but there are also some nice minor variations to look out for. As far as bad things go, 
 Pokemon Diamond has some flaws. The battle system has altered and you may get tired of it after 
 a while. It takes more time to fight than usual, and you need to fight more, adding on to the boredom. 
 The second and final problem I noticed was the shortness of the game. 40 hours may seem like a 
 lot, but I have played previous games that took longer. The good thing is, after winning, there 
 is much more to do. Before I wrap up the game play, I want to discuss one more topic which is the 
 multiplayer. In this region, I have never seen better. Not only can you fight and trade with your 
 friends without that cable you wasted your allowance, you can battle all around the world via Nintendo 
 Wi-fi. Graphics- Pokemon Diamond has the best visuals for all portable Pokemon games, butAs far 
 as visuals for the Nintendo DS, it falls short. The graphics are just a bit above average for the 
 DS- outside of battle. When you get into fights the visuals change completely. Never before have 
 I seen such a great view of Pokemon fighting in video games. Plus the 3-D environment isnt that 
 bad. While we have witnessed better visuals on 3-D RPGs, such as Final Fantasy III, there arent 
 many other games that have better graphics than Diamond. Though the graphics are good, I have seen 
 better on the Nintendo DS, knowing the portable consoles visual capabilities.
  Sound- Sound is outstanding in this game. The music differs from each location, when you surf, 
 when you enter a contest, when you battle a wild Pokemon, when you battle a gym leaderetc. Better 
 yet, the music is good. I have to say I havent heard much better in previous entries of the series, 
 and I have always been fond of the classic Pokemon tunes. With so many variations, I must give 
 the sound a perfect score of 10.
  Value- I finally figure out what this meanshow long will the game hold you in? Pokemon Diamond 
 is stupendous when it comes to replay value. The adventure itself takes a long time, but afterwards, 
 there are many things you can do. Plus, with all of the new Pokemon out for grabs, restarting the 
 game isnt a bad thing. You can spend over 100 hours with this game Lastly, multiplayer is a huge 
 plus in the benefit of value. Battling friends has never been more fun and aggressive for that 
 matter. Value scores perfect as well with a 10.
  Overall, definitely buy this game whether you are new to the series or have played Pokemon since 
 day one of the releases of the many games. -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hap800
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I said great, another Pokemon game . One week after it was released, 
 I started playing. Guess what I thought? THIS GAME IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO COOOOL! 
  
  You start out as an average boy/girl and find a pokemon in some guy's briefcase when you and your 
 friend are attacked by a couple of pokemon known as Starly Then, just like most pokemon games, 
 you choose your starter. After this, you end up going on a quest for a guy called professor rowan 
 to find all the pokemon in your home region, Sinnoh . The story goes on when you go get gym badges 
 and thwart some evil poke team's plans and beat the elite four and champion. Needless to say, this 
 game is just like the ones before it, that's what makes it so good.
  
  There is only one drawback, the gameplay never changes. that's not exactly a BAD thing, but I'd 
 like to see some changes in the pokemon game play so it's not the same all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QWERTY099
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have much to say. It is the best of all versions. But the sound when a pokemon 
 comes out sounds incredibly dull. If game freak tried to make this game revelutionary they would 
 have failed all because of the pokemon's voices.
  This game is very easy for expierienced players as myself. But other new players to the franchise 
 can learn to master pokemon in a week. You have too memorize each pkmns weakness to be good. Also 
 you got to train pokmn in a balanced manner. All in all, this game is #1 in all the series, no 
 doubt about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uchiha_madara
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  The game had everything a Pokemon gamer can expected from NDS's capability. although it didnt had 
 anything extra special to surprise the gamers but it did go with the flow of the previous games. 
 I think that game freak could've done a better job but it also did had a chance to mess the sequel 
 up.. so maybe thats why they didnt bother. the touch screen capabilty game this titles some awesome 
 features like touching pokemons, cleaning badges, mark maps, and change pockets in bag.. There 
 sould have been some beter contents... I think they shouldve done a better job with the graphics 
 and sounds. not to forget in battle moves and attacks.. Over all the game was perfect but couldve 
 been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyman39
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Oh, this is gonna kill me, i just wrote a 5 paragraph review but it didn't get put up...... anyway 
 about the game. BEST EVER. I've spent about 80 or so hours on the game. My party includes ( all 
 at level 83 ) Luxray, Torterra, Giratina, Heateran, Floatzel, and Gengar ( all i got on diamond) 
 anyway, the graphics got an upgrade as the game has a 3-d feel to it now, making everything pimped 
 out. The sound didn't really make a big jump but then again, i never turn up my volume on my DS. 
 It is definetly worth the 35 bucks i paid for it. Wasn't Emrald like 40 dollars?? Anyway, eggs 
 now hatch into level 1 pokemon ( pointless but no big deal ) . The pokemon leauge is a lot harder 
 this time around ( strongest pokemon at level 66 ) , i say the 4th elite for guy was my hardest 
 challenge, and all my pokemon were about level 56 on my 6th try ( the try that i actually beat 
 them i used a torterra, luxray, staraptor, golem, floatzel, and dialga ) . But, the pokemon do not 
 grow any stronger if you face them again, so its good for money and training your weaker pokemon 
 now. And make sure you have a well balanced team because other wise one of the elite four will 
 anialate you. The HMs also got an upgrade and there are now more TMs to.
  
  Now this has always been a big decision of mine for all of the pokemon games. Which starter should 
 i pick? I recommend Turtwig, it has massive defense and pretty good speed and attack. piplup is 
 good on attack but not so hot on the others. Chimchar is really good on speed and attack but lacks 
 in defence. And Turtwig's final form is grass/ground which can anialate a fire/fighting ( chimchar's 
 last form) but piplup's last form is good to, ( steel/water ) , but is really bad against chimchar 
 and turtwig in the end. And wi-fi is pretty cool, I've only had 2 wi-fi battles ( won both against 
 my friend alex ) and i've done about 3 wi-fi trades. voice chat is fun, just be careful of what 
 you say ( i swore when alex's mom was wakling into his room) . I myself am making 2 more teams for 
 wi-fi battles so i can have good advanteges on combos.
  
  I recommend you don't buy the guide, its a waste of money. You can find everything out on your, 
 like where and when to catch pokemon, because you pretty much complete your sinouh dex when you 
 beat the elite four. Now i've been a pokemon fan since i was 5 ( now 13 ) and if this was the last 
 one then i wouldn't be so sad because i know that they made a great last game. And thus this concludes 
 my second review of the greatest pokemon game for ds ever ( finally beating johto for favorite, 
 lol ) . Funnyman Out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJSTARFIGHTER10
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!! It rocks way more than Pokemon Trozei And Mystery Dungeon. It has way too 
 much pokemon. I'M Not really a pokemon fan but this game rocks!!! YOU HAVE TO BUY THIS GAME . IF 
 YOU DON'T BUY IT, YOU WILL NOT BUY THE BEST GAME SO FAR OF 2007. I PLAYED FOR ONE HOUR AND SOON 
 IN 2 MORE DAYS I WILL GET THAT GAME! MUST BUY AWESOMENESS! THE XTREME POKEMON BATTLING MAKES IT 
 HARD TO DISLIKE THIS GAME. TRUST ME. IT IS XTREME. THIS GAME SHOULD BE THE NUMBER ONE GAME IN AMERICA 
 THIS MONTH. I LOVE THIS GAME WAY MORE. Pokemon Pearl is another story. It might be better than 
 diamond but I am also getting that in 2 more days. I'm also going to get Xbox Live Gold in 2 days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Red and Blue were released in 1996 in Japan, rapidly gaining popularity and success, which 
 made the franchise we know today - MASSIVE.
  Lots of games have passed, through Gameboy until now, the DS.
  Let's see if Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pearl continue being the awesome catch 'em all we grew up to. 4th generation starts.... NOW!
  
  Graphics - The graphics have been refreshed this time around, with the DS's hardware capabilities. 
 3D is now present in building, trees, etc. any type of outside complementary scenery. The battles, 
 however, are still in 2D, which is a little disappointing. Battle animations have gotten better 
 though.
  
  Sound - WOW, what happened to Game Freak? Did they get a brainstorm or what?! The sound is absolutely 
 spectacular, with very appealing themes and soundtracks, adequate to each city, route, etc. However 
 (and there had to be a downside! : ( ) , the Pokemon cries are still old-school Gameboy.
  
  Gameplay - Not much to add here. The idea is still catch 'em all, filling up the Pokedex, winning 
 all the badges and defeating the Elite 4 to become the Champion.... Still a classic, though. It 
 never gets boring, now with 107 new Pokemon to catch, bringing the species count to an overhauling 
 493! Wi-Fi/Replay value - This game is just prime in terms of replay value, with Wi-Fi marking 
 quite a big presence, now being able to battle and trade with anyone worldwide, providing both 
 have Pokemon and Wi-Fi (duh!) and exchange Friend Codes. Battle Tower provides the feature of random 
 battling trainers, although AI controlled and the GTS can be used to trade any Pokemon online, 
 IF you have previously seen it in your Pokedex and satisfy the traders conditions (which are lots 
 of times absurd!) . Underground also marks a nice addition to Local Multiplayer. I have no problem 
 in giving this section a 10, as it's a great addition to the Pokemon games which we needed!
  
  Resuming, Pokemon is basically still what we knew 10 years ago, with lots of new added Pokemon 
 and features. Wi-Fi is a great mark here, we really needed this. Uber Recommended. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon was created in the 90s... and we still can't get enough of it! Do you have any idea how 
 much the Pokemon R/B/Y versions were sold???
  
  Here we are in 2007 and Pokemon is hotter than ever! Pokemon was ''revolutionised'' in the arrival 
 of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl for the Nintendo DS! Warning: MINOR SPOILERS BELOW! The gameplay is 
 so awesome and very addicting that you don't want to stop playing it for hours! They added so much 
 features this time that it can take you up to days to finish the game. The graphics are FRKIN Awesome, 
 they now added 3D with 2D, making it an enjoyable sight, but they just didn't put many colors on 
 the buildings and houses. The sound is fine, but they just recycled the songs from the first pokemon 
 games and put in in here! Not a good idea.... anyway, the also new feature, the touch screen! Mostly 
 on your Pokemon adventure, the touch screen is your Poketch (or Pokewatch) which shows the health 
 of your pokemon and also shows that your pokemon is holding an item. It also tells time, how many 
 steps have you walked, and many other features you can add it on your adventure. One of the reasons 
 that made me buy this game was the WI-FI Connection, that lets you trade and battle with different 
 people (Friend Code needed) and The GTS (Global Trading System) which lets you trade with people 
 around the world. (Friend Code not needed)
  
  You can also transfer Pokemon from your old Pokemon games (Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, LeafGreen, 
 Firered) to your Diamond or Pearl version once you get the National Dex (see all 100 or more new 
 pokemon)
  
  That's all I have to say, I love this game and recommended NOT only to pokemon fans, but to Everyone!!! 
 Pokemon is NOT CHILDISH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkaterM80
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is so far my favorite game for the DS. You can never run out of things to do. I've spent about 
 15 hours on this game, and am about half-way through! The graphics are just amazing! When I started 
 this game I was amazed, I didn't look at all like the pokemon game I was expecting. Also, the Wi-Fi 
 is great and the underground is so fun to play with friends! They could have done better on a few 
 parts of this game. For one, they could have done so much more with the touch screen than they 
 did. I was suprised they didn't use it for more things. Also the music is sooo old. They should 
 have made some different songs for some parts. Same old, Same old. It really is a fun game and 
 I recommend it to anyone with a DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The new generation of Pokemon games feels just like the last, and with GameFreak behind it, that's 
 never a bad thing. The addition of the Underground and all of the fun that brings will have you 
 looking at your hours played in awe as it just keeps piling up.
  Not to mention the plethora of options to do each day, from chasing after Swarm Pokemon to Berry 
 mining, to visiting the Pokemon Mansion, Diamond and Pearl cast away that boring Elite Four stomping 
 feel of Ruby and Sapphire.
  As for the DS features, GameFreak added the PokeEtch, a watch of sorts that has several featutes, 
 notably the Berry Tracker which shows you where and when berries are ready, as well as the Daycare 
 watcher which shows you when your pair of Pikachu's have finally given you that cute Pichu you've 
 always dreamed of.
  Overall, the game feels a lot like the last generation of Pokemon games. The world feels a little 
 small for the over 400 Pokemon that inhabit it.
  And those Pokefan's who wanna catch them all? Well, you're gonna need all of the last generation 
 games in order to get them.
  In the end, I give the game an 8.5. The online trading, the GTS, and the plethora of ad hoc options 
 gives the game a refreshed feeling, but after the Elite Four there is still not much to do, and 
 its not that hard getting there.
  For positives, the game uses a lot more 2 on 2 battles, and the slew of legendaries to encounter 
 adds a level of excitement to post-Elite Four life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoobSmoke8
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever since i played red verion of Pokemon for the Gameboy, ive been wanting more. When Gold and Silver 
 came out I was excited and had fun with it almost as much as Red or Blue..... though it was better 
 than the Ruby/Sapphire game in my opinion.............. when this game was announced for the Nintendo 
 DS, I couldn't wait for it to come. This game is all it is said to  
 have over 160 hours in this game and im still going. WiFi is what keeps me busy with this game, though 
 it lacks in the way the Global Trading Station is set up. the story is pretty much the same as the 
 old ones (if you played the old ones, you should know what to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikaruga_kakashi
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Pearl is the first installment of Nintendo's popular role-playing series on the DS.
  Score: 8.5
  
  Pokemon Emerald (GBA)
  Like previous Pokemon games, Emerald challenges you 
 to collect, trade, and battle Pokemon. In this extension of Pok&eacute; mon Ruby and Pokemon Sapphire, 
 you must stop Team Magma and Team Aqua from expanding and taking over the world of Hoenn.
  Score: 7.5
  
  Pokemon FireRed Version (GBA)
  Both new and long-time Pokemon players will 
 find in FireRed and LeafGreen a lengthy and involving role-playing adventure.
  Score: 8.4 Chocobo get his own game in Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales for the DS.
  
  Mario 
 &amp; Luigi 2
  In this sequel to Mario &amp; Luigi: Superstar Saga, the brothers travel back in time to retrieve 
 Princess Peach, only to come face to face with baby versions of themselves, the princess, and Bowser.
 
  
  Izuna: Unemployed Ninja
  Izuna: Legend of the Unemployed Ninja is an RPG for the DS, starring a spunky gal ninja by the 
 name of Izuna. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The Pok&eacute; mon franchise has been on the top of every single list featuring the best sellers 
 of the past 25 years. Since 1998 many different versions were released and not much has been changed. 
 It is still the same old RPG that looks silly and childish at first glance, but once you give it 
 a try you discover it is one of the deepest.
  
  The game starts almost in the same way as its predecessors. You are a boy or a girl who lives in 
 a small town somewhere in a region ridden with amazing creatures called Pok&eacute; mon. One day 
 you are wandering around when you are attacked by a wild Pok&eacute; mon, you then find a bag with 
 three Pok&eacute; balls, you pick one and suddenly you are engaged in a battle. After that you are 
 given the Pok&eacute; mon by an expert and your journey starts.
  
  Once again over 100 new Pok&eacute; mon have been added to this game making a whopping sum of 493 
 creatures. Many of them may seem strange at first glance, but from a strategical point of view 
 it creates many new different ways of assembling your team.
  
  The game visuals are great. While battling, you will notice the sprites have obviously been improved, 
 unfortunately the game doesnt push the DS graphical capabilities as far as possible. Still everything 
 looks quite smooth. Both the Pok&eacute; mon and the Attacks gained new animations, most of the 
 effects are really cool and needless to say the battles got more thrilling.
  
  Out of battle the game presents a pleasant mix of 3-D buildings with 2-D terrain. All cities now 
 have their own particular characteristics. Some of them are small and at the middle of nowhere, 
 while others are big cities with sidewalks, roads and poles that will light at night. You will 
 also find some routes with quite different scenario than you are used to, a foggy mountain, a city 
 covered in snow and other new environments.
  
  The night and day periods are back so obviously there are Pok&eacute; mon that can only be caught 
 at a certain time of the day. The time is also important when evolving some Pok&eacute; mon that 
 need to be trained at the evening or during the morning.
  
  Sound effects are great. During your adventure you will surprisingly hear many great tunes, unfortunately 
 you will also find some annoying recycled songs that had to be improved or remixed for a new version 
 of the game.
  
  The point where Pok&eacute; mon Diamond fails is when it comes to the gameplay. It is pretty much 
 the same as in all other versions, the battle starts you choose and attack and try to defeat the 
 foe, with the DS you would expect some improvements but the only thing that has been changed is 
 that now is easier and faster to use the menus.
  
  Despite new Pok&eacute; mon, animations and attacks, the battles are still the same and you have 
 got to once again beat 8 gym leaders to enter the Pok&eacute; mon League and become the champion. 
 There are also some contests but we all sure agree that battles are much more compelling.
  
  What makes Pok&eacute; mon Diamond stand out is obviously its online features which are great.
 
  
  First of all there is the Global Trading Station (GTS) where you can search for any Pok&eacute; mon 
 you have already seen during your journey. This makes easier to complete your Pok&eacute; dex and 
 improve your team the way you want to. Most of the trades succeed when they are not too absurd. 
 By using the GTS you will get creatures from different countries, different natures and movesets.
 
  
  Besides the GTS there is also the option to battle and trade with your friends. It may seem like 
 and awesome idea, but truth is the FCs kind of ruin the whole experience since you can't battle 
 anyone unless you have their FCs.
  
  There is also the Underground which can be explored using the Wifi. You can go there and search 
 for treasures and rare items. Once you get enough treasures you can trade them for special items 
 and build yourself a secret base. It is a great place to explore specially if you have your friends 
 around since you can play some great games such as trying to break into one's secret base.
  
  Like Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald there is still lots of things to do once you are done with the game. 
 You can try to catch all Pok&eacute; mon, use the Pal Park to transfer your creatures from a GBA 
 version of the game to Diamond/Pearl, and explore a new big island that is only avaiable once you 
 defeat the League Champion.
  
  To sum it up. Pok&eacute; mon Diamond/Pearl is a great challenging game. Its main flaw is that it 
 doesn't present any changes when compared to the last versions, but the online mode, despite some 
 problems, is great to use and it sure adds a lot to Nintendo's most successful franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattony_457
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  After completing the Pokedex and you go to the Island up north is when the game starts getting 
 even more awesome. I know I am 17 years old but I still get excited when I catch a legendary Pokemon 
 like Giratina. when I started seeing the old Pokemon i was brought back to my old days of good 
 old red and blue. If you have played the old games like Red, Blue, or Yellow, up to the most recent 
 games Ruby and Sapphire, this game still never gets to old and warn out. This must be the largest, 
 most complete game of the series because you can capture almost every single Pokemon in the Pokemon 
 universe. Even if you are and older kid you can still appreciate this game i recommend it highly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay  why. What makes this game so good, you ask? Having played it  I can honestly tell you  
 its simply one thing  you want to play it.
  
  This phenomena really cant be put into words. It cant be described, and it really has no word 
 for it, but once youve experienced this phenomena, you recognize it again immediately. Its the 
 same phenomena that drives the sales and sucks the life out of people like Ed Wood. And no, Im 
 not talking about life-force sucking vampires . Im talking about World of Warcraft.  though 
  some might argue theyre still the same thing.
  
  If youve played a Pokemon game, youve kinda played Pokemon Diamond. Pick your gender, give a 
 name to a rival, meet up with a pokemon professor who lets you chose from three pokemon, and 
 then youre given an assignment: this guy wants you to do his dirty work for him, to catalog every 
 pokemon in the region into a pokemon encyclopedia called the pokedex. Not surprisingly, theres 
 a team of some kind also up to no good. In the original games, it was Team Rocket. In the newer 
 Gameboy Advance games, two rival teams fought eachother. In Pokemon Diamond and its counterpart 
 Pearl, Team Galactic are the misfits of the series, who start out seeming like a bumbling middle 
 school club of wannabe sci-fi action heroes just making a whole lot of harmless trouble  and by 
 the end of the game, end up being a cult whose leader comes too damn close to destroying the 
 universe for comfort. This is really apart of the appeal of the game, as someone who may be entirely 
 new to the series who doesnt really take it seriously can sit down with Pokemon Diamond or Pearl 
 and start out playing the silly kids game they think it is  and 40 hours later find himself the 
 one person standing between a cult leader and his insane goals of the intergalactic annihilation 
 of the entire universe, and realize  much like World of Warcraft, Pokemon Diamond is addictive. 
 It gives you what you expect at first  a silly kids adventure  and throughout the course of the 
 game matures itself, and you, into about as hardcore and serious about a **** video game as you 
 can get. With or without little cute pocket monsters.
  
  Beyond that, the games appeal stems from the fact that it tries to make itself as much apart of 
 your real life as it possibly can. First and foremost is the real-time day/night cycles of the 
 game, in which only certain pokemon may appear at different places at different times of the day, 
 maybe only on certain days of the week. Further more, the wireless features of the games arent 
 accessed by any menu system like you expect. Only certain buildings in certain towns can offer 
 you different products and different features of the game, which further increases the depth of 
 the world.
  
  Graphically, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl dont make a lot of use of the DS 3D capabilities. The game 
 runs on an entirely new engine from the Gameboy Advance games (you need to play one to realize 
 how vastly different the GBA games and Diamond and Pearl are as far as the engine is concerned) , 
 but the game itself is still based on 2D sprites. The pokemon battles are even still 2D sprites, 
 but the pokemon art themselves are far higher quality than anything thats come before it. The 
 3D hardware and effects of the DS are used for attack animations, which  compared to its GBA predecesors, 
 look about as vastly different as night and day. But besides the attack effects and the overworld 
 (which is rendered itself in polygons) , the game retains its 2D sprite origins. This confused me 
 for a long time until I realized that it was engineered this way  if these games had 3D graphics, 
 then the upcoming Wii game Pokemon Battle Revolution, which shall interact with the DS Pokemon 
 games  simply wouldnt sell as well.
  
  But in reality, the game doesnt need its graphics, because its selling point is the sheer MASSIVENESS 
 of what it is to do. If you get caught up in catching them all (which, believe me, you will) , 
 then youll spend literally hours playing through the areas, finding secret caves, catching elusive 
 and potentially legendary pokemon, and overall being a pokemon god. The trick about the game is 
 in reality  it has no end. The game only gives you bars. This bar is to get a pokemon. This 
 bar is to get your next gym badge. This bar is to heal the psyducks . what not  and after youve 
 spent a good 40 hours on the game, youll find yourself facing down the cult leader Cyrus as he 
 calls down one of the legendary pokemon of the game (Dialga, creator of time, if you own the Diamond 
 version, or Palkia, creator of the galaxy, if you own the Pearl version) . And once you beat him 
 . and stop Team Galactic from destroying the universe . youre STILL given more to do. More badges 
 to collect, tougher pokemon to catch, the Pokemon Championship title to win .. and even after 
 THAT, youll run into professor oak who will give you a WHOLE NEW POKEDEX and tell you to venture 
 to an ENTIRELY DIFFERENT REGION to capture pokemon from the old games and partake in challenges 
 of elite trainers that would make even the most skilled pokemon enthusiast rip his hair out. In 
 a good sort of way.
  
  Because of this  the game really doesnt end. It just keeps going . and going. And of course 
 the highlight of the game is online battles against friends and eventually strangers as well, but 
 a fun little addition to the game is the GTS, or Global Trade Station, a building in Jubilife City 
 that  once you go there  you basically walk straight into Pokemon Ebay, where you post your pokemon 
 on Nintendo Wi-Fi, ask for a different pokemon  give it time . and then receive the traded pokemon 
 of your dreams from Yoshi Nakamura overnight. Its really fantastic, and little wi-fi goodies are 
 litered throughout the game like this.
  
  Not to mention the fact that the game and the DS will link itself up to your Wii so you can play 
 online battles with people in state of the art Wii-graphics via the game Pokemon Battle Revolution 
 coming out this June. Theres simply so much stuff in this game  that once you start . you may 
 not stop. Ever. Im 70 hours into the game, and I havent. :-p
  
  So if youre one of those people who want their money to go a long distance when buying a video 
 game, then Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are really worth about 3 times as much, as you can end up 
 keeping the cartridge in your DS for literally months at a time. Its really one of the great games 
 for the Nintendo DS, and honestly one of the highest quality games Nintendo themselves have ever 
 produced of all time. Pikachus and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkerio
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is the best RPG Pokemon game created. The new graphics are snazzy, and while 
 I know that they could have been done better, I know deep in my heart, it wouldn't be a Pokemin 
 game if it had been. It keeps the same easy to pick up gameplay, and highly addictive formula as 
 the previous games. All the new Pokemon look awesome, and the large amount of legendaries will 
 give collectors loads to do. The music and sounds were great. Certain areas had awesome songs, 
 like the game corner. Also, this game seemed to have many many more mingames than any previous 
 game. All in all, definately the best one yet, so if you play, or watch, or collect Pokemon, then 
 you WILL love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 13, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I didn't find it to be much fun. The story is extremely short, and I could probably beat it twice 
 in one day if I tried.
  
  They tried to make the graphics better, but a few buildings looking a bit three D ish isn't much 
 of a diffrence.
  
  Whats up with the rival as your friend? He's so nice to you at the beginning. Doesn't make sense 
 to me
  
  The pokemon look the same. Almost all of the new ones are just old ones with a different nose, 
 foot, leg, eye, or things like that. Seems retarted to me. Basically, the only new thing is the 
 names! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is the best of all the Pokemon games by far. This is just perfect. With 493 pokemon, it's 
 gonna be alot harder to find'em all. It's cool how some people in the game say noob and owned. 
 Dialga and Palkia are awesome, the coolest dragon legendarys, and Giratina is awesome too. with 
 like fifteen legendarys, that's just awesome. and the GTS (Global Trade Center) is awesome too 
 so you can get pokemon you can't catch in you're game. Along with it having a new evil group, you 
 have two rivals instead of one. The elite four's place is awesome becuase it's a castle. All the 
 gyms are mazes, which get harder every gym. This, at best, is a plain masterpiece by nintendo, 
 and is perfect for the DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latioszero
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 13, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game is an easy 9.6/10, It lived up to all my expectations and more! Even if you're new to 
 the Pokemon craze, this game is still one of the best out there. The Global Trading System (GTS) 
 allows you to trade with people all over the world! and because this game is Nintendo Wi-Fi Capable, 
 you can battle, trade, and voice chat with your friends all across the world! Gameplay is mostly 
 the same as any other pokemon game, you start off with one of 3 starters, a Fire type, Water type, 
 or Grass type. You make your way through the towns, leveling up your Pokemon while catching new 
 ones to train, raise, and battle with. Pokemon contests are still here, but with a little different 
 twist, instead of just the appeals round, there is a Visual, Dancing, and Appeals round, each worth 
 1/3 of your total score. You'll have to play the game to figure out how each works though =P. Battling 
 is mostly the same, but you use the touch screen for selecting your battle options (which move 
 to use, items, switching out pokemon, etc.) . This game is a Must-have for anyone with a DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KonohaKakashi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the good old Red and Blue days, I've been hooked on the Pokemon gaming franchise with 
 unwavering excitement for the games. My favorite games were, and still are, the handheld Pokemon 
 RPGs, like the recently released Pokemon Diamond/Pearl. I got Diamond the day it came out in the 
 U. S., and I haven't put it down since.
  
  Gameplay - The overall concept of Pokemon RPGs is exactly the same as it's been since Red and Blue. 
 Playing as a male or female Pokemon trainer, one must travel around the region (In this case, Sinn'oh) 
 from city to route to city, battling Gym Leaders for their badges and, most importantly, catching 
 'em all! Once one gets all eight badges, he/she must go through Victory Road to the Pokemon League, 
 where he/she must battle the Elite Four and the Pokemon League Champion to claim the Champion title.
 
  
  Same thing as the others before, right? Well, it's still as great as ever, with a bunch of new 
 features added into the game. Pokemon Contests are re-introduced from Ruby/Sapphire, and all take 
 place in one city in one contest hall instead of four contest halls, one in each of four cities.
 
  
  You can literally Catch 'em All in Diamond/Pearl. All 493 Pokemon are able to be part of one's 
 collection. A several new evolutions are available for old Pokemon, especially the Gold/Silver/Crystal 
 ones. With a new 106 Pokemon added to the Pokemon world, there's no end to the fun! :D
  
  Battles are great. there are a bunch of new moves to be learned, there are more type combinations, 
 and other Trainers will occasionally fight with you in Double Battles. Pokemon game battles are 
 the only way one can even get through this game, of course, since one needs experience and money 
 to make it through.
  
  One of the most exciting features of this game is going Wi-Fi, like every other DS game. This is 
 awesome for Pokemon because people all over the WORLD can now trade and battle with each other! 
 That's just awesome.
  
  And those aren't all the extra features in this game. Play it to find out the rest and understand 
 the awesome gameplay of Pokemon Diamond/Pearl.
  
  Graphics - It's a pseudo 3-D look this time around, and it looks pretty good. Everything is very 
 nice, Pokemon look really good, and nothing looks out of place. Just amazing.
  
  Sound - The music is great, even though it's on a handheld. The Pokemon tunes, although different, 
 all still have that same great feel as the games before.
  
  There is SO MUCH MORE to be said, but it would take me too long to type it all out, and I could 
 spoil too much info if I did. Just get this superb game and play it. Only then can you really feel 
 how freakin uber this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psponcho
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best pokemon game that i have played since pokemon blue and red , this game have all 
 that a pokemon gamer need it have amazing graphics and the sound its not repetitive it changes 
 when you change of city or route but the only things that its normal are the battles, the battles 
 not changed, are same that the other games or only changes a little effects of the attacks but 
 this is a great game and its the best game of Nintendo DS and i think that you have to buy it you 
 dont repent of buying it this is the best game that you will have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaluv
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Pokemon is the game that made catch them all games popular and with simple concept and innovation 
 it is obvious why after a decade it is still the king of the genre. While most games of the genre 
 rely purely on second rate imitation to sale units. Pokemon games are almost always innovative 
 and well thought out. From integration with consoles to pun creature names to creating spin off 
 games with interesting mechanics (i. e. Snap and Puzzle League) . Pokemon has proven that a kitschy 
 gimmick does not mean a crappy game.
  
  This installment of the game is a logical evolution of the series. Basic game mechanics remain 
 intact but are joined by addition of features such as graphic enhancements, wifi features, touchscreen 
 UI implementation, and the return of the real-time clock. Those who do not like Pokemon probably 
 will not like this version either. At its core it is the same game just more polished and fleshed 
 out. That is not a bad thing however because Pokemon has always offered solid if not simplistic 
 gameplay that demonstrates what mobile gaming is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSigy
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  PokeMon was the biggest craze back in 1998. Grade schoolers had to have the game, the gear, the 
 knowledge, the cards, everything. Then the fad began to die. Of course, all fads fade, but most 
 loose interest because of their lack of quality. Easily, PokeMon Diamond and Pearl do not, in any 
 way, lack quality. Even though the game remains the same from the original Red and Blue versions, 
 all the small additions of PokeMon, items and side quests makes the game much more fleshed out.
 
  Being that PokeMon hasn't changed it's general formula, there is no need to explain the basic 
 gameplay. Additions include a berry system, fashion system, item holding system, Competitions and 
 an underground fossil section. The combat system is the same, turn based with random rolls. It's 
 incredibly addictive, especially after a 7 year hiatus from the series. The underground system 
 works with a simple touch of the stylus, allowing you to dig up rubies, gems and fossils. While 
 the change is purely artificial, the added side quest makes PokeMon seem that much more involving. 
 The berry system allows you to cook food for your PokeMon, making you spin the dough around on 
 the bottom screen. You find berries in the environment, all which have different effects and can 
 be used at will, and depending on the speed of your spin and how consistent you are with spinning 
 (leave it too long and it will burn) a special treat will be created for your PokeMon, called a 
 poffin. This helps with the competitions, which are pretty much talent shows ripped from Nintendogs. 
 The item holding system allows you to give your PokeMon berries, the poffins or any other item 
 to keep them on their toes during battle. Berries allow you to heal or cure a status when near 
 death, and other items can let your PokeMon dodge weaker PokeMon while traveling or increase attack. 
 It just depends on which item you use, and how you use it.
  The graphics are very nice looking, especially for a DS game. While most of the world is made up 
 of 2-D sprites, the pseudo 3-D environments give depth that was missing from the previous games 
 in the series. It is much easier to spot items and see correct paths in town. The 3-D also allows 
 for bridges and other inter-highway like systems between the towns, making travel a bit nicer. 
 The bicycle is available once again, and proves to be a welcome additions after a few hours of 
 walking. Running shoes are a new addition, but these basically just hold you over until you receive 
 your bike.
  The sound is great in the game. The music is revamped from the original tunes, and is made with 
 what seems to be MPEG2 quality midi files. The dynamics are superb, and just hearing the old tunes 
 gives fond memories of hours lost to the previous games in the series. The sound clips used for 
 the PokeMon are pretty much ripped directly from the GBC games, and its nice to see that Nintendo 
 isn't so crazy about changing the past. The sounds don't pale in comparison to the new PokeMon 
 either, so it proves to be a good decision.
  The one huge addition to the game is the inclusion of Nintendo WiFi Connection. This allows you 
 to battle and trade with your friends from the comfort of your home, or a local WiFi hotspot. The 
 lag is minimal depending on your connection, and no features are really cut from the local multiplayer, 
 so the WiFi definitely is welcome. What is also great is the fact that over 100 new PokeMon had 
 been added, bringing the total count to 482. If you thought 251 was a crazy number from the Gold 
 and Silver Days, now there is pretty much double that.
  Nothing else can really sum up Diamond and Pearl. The first game for DS is great, and is awesome 
 enough to bring me out of PokeMon retirement. I'm only about half way through the main story, so 
 I have yet to really crack the surface of what Diamond and Pearl hold, but I can rest assured that 
 the game won't let up at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpc908
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Generation Diamond and Pearl Finally Released. The newest additions to the Pokemon saga is a incredible 
 one. The Amazing journey of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl starts with choosing one of three starter 
 pokemon. The three starters are Piplup, Chimchar, and Turtwig. After choosing your first pokemon 
 you embark on a journey to become the champion of the Sinnoh Region. During the journey you encounter 
 many places and People. From Your home town Of TwinLeaf Town to Solaceon Town. This Game is full 
 of great elements from the clear 3d graphics to the awesome battles. So if your a pokemon fan pick 
 up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since the first day it was out, and I been playing it every day since then. 
 The game is like all the others, but there is something about it that keeps you coming. The storyline 
 part of it is pretty good, and the main point is to fill your sinnoh dex and become a pokemon champion. 
 After that part and have your dex knocked in 150 pokemon alot of things open up for you allowing 
 you to gain more pokemon from the game, and also you can get the chance to get more legendarys 
 and transfer over pokemon from gba games. With this it gives you the chance to get about 493 pokemon 
 which may seem alot, but with alot of work you could possibly do this. With the chance to go wireless 
 battles, trades, and chats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FetacheeseGreek
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for hardcore pokemon fans. The series started as a button over and over. It stays 
 that way into 2nd gen but became enlarged. They juiced things up in 3rd gen. fr and lg tried to 
 bring back the old style. 4th gen saved the series. The difficulty has finally stopped being easy 
 as an ec game. The graphics are pretty much like 3rd gen but slightly improved, still could be 
 better. The new battle music is kind of strange at one point that always seems to make you time 
 attacks. The beginning music is smurfy and annoying, as always, but gets better with the calmer 
 music in the game. Contests have improved with the new visual and dancing. enemy level in the game 
 hit higher numbers. with some in the 60's. The new legendaries are some of the best ones, several 
 are weak but I'm etimating that my dialga will get approx 350 spec attack, however his base stats 
 are still 670 so it proves that pokemon are more focused and will add more strategy. Wi Fi fights 
 will bring more than the weak cpu pokemon and will get in some effort messed 31 ivs with actually 
 good combos. (probaly didn't understand that) The undeground may be one of the coolest new features. 
 SEcret bases are better, and falg stealing is fun. It makes finding rare items easier and funner. 
 Mining is ADDICTIVE (you'll see what I mean) Overall, you can buy the ds for this (why don't you 
 have it already?) this is a very fun game. Buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Yeah, you wish! Seriously though, Pokemon Diamond seems to be for just about anyone and everyone. 
 The premier of a true Pokemon RPG (role-playing game) on the DS also marks my first foray into 
 the series. For our anniversary this year, I talked my wife into getting his & hers, if you will, 
 Pokemon games. I opted for Diamond because some of the exclusive Pokemon (not least of all Lairon) 
 for the game were ones I liked (I was familiar with them from playing the card game with my kids, 
 and watching a few video episodes with them as well) , and my wife opted for Pearl because, well, 
 she didn't care and there was no sense in us getting the same version. And so our adventures began
 
  
  Story: Diamond and Pearl (the matching game  the games are identical, save for some exclusive 
 Pokemon in each respective version) are set in the region of Sinnoh, a rather laid-back countryside 
 where Pokemon and humans scratch out a living side by side. However, a group of fanatical thugs, 
 known as Team Galactic, have come to Sinnoh seeking a mystical power said to reside in the region, 
 and the team's presence there threatens to shake the very foundation of this otherwise jolly land.
 
  
  Sound grandiose? Well, that's because the game, itself, as well as its characters, are at times 
 larger than life. There's an over-the-top urgency involved with Team Galactic that collides with 
 the simple nature of the citizens of Sinnoh, making for some silly fun that children of all ages 
 (such as myself) will greatly enjoy.
  
  The drama of this Team Galactic, as well as the competition with your friendly childhood rival, 
 is what drives the game, but in the end it's about "Catching Them All!" Last I checked, there were 
 just under 500 different Pokemon that can  either through trading, uploading to your DS from past 
 games, or by searching the region of Sinnoh  be added to your Pokedex. Find `em, catch `em and 
 battle `em to become the Grand Champion.
  
  Gameplay: The adventure begins when you choose to play either as a boy or girl. I opted for a girl 
 I named Betty. You then name your rival and gameplay begins. Diamond is very much a true RPG and, 
 though, surprisingly, it does touch on some pretty profound themes once in a while, it is an otherwise 
 light-hearted romp with extremely deep gameplay. I'm guessing most of you are already well familiar 
 with how it goes, but just in case. The basics are: catch and battle Pokemon (or pocket monsters 
  cute little, or sometimes quite huge, creatures that can perform all sorts of zany attacks and 
 whatnot) in turn-based fashion.
  
  You'll start out in your small town, but eventually make your way across the whole of the Sinnoh 
 region. When viewed on the map, Sinnoh looks somewhat small, but, as you get out there and actually 
 explore the land, it becomes clear that, without a doubt, the region is vast. You'll explore caves, 
 forests, mansions; visit towns and cities; battle Pokemon trainers and take on gym leaders to earn 
 badges, thus unlocking new abilities for your Pokemon. In addition, there is a seemingly endless 
 amount of "stuff" to do. Aside from the main story events, there are many little things that you 
 can involve your character with that open this game up into an enormous virtual playground.
  
  Now, Diamond (and Pearl)  from what I've heard and read  is an amalgam of a tried-and-true 
 recipe from past games in the series, so fans should know what to expect. But coming from a guy 
 who's never experienced, for himself, a Pokemon RPG, the game's quite impressive. The battles are 
 fun and, if you're not over-leveled, require a healthy amount of strategy. Of course, as with almost 
 any RPG, random battles can make you sigh from time to time when they seem never-ending. But the 
 game provides a remedy for that in the form of something called a Repel, which allows you to explore 
 or make your way through wild-Pokemon areas without being hassled by unwanted encounters.
  
  An aside about battles: I do have one minor gripe, though. Most encounters, whether with wild 
 Pokemon or trainers, will entail a one-on-one (at a time in the ring, so to speak, not necessarily 
 for the duration of the encounter  you may actually end up using several Pokemon in one encounter, 
 as may your opponent) battle between one of the six Pokemon you're currently carrying and your 
 opponent Pokemon. However, occasionally you'll be doing two-on-two battles. There are times during 
 these encounters when you don't require both Pokemon to attack, and since Pokemon attacks use something 
 called PokePower (or PP) , which dwindles each time an attack / action is used, you'd like to conserve 
 it when you can. The game does not give you the option to have your Pokemon either guard or rest 
 or anything similar during battle, which would allow you to save your PP. When you're working your 
 way past a slew of trainers and / or Galactic grunts, and suspect there's a boss battle at the 
 end of that journey, you want to conserve where you can. So, though a seemingly minor issue, it 
 is something I wish was different. That said, it never became a huge deal, and I only got pwned 
 once by a gym leader early in the game and had to retry.
  
  Exploration, though, is perhaps the main focus in Diamond. There are nooks and crannies in almost 
 every place you visit, and many times you'll need to backtrack after receiving a particular skill 
 before you can access certain areas. It's a ton of fun to be able to come back later in the game 
 and finally explore someplace you were previously unable to access yet always curious about. There's 
 a lot of that in Diamond, too.
  
  Of course, there's the Pokemon themselves. Discovering all the many Pokemon and the things they 
 can do and evolve into is not only a ton of fun it's down-right addicting. Somehow I managed to 
 plug in just under 70 hours of gameplay in about two weeks (Note: At the time of my writing this 
 review, I only have seven of the eight gym badges to be earned in the game. It's my understanding 
 that there's something called the Elite Four, whom I must go up against at some point as well. 
 So, there's still plenty of gameplay left for me to enjoy) . Good thing Diamond / Pearl was released 
 just before my vacation time. However, not only is this certainly the most time I've spent with 
 a game in such a short period, it's perhaps the most time I've spent with a game in total. Simply 
 amazing!
  
  Look & Sounds: Though Diamond is, in fact, my first Pokemon RPG, both my sons have been playing 
 Emerald and Mystery Dungeon for a while on their GBAs. So, I'm not wholly unfamiliar with the presentation 
 of the games in the series. Compared to its GBA counterparts, Diamond is not that different in 
 its appearance. However, one very new change is the fully 3-D environments while exploring the 
 great outdoors. The game maintains the chibi-like appearance and fun nature of past games, but 
 the added dimension really makes a wonderful contrast to the 2-D character sprites that are still 
 present. The insides of buildings, however, are still 2-D and that's kind of disappointing, but 
 it almost lends to the appreciation of the 3-D elements when you get that contrast.
  
  In any case, there's a lot of variety when it comes to the game's appearance. You get snow, sand 
 and rainstorms, plenty of mountainous areas, caves  the works. The character sprites are adorable, 
 and though I wouldn't mind seeing the entire game become polygonal in the next installment, everything 
 comes together to make a very cute and endearing game. One of my main fears before getting the 
 game was that Diamond would be too syrupy sweet, but, together with the witty dialogue and depth 
 of gameplay, the game's look works perfectly to put you in a sort of Charlie Brown-esque universe; 
 that, I like.
  
  The sound of the game has even greater depth, and there is a wonderful variety of very cool themes. 
 Some areas even have different themes depending on the time of day it is (which is kept track of 
 by your DS' internal clock) . All the music makes great use of the DS' stereo field, and even when 
 you're in battles the sound of your Pokemon  placed on the left, bottom side of the screen  can 
 be heard from the DS' left speaker, and the opponent Pokemon (on the opposite side of the screen) 
 can be heard from the right speaker. Sound effects, too, are relegated to the speaker of which 
 they are relative onscreen. It's great, little touches like these that really help you to lose 
 yourself in the game.
  
  There are some shortcomings, however, in both the sound and graphics of Diamond. On the graphics 
 end, I would have liked to have seen a bit more action from the Pokemon during battles. Again, 
 seeing Pokemon RPGs go fully 3D would be nice, but it's not entirely necessary, perhaps. But the 
 in-battle graphics don't animate all that much and the overall experience would be very static 
 if not for the energetic battle music supporting the scenes.
  
  On the sound's end, the Pokemon sounds, themselves, I think, are ready for an update. Some of the 
 Pokemon sound pretty cool when they do their signature screams, but most  and we're talkin' about 
 a lot of Pokemon here  sound very archaic, like something from the original Gameboy days. I think 
 we can do better than that on the DS.
  
  Those minor gripes aside, both the sound and graphics are a huge part of what make the game as 
 fun as it is. Pokemon Diamond is a delightful place to hang out and that's why I've logged in so 
 much time with the game already. I enjoy the overall feeling the game gives me.
  
  On the presentation front, well, there really is little that can compete with this game. JUMP Ultimate 
 Stars  an import fighting game from Japan  is about the only thing that comes close, with respect 
 to bang for your buck. But here you get a huge story playthrough; you get tons of side things to 
 do, like the Super Contests, poffin making and berry harvesting; online trading, battling and chat. 
 Additionally, the menus cover every bit of info you could want to inquire about. I've actually 
 had to get on the forums to ask about several things, simply because the menus are comprised of 
 so much stuff and info that I couldn't remember where to check. But every Pokemon stat, item description 
 and other tidbit of knowledge you'd want to know about is in the game. Navigation of the menus, 
 too, is very easy. The game offers you the choice, in most cases, of scrolling through with the 
 face-buttons or the touch-screen or a combination of both.
  
  Not to put too fine a point on it, but Pokemon Diamond offers players details, details and more 
 details. Surprisingly, almost none of it is extraneous, unnecessary junk. You wanna do well in 
 the Super Contests? Well, check to see what kind of food your Pokemon likes; then check to see 
 what kind of berries are flavored that way; make a poffin, and fill your Pokemon's belly. Pokemon 
 Diamond in a word: Depth.
  
  I imagine there's a ton more I could say about Diamond, but I don't think the text space for posting 
 a review would allow for it. But to sum up, Pokemon Diamond is THAT game I'd been waiting on  
 the one that would help curb my game-buying habit. Too few DS games have much life in them. There 
 are a few, yes, but none, I think, can quite compare to Pokemon Diamond and Pokemon Pearl. You 
 don't need to be an RPG fan, per se, and you don't have to be under 18, either, to enjoy these 
 games. In the great words of Gamespot reviewer Greg Kasavin, "you just have to have a pulse."
 
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation / 10
  I can't imagine asking for more in this department. You can get easily distracted 
 from the story by the mammoth selection of other "things" to do in this game. Plus, it's all neatly 
 partitioned, with menus that offer info on every conceivable thing you'd be curious about or need 
 to know.
  
  Graphics / 8.5
  They're getting better, that's for sure. The new 3-D environments are great. The contrast with 
 the 2-D sprites only adds to the delight of the polygonal elements, but it would be nice to see 
 the Pokemon animate a bit more during battle. Ultimately, though, I would like to see the games 
 become completely 3-D in the future, or at least more added to that dimension.
  
  Sound / 9
  Despite the rather archaic sounds of the Pokemon, there is an enormous variety of 
 sounds. But more importantly, there's a vast selection of musical themes; they're all wonderful, 
 with great instrumentation and great use of the DS' stereo field. The sound and music in this game 
 add a whole lot to the overall experience.
  
  Gameplay / 9
  A really tight turn-based battle system; tons of variety due to the ungodly amount of Pokemon and 
 moves available; the game's pacing is right on the mark; and there are a lot of fun distractions 
 as well. The amount of "random" battles, as is the case with many RPGs, can be sigh-inducing, and 
 there's no way for you to conserve PokePower when it's not necessary for your Pokemon to participate 
 in battle.
  
  Replay / 10
  Did you read the review? If not, go back please and check it out. Seriously, though, there's an 
 amazing amount of time that can and will be sucked from your life because of this game. I mean 
 that in a good way. There are worse ways to spend your time. Diamond and Pearl are fun and they 
 seem to just keep on giving.
  
  Overall / 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  What I love about this game is the fact that you can virtually get any previous pokemon, especially 
 legendaries, that aren't as easy to get in Emerald. This still doesn't own up to the originals 
 like Gold or Silver but it still is pretty impressive. The region isn't as cool as the past regions 
 like Kanto or Johto where you can find Lugia, Ho-Oh , the legendary birds, etc. Most of all I miss 
 trying to catch the whole alphabet of Unknowns. The only thing that I would have to change about 
 this game is to have all the regions available for you to fly/surf/whatever to. Also the game won't 
 appeal very in-depth to players who have played Gold, Silver, Yellow, and/or Red/Blue versions 
 because the AI (Artificial itellegence- artificial means fake and intellegence is how smart you 
 are, just for younger readers) doesn't like to tell long stories. If you remember visiting the 
 towers in Ecruteak city you might remember an old man who told you the WHOLE STORY OF THE BURNT 
 TOWER. If you actually read it, it took forever and a day. Most of the peeps in this game just 
 give you a quick little summed up story. This can be good and bad depending on your situation. 
 Overall it's a great game especially if you like seeing familiar pokemon, like the one's you used 
 to battle when pokemon was all the rage . (it still kinda is but not as much) It's really cool to 
 have like a  and let's say Rayquaza in your party all at 
 once. Also, this is NOT the best game to start out with if your new to the series. You need like 
 Gold, Silver, or even Yellow, Red or blue, maybe even crystal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D031120
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  At first its like your base pokemon game with your goal being to get strong enough to pown the 
 elite four, the game begins to branch off in my opinion when you have realize you have two rivals. 
 After that the game jumps into a whole new realm with wi-fi world battle and trade, and I believe 
 the greatest amount of pokemon in any one game. With four hundred and ninety some odd pokemon to 
 find, I think you will be playing for awhile to come. The ability to take pokemon from your old 
 GBA games makes this pokemon a new breed in my opinion. Compounded with the inclusion of the gamers 
 underground rounds this to a very good game. Just make sure you dont miss those first 150 pokemon! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybling12
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The game rocks, Like the WIFI battles, Trading and other good things! Keep it up! And other ppl will 
 like it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  My cose thing it 4512-3555-7201-4000 And My Name Is going to be AndyBling
  I dont have the WIFI 
 USB but im going to get it on5-11-07, So keep the games up and the messages !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The 
 game rocks, Like the WIFI battles, Trading and other good things! Keep it up! And other ppl will like 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  My cose thing it 4512-3555-7201-4000 And My Name Is going to be AndyBling
  I dont have the WIFI 
 USB but im going to get it on5-11-07, So keep the games up and the messages !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionay compared to its ancestors (past games) . This game is perfect inside and 
 out. Lets talk about the graphics. The frame rate is good and the environment is perfect. You can 
 really feel like your in the game when you move up and down steps or mini hills. The game play 
 is pretty solid and puts the touch screen to work but could of put it to more use.
  
  One thing that I have alittle problem with the pokemon because the 4th generation is not as good 
 as the past generation. It was like they made some of the pokemon up at the last second. But everything 
 else was perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Retrdmakncookes
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has played a pokemon game in there life and have had a lot of fun in trying to catch them 
 all But this game stands out from the rest. this game comes with over 100 new pokemon and 3d gameplay. The 
 best part it is an amazing game and only $35. The game play is basically like all of the other pokemon 
 games with the same goals to beat the gym leaders to collect all 8 badges... owning the elite four.... trying 
 to figure out a missingno glitch (Lol jk) and trying to catch all the pokemon. But in this game 
 its not just the new ones its every pokemon ever made. yes thats right and you can transfer your 
 pokemon from all of your advance games with there newest feature of Pal Park. This new Nintendo 
 Ds game is a force to be reckoned with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon, a franchise that I never thought I would play again, has hooked me once again. That statement 
 alone should tell you that this game is indeed the real thing. it has everything an RPG lover and 
 Pokemon fan could possibly want.
  
  Gameplay: For the grand total of two of you that probably haven't played a game in this franchise 
 before, the gameplay works like this. You start out as a rookie Pokemon trainer, and work your 
 way up the rankings by collecting Gym Badges . These badges are part of the story progression in 
 the game, and are used to show off just how skilled you and your Pokemon are. What are Pokemon 
 you ask? They are similar to the animals in the real world, only twisted to have powers for battling 
 and unique looks. You will control up to six of these Pokemon in your party at one time, and you 
 need to be sure that you are constantly leveling these Pokemon to compete with the other trainers 
 in the game and any other player around the world you may decide to battle.
  The skillful part of the game lies within the turn based battle system. Like it or not, turn based 
 gameplay is here, but the ten years old gameplay holds up quite well. In addition to single Pokemon 
 battles, you will occassionally find yourself doing tag-team matches, which can truly intensify 
 the battle. Strategy is key in battle, and if you don't have the right Pokemon to use, well, then 
 your pretty much wasting your time. To sum up the battles though, they are still engaging even 
 after all of these years, even if they probably should get a makeover by the next installment.
 
  When your not in battle, you'll be exploring via a top down view in a humongous overworld. When 
 I say humongous, I really do mean humongous! This could perhaps be the largest overworld in a Pokemon 
 game yet, as even after you beat the story you will still be finding several new areas to explore. 
 The towns particularly are well designed, as each town has a feature that will encourage you to 
 revisit that town/city. Exploration is a great factor of this game, and the developers clearly 
 put a lot of emphasis on that this time around.
  The last area of the gameplay I would like to mention is the multiplayer. Despite it's annoying 
 use of friend codes (and only friend codes) for online multiplayer, once you do connect with another 
 trainer it is a blast to play! The voice chat feature adds a new element to the battles, and the 
 battles themselves are obviously much more challenging than the typical AI trainers. If your a 
 veteran of the series, you will definitely find the online multiplayer feature enjoyable. This 
 isn't the only online component of the game though, there is also a Global Trading Station located 
 in one of the earlier cities in the game. This works similar to Ebay , as you can put in a search 
 for the Pokemon you want (but you must have seen the Pokemon in your game at some point) and make 
 a trade for it once the system finds the Pokemon. You can also put a Pokemon up for trade. The 
 great thing is that you don't need to do that trades all at once, you can leave for hours or even 
 days to wait for a trade to happen if you simply leave your Pokemon for trade. It really is a great 
 feature, even if it can make the story itself easy to go through if you use the feature early in 
 the game.
  Although this game has many great aspects, it does have it's share of problems as well. For one 
 thing, the game is almost too much of the same. It isn't to the point where it is bad by any means, 
 but the story in particular feels the most rehashed. You would really think that after ten years 
 they could come up with a better storyline than Spoil Team *insert galactic reference here* plans 
 and become a Pokemon Master! It really is very cliche and almost annoying. It would also be nice 
 to see some more depth added to the battle systems other than the different Pokemon types, for 
 having had so much development time with the game they could have and should have added something 
 new to the battle system. It's not like they didn't have the time or resources. My last gripe is 
 the fact that even though they gloat about 500 Pokemon , unless you have the other versions of 
 the game you can't catch all of them... or even see them. Overall, the gameplay definitely lived 
 up to expectations, and improves upon previous titles... even if only by a small amount.
  
  Graphics: The game visually looks great. The 3D look to it fits in with the franchise, and is not 
 overdone. The art style, while not spectacular, also fits in with the series. The only real problem 
 is that the 2D used in the game looks very similar to what the GBA could definitely pull off. The 
 game looks great though, it's colorful, the 3D is well done, and the characters have a little more 
 detail to them this time... they just could have improved upon a few things. The game does show 
 off what the DS can do though, and it does it well, primarily because of the 3D used in the game.
 
  
  Sound: This is where things get complicated. The music itself: great, if not amazing. The sound 
 effects: junk. You can tell that they reused a lot of the Pokemon's sounds from the originals, 
 and only made new sounds for the new Pokemon. That is just laziness on the developer's part. We 
 aren't in the 8-bit area anymore, so don't make anything in the game have an 8-bit sound. Other 
 than the bad effects though, the music is spectacular. For the most part, each town has its own 
 theme, and each theme is well done and is fitting to the environment.
  
  Value: As previously mentioned, the online multiplayer adds a lot of replay value to the game. 
 They have also included a Battle Tower, where you may fight random trainers for battle points to 
 earn prizes (or fight downloaded Pokemon teams via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection) . There is also 
 a Pal Park , where you may import Pokemon from the GBA games. The last notable aspect of the game 
 (other than the 40+ hour single player experience) is the underground feature. While this feature 
 honestly felt kind of dull, it does exist and is worth a look. The underground is a series of tunnels 
 that covers the entire Sinnoh region, here you may mine spheres (which you trade in for prizes) 
 and make your own base. It also has a multiplayer factor with a capture the flag type system. As 
 you can probably tell, between the long single player experience and extensive multiplayer additions 
 this game could potentially last you around 100 hours. Not many games can offer as addictive an 
 experience as Pokemon, and this new entry in the series just reconfirms that statement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mally11
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond/Pearl are great additions to the Pokemon series, with over 100 new pokemon, wifi 
 battles and trading, it has enough to keep you occupied even after the pokemon league. The reason 
 these games separate themselves from the rest of the Pokemon games is the all new, 3D graphics 
 which also fit the Pokemon series nicely, the Gameplay takes place in an all new region, Sinnoh, 
 and the story follows a young trainer that tries to become the best trainer in Sinnoh.
  
  All in all Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is for the Pokemon fans but If you are new and want to hop into 
 the Pokemon series, this is the game to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhgt
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 8, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I got Pokemon Diamond and it's a great game, but the big question is: Is it really that much greater 
 than Pokemon Emerald?
  
  Pokemon Diamond is for the DS and has the extra fun and interactivity of the awesome touch screen. 
 It also obviously adds a lot more pokemon and has all or nearly all of the old pokemon. It adds 
 100 new pokemon to the series. Also, lots of the new pokemon are more interesting and better designed. 
 One thing I really liked is that they didn't just add new pokemon, they gave some old pokemon an 
 extra evolution and everybody likes evolved pokemon. It may seem annoying that while battling you 
 have to pull out a stylus and when you finish the battle put it away because it gets uncomfortable, 
 but it's really not a problem. In the battles, when you need to use the touchscreen, everything 
 is in a convenient spot for your thumb to hit. In conclusion, Pokemon Diamond isn't too much better 
 than Pokemon Emerald but is definately better. It's the best in the pokemon series unless you include 
 Pokemon Pearl which is just as good. This game is an addictive RPG which you'll want to play until 
 you beat it or get a game even better than it. It's a difficult game to complete since there's 
 so much to do and so many places to go. This game takes a short amount of time to learn how to 
 play and that time will all be worth it. So check your bank account and see if you have the $45 
 needed for this game (taxes not included) . If you have that money and are into gaming, this is 
 the right game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ersatz
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 8, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon! The word means many different things to many different groups of people. To Nintendo 
 and Game Freak, I would think it means a lot of dollar-and/or-yen signs. To the cynical non-fan, 
 it could signify another one of those cheap cartoon-and-toy tie-ins designed to rope in kids and 
 their parents' wallets. To the fans... well, they're gonna buy it regardless.
  
  But wait! Let us travel back, back before the whole property coalesced into a hulking, muscle-bound 
 behemoth of marketing synergy. Pok&eacute; mon began in Japan as Pocket Monsters, an unassuming 
 RPG for the original Game Boy. It was released as two separate Red and Green editions, each containing 
 slightly different monster rosters. These monsters could also be traded between seperate copies 
 of the game. Even from the beginning, you can see the brilliant marketing inherent in the game's 
 design: while a person could enjoy the game alone, the incomplete monster list would compel them 
 to encourage their friends to purchase the other version. It's like built-in word-of-mouth advertising!
 
  
  Dastardly marketing genius aside, the game also happened to be a light and enjoyable RPG; perfect 
 for quick bursts of on-the-go gaming, but also suited to marathon experience-grinding sessions. 
 We may now think of the Wii as a revolutionary step in bringing non-gamers into the fold, but I 
 think Pok&eacute; mon may have been one of the first orchestrated efforts to really convert large 
 numbers of people into gamers, especially younger ones. Nintendo had a huge hit on their hands, 
 and once that was apparent, well... things could only get bigger.
  
  Has it really been ten years since it all started? It seems like just yesterday I was fending off 
 crazed youths and their parents at Burger King, frothing for their collectible Pok&eacute;-toys 
 while I desperately tried to lay hands on a charbroiled meat-stack. Actually, the property didn't 
 hit full stride in the U. S. until '99. But once it did, man... it was EVERYWHERE. Unfortunately, 
 I think that the boys-aged-six-to-twelve marketing demographic robbed the games of a lot of their 
 legitimacy. The fact that the games themselves were actually pretty fun was undercut, in my own 
 mind, by the overwhelming amount of advertisements and merchandising targeted towards kids; all 
 I could think was if they're pimping it this hard, it's gotta be a pile of suck. 
  
  And, in truth, I wasn't missing anything mind-blowing or revolutionary. Just a simple little RPG 
 that I probably would have had some fun with... all by myself. My gamer friends would've crucified 
 me if they thought I had played that damn Pikachu game. Foolish elitists, I say! These days, I 
 enjoy an enlightened view on Pok&eacute; mon: appreciate the games for what they are, and ignore 
 the silly tie-in crap.
  
  Wait a minute. Was I writing a review...?
  
  Yes! So! The actual game! The new one, I mean. Diamond. Or Pearl. Whichever. It's good! Yes, it's 
 very good. Better than ever, even! The new 3D overworld really gives the game a much-needed facelift, 
 and the touch-screen controls are very well suited to fast-paced battling. I can't tell you how 
 many times I've whistled that catchy tune from the Pok&eacute; mon Centers. The new starter Pok&eacute; mon 
 are traditionally cool-looking and functional (except, for some reason, Empoleon has a really crappy 
 default moveset, dammit) and the legendaries are just as legendary and game-breaking as ever. The 
 best new feature has to be Wi-Fi support, since it essentially takes the social aspect of Pokemon 
 and applies it to the internet, which makes the game feel like it's finally come into it's own.
 
  
  The only real downside to the whole affair is the repetitive nature of building your Pok&eacute; mon's 
 levels high enough to take down the best of the Pok&eacute; mon League at the end of the game, which 
 unlocks a bevy of cool features to play around with (including the ability to transfer your old 
 roster from previous Pok&eacute; mon titles) . I've been told that it's tougher than ever to topple 
 the Elite Four and League Champion this time around, so you'd better grit your teeth and gear up 
 for some serious grinding if you plan on going the distance.
  
  If you're not a Pok&eacute; mon fan, and if you can get past the quagmire of hype and prejudiced 
 opinions, this is one of the best titles currently available on the DS. And if you're a die-hard 
 Pok&eacute; mon fan, I admire your incredible restraint in reading a review prior to purchasing 
 the game. But let's be honest: you were gonna buy it anyway. It's just a happy coincidence that 
 it's also the best Pok&eacute; mon game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamin218
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 7, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Since 2006 Pokemon Diamond and Pearl was the game that pokemon fans were anticipating for. And 
 when that Sunday, April 22, 2007 came, fans rejoiced as the two new Pokemon games hit the shore. 
 I purchased the game the day after the release and I have to say the game has improved a lot.
 
  
  Gameplay: The most important thing about a game (my opinion) and Pokemon never fails to give a 
 great story. You have the story starting off when you and your friend go inspect some oddity in 
 a lake nearby your hometown. There you find a briefcase with pokemon which you use to defend yourself 
 from wild pokemon. Then you get your pokedex, which is your main quest and you have to battle gymleaders 
 which are like obstacles stopping you to get to more locations for catching more pokemon. Then 
 you have the evil organization which you as the hero has to stop and save the world from utter 
 destruction. I have alway love the story in the pokemon games and the story in this game has to 
 be the best and traveling around with my pokemon made the experience so much better. -- 10/10
  
  Graphics: My mother use to tell me that's it's not what a person looks like that matters, what 
 matters is what's on the inside. Well, the makers of Pokemon Diamond and Pearl didn't seem to think 
 so. They wanted to go good with good gameplay and graphics. I think that it is unique to have the 
 2-D characters walking around in the 3-D backdrops. After a while of playing the character didn't 
 looked too much like a 2-D animation. The animation of the attacks has improved. For example, Water 
 Gun is no longer a Water Drop that seems to be thrown at the opponent. It's actually a stream of 
 water that is shot at the foe. -- 9/10
  
  Sounds: The sound of this game has improved the most of everything. The music used to be a screechy 
 sound that was all monotoned. But Diamond and Pearl's music is all Stereophonic sound. The music 
 changed for every city and some events when talking to some of the main characters. -- 9/10
  Value: This game is a great one. And can be cherished for every. The ability to be able and interact 
 with others around the world for trades and battles. It helps you fill up your pokedex and become 
 stronger quicker than the Game Boy version where you have to link up with the cable. -- 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illbill10
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 7, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Reviewers note: I have not played a pokemon game since Pokemon Red
  
  Pokemon Diamond (i have Diamond only) is very fun. a lot of new things of come to my attention, 
 the wi-fi capabilities arent so great. you have to have stinkin friend codes, whih are stupid because 
 they are short limited. They are lots of new pokemon, yet you cant find them all to easily, badges 
 are way to easy to come by, and only pokeom fighting gets xp is horendus. Yet with all that, it 
 packs a lot of fun things into it. There is a breeding grounds, but its hard to breed something 
 new, you basically only breed whatever the mother is except a child, even if you crossbreed. Over 
 all this is an OK game, wait for it to go t o25$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinxing1996
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a HUGE improvement to the other Pokemon games. The graphics have improved to 3-D, 
 a user-friendly interface, importing pocket pals onto your game, these are only the first couple 
 reasons why this game is good. The game is more challenging, too, so you won't whine about how 
 easy the game is. New HMs are a unique way to spice up and keep the game from growing old. There 
 are over 100 new Pokemon and ways to keep a person happy. Real-time feature is back, from Gold 
 and Silver version, which makes it more alive, more realistic. This game isn't perfect, but it 
 is AMAZING. Once you start, you won't want to stop, unless you are experiencing fatigue or injuries 
 of course. I would highly recommend this game to anyone that likes Pokemon, and maybe even anyone. 
 See for yourself, get the game. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xEMPORER13x
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review based on the assumption that the reader has played either Red, Blue or 
 Yellow editions. Over the past decade, we have seen many Pokemon games come and go. Some are great, 
 some we just want to forget about. However, we have still yet to see a Pokemon RPG that is on par 
 with Red/Blue/Yellow. The new Pokemon that are released in each new generation of the games are 
 always annoying to learn about. It was much more easier to remember 151 Pokemon, not 493. While 
 they can be a stab to your Pokemon-Master brain because they make you realize that you do not know 
 it all, they can be some fun. However, the last couple generations of Pokemon have been more childish 
 than the originals. Actual Pokemon aside, the games have changed slightly in the past few years.
 
  
  Since the originals, we have seen the addition of many different things. Too much to waste my time 
 listing, in fact. There are several additions to Diamond/Pearl that are worth mentioning, however. 
 Take the new 'Underground' for example. Down here you can hang out with friends and mess around. 
 Or you can dig in the tunnels for different things. Stones that you trade for items, money, etc, 
 stones that help evolve a Pokemon (Or keep them FROM evolving) , even Pokemon fossils which can 
 be brought back to life can be found down here! There are also 'secret bases' which are basically 
 a club house of sorts. Decorate them, upgrade them, whatever. They can be some fun when you are 
 bored.
  
  The new online features are great. On almost any Pokemon Diamond/Pearl forum you will find people 
 advertising for trades. Before I got really into the main game, I tried some of the new online 
 features out. You can trade with people on your friends list, or 'Pal Pad', or you can trade with 
 anyone in a special place in one of the cities. Besides trading Pokemon, there are some minigames 
 that you can enjoy. (Even a Capture The Flag game!)
  
  The multiplayer and online features will give the game much more replay value.
  
  There are 
 some cool little tricks you can do with trading, as well. Some Pokemon will evolve in weird ways 
 when traded to/from their original trainer. For instance, when I first started the game, my friend 
 breeded two Kadabras and gave me the Egg. I hatched the egg so that I became the new Abra's original 
 trainer. I then gave the Abra back to my friend. Because of my friend's team of lvl 50+ Pokemon, 
 he was able to level the new Abra up to lvl 17 in just two battles by using it in fights with high 
 level Pokemon. Once the Abra evolved into Kadabra at 17, he gave it back to me. When the trade 
 was complete, I watched as my new Kadabra evolved once again. Yes... I had recieved a lvl 17 Allakhazam.
 
  
  Now onto the actual game: There is not much new (Besides the graphics, which are not flat, anymore) . 
 All the same mechanics and gameplay from previous Pokemon games is there. If you have played the 
 other Pokemon RPGs, do not be surprised to find Diamond/Pearl the same.
  
  The game should not take any veteran Pokemon player too long to beat. After you beat the game, 
 you can do whatever you want. Go catch more Pokemon, battle other trainers again, etc. After you 
 beat the game, there is not much to do. Unless you are a hardcore Pokemon player, you might get 
 bored with it. Like I said, I am assuming that anyone reading this review is a Pokemon player (I 
 will also judge my score based on that assumption.)
  
  There is too much in the game to simply discuss. The game is very similar to other Pokemon RPGs, 
 but it does have some new things. If you are a serious Pokemon player, you need to get Diamond/Pearl. 
 It might feel the same, but it is an entirely new game (Just has the same gameplay.) Overall, I 
 had fun playing it, and I will continue to collect my Pokemon. If you enjoy other Pokemon games, 
 get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 7, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played Pokemon Red or Blue (or Yellow) has played this game before. I'm not talking 
 just about gameplay, the whole game is the origional pokemon with a fresh coat of paint. This game 
 offers 100 new pokmon, a lot of which are copies of their old conterparts in red and blue with 
 a new name and a slightly different look. I will break each aspect of the game down into categories.
 
  
  Storyline (2/10) : Every RPG has a storyline, however, pokemon has never had a good one and it's 
 the same this time around. The characters are niether well developed nor interesting. The pokemon 
 are interesting somewhat but they aren't any cooler or more origional than the ones in Red and 
 Blue. You get either a grass, water or fire pokemon and you have a rival who gets the pokemon that 
 has an advantage to yours. The professor then gives you a pokedex and you go catalog pokemon in 
 it while fighting trainers, gym leaders, team rocket, and your rival. This cycle is repeated about 
 8 or 9 times until you beat the elite four and win the game... gratz. Flow of the game (7/10) : The 
 game is so much like Red and Blue (R&amp; B) you'll be wondering how Nintendo pulls it off without 
 children rioting because they were conned into buying the same game twice. Nintendo, in typical 
 fashion, added gimics to this game to make it seem different from R&amp; B. For instance, the first 
 two pokemon you can catch is a bird like pidgey and a beaver rat thing resembling ratatta, Then 
 you fight in the first gym and guess what, it's a rock gym; the list goes on and on. There are 
 issues with the gym's pokemon being way higher level than yours are because this is nintendo's 
 way of adding challenge, but after your beat the gym you will fight team galactic whose pokemon 
 are so underleveled it's pathetic. And speaking of team galactic levels they are WAY easier and 
 shorther than R&amp; B, they almost feel tacked on. Caves and routes are basically the same way 
 short and easy. Also, you will probably not waste your money on anything other than pokeballs until 
 you reach the department store because there is really no need to buy anything else because the 
 game is so easy. At least they game will probably take you 40-60 hours to beat and do everything, 
 it's a long game. A lot of times the items found in the dugeons of the game are worthless, like 
 giving an ice heal when no trainers on the route or wild pokemon even have ice moves. Despite its 
 shortcomings however, it never gets too tedious there's a lot to do to mix up the action and enough 
 pokemon to make you try to find the best team and best moves.
  
  Game Concepts (5/10) : There's a lot of things here that you wonder why nintendo has/hasn't changed 
 it. The computer AI is just plain retarded most of the time. My strategy has always been use the 
 most powerful moves available and it has never failed me. While the computer tries to lower my 
 pokemons defenses i kill his pokmon in one or two hits. Psychic Pokemon still kick some major ass, 
 although, it is more balance because they are weak to dark type pokemon. Pokemon happiness is a 
 very dumb concept to me because some pokemon need to be happy to evolve. I treat my pokemon like 
 garbage letting them die whenever because reviving them is free via poke center, i could care less 
 whether they are happy, i yearn for the simpler days when pokemon just evolved at a certain level. 
 I also think berries are somewhat uneeded although hold items do add strategy. I still hate the 
 idea of having to trade to evolve pokemon because i am 20 and don't have a bunch of 12 year old 
 friends to trade with. You also get this handy pokemon watch which has many application you can 
 get for it like a map, happiness meter, step counter, basically any information you would want 
 is on your bottom dual screen. I also hate the idea of adding de-evolutions for pokmon, for instance 
 why would i want a mime jr. if i could have a Mr. Mime in the first place? he's more powerful after 
 all, why not give him the Mime Sr. evolution? Guess we have to wait for the next pokemon game for 
 that. The mini-games for dressing up your pokemon and what not just plain don't interest me so 
 i skipped them, but i'm sure they could hold my interest for about, well they wouldn't, so moving 
 on...
  
  Graphics (4/10) : One word: dated. This, to me looks the same as the origional except the buildings 
 have been made to look 3Dish. Not a huge upgrade by any means. Other than that there are some new 
 tile sets, character models, and animations. Please update the graphics gamefreak, it's DS for 
 cring out loud, which to me means they are capable of making the game look as good as the N64 pokemon 
 stadium imo. I no the game is for children but everything is made to be so damn cute it's disturbing. 
 I want more big, ulgy, and scary looking pokemon nintendo, c'mon already.
  
  Gameplay (6/10) : Same old formula, new gimicks; that should be on the box lol. Honestly, this game 
 could be so much better with some added depth, but it can be a lot of fun for people like be that 
 like to experiment with different teams of pokemon and find the best moves/items for your pokemon 
 to hold. That's what hooks me in, the strategy, and the fact that it's quick and painless to level. 
 You could go the whole game and never have to fight random battles like you would in a traditional 
 RPG. You can fight just trainers (the fun fights IMO) and have plenty of XP to go through the game. 
 Still things like fossils, the game corner, the department store, and the ghost tower may be all 
 to similar to most, although for me it wasn't such a bad thing since i enjoyed Red and Blue so 
 much back in the day, but i was hoping big N would add more new concepts, which is a rant for another 
 day because i feel that way about a lot of their more recent games.
  
  Sound (8/10) : I can't find much fault in it other than the annoying beeping when you have low health. 
 WHY does Nintendo have to put this in every game from starfox to zelda? it's quite f***ing obvious 
 when you have low HP, especially in a TURN-BASED game lol. Also it would be nice to have less text 
 and actual voice acting, but Nintendo is never likely to do that. The music good and diverse, it 
 never gets old or annoying, while the sounds effects are fairly run of the mill pokmon speaks and 
 sqwaks.
  
  *** This game does allow you to battle and trade online with friends even when offline although 
 i haven't tried it beacause i live in Iowa and there aren't too many wi-fi hotspots here and i 
 don't want to buy a wireless router. Although i wonder if you trade a pokemon cause you want to 
 evolve it, will the guy on the other end trade your old pokemon back to you? I increaded the value 
 score acordingly to compensate for this feature.
  
  All in all, this is a solid game with few bugs, but a lot of the same. Some will love it and some 
 will say that was good, but i just paid nintendo $35 to paint my pokemon R&amp; B to D&amp; P. Children 
 will love it, first timers should at least apprectiate it, if not love it, and long time players 
 of the series may cringe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PATD123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  It's hard for me to tell whether I like this pokemon game better than the others, but it's definitely 
 a very fun, addicting game. The gameplay is pretty much the same as always, except with new pokemon, 
 the contests are now incredibly stupid, and you can go underground (what's up with that?) . The 
 graphics are actually different from the other pokemon games, they tried to make houses look 3D. 
 The sound is slightly changed, with some different music in the pokecenters and battles. The value 
 is nice, because it is, of course, a lengthy, but not too lengthy game, and there are still plenty 
 of things to do. The tilt will be high, because this just what everyone expected, and is a complete 
 game. This game pleased me.. it pleased me a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Practically a decade ago, Pokemon was all the rage. Every kid brought their gameboy to school, 
 boy or girl, and every kid wanted to battle. Unfortunately, nobody seemed to have a link cable, 
 so most battling was done by insulting eachother. At the time, I myself loved it aswell. But as 
 my childhood faded, the fad did too. The hundreds I had spent on the games and the cards seemed 
 like a distant memory, until this year.
  
  I still bought the games, with much less fervor than I did in my youth. Once every couple of years 
 they'd throw out a title, and if I happened to see it on the shelf i'd shell out some coin. The 
 games were still the best RPG's on the handheld systems, plus they brought back some nostalgia 
 from my childhood. When I heard that two brand new titles were coming out for the DS, I must admit 
 that I was a tad bit anxious. The magic of the games was far diluted, but there was very little 
 to do on the DS aside from playing Elite Beat Agents.
  
  Once I bought it, I ran through it. Blasting apart the NPC's with my decade of knowledge, and swooping 
 in to face the Elite Four. Aside from them, the game was horribly easy. Which is unfortunate, as 
 all of the game have been. Perhaps a hard mode would of been well appreciated, where they simply 
 bump up the levels of everything by 5 or 10, but there was no option of the sort. Regardless, it 
 was still quite fun, and the new DS touch-screen was used to perfection. I saw no need for silly 
 minigames or adding anything more for the stylus to do, and I thought that the touch-screen was 
 used to a fair extent. The graphics, although the fundamentals still have changed in ten years, 
 were much better to look at. The use of 3D was brilliantly used, and the gym puzzles utilized this 
 new technology to the fullest extent. Unfortunately, they still hadn't changed the battle scenes, 
 which make up probably 60% of your play time. Although the battle formula still works, I felt as 
 if they could've used some innovation and made it a tad more next-gen.
  
  Throughout the years, there was one way to measure the quality of a Pokemon title, and that was 
 the after-game. The after-game is simply what is left to be done AFTER one has defeated the Elite 
 Four. Now, the originals barely had anything, and Ruby and Sapphire didn't have much either, but 
 ONE title set the standard that has never been reached since. In Silver and Gold, you got to head 
 back to Kanto after completing the main story-line. The prospect of this was absolutely thrilling 
 seven years ago, and although the map was dumbed down in order to fit, , it felt as if you really 
 were strolling through a twilight-zone future. Mystery gift made interaction worthwhile, and fighting 
 the shadow of the person whom you just interacted with was even more fun. I understand you got 
 to go back to Johto in Emerald, but placing such an cool feature in a third-title expansion game 
 was a terrible way to do so. Silver and Gold were the most flawlessly made games of the series, 
 and since then the only thing that has improved is the graphics, while the gameplay is still in 
 the 90's. I expected much much more of Pokemon Diamond, and I was very disappointed. The after-game 
 was existent, sure, but horribly bland. When will GameFreak understand that Battle Towers aren't 
 fun at all? Infact, battle towers almost feel like a side-step from the storyline, adding in a 
 robotic and bland battle sequence that doesn't match the livelyhood of the game at all. At least 
 there were a handful of legendaries, despite how none of them besides the main two really LOOKED 
 legendary. As for the Pokemon themselves, it seemed as if they were running out of ideas. Do we 
 really need anymore moths or butterflies after we already have Butterfree, Venomoth, Beautfily, 
 and Dustox? Some of them were legitimate monsters that haven't really been done, but most of them 
 were simple variations on already-pokefied animals. We already have several turtle-types, why add 
 Torterra? As for the Staraptor prevolutions, need I go through the tens of similar birds already 
 made monsters? Vespiqueen is a variation of Beedrill, Pachirisu is a Pikachu rip-off, Gastrodon 
 is Lapras as a ground-type, Glameow is Meowth, Chatot is Natu, Uxie Mespirit and Azlef are Mew's, 
 Carnivine is simply Cradily, and one look at Spiritomb tells you that they've completely run out 
 of ideas. Now, to be fair, there aren't that many animals or inanimate objects in the world, are 
 there?
  
  In short, the game is still fun. It takes a good fourty hours to complete, and offers nothing even 
 remotely fun after you've completed it. The graphics are gameplay are great, and the sound isn't 
 as bad as one would think. The old cry's of the older pokemon feel more like an homage than they 
 feel awkward, and the music is fairly unique to the game. Unfortunately, the game itself feels 
 recycled, and seven years later it still isn't better than Gold or Silver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boombazookab3ba
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  In this game you will find much entertaining... I f you ain't a pokemon fan but you are starting 
 on Pokemon with the Diamond or Pearl versions, well you will find the game excellent. If you are 
 some old Pokemon freak just like me you'll find it more of the same thing. Now you have more to 
 do, like being at the underground and using the Wi-Fi mode. Using the Wi-Fi new system is better 
 than I though, You're Pokemon will totally change when you get online, you will truly challenge 
 big Pokemon trainers and even better you will be being even better than you where. This new modes 
 are cool, it gives the game entertaining apart catching Pokemon and fighting like always. About 
 the sounds, well, they are pour like always, I don't like Pokemon music, IT SUCKS!!!! and at the 
 same time it boreds you, that's why when I play Pokemon , I turn off the volume ^.^ The graphics 
 are mainly the same but at least they did change a little bit especially on the characters, they 
 look more cool now but they still look funny.
  Something I was expecting on the game was a little bit more of touch screen but I got a deception 
 there,'cause in the game theres mostly no touch touch touch screen...... aawwww... I got frustrated...... Anyway 
 if you wanna play some good RPG apart what always you're playing then gives Pokemon a try and if 
 you are a Pokemon Master on progress then you gotta have it....... Good luck with frustrations on 
 this games tooo....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, the game is great. They have surely made interesting idea on creating this Pokemon 
 game with both 2D and 3D effect. They did a great job and it just looks so good to look at when 
 playing the game and visiting cites and towns.
  
  There are over 100 new Pokemon where now you can catch all close to 500 Pokemon in the game. Now 
 thats a lot of Pokemon. For someone, such as myself, will have to rely on the GTS (Global Trading 
 Station) in Diamond and Pearl because I've played any of the older GBA Pokemon Games. When you 
 reach a certain point in the game, you will be able to import your pokemon that you caught in old 
 GBA game and put into Diamond and Pearl. Saving them the hastle of trading and finding them all 
 over again.
  
  Another Cool feature is the Wi-Fi trades and battles. You can now battle other people from around 
 the world if you don't have anyone nearby you want to battle.
  
  The stuff that are remain the same is the storyline. You still have to gather all of the Gym Leader's 
 Badges and catch the people. Kinda feel like the first Pokemon Game ever when fighting against 
 Team Galactica. They are sort of like the Team Rockets in Pokemon Red and Blue.
  
  But other than that. The game is a must buy and it will keep you busy for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  It's been four years since last we got a true Pokemon game. True, we did get FireRed and LeafGreen 
 in 2004 and Pokemon Emerald in 2005, but they were merely remakes and sequels. And let's not even 
 mention Pokemon Ranger and Pokemon Mystery Dungeon- disastrous attempts at something different. 
 
  
  Well, four years later, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are launched amidst a lot of hype and fanfare. 
 Finally, after a long wait, the latest Pokemon games are here. Are they good? Oh yes, defintely. 
 True, they offer nothing new, but what they do offer is a nice and addictive forty hour adventure.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY (SCORE- 9/10)
  The same formula of the past three generations of Pokemon games- wander about in a gigantic overworld, 
 talk to people, gather hints and clues, solve mysteries and puzzles and battle different creatures 
 in turn based battles- has been used here as well. And its a testament to the formula's strength 
 that it still holds up well after over a decade.
  
  Also, it's worth mentioning here that the difficulty level of the games has been considerably beefed 
 up from the past games. From the very first gym itself, you face an onslaught of attacks that places 
 you in pretty tight positions indeed. You may win- but it'll be a close win.
  
  GRAPHICS (SCORE- 10/10)
  A few gaming sites, particularly IGN, have been whining and cribbing 
 that the quality of the games' graphics is not up to par. I differ on this. I believe that the 
 graphics are perfect, giving you a nice psuedo 3D feel, thereby retaining the classic 2D nostalgic 
 feeling of the earlier games, but upgrading themselves enough that nobody can waggle a finger at 
 them for being stuck in the past.
  
  Also, in some places, particularly gyms, the games abandon all pretense and adopt fully 3D graphics, 
 N64 style. It's really cool to see, and you'll waste a lot of time just admiring the sheer level 
 of detail in these places.
  
  The one place the graphics could be better is the battle scenes. Here, it feels as if they haven't 
 evolved all that much from the days of Ruby and Sapphire. I'm not complaining though. I like that 
 nostalgic feel.
  
  SOUND (SCORE- 9/10)
  The sound in these games is unlike any other Pokemon game. Its slow, symphonic and its very gothic 
 in places. Its also catchy (especially the battle tunes) not to mention the facts that the old 
 tunes have been remixed particularly well, especially the Pokemon Center, Pokemon Mart and Pokemon 
 Gym themes. The only problem I feel is, the tunes in the beggining of the game are slow, and thus 
 considerably reduce the excitement of beggining a new Pokemon adventure, one feeling that was particularly 
 present in Ruby and Sapphire.
  
  STORY (SCORE- 9/10)
  Surprise, surprise! Story actually gets a score of 9! This is so because the motives of the sinister 
 Team Galactic are so mature, so unlike Pokemon, they could have featured in other RPG's known for 
 their story telling, like Final Fantasy. Plus, the small reasons for side quests given at the very 
 beggining of the game make it seem more well rounded and polished than the previous Pokemon games.
 
  
  REPEAT VALUE (SCORE- 10/10)
  The adventures are so deep, so well rounded, so well made that you can replay them infinite times.
 
  
  FINAL SCORE- 9.2/10
  These games may not be the best in the series- that title still remains with G/S/C- but they are 
 the best Pokemon games to have been released since G/S/C. An engrossng adventure, enthralling storyline, 
 catchy sounds, nostalgic gameplay and graphics all make this one of the best Pokemon adventures 
 to have come out since 1999-2000. Definitely recommended to all fans and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  In 1996, one of the most revolutionary and succesful games till date, Pokemon R/B was released. 
 It was a massive hit and one of the most liked games at its time. After four years, in 2000, its 
 sequel, Pokemon G/S was released. It also was liked by almost every gamer and was said to be better 
 than Reb amd Blue. Then, in 2003, Pokemon Ru/Sa were released. Though not as succesful and acclaimed, 
 they were commercially most popular and were still said to be very good RPG's. And now, in 2007, 
 Pokemon Diamond an Pearl were released. They were well hyped and they had much to stand up to. 
 
  
  And when the game hit the stores, it became a massive success and was hailed as the best Pokemon 
 game ever. But is it actually good enough? Lets find out:
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5/10
  With the touchscreen to support the old traditional Pokemon gameplay, the games have become more 
 addictive and more fun to play. Along with that, there are many new innovative elements added to 
 the game. One of the strongest points in the game in the touchscreen in the battles. It makes the 
 good old gameplay even better.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5/10
  Unlike the previous Pokemon games, the graphics in this game are much better and are, surprisingly, 
 3D. The graphics are both, technologically and artistically, brilliant. The atttractive graphics 
 make this game even better.
  
  SOUND: 8.0/10
  The sound, teven though it is melodious, gets repititive some times. The sound is not as god as 
 the sound in other Pokemon games and does not perfectly match situations.
  
  STORY: 8.0/10
  The stpry of the game is comparitivelty much better and intense. It gives a more 
 magical feeling and makes the game even better. It becomes one of the many strong points of the 
 game and adds to the fun.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 9.0/10 You can play tis game again and again and never get bored. This is probably 
 the best Pokemon game, when it comes to lasting appeal.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 (Not an average)
  This is the best Pokemon game. Apart from that, this is the 
 best RPG game one can come across on DS. If you dont buy this game, you're missing out on something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerApp
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Same great gameplay basics splashed over a too-familiar story... Then again, that's what the Pokemon 
 series is all about. Veterans will enjoy some of the aesthetic and gameplay additions, while n00bs 
 will simply be introduced to one of Nintendo's most successful and beloved franchises (and love 
 it.) I must admit I was a bit put off by the new Pokes themselves, though... Dunno why, but there's 
 something about the original 150 Pokemon that'll never be matched (much less surpassed) no matter 
 how many stereotypical Pidgeys they come up with...
  
  To think it's been 10 years and I STILL haven't caught 'em all. Bummer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting! I have been playing it for a while now and right after you get past 
 the boring talking and everything in the beginning and you really start your adventure it really 
 starts to get fun. I highly recommend it to people who love playing rpg games that are just the 
 right difficulty and can keep you busy for a while. The feature that appeals to me the most is 
 that you can have pokemon from pokemon ruby and sapphire migrate to pokemon diamond and pearl. 
 Also another thing that appeals to me is the wifi and how you can trade people pokemon or items 
 that you might really want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  First i have to say that it was hard waiting for this game. I have to admit i'm not that into pokemon 
 but they make one of the best rpgs. If you have played previous titles such as ruby and sapphire 
 you will definetaly enjoy Diamond and Pearl. They have kept such things as double battles, which 
 you battle with two of your pokemon. And from Emerald they have more pair up battles. They have 
 added over 100 new pokemon and every single one of them are awesome. Since Diamon and Pearl is 
 one the ds you can now take advantage of the touch screen but don't expect anything extrmely fun 
 from using it. The only thing you can use it for is making poffins, using your poketec and selecting 
 battle commands (not much fun but it changes the outlook) Another good thing they added was the 
 time settings. This was a idea used back in the gold and silver days of pokemon and it is better 
 because there are different types of pokemon that come out at night and it will leave you wanting 
 more. I think the best thing about any pokemon game is the length and if you think previous pokemon 
 game were long you should check this one out. On my game i have played for about 20 hours and i 
 have only 3gym badges (i'm kind of slow but i like training my pokemon to the fullest) There is 
 nothing really bad about the game only thing is i think there is a ton of content the could add 
 to the game to make it even more enjoyable. Eventually there will be a pokemon game that will make 
 your jaw drop but now we are going to have to settle with Diamond and Pearl. i donn't mean that 
 in a negative way : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  The pokemon series never seizes to impress me. Like all the past versions, the same catching and 
 battling formula still works up to this day. Not only that, but Pokemon Diamond made some marvelous 
 improvements:
  
  1. The physical/special swap- Remember your Feraligatr from Pokemon Silver and you wished it can 
 learn a good water attack without its lousy Sp. Attack stat? Now this fantasy is now a reality. 
 Thanks to the physical/special swap, types aren't connected to whether it completely physical or 
 special. Water is normally a special type, but now Feraligatr can learn the physical move waterfall 
 or aqua tail. This is truely an improvement indeed.
  
  2. More of a Balance- The majority of the new pokemon are evolutions of the old pokemon. Forsaken 
 pokes such as Lickitung, Yanma, and Gligar will finally have a chance to shine with their new evolutions.
 
  
  3. The graphics- For a game that was always 2D, they finally were generous enough to make 3D backgrounds. 
 Like a pokemon, the graphics have to evolve someway and they did. 4. Online play- This is what 
 fans have been waiting for. Finally, you don't have to try and search for someone to battle. Instead, 
 you can battle or trade on the internet whenever you want. I despise anyone that thinks pokemon 
 is lame. Those fools don't know what they're missing!
  
  5. The Music is more Inspired- I haven't heard good music since red and blue versions. Never in 
 a pokemon game have I ever enjoyed the music. It is catchy and suits the battles well. You also 
 gotta love the melodys in each town.
  
  Overall, this is the best pokemon game period! This will be the best DS game until the DS dies. 
 And that is a fact! Don't be shy! Give her a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffin100
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  This game has kept me entertained since the day I got it, and it still is. The Pokedex is very 
 hard to fill, but I'll get it. Anywho, let's take a look at the categories... (Also, the show is 
 NOT a representitive of the game, and if you hate the show, you still might like the game.
  
  Gameplay 10:0
  Simple. A: action button. B: not much... X: open menu. Y: use registered item. 
 directional pad: move. Touch screen: press on moves and use bag and use pokedex... You can register 
 an item in your key items pocket so you just have to press Y and you can use it. This is very helpful 
 for the fishing rod, or the bike.
  
  Graphics 10.0
  The graphics for Diamond and Pearl are great. It used to be 2-D, but now it's awesome and 3-D. 
 If you compare the graphics of Pokemon Diamond or Pearl to Emerald or anything before, you'll see 
 Diamond and Pearl are much better.
  
  Sound 10.0
  The sound for the battles is great, and when someone smashes into you, you can hear the thud! sound. 
 And, the music is great. The bike music can get a little old, but if you go into a town riding 
 a bike, the music will change to the town's music. It adds A LOT to the game.
  
  Value 10.0
  I don't really know too much about this, but the price is great, and if you reserve 
 Diamond or Pearl you get a special, limited editon stylus featuring Dialga or Palkia. If you reserve 
 both, you get the styli with a base to put them in. (These are no longer available)
  
  Multiplayer/Wi-fi 10.0
  Annoyed because you lost your wireless connector? Can't seem to get that 
 one pokemon? Just wanna battle someone? Multiplayer and Wi-fi don't have the hassle. No more wireless 
 connectors. Simple as it except, just go and connect. With Wi-fi, you can battle a random person 
 across the globe. And with the Global Trading Station (GTS) , you can put a pokemon up for grabs 
 or browse for one. Also, you can put what you want, and people can meet your demands
  
  Overall 10.0
  
  Ending
  Like I said, it's a MUST HAVE for fans, and the show doesn't mean 
 it stinks
  Gotta Catch Em All! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geno162
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure how the series is still making money but i can see how the games are. This new game 
 is very fun and the whole new gameplay and everything is perfect. i was waiting for a Pokemon game 
 like this and it could not have been better. Perfect amount of Pokemon 150 (sorry 200 or more is 
 just way to many little critters) and who needs replay value when you make your pokemon stronger 
 than anyone else around you. I loved pretty much all of them and they all have been amazing but 
 this one was deffinently one of the best. Good work on this one Nintendo and lemme know if there 
 is any1 out there i can pwn with my amazing pokemon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clefairy2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 4, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I had a bit of a dilemma choosing the Classification , but I finally chose All its cracked up to 
 be because Diamond is just that. After months - no, YEARS of hype among clearly devoted fans, Diamond 
 and Pearl are finally here, and are definately worth every second of waiting and every penny of 
 the cost. Featuring a new region, new moves, and over 100 new Pokemon, fans will have everything 
 they could want.
  
  The graphics have taken a huge leap from the GBA. Every object in the Overworld is in smooth 3-D, 
 yet it also manages to keep the classic Pokemon graphical style. A little change may have been 
 nice, but I'm not too picky. Battles are still in 2-D, but the moves have been massively renovated. 
 A few, like Giga Drain and Fire Blast look simply incredible for the hardware.
  
  The story still isn't that much different from the rest of the series: You're a boy or girl living 
 in TwinLeaf Town in the Sinnoh Region. Your best friend, a very feisty and impatient young man, 
 brings you to nearby Lake Verity in the hopes of seeing a red Gyarados like the one on TV. Unfortunately, 
 all you o see is Professor Rowan, his assistant (Lucas or Dawn, depending on your character's gender) , 
 and a pair of wild Starly. You end up choosing either Grass type Turtwig, Fire type Chimchar, or 
 Water type Piplup to defend yourself from the Starly. Your freind always picks your starter's weakness, 
 and he becomes a rival of yours throughout the game.
  
  There's also Team Galactic, a group of weird bad guys who are trying to create a new universe. 
 They revive Dialga to try to accomplish this. It's up to you to stop them from destroying everything.
 
  
  Basic Pokemon gameplay follows as normal: You explore the Sinnoh Region capturing Pokemon and battling 
 other Pokemon Trainers in an effort to gain experience in an RPG format. The music is really good; 
 you'll find yourself humming it in little time if you like it.
  
  Many of the good features from previous games are in Diamond. There is the real-time clock from 
 Gold and Silver, Double Battles and Berry growing from Ruby and Sapphire, the Battle Tower from 
 Crystal, the Overworld item and Ability effects from Emerald, the Vs. Seeker from FireRed and LeafGreen, 
 and even letting Pokemon follow you in Amity Square, ala Pokemon Yellow! One of the many new features, 
 however, is the Poketch. After you receive it in Jubilife City, it always appears and is controlled 
 with the Touch Screen. At first, it has only a handful of apps, but later will have over 20 apps. 
 The functions of each app range from just for fun to absolutely necessary, so it would be worth 
 your while to get them all.
  
  The Touch Screen controls are actually quite smooth. It lets you forage through your bag's many 
 pockets, operate the Poketch, and choose commands during battle. But players who don't want to 
 use them don't have too.
  
  As for the game's length... Well, it took me about 50 hours for the main story, but it may vary 
 depending on how many sidequests you take, how skilled you are, and how much you train.
  
  Diamond has tremendous replay value; after you beat the Pokemon League and see every Pokemon in 
 the Sinnoh Dex, you'll get a National Dex that has even more new Pokemon. The new Pal Park will 
 let you transfer six Pokemon from Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, FireRed, and LeafGreen once every 24 
 hours. But just having one of those paks in your DS gives you access to five or six Pokemon! You 
 also receive an item called the Poketore to find Pokemon from other regions throughout Sinnoh. 
 With all these features plus all the new Pokemon, there are over 400 Pokemon to catch! Diamond 
 is definately the game Pokemon fans have been dreaming of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond and pearl are two great new pokemon games added to the already massive collection 
 of games. The improvements are not big, but by now, we should be able to tell that their obviously 
 not trying to change the gameplay too much every game and just adding new pokemon into the mix. 
 The best parts of diamond and pearl come when you complete the game, and obtain the national dex, 
 where you can then send your team over from your older versions in to battle it out against other 
 trainers teams (unfortuntley, the computer battles using other pokemon players' teams) , and to the 
 top of the battle tower. Now that additions like the global trade station have been added, you'll 
 be even more dedicated to catching every pokemon and building a superior team, if you weren't already 
 before.
  
  Gameplay
  Much of the same gameplay the pokemon franchise was known for remains here. Battles are all similar. 
 Obviously the biggest addition is the wi-fi connection, which could have been more fleshed out 
 in my opinion. Not being able to battle random trainers (the computer plays using online players 
 imported teams) and having to wait 'till battle revolution is a big downfall, but that's mainly 
 the only problem with the online play. There still isnt a legitimate place to train your pokemon 
 after you've completed the game besides the fight area, but the battle tower is a fun addition, 
 since its so much deeper now with pokemon from hoenn, kanto, and now sinnoh.
  
  Graphics
  the graphics are greatly improved in diamond and pearl. At first you may not notice, but when you 
 go back and play the older versions, you'll realize how ugly they looked compared to pearl. There 
 not huge changes, but the game definitley looks A LOT better than the previous versions.
  
  Sound
  The music is mainly the same syuff as the old games, which is a little dissapointing. 
 Some tunes actually sound like songs, instead of 2 bit screeches, but i felt they could have done 
 a little better in this department.
  
  Value
  the game will take about 40 hours to complete, and you'll later be addicted to the battle tower, 
 and battling your friends over wi-fi. The game feels a little more deep, so you'll focus on building 
 a great team, instead of putting it down once you've beaten the elite four.
  
  Overall
  Pokemon diamond and pearl are great additions to the pokemon universe. Its a huge, expansive game 
 that should keep you playing for a long time coming. If you've got a Wii, you should definiatley 
 pick this up, and dedicate yourself to building the perfect team for pokemon battle revolution. 
 Just dont tell your girlfriend what you've been doing in your house for the past 3 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Any Pokemon game spun from the roots of the original is an undeniably wonderful game to play. Sure, 
 if you are over 12 and do not wish to be horribly mocked by your peers because of the stupid anime 
 cartoon, you'd have to play in your closet, but anyone who actually played a genuine Pokemon game 
 can't help it because it's just so undeniably addictive. Pokemon: Diamond and Pearl are no different. 
 In fact, other than a few minigames, the daycare, night and day rotation, and the concept of the 
 secret base , not much has come close to changing Pokemon at it's core since the originals (not 
 that it's a concern as the idea is near perfect to begin with.) . However, there was one notable 
 change that gamers had been wanting for years that marks Pokemon: Diamond and Pearl as even more 
 special than the ones prior; Pokemon is now online.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  Basically it's a repeat of the origanil plot with a tad bit of updating. You're a kid (boy or girl) 
 that lives in a small little town in a world filled with little cool looking animals called Pokemon. 
 Pokemon are basically caught and treated as pets (or slaves, depending on your point of veiw) that 
 can be bought, traded, entered in competitions, or, of course, battled against each other. Anyway, 
 your character, who was previously without Pokemon ends up getting one of three pokemon as a result 
 of helping out a professor. As expected, your character wants to help out the professor document 
 other pokemon and in the process work his way up to earning the title of pokemon master. Unfortunitally, 
 your character also gets side tracked trying to stop a wacko cult bent of ruling the world. The 
 story is still kinda lame as it pretty much copys the game before it. I'm sorry, but the team rocket 
 clones wore thin after a while. However, in the end the story is trivial anyway, because no one 
 has ever really play Pokemon because of it's plot. GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay at it's core hasn't changed too much, but as it was pretty flawless to begin with 
 no one really minds. Basically, it's all about trading, catching, training and fighting pokemon. 
 There are literally hundreds of the little guys out there to find, so the game's lure tends to 
 be a little bit about collecting as well. As mentioned ealier, each game make you start small, 
 with only one pokemon to battle with as you wander the wilds between towns. But soon you are able 
 to by Pokeballs to capture wild Pokemon with (basically you weaken them with your Pokemon until 
 the wild one is under a third of it's heath then you toss a ball to capture them) . After that, 
 the wild Pokemon is your to do with as you please. Each Pokemon gains experience and levels up 
 like any RPG character, allowing you to swap out old moves for new ones as time goes on. You can 
 adjust their stats through items, breed them, enter them in comeptions, trade them, and battle 
 them. You can even upload Pokemon from the old games. It seems endless really. It's also very addictive, 
 made even more so once you gather some freind codes and challenge each other online for multiplayer 
 play. The only downside of it is the fact that you MUST go out of your way to collect freind codes 
 in order to experiance most of the online play, which is pretty obnoxious if your dream was to 
 battle random people on the other side of the globe. Still, if you know enough other people with 
 the game that you can call up to play with than it's not so bad.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics have improved, but the game still looks and feels like the older versions. They added 
 a 3D backdrop, more move animations, and Pokemon challenge poses, but it does nothing that would 
 completely blow away anyone who was familiar with past games.
  
  SOUND:
  
  If the graphic seemed the same, than the sound seems like it hadn't changed at all. There are some 
 new tunes, but most of it seems as it had been recycled for several generations.
  
  COMMENTS:
  
  The re is very little that could have been improved here, but there where a few 
 things that were there. I loved the online thing, but, like I said, it doesn't exactly allow for 
 any anytime any place senerio. I guess it was to provent young kids from being cussed at through 
 their DS or witnessing questionable names that strange people will undoubtably name their Pokemon, 
 but their are smarter ways of handling those types of problems, like simple taking away online 
 chatting outside of collected freind codes for example. They didn't have limit entire gameplay 
 with freind codes, just personal communication. Another thing that I thought was great was that 
 ability to download your old pokemon! Unfortunately this was also limiting as you could only do 
 so after to added every known pokemon in diamond and pearl to your pokedex and unlocked the Pal 
 Park . Even then you were only allowed to catch a certain number, I think 6, per cartrag. I think 
 that it would have been more conveniant if the Pal Park was a starting feature that allowed the 
 player to catch certian leveled wild Pokemon from the cartrage depending on gym badge and that 
 only 6 spacific Pokemon could be downloaded from another cartrage per game. That way I wouldn't 
 have to wait until I finished the entire game and there was nothing left to do before I got to 
 train a Rattata again (yeah, you heard me, Pokemon fanatics, my first Pokemon that I favored all 
 the way 99 without a single rare candy was a Rattata/Raticate.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prattfactor
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all... if your a fan of pokemon you must Get this Game.. MUST... Its that Good... Its Not 
 much different than the GBA And GBA Advanced Games.... The graphics are so much Better and The Gameplay 
 is amazing.... All together there are like 400 Pokemon in the Game and about 150 New Pokemon..... The 
 starters are Pretty Cool... But it seems Like there Running out of ideas for pokemon... But who cares 
 they come up with Some crazy Pokemon.. any way the Game is the Longest and Hardest Game To Beat 
 When you Get To the Leauge your Highest Pokemon should Be at Level 65 or your Going to Bomb... any 
 way its a great game and its even feauteres Online battleing and tradeing wich is a Blast all together 
 Pokemon Diamond is a really great game and i will soon be Purchaseing Pearl... So if you have a 
 DS And love the Pokemon RPG; s then you must Have this Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alakard1313
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  i think the way they up dated this game has made it the best of the pokemon series now the thing 
 i like the most is the poketech because you have the watch the calculator the pedomiter it shows 
 your pokemons hp (health points) it even has something to serch for the stuff that to small i guess 
 you could call it a radarand a thing to tell you if your berries are ripened theres more but thats 
 all i have so far i find it is much easyer to lvl up the gym's are a bit more chalenging i find 
 its easily a very good game to recomend unless you don't like pokemon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSplayer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. Same old Pok&eacute; mon, delivered with a brand-new face of connectivity, graphics, and 
 also new content. Minigames using the stylus add a new facet to it, making sure the player isn't 
 stuck to the main storyline too much all through to the Elite Four. The music is very cool, and 
 adds a feeling of fun to even walking along a route, or planting berries in your favorite spot. 
 Even though the sound effects might make it seem like much of it was recycled from older versions, 
 it adds a feeling of nostalgy to hard-time fans. Best of all, the Wi-Fi connectitvity increases 
 the possibilities of great online, multiplayer gaming. Easily the best Pok&eacute; mon game so far. 
 I'm glad i bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clone213
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  at first it didn't fell like a real pokemon game, with the super 3D graphics. it was a while befor 
 i even got used to the ds second screen, once you do you will never want to play another pokemon 
 game again! this game is just the best pokemon game ever! i thought it might not be as good as 
 emrald with all the new DP stuff, but boy was i wrong. if you are a pokemon fan buy one game because 
 it will take at least 40 hrs. to get the real feel of the game. globel trading is super awsome 
 if you have wi-fi, makes the game even more fun and gets you all the pokemon you ever want. this 
 is one or even the best pokemon game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon has finally hit the DS. And Pokefans everywhere have responded with the utmost enthusiasm. 
 This game is everything I have hoped for in a game in this series, the day and night features have 
 been brought back thankfully, and a whole ton of new features have been added to the game style 
 you know and love. What makes this game so great is that you can obtain ALL 493 pokemon within 
 it, so long as you have all the old games to transfer from. There is enough content in Diamond/Pearl 
 to keep you playing for weeks, and possible even months!
  
  Gameplay 10- The same gameplay style is here, you are a trainer that battles to collect the 8 gym 
 badges and become the Champion. Touch screen controls for the battles are nice, but if you just 
 want to use the buttons you still can.
  Graphics 10- Really nice sprite-based graphics. its nice to finally see Pokemon get a graphics 
 upgrade to (pseudo) 3D.
  Sound 9- The sound effects for the pokemon cries are the same, but the town music is great and 
 easy to listen to.
  Value 9- With online mutliplayer capabilities and upcoming compatibility with Wii, this game is 
 definately one to hang onto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtainsofdoom
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best pokemon game in the series. The graphics are the best seen in a hand held 
 pokemon game, and the number of pokemon that you can catch this time around is astounding. I would 
 recommend this to any RPG player even if you only like them a little bit. Even if you have never 
 played a pokemon game before you should not have any trouble playing this game. It is a game for 
 all ages and anyone looking for a good adventure or just looking for some time to kill should consider 
 playing this game. Funnest game I've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12yon
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  This is the Newest installment in the Pokemon Series and might i say its a great one .... its no 
 doubt the best of the series .. New Pokemon .. New Region .. New Everything ..... the game also 
 makes good use of the Touch Screen .. u will use it to select attacks and navigate through the 
 menus .. a great addition .... this game is also Wi-Fi capable ... which means u can Battle or 
 Trade people around the world .... very fun .... the story itself is pretty good and well told 
 .. wat u may notice in this game is that its a great time consumer ... i already have 60 hours 
 in it .... even after u beat the main quest there is plenty of side quests to do ..... like new 
 Legendary Pokemon and story arcs ..... nuthin left to really say except that this game Rocks .. 
 its Addicting and is very Fun ... i say u go out and buy it immediately ... even if your not a 
 Pokemon fan chances are you will still enjoy it ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_rusher
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 1, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have pokemon diamond and pearl. They are not all that I expected them to be. Their online 
 is weak, the gameplay is the same thing, and there is no real new stuff you see except for a whole 
 new setup of pokemon (which you expected anyways) . Aside from being the same annoying game as the 
 last one, it has its good side. The new online is alright, but it requires a friend code, so you 
 can't just go on and play any random person. Also, its 3D draphics make me somewhat happy. The 
 touch-screen relieves the pain of your fingers that die-hard pokemon fans may have gotten while 
 playing the old ones. Overall, its a fun game to play when you don't have another one to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  woot this game is just fun fun fun! woot! If you love pokemon this will be a majior improvment! 
 not the gameplay so much but the graphics, story it's just great. oh and WI-FI dang!! every pokemon 
 fan's dream!
  
  Graphics are completely redone and have 3D/2D awesomeness and the gyms are like completely 3d. 
 but i was dissipointed in the battles taking as long as they used to and the stupid pokemon center 
 girl and saving taking forever just to heal and save ur game.
  
  The wi-fi connection on the other hand is like so fun. its a dream come true for pokemon fans like 
 me! I love catching, training, exploring as much as the other guy but i really really love pokemon. 
 This is that type of RPG game you will be playing for... forever! i bought it 4 days ago and put 
 13 hours into it!
  
  anyways to put it all in a short story, its fun, its awesome, and pokemon fans/ds fans, or rpg 
 fans got to get this game. It's just amazing! POKEMON RULES!!!! NEXGEN POKEMON FOREVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 (buy the game ;] ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best Pokemon game of the series. I thought this series was dead after Ranger 
 came out. I thought, Well there goes another top class series . This game totaly amazed me. The 
 way they add in the touch screen keeps it from being annoying like most games, and even makes it 
 quite helpful!
  
  Gameplay- Better then Red &amp; Blue to Ranger (even beats Fire Red &amp; Ruby) . It just adds more 
 and more crazy stuff to a wild adventure. I JUST BOUGHT THE GAME YESTERDAY! I'm totally addicted! 
 It's one of those games where you play it through the night without your mom knowing! It's just 
 plain fun.
  
  I can't quite say anything on multiplayer yet, as I havent tried it. I dont quite understand it. 
 A bit off topic, but it'd be cool if someone could message me a bit of an explanation. (Thanks!)
 
  
  Graphics- Best of any Pokemon game. I got Diamond myself (theres nearly no difference between it 
 and pearl) . I'm amazed at how they made it 3D instead of 2.
  
  Sound- This is one thing that somewhat dissapointed me. It's the same tune as the other Poke games, 
 with minor differences. I personally don't rely on music to make a game good, so STILL get this 
 game.
  
  (The pokemon noises are improved... just too long =P)
  
  It is definitly worth the small fee of $35. I bought it with my new DS LiTE... so have fun ^.^ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond improves on everything the Pokemon games have done thus far, and brings back some 
 old features that were missing in some of the newer installments. The games started as simple role 
 playing games to go with the hit show, but became the pioneer for a series of games that would 
 revolutionize RPGs forever. This game is the longest most difficult pokemon game yet, and takes 
 so much more time to get to the pokemon league, or the climax of the story. This game has so much 
 more depth than any Pokemon game, or even any RPG that you may ever play. Also, this new adventure 
 seems to have a bit more freedom then the newer pokemon games. There are several different cities 
 to explore, and the order in which you do so is entirely up to you (to an extent, of course) . You 
 can go through the story line out of order if you'd like, or just take time to learn and explore 
 Sinnoh.
  
  This game also improves greatly on the game play. The use of the touch screen in battles may take 
 some getting used to, but in the end make things much more smoother, faster, and just overall more 
 exciting than they ever were.
  
  In Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, the overhead view of the world is replaced with a great 3D view. 
 Everything seems to stick out, and the colors and details all add together to create an amazing 
 environment.
  
  The only negatives to say about this game would be the flaws in the sound. As was said in the gamespot 
 review, most of the sounds from the older pokemon are exactly the same as they were in the generation 
 that they were released, and sound just as staticy as they would on a game boy color. However, 
 the rest of the soundtrack to this game is excellent, and the little tunes you listen to during 
 the various types and difficulties of the battles never get repetitive or annoying.
  
  Overall, this game is the best of any of the four generations of pokemon, and if they keep it up, 
 the series will always live in the hall of fame of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiyoshi777
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Though the Pokemon series has waned in recent years, Diamond and Pearl are bringing back the sweet, 
 sweet tradition of Nintendo excellence on the DS. While the formula hasn't changed an awful lot 
 since Pokemon's debut in 1996, these games offer up the ultimate refinement of the system, delivering 
 an incredibly rewarding gameplay experience, and, for once, players may just find themselves able 
 to catch all of the little critters (whose numbers now approach 500) .
  
  How? Nintendo has wisely allowed for connectivity between the Gameboy Advance titles and Diamond/Pearl, 
 all using one DS. This is perhaps the games' greatest triumph. At long last, multiple generations 
 are tied together such that all three (Fire Red/Leaf Green, Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald, Diamond/Pearl) 
 feel like parts of the same universe. Moreover, even antisocial gamers will be able to amass a 
 huge collection of Pokemon via the new trading system. Nintendo has not only managed to create 
 a logical purpose for their GBA rehashes, but has also opened up a wide range of gameplay possibilities.
 
  
  Even better, gamers can now trade with anyone in the world via the Global Trade System. While a 
 wireless internet connection is of course required, this is obviously an incredible step forward 
 for the series. While not perfect (the glut of players asking for level 100 legendaries for their 
 Wurmples is staggering) , it's much-appreciated.
  
  But what about the core game outside of these two improvements? It's pretty much more of the same; 
 battles take a bit too long, even with animations turned off, the graphics, while aesthetically 
 pleasing, haven't technically moved very far beyond the GBA versions, and the cookie-cutter fight 
 8 gym leaders, go to Pokemon League system is in full effect here, even with the same town archetypes. 
 That said, the world is actually better from a design standpoint than Ruby and Sapphire, so that's 
 nice. Even though it doesn't feel incredibly new, it works quite well.
  
  In short, even if you haven't taken the Pokemon plunge before, this is a game you must own. Forget 
 the kiddie label; Diamond and Pearl are surprisingly deep and provide hours upon hours of gaming 
 bliss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 1, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, the game is great. They have surely made interesting idea on creating this Pokemon 
 game with both 2D and 3D effect. They did a great job and it just looks so good to look at when 
 playing the game and visiting cites and towns.
  
  There are over 100 new Pokemon where now you can catch all close to 500 Pokemon in the game. Now 
 thats a lot of Pokemon. For someone, such as myself, will have to rely on the GTS (Global Trading 
 Station) in Diamond and Pearl because I've played any of the older GBA Pokemon Games. When you 
 reach a certain point in the game, you will be able to import your pokemon that you caught in old 
 GBA game and put into Diamond and Pearl. Saving them the hastle of trading and finding them all 
 over again.
  
  Another Cool feature is the Wi-Fi trades and battles. You can now battle other people from around 
 the world if you don't have anyone nearby you want to battle.
  
  The stuff that are remain the same is the storyline. You still have to gather all of the Gym Leader's 
 Badges and catch the people. Kinda feel like the first Pokemon Game ever when fighting against 
 Team Galactica. They are sort of like the Team Rockets in Pokemon Red and Blue.
  
  But other than that. The game is a must buy and it will keep you busy for days to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHI_Flyers10
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  If you've played it before, you know what to expect. However, that's not really a bad thing. The 
 game is as addicting as ever and it's a bit more polished. Plus, the new features such as the Poketch 
 and touch screen functions are pretty cool. I thought this might have just been a cheap way to 
 get money but it's something to get excited about. This game sparked my interest in the Pokemon 
 games again. Just gp buy the game, it won't dissapoint. Blah, blah, blah, need one-hundred words 
 for the review. Blah, blah, blah, need one-hundred words for the review. Blah, blah, blah, need 
 one-hundred words for the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schizor
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game ever since I bought my DS, one year ago. I will say that the 
 graphics are sweet and the gameplay highly addictive, but it has no revolutionary elements at all. 
 Don't get me wrong, I really think that if you own a Nintendo DS this is a game worth spending 
 money on, but it is not very different from the old games, besides the Wi-fi connection and wireless 
 trading which has made it much easier to battle your friends and enemies. Gamers who are new to 
 this Pok&eacute; mon thingy, would perhaps have more fun than me if playing.
  It is still cool, has nice graphics, and lots of new Pok&eacute; mon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely156030
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt in my mind, the best pokemon game ever created. The gameplay itself 
 still sticks to its old roots, with the same average battles you would expect from any pokemon 
 game. What is probably the most considerable change that makes this pokemon game different from 
 the others, are the graphics. The battle animations and sleek graphics of the world you will travel 
 in itself look amazing. Not only that, but the songs and sounds you will hear as soon as you go 
 into battle match the theme perfectly. There are only two things that set- this game from having 
 a ten. First is the lack of wifi-battling. I was very, very angry to hear that I couldn't battle 
 against others without friend codes. The second is the underground. It really sounded amazing when 
 they talked about it. I find it very repetitive and only amusing for a little while. Besides those 
 things, the game is lengthy and easily one of the best games I have ever played for the ds. You 
 will easily spend more than 40 hours beating this game, and doing side quests such as exploring 
 new places and catching the different types of pokemon that interest you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  For those, such as myself, who spent countless hours reading strategy guides on best ways to catch 
 Mewtwo and the Elite Four and buying Game Shark to get Mew to have a complete pokedex ; Pokemon 
 Diamond (and Pearl) will be what you love in a game with a DS twist.
  
  Over the years Pokemon has gone from the (somewhat easy) obtainable 151 , to 251, then a harder 
 to get 386 and finally an almost impossible 493 Pokemon collection with different variety of types 
 and moves to make having a perfect team more and more difficult. WIth the new DS installments, 
 the overall story hasn't changed much (guy wants to be pokemon champion, gets badges, beats elite 
 four and champ and then side options after) which to hardcore pokemon fans will run a little dry 
 but still keep them entertained for hours. The story does seems to be a bit longer because of all 
 the running around you have to do in order to get the first few badges. The overall look of the 
 game is spectacular because of the new move looks, pokemon entrances and overall display of the 
 cities and routes. Battling hasn't changed for the most part, but the game has a good variety of 
 Double Pokemon battles and single battles to appease anybody who prefers either. The battle tower 
 used from Saphire and Ruby is a nice touch and the wireless connection makes playing with friends 
 easy. Elite Four seems much harder this time around as is the Champion. If you don't have any friends 
 to play against after the main story is done, it can get boring after a few hours of challenging 
 the battle tower and finding pokemon.
  
  One of the best parts are the numerous Legendary Pokemon that have been added. There's the now 
 traditional exclusive pokemon for each version and then three other in story pokemon. After the 
 elite four and champ is beaten, there are numerous other legendary pokemon that can be caught, 
 though you'd probably have to look online to know exactly how to find them unless you go to every 
 house and every route again.
  
  Though the new addition is amazing and filled with new things that will keep any fan playing for 
 hours on end, it isn't without flaws. Story isn't origional which can be important for people and 
 once your pokemon are high enough levels, battles can get repetative if not playing against a live 
 opponent. You can also probably beat the game by just leveling up your starter pokemon the whole 
 time and using him and your legendary pokemon.
  
  The largest dissapointment is that for those who are looking to get all 493; you'd have to attend 
 a lot of pokemon live events and be fortunate enough to get your hands on special items required 
 to get about six legendary pokemon. You also are required to get many other games such as Pokemon 
 Ranger and the gamecube versions which can get really pricy if you don't already have them. You 
 can still get next to all the pokemon but if you just own either Diamond or Pearl you'll fall about 
 300 pokemon short of a complete pokedex.
  
  Both games are very well done and whether you're a new fan of pokemon or somebody who has been 
 playing since Ash overslept and had to have Pikachu as his starter; you'll find this game a joy 
 to play and a good way to spend countless hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowdown2bellboy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is a pretty good game. It retains everything that was good about the previous games, 
 while at the same time moving away from that to fit the DS. There are just enough gameplay changes 
 to make the player get used to the new system, but even that is at a minimum, so long-time fans 
 of the Pokemon series can still feel familiar with certain characteristics. The presentation is 
 not too shabby either, as the new 3d environments make the game pop out a little more. Also, the 
 game overall makes it seem light and simple at first glance, but when you look further, it is actually 
 more complex than its predecessors. The only thing I must point out about the game is that I would 
 be a little more comfortable if the camera wasn't so close. The new species are pretty cool and 
 the touch screen is incorporated nicely into the game. Even if you're new to the Pokemon series, 
 if you enjoy a fun, interactive rpg that you can play alone or with friends, I would definitely 
 recommend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elmetfano
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I personly think its one of the DS's best games out there. Now i always like playing the previous 
 versions (Red, Yellow, Gold, Saphire, and Leaf Green)
  
  Now i know your thinking What a pokemon nerd! well im not, i dont even like Pokemon anymore but 
 its something about the game series that makes it a good, time consuming game. I mean you raise 
 these creautures and compete with them. YOU WRITE YOUR OWN STORY! KEWL! GOTTA LOVE IT! Now i dont 
 go crazy and buy WiFi and go online and stuff. Its worth the money that u dont need online, $38 
 dollars, dont listen to people that say u need WiFi or don't buy it. I mean there was never online 
 with the previous versions so take it based on that
  
  Ok so I said its a fun game but when u see 100! woopin new Pokemon only half of them are kewl, 
 I mean u get thoose crudy guys like Mime Jr and the Bonsly guy (tree lower evolve form) and then 
 u get this PIGEY IMPOSTER CALLED STARLY! NO ONE CAN REPLACE PIDGEY NO ONE! PIDGEY IS THE BIRD THAT 
 EVERYONE LIKES TO KILL NOT STARLY!
  
  ok got that outta my system
  
  well anyway 9.4 is a good rating I say, Its fun and better then a lot of thoose other stupid DS 
 games out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Are you a fan or just a newb to this game? either way your going to love it... pokemon DIAMOND? 
 well i love it!!! it is very addicting the fact that you want to catch them all is really a motivation! 
 and well the graphics are really good! and there are a lot of new pokemon!!! It has the same story 
 as other pokemon games but it adds new elements like the touch screen. well i might not have a 
 lot to say about the game but the game is really good!!! AND I HAVE TO SAY... IS YOU HAVE TO GET 
 IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiman23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  1 ov the best gamez ever !!!!!! get it! get it! come on wat are u waiting for! go!! awsome new 
 pokemon! get it! awsome wi fi get it !!! awsome awsome! get it! go go go go go go!!! go go go! 
 who ever doesnt get it is retarted!!!!! we fly high no lie u kno this DIAMOND!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 letz go diamond letz go dia dia diamond! get it get it get it!!!!! letz go my friend code is 123768!! 
 so add it!!!! come on!! letz go go go go go go go go!!!! com on com on! come on! go go go go go 
 go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb2011
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the pokemon series, but i never got a ds. I heard that this game was coming 
 out for the ds only buti didnt have a ds. i ran over to the store and bought one the day it came 
 out. It always keeps you occupied during the day and never get boring. The online makes this game 
 so much better. You can always have someone to play with, with the online mode. This game is amazing. 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gnrl_Seanrogie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  These games started out with Pokemon red and blue. 150 pokemon, 1st gen. Then they came out with 
 yellow. Adding the feture of pikachu following you everywhere. Then came silver and gold. A new 
 region, new fetures like the cell phone, and the 2nd gen of pokemon. Then came crystal, same region 
 as gold and silver, but now you could be a girl, along with many other fetures. Then came shaphire 
 and ruby, ading another region, a 3rd gen of pokemon, and a insanly high amount of new fetures. 
 then came emrald, which just had afew more fetures then ruby and shaphire. Now we have pokemon 
 diamond and pearl, where you have the 4th region and gen of pokemon. You can also trade and battle 
 world-wide using wi-fi. Also unlike the rest this needs alot of gameplay, so you cant beat the 
 elite four in like 2 days anymore. In 16 hours of gameplay for me, and i have been playing since 
 red and blue, i only have 3 badges. This came is a great step up, and it would be the best, exept 
 that you can never be better then the origianl. This is a great game though, i still cant believe 
 i am playing this considering my age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Pokemon is one of those games no matter what age you are, if you're looking for a good RPG you'll 
 skip the kiddie aspect and start playing it. And why is that? Much like Final Fantasy, Pokemon 
 is a top notch RPG that has been consistent from game to game and has never needed major tweaking.
 
  
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl starts off like any other Pokemon game. You start your Pokemon adventure 
 with one of three Pokemon: Fire, Grass, and Water. After that you'll be given a Pokedex to record 
 information on all Pokemon you have caught and gives you a bare minimum information on Pokemon 
 you've seen. You'll start off catching basic Pokemon in which you'll slowly level up to get stronger 
 and evolve. You'll battle trainers with low level Pokemon and think that this game will be over 
 quick. But it isn't until you get to the first two Gym Leaders that the game kicks you in the face, 
 depending on whether you take the game seriously or not.
  
  For fans of the series, the only thing that has changed is the fact that instead of catching all 
 the Pokemon in order for the Professor to be happy, you just have to see them. How simple is that? 
 Some touch screen elements have been put into play, such as organizing your bag, checking Pokemon 
 status, and even using it during battles for attacks and strategies. It would have been better 
 to actually switch Pokemon using the bottom screen instead of using the D-pad, but maybe that'll 
 be in the next Pokemon game.
  
  Diamond and Pearl also reintroduces the clock, which was first added to Pokemon's Crystal, Gold, 
 and Silver. The environment will change depending on the time of day it is. Not only that, but 
 certain Pokemon will appear at certain times of the day or they will evolve on certain days as 
 well. A journal is also added which will automatically record the important events that happened 
 on the days that you played. The added bonus of Nintendo WiFi is a much needed addition to the 
 series. Plenty of times I found myself with a Game Boy only to find out nobody had Pokemon, let 
 alone a link cable. With the WiFi addition, you can trade, battle, and talk to your friends as 
 long as you punch in their Friend Code. Also, Pokemon has added a Global Trade System. When you 
 log on, you can search for a specific Pokemon and see who's trading it and what they want. Or you 
 can put up one of your Pokemon's up for trade for a certain one. The good thing is you don't have 
 to always be connected in order for a trade to work. Post a Pokemon up at night, go to sleep, wake 
 up, and your Pokemon might already be traded. If you overlook the collect them all and the kid 
 oriented plot line, you'll find a great RPG for a much needed handheld. And you'll never know who 
 you'll run into online or off. Whatever the case may be, if you need an RPG fix for your DS, go 
 and grab Pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanDuhMan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  People have said that this game is bad because it barley changes anything to the pokemon series, 
 but what was wrong with it before? If you didn't like the previous games, you don't like pokemon! 
 Pokemon isn't going to change, but there will always be new features and new pokemon. Diamond is 
 a great addition to the Pokemon series, because it offers over 400 Pokemon to catch and the game 
 is very long so you won't put it down quickly and Wi-Fi is a great addition to the series. I give 
 Pokemon Diamond 10 out of 10, because for one the graphics are great and the new 3D visuals are 
 smooth, the game play is great! It brings back the old school Pokemon and because of all the new 
 features added. In the end this is a great game! You really should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher2119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  pokemon has always been a big deal. it started off with lots of hype and people scratching their 
 head, but they recovered soon enough to buy the game in mass amounts. the series has been around 
 long after its not been considered cool but those who denounced it also picked it up regardless. 
 if not, the huge amount of sales would not exist. with the intro done and over with, lets start 
 the review......
  
  graphics - the whole game has received a graphical update and it looks rather well, albeit a little 
 too familar, but it works. the effects in battle are still the same small graphical movement combined 
 with fire water, etc. thing thats been going on but a little bit more elaborate at times. sound 
 - the sound in this game is reallllly familar. like verrrry familar, however they do update the 
 music in a sufficent way, but why cant some of the battle sounds have been upgraded?! pikachu still 
 sounds exactly the same as he always has but with the power of the ds this just isnt necessary. 
 controls - the touch screen controls arent really used for much but a few poeketch applications. 
 the rest is used just as the same as the entires series. gameplay - the gameplay is also very familar 
 but the same type macthing system has been used once again to great effect and is still just as 
 fun as ever. playing with friends over the wfc is easy once you have the friend code and the voice 
 chat is clear and easy and very good with the ds headset, but you dont need the headset to voice 
 chat. replay value - the game SHINES in this aspect. the number of things you can do is amazing. 
 joining in contests, baking poffins, playing online, diggin around underground, going on walks 
 with the cuter pokemon, all of them have benefits and all will keep this game in your ds. if you 
 like pokemon or have had a great interest in the series, jump on in, this is the warmest the waters 
 ever been in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond does not disappoint. With challenging gym leaders, a female Pokemon League Champion 
 with a hard core team, and a lot of legendaries, this game will keep you playing for hours. Besides 
 all of that, the Wi-Fi is what I really love about this game. Online trading, online battles, and 
 the fact that you can talk to people around the world using the DS Microphone. The game can be 
 easily beaten if you play almost everyday for more than 12 hours like me. Plus, the game has the 
 best soundtrack out of all the Pokemon games. If you are a deep Pokemon fan then Diamond and Pearl 
 are for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcrusader501
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond is absolutely an awe inspiring and well-rounded Pok&eacute; mon game that 
 will keep fans mesmerized until the next installment. The game play is excellent and far better 
 than the older versions when you do a side-by-side comparison. The sound is wonderful and most 
 of the music is just jazzed up and newly created versions of the older version's musical scores. 
 The graphics have been significantly improved since Pok&eacute; mon FireRed, LeafGreen, and Emerald 
 courtesy of the Nintendo DS's new graphic capability. Also with Gold, Silver, and Crystal, Pok&eacute; fans 
 were extremely frustrated because you could not transfer your Pok&eacute; mon into Ruby and Sapphire. 
 Now with Diamond &amp; Pearl Nintendo and Game Freak have rectified their mistake. You are now 
 able to transfer your Pok&eacute; mon from Ruby, Sapphire, LeafGreen, FireRed, and Emerald into 
 your Diamond &amp; Pearl games by using the DS's GBA game slot function. It is an immensely invaluable 
 Pok&eacute; mon game to long time fans and is required in order to Catch 'em all . This was well 
 worth the wait for those of you and myself that preordered the game (s) . There are a lot more functions 
 in the game such as improved Pok&eacute; mon Contests, the new Pok&eacute; mon watch or Pok&eacute; tch 
 for short, the Sinnoh Underground, and most of all the amazingly unsurpassable Nintendo WiFi compatibility 
 that was nonexistent in previous versions. This new ability now allows players to trade throughout 
 the world amongst each other using the Global Trading Station (GTS) . This game is a must and should 
 be purchased without delay. I commend and applaud Nintendo and Game Freak for the magnificent and 
 downright family friendly game they have created for millions around the world. Also for those 
 of you who have not received your own game and are reading my review stop reading now and buy the 
 game!!! Pok&eacute; mon, may it live forever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoNkEyZDeAtH
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: For me its hard to control using the D-Pad but you? iono and some things in the game 
 is too easily found. Hm's in Gold/Ruby/FireRed arent as easy to find but you get like RIGHT after 
 you fight or before you fight the Gym Leaders. Uhh the rest is OKAY!
  
  Graphics: Excellent! New Bump! The 3d gets ANNOYING ONCE in a while but still its excellent for 
 a pokemon game portable.
  
  Sound: Still the same... Nothing new as much?
  
  Value: Its cool worth $34.99 some what short and takes like 30 sec to save.
  
  Tilt: NINE! I've 
 waited for 1-2 years but its better than i expected... i think lol uhh i don't like the saving but 
 yeah... hmm our guy character looks like we went from Paris, France ALL the WAYYY to Sinnoh Region 
 LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of Pokemon since versions Blue, Red, and Yellow. When I received news that 
 it was going to come out on the DS, I was ecstatic! Screenshots and reports on it were awe-inspiring, 
 so I couldn't wait until I could get my hands on a copy of Pokemon Diamond or Pearl. (I was preferring 
 Diamond, and I purchased it. (^_^) ) I found it not revolutionary, but highly innovative and jam-packed 
 with innumerable new features that I very much enjoyed.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 | Like every Pokemon game, Diamond had superb gameplay. It proves only that the 
 Pokemon formula works nearly every time. The new features, like the Poketch, the Union Room, wi-fi, 
 and more only added to my enjoyment. I was, however, hoping for some better animations or more 
 added to the Pokemon battles, but it's all good. XD
  
  Graphics: 9/10 | Honestly, it's not par with Final Fantasy III or Metroid Prime: Hunters, but obviously, 
 you can't expect it to be, since Pokemon is an animation series. The new 2D and 3D graphics combined 
 is quite impressive. Bright colors and well-detailed visuals make the game much more appealing.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10 | It's basically a remix of music from past Pokemon games, with its own cool soundtrack 
 going on at times, too. Sounds from battles and bumping into things are also quite realistic. The 
 cries of the Pokemon also sound like what'd you expect from animals in real life.
  
  Value: 10/10 | You will definitely get your $35 worth here. I got more than that, since I bought 
 the game at a Toys R' Rus where they gave a free $15 starter kit with the game. It'll last you 
 an EXTREMELY long time and will keep you busy for hours at a time. Tilt: 10/10 | Pokemon Diamond 
 is a very well-rounded game, scoring well (by my standards) . Overall: 9.5/10 Superb | Gamers of 
 all ages and skill levels will enjoy this Pokemon Diamond. I was somewhat surprised by the harder 
 difficulty level than other Pokemon games, but whether you're at home, school, work, or are on-the-go, 
 Pokemon Diamond is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Pokemon never looked this good. New monsters and stuff to do. Same tried-and-true formula
  
 
  The bad:
  Ummmm.... it's pretty much the same game with new icing on it.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So I'm 15 hours into Pokemon, and have given it a serious chance. Unfortunately, I'm finding the 
 game has gotten.... well..... boring. It's the same game you loved on the GBA, with tweaked graphics 
 and a few extras, but otherwise, it is the same battles using mostly the same monsters, doing the 
 same tasks (battling gym leaders, finding a bicycle, etc.) , and generally playing exactly the same 
 old pokemon formula that you know and love. If you can't get enough of this formula, then you will 
 probably enjoy this incarnation. If you felt that after playing pokemon red or green or whatever 
 that you'd seen it all and had enough of the pokemon scene, this game will not offer you enough 
 new stuff to keep your interest.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I loved the pokemon franchise. Still fondly recall the line-drawn black and 
 white pikachu on the gameboy color, with the squawky low-res sounds.... in fact, most of those sounds 
 are still here, which for purists is a good thing I guess, but I just felt like I'd played most 
 of this game before. The touch screen is not that well integrated in to the experience either.
 
  
  So.
  
  If you have never played a pokemon game, or have played other versions but crave more, then I highly 
 recommend you try this one, since it is pretty much the best in the series. Had this been my first 
 experience with pokemon, I'd be raving about what a great game this is. Lots to do, lots of pokemon 
 to collect, a long quest to stop the 'bad' trainers.... wheee. If, however, you played pokemon and 
 sort of got it out of your system and want something new in the series, this will leave you slightly 
 bored and more than a little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLEACHNARUTOMAD
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The Pokemon game for the DS has been released just last week. Diamond and Pearl are set in a land 
 pretty far from Hoenn, Sinnoh. The new game brings in 107 new Pokemon and has quite a lot of new 
 features. Some parts of the game have some 3-D looking effects which makes the game alot cooler 
 and there's no more Team Magma and Team Aqua, but a new Team Galactic. There's also a Pal Pad feature 
 which allows you to battle with your friends all over the world using WiFi. Diamond and Pearl also 
 have a Trading Station which allows you to put up a Pokemon that you have, mention what you want 
 and get someone to trade it with the player.
  Pokemon Diamond and Pearl are the biggest Pokemon games up to date but I feel that the game lacks 
 enough use of the Touch Screen except for some parts of the game. But other features have made 
 up for that loss resulting in a 10/10 in my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon211
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Pokemon at one point or another, I feel that you could easily get into this game. 
 There's so many things you can do in this one. You'll have 100 additional pokemons to choose from 
 and plus they added in day and night again. This added to feel of you playing. The new pokemons 
 are cool too. I did beat the game on the Wed. of the week it came out though. This was just a quick 
 review, but you really should try it for yourself! Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go back 
 to catching em all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocolith
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I honestly thought I was going to get a pretty good and new game out of Pokemon Diamond. Unfortunatly 
 all I saw was things that would only be cool if I was 8 years old and the game got very dificult 
 when I was forced to fight lv 28s, lv 29s, and lv 30s with the level limit of 30. This game is 
 great for most people, but I do not think thiis was the gratist investment of 35 dollars for me. 
 I enjoyed all of the game before hand, with the graphics, gameplay, and such it was great. But 
 unfrtunatly I am too old and this game in the end has turned dull and hard in the longshot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonjulas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Pokemon game ever created so far. At first you might not notice the graphic change 
 that much until you get to more mountainous areas. The 3-D effects are excellent. This game also 
 has many more features then the previous Pokemon versions. A new feature that I want to mention 
 is the exploration pack. With the exploration pack you can go under ground and dig up fossiles 
 and shards and things like that, you can also make a secret base and have ur friends come over 
 to search for treasure. I had been starting to feel like I was getting sick of Pokemon games until 
 I got diamond. Although it does seem like the Pokemon company is starting to have a little trouble 
 coming up with new names and Pokemon they are excellent at doing their job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superluigi96
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, once you've played one Pokemon game, you've played them all. You start out as a 
 rookie trainer, you get one of three starters, you collect 8 gym badges, you beat the Elite Four, 
 blah blah blah. Every game from Red &amp; Blue to Ruby/Sapphire/Emerald has followed this formula, 
 adding minor tweaks to the battle system and other aspects of the game, while adding new species 
 along the way. However, this time around, the tweaking includes wi-fi, and that alone is what makes 
 this game stand head and shoulders above all other games in the series.
  
  Anyone who hasn't played a Pokemon game before won't be interested in this reincarnation, and anyone 
 who has already knows the basics, so I'm going to touch upon what's new in the DS version. Returning 
 from the Gold/Silver/Crystal series is the real-time clock, although it seems a bit underused. 
 There isn't that much of a noticable difference as to which Pokemon appear during which time of 
 the day. The only times you'll really need to pay attention to it are when evolving certain Pokemon 
 or catching new ones (a new Pokeball, the Dusk Ball, works better at night) .
  
  Obviously, since the DS is a step above the GBA in graphics capabilities, we would expect a change 
 in graphics. The main area where you explore has now been given a 3D look while still maintaining 
 its original 2D feel. Although it's virtually unnoticable at times (especially when inside a building) , 
 there are parts where you will really notice the changes, such as walking past the windmills early 
 in the game. As far as battle graphics, the attack effects have been improved slightly, but overall 
 it looks and feels the same. Your Pokemon is still just a 2D image without much in the way of animation.
 
  
  Certain aspects of the game, most noticably battling, now use the touch screen, but more often 
 than not you'll find yourself using the D-pad and A button instead. Most of your battle experiences 
 are short, so if you insist on using the touch screen, you'll find yourself picking up and putting 
 down your stylus a lot.
  
  By far the most significant addition, however, is the wi-fi. I remember back to my days of playing 
 Pokemon Silver, where I had already beat the story mode and caught all the legendaries. I had pretty 
 much beat the game, and therefore didn't feel inclined to keep playing. That was my biggest disappointment 
 with the Game Boy games: once you beat it, unless you had a lot of friends who played too, there 
 wasn't any reason to keep training. Well, now there's always someone to battle with. You will still 
 need a friend code, just like other wi-fi games, but there are plenty of Pokemon communities on 
 the internet where people will be willing to give people their friend code, so it shouldn't be 
 too hard to find someone to link up with.
  
  If, for some reason, you can't find any friends online, you can still take part in the online festivities. 
 Trading online has been made available without a friend code. All you have to do is post a Pokemon 
 you're willing to trade, say what you want in exchange for it, and wait. If someone takes you up 
 on your offer, the trade will be made automatically, and you'll recieve your new Pokemon the next 
 time you check in to the service without even having to meet the trading partner. This makes filling 
 up your Pokedex very easy.
  
  Last but not least, Pokemon Diamond and Pearl bridge the generation gap between their GBA predecessors 
 and themselves. When Ruby and Sapphire came out on GBA, you couldn't transfer your old Game Boy 
 Color Pokemon to the new games. This made people sad. All of their training had been nullified. 
 Fear not, Pokefans, Nintendo has you covered this time around. Once you beat the Elite Four, you 
 can begin transferring your GBA Pokemon to your new DS game. This means that all 490+ Pokemon in 
 existance can be owned on Diamond and Pearl.
  
  In short, if you've played a Game Boy Pokemon game, you've played this one too. But the much-improved 
 connectivity makes it definitely worth your while to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't care how old you are; everyone gets excited when a new pokemon game comes out! DON'T LIE 
 TO YOURSELF. I actually wasn't planning on buying this game right after its release, but that all 
 changed when the crazy Pokemon hype came in. Yah, ok, I'll admit it: I STILL LOVE POKEMON! So I 
 went and picked it up, and was stunned just after playing for a couple of minutes. I can hardly 
 put it down. The graphics are nice for DS, with a little mix of both 2D and rendered 3D. And, the 
 game still feels very familiar, which I like. The music is cool; it's always nice to hear some 
 new, fresh Pokemon tunes. But aside from everything else, I think the whole online stuff is absolutely 
 awesome. The new features take trading and battling to the next level. The clock feature is also 
 very nice to have in. I always thought Silver/Gold were the best versons, and I'm glad they brought 
 the time aspect back into the series. Great job Nintendo. I'm happy, and that's all that matters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianistkaida
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I didn't own a DS, but when the date was reveiled, I thought I would probably just end up waiting 
 to play game till another time. That Sunday morning on 4/22 when I woke, up all I could find myself 
 was thinking about pokemon. I thought of how everyone was going to play it and I wouldn't. I though 
 about how I knew all the current pokemon, and also not getting this game would limit my pokemon 
 knowledge that I knew so completely. So without further thinking I rushed over to my nearby gamestop 
 and bought a Pokemon Diamond, AND a DS lite (yes I wanted to play that much) . It doesn't dissapoint 
 me that I spent so much money at once either. I am THROUGHLY enjoying this game just like I did 
 my other pokemon games. The graphics are great, the music doesn't sound old school anymore, and 
 the game is just like any other fun pokemon game. I'm happy I have a DS and looking forward to 
 buying Pokemon Ranger for DS Pokemon Battle Revolution for Wii when it comes. That way, I can link 
 of both games for ultimite pokemon FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaj222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen many of the new features, but so far, this game is pretty cool. Especially since 
 it added in Touch-Screen. At first I thought it would be crappy because of the Touch-Screen, but 
 they implemented it to work good. I love this game. Graphics have massively been improved. Switching 
 from Classic to 3-D like many times. Awesome. The music is not too different from older versions, 
 I must say. But slightly better...
  
  The new pokemon are kinda weird. But I am kinda glad they added many more baby pokemon. This game 
 ROCKS! Although, This game seems like most of the other games. Not much else in the game was changed... 
 Other than Graphics and Touch-Screen, there isn't much more in this game than Emerald, Ruby and 
 Sapphire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This is not the best RPG ever it's not even remotly close with that said i will review Pokemon 
 for what it is .
  
  In Pokemon Diamond you can choose Boy or Girl later on you willl go to the river with your friends 
 and you notice the profesor is there researching a Pokemon thats been rumored around the area. 
 The profesor leaves with his buddy and you notice they left a briefcase, After you go up to it 
 and you decide to bring it back you are ambushed your friend opens the briefcase theres 3 Pokebals 
 with pokemon in it you quickly choose one of the 3 (choose the Monkey if your smart) and proceed 
 to Pwn the enemys.
  
  You run into the Prof and his partner seconds later and after you go home your mother ask you to 
 go see the prof and apoligize and explain why you stole his Pokemon, after you Visit the Professor 
 he doesn't care he actually needs you help filling up his pokedex , so he sends you on a journey 
 to collect Pokemon.
  
  As you can see the story is Weak , but thanks to the grace of amazing Gameplay it never brings 
 the game down.
  
  The Graphics in Pokemon Diamond are not Mindbending compared to other games on the DS but compared 
 to other Pokemons it's a huge upgrade. The art and Towns look really good and the monsters all 
 have a unique look.
  
  one of my Problems with pokemon is the story i rather just go around leveling my Pokemon than actually 
 beat the game. All these problems make Pokemon not even close to being a Good RPG. The great thing 
 about Pokemon Diamond is the Collection of pokemon and Leveling them and getting them to change 
 forms and grow them up , all this makes pokemon a great game even with the lack of a epic story.
 
  
  All in all if your expecting Pokemon Diamond to be better than a FF or a Chrono Cross then you 
 will sadly be disappointed. But if your looking for a fun addictive game with a Customizable party 
 then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aman27deep
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a great game. Unbelievable Graphics, Cool music, and it has Every thing a Pokemon 
 game should have. It brings the old functions of Pokemon Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald and combines them 
 to one great game.
  The graphics look way to better then the GBA games, it gives a 3Dish feel to the game. Still some 
 of it is 2Dish. Nintendo makes great use of the NDS touchscreen. You can use it for the poketch, 
 a pokemon watch. It's used to contol battles and contests.
  The game also has a Brother Game, Pokemon Pearl (i have also written a review for it) . The games 
 bring 107 new pokemon so it adds up to 493. Three Cool starters are also there. Turtwig, Chimchar 
 and Piplup are one of the Best starters of all time. The last pokemon of PokeDex in this Game, 
 Arserus can be converted to any type. The Day/Night from GSC returns. Like Pokemon Crystal, Some 
 Pokemon only appear on certain times or certain days. This is cool because it's more realistic 
 then ever. The Sinnoh region looks great. There are also many types of Whether in this game, like 
 Somewhere it will snow and somewhere it will rain (like pokemon Emerald) . There is a mountain in 
 the center of Sinnoh called Mt. Coronet, here you'll be able to catch Dialga the legendary pokemon 
 from Pokemon Diamond.
  There is also an underground section which let's you build your own secret base and play games 
 over DS wireless.
  Also new is the Wi-Fi connection where you can connect with friends all over the world. You can 
 also trade and Battle with them .
  
  So i think that Pokemon Diamond is the Best Pokemon game ever. it looks good, the music's good, 
 the game is The Best Pokemon Game Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is a nice game, where you can catch all 480 pokemon, which is really a blast.
 
  It also features the WI-FI and better graphics.
  The only problem is that the game is losing its originality.
  Pokemon ruby and sapphire had some 
 real good pokemon ideas, but this game doesnt have really new pokemon.
  They just look and sound new.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Features a nice tutorial like storyline, with 
 interesting characters and cities you come across.
  +Still nice to discover more pokemon, 480 pokemon too catch.
  +Some new and good features like 
 pokeketch.
  +WI-FI is a really nice improvement
  -Battling gets a bit repetitive, due to most of the trainers having almost the
  same pokemon.
 
  -This game is too easy, especially in the beginning.
  I remember Pokemon Ruby, the first gym leader being a lot harder to beat.
  
  Graphics:
  +The 
 only real improvement of this game.
  +Very colorful and realistic environments.
  +Pokemon are nicely detailed
  -The game can run a little slow sometimes
  
  Sounds:
  +Sounds 
 of the new pokemon are really nice and sound just like
  they are real pokemon
  +Town music is really relaxing
  +/- Nice music, but gets annoying after a while and very repetitive
 
  -Old pokemon sounds arent really that better.
  
  Value:
  +480 pokemon too catch
  +Lots of side quests
  +Replayabiltity is there
  -Too easy sometimes
  
  Tilt:
  +Good tutorial 
 like story
  +Easy controls
  -Touch screen controls arent really that helpful or new
  
  If you loved the old pokemon games and really want to catch more and new pokemon and i do recommend 
 this game to any pokemon fan.
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob28278
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Its About time they made these games. But... the fact that they base the games on Jewels and colors 
 is kinda rediculous because for one eventually they will run out for two if they some how make 
 some more it will be obsidian ,Amythest, Opal, Topaz etc. I mean they might as well just make a 
 game called Pokemon battle royal ( IF they do make a game called battle royal I will and trust me 
 I will Gloat and gloat and gloat I might sue but first the gloating) were they are all in it or 
 make a game called pokemon Frontier where all pokemon games come together and instead of stoping 
 there when about like 9 pokemon games come out they make Frontier 2,3,4,5 so on and so forth. But 
 I mean come on people!!!! And for once people make a Game that does not have just earnning badges, 
 Defeating evil and saving the world! make a game that has a random adventure and unexpectantcy 
 like making you character fight another good guy .
  and for the record you guys messed up when yall didnt make a game with a pshycic pokemon on the 
 cover you all had plenty of chances and dont think just cause you got lugia or suicune or anyother 
 legendary pshycic / flying or /water or /fire no I mean straight pshycic. Put Mew on a cover people!!!
 
  or lucario!!! and I mean you guys could at least remake pokemon yellow it was the first pokemon 
 game after all !!!!!!
  
  PS somtihng I would ove to see is a Fight between The Hoenn, Johto, Kanto &amp; the new one's legendary 
 pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  pokemon diamond is awesome. So many new pokemon to see. alot of new attacks. This game isnt very 
 different from any other pokemon game. It adds a few new gameplay mechanics, like touch screen 
 control, but nothing major. One of the best parts of the game is the online play. u can battle, 
 trade, or talk with any of your friends online. It works really well. The game is also really long. 
 40 hours maybe. that doesnt include if u wanna catch 'em all . if u really wanted to catch them 
 all, it might take u 100 hours. unless u cheat, and just collect them from trades online :P Theres 
 a lot to see and do in this game, and that means u should buy it. its one of the best on the DS. 
 Not the best, but its up there. its probably the best RPG on the DS in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smakkjoo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon never has been an AAA title... Until now. The graphics are refreshing, gameplay, old, but 
 still solid. The new Pokemon would make you come back for more. The GTS (Global Trade Station) 
 Will make collecting easier.. online Wi-Fi was a needed addition to the Pokemon Series. This is 
 THE best Pokemon I have ever played, although it could use some more gyms and Pokemon. Although 
 it just has around 100 or so Pokemon, it would be more worth the $35 if they had added the worlds 
 from the old-school games. This game is steal at a cheap $35. This game will not disappoint you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsniper513
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is what i, and every other pokemon fan, has been waiting for! It still has a great classic 
 RPG element to it that will keep the game going for hours and hours. The Wi-Fi addition is great, 
 as Ryan Davis described it like Pokemon Ebay , Basicly you put your pokemon up and select the pokemon 
 you want to be traded with, this makes compleing the pokedex a whole lot easier. Another coool 
 thing is the 3-D-ish graphics. Anyone who has played the other games know that pokemon is a top-down 
 rpg, but with Diamond &amp; Pearl the graphics are the same, but put into a 3D form. Overall  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond is the newest Pokemon game to be made by Game Freak, and it is simply the greatest 
 yet. Diamond and Pearl include online play which is completely new to the franchise and adds more 
 replay value than ever before.
  
  Pokemon Diamond plays just like any Pokemon RPG before it, you are set onto a 2D grid as either 
 a Boy or Girl, and you must travel throughout a new region capturing, and battling Pokemon to become 
 the best Pokemon Trainer ever. Other than the main story there are 107 new Pokemon to be captured 
 and trained in Pokemon Diamond including plenty of evolutions and pre-evolutions of older Pokemon. 
 There is also the induction of the Sinnou Underground, in the underground you are able to excavate 
 for spheres, evolution stones, and even fossils of ancient Pokemon that can be brought back to 
 life. Also in the underground you are able to create a Secret Base for other friends to enjoy, 
 using local WiFi play with near by friends you can play a fun game of Capture the Flag between 
 you and other peoples bases, after a certain amount of wins you can remove giant boulders from 
 your secret base that block off where decorations can be placed.
  
  With the inclusion of WiFi functions, you are now able to trade and battle with friends using Nintendo's 
 Friend Code System. Don't worry though, if you don't have friends that play Pokemon, you can always 
 go to a special building in Jubilife City and trade with anyone around the world, all you need 
 to do is put up the Pokemon you want to trade and request a certain Pokemon in return, the trade 
 is also able to take place while you are gone, even if the DS is turned off. When it comes to battles, 
 you are also able to go to the Battle Tower after the main game is completed and download seven 
 teams from REAL trainers and battle those Pokemon which will be computer controlled.
  
  The graphics for the 4th Generation of Pokemon are far improved from previous games, the entire 
 overworld has a new 3D element to it while still keeping it on a 2D grid, this is known in videogames 
 as 2.5D by most people. During battle, every Pokemon sprite from the past has been completely re-done, 
 it is still the same style, but all the animations and Pokemon have been re-done for the DS. Finally 
 there are also differences in gender between certain Pokemon, like a male Pikachu may look how 
 it use to, but a female has a slight indent on its tale.
  
  The sound in Pokemon games never really changes, but thats something that leaves it very memorable 
 in the eyes of the people who played it as kids. The sounds and music have been smoothed over so 
 that any static problems from the past have been removed.
  
  Overall I would say that Pokemon Diamond is definitely for those that have played the series in 
 the past, for new comers to the series, you might want to either try out an older game, or have 
 a good liking for classic RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Got to catch them all is the motto of Pokemon and this game makes you want to try and get the 100+ 
 brand new Pokemon that were added to both Perl and Diamond. Now that these games are for the DS, 
 they have used some of the new features that they couldn't us for the Gameboy Advance but didn't 
 really improve the animations and graphics that were used in some of the older Pokemon games before 
 (which to me was very disappointing) .
  
  The starts out pretty simple with you creating a new char and choosing the gender and making a 
 name for yourself. You even get to make a name for your best friend (who is male only and can't 
 be changed) and you start off at home. Right off, you have to search a bit to know what you're 
 doing but once you find your friend, you get to a point in the game where you need to choose between 
 3 Pokemon to fight off other Pokemon that are attacking you. The three choices are like the games 
 of old where you have one plant, fire, and flying Pokemon to pick from. After fighting off the 
 wild Pokemon, you meet the professor of Pokemon and he asks you to meet him at his office. You 
 still have your Pokemon that you picked up and take it to him where he tells you to help him collect 
 data for his research. You get a PokeDex and start your adventure to beat gym leaders, gain experience 
 for your Pokemon and become the best trainer IN THE WORLD... This wasn't part of the game but fun 
 to say.
  
  After reading this, you are probably asking yourself: Well, whats different this year from the 
 previous years? which is a good question to ask. Outside from the new Pokemon to search for in 
 this world, the developers used features from the DS itself which make the game a bit more fun 
 then normal. Just like most DS games, the Wi-Fi feature is great to use for trading, battling or 
 chatting with friends. The trading feature of the game seems like an interesting part because you 
 might have a rare Pokemon that you want to trade for another rare one in the market. Battle your 
 friends that aren't in the same room but could be at their house. Or just write a message telling 
 them how much they need to practice (hehehe) . All of this can happen within the game but you need 
 a thing called a 'friend code' which can get annoying but it will save it once you find it from 
 your friend.
  
  The developers also used the dual screen of the DS really well with certain areas of the game. 
 When battling, you can use the touch screen to select moves quicker then before. You can still 
 use the game pad to select a move so no need to worry about using only a touch screen for this. 
 Also, when you are in the menu mode, you can use the touch screen to go to different parts of your 
 bag. It can be difficult at times since the touch screens only use pictures but once you understand 
 the order, it becomes easy. You can use the game pad as well if you don't wish to use the touch 
 screen.
  
  The sound isn't that wonderful and I sometimes find myself turning it off so I can listen to my 
 music. The recycled sound also adds a disappointing factor to the game that should be addressed 
 for any new games to be made in the future.
  
  The graphics could have been better since the DS has some nice graphical features to it. The buildings 
 have that 3D feel but mixes with a 2D feel with battles and other parts of the game. The Pokemon 
 themselves are no different then its previous counterparts. It was kind of disappointing when I 
 started playing but you get use to it later on. The animation was another feature they could have 
 improved. There are some newer animations that you can find when battling but most are using the 
 3-R rule (reduce, reuse, recycle) .
  
  If you want a revolutionary Pokemon game for the DS, this isn't probably what you want but if you 
 just like playing Pokemon game and want to see some of the newer Pokemon, I would suggest getting 
 it. The game is still impressive and for me, I have this passion to level up everything.
  
  Best of luck current and future Pokemon Trainers and 'catch them all'... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwiksilva
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great game I would say that the wifi feature alone makes it better than any past pokemon 
 but any other areas it is still not better. When looking at the design of the pokemon compared 
 to other games like the original and gold and silver not as good. The game is basically a slight 
 graphic update, added wifi, a few new pokemon, and night and day added back on. Other than that 
 its not worth a 2 year wait since the last actuaaly new version came out. It is still basically 
 the same fun addicting pokemon game but not many completely new features. The next pokemon game 
 needs to incorperate a more diverse world where you can either try and become a gym leader or a 
 breeder and needs to make an entirely new type of story not the same old fight team rocket or team 
 galaxy beat the elite 4 do a few more things then try and just level up. Also I think the games 
 need more stuff to do after you beat the elite 4. There should be people in the game that have 
 pokemon over the level 70 so its easier to get your pokemon stronger after you get past level 60. 
 But all in all this is a great addicting game that anyone can enjoy not just pokemon fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Pokemon diamond is clearly the best pokemon rpg game out!!! I have beat every other pokemon rpg 
 game but this on is just a whole lot better!! I recomend this game to anyone!!! Pluse the 100 new 
 pokemon are very cool!! the only bad thing is that the pokemons sound isn't so good but it dosen't 
 really hurt the game!!! Diamond and pearl are must haves!!! P. S. i would have given it a 10 if 
 the sound was a tad better!!! I also clearly the best ds game there is !! It even bets out Mario 
 and luigi partners in time!!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigerace77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  great way to waste time and just playing to be the best. I love the pokemon RPG series i have yet 
 to have a bad experience and looking forword for the next one. Just trying to catch them all will 
 keep you busy for as long as it takes and the story mode can keep you busy for another 40+ hours 
 on top of that. There is so much to do its mind boggoling to think how far it has come since the 
 first 151 were released. I hope this serise continues with its march forward into the furture and 
 come out with more motion and characters to battle with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix_7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS 
 THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS 
 THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS 
 GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS 
 GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS 
 GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS 
 THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS 
 THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS THIS GAME ROCKS !!!!!!!!
  Sorry, i was in a hurry and didn't have time to write a proper review :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STABW0UND
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The greatest franchise in the world returns with Pokemon Diamond/Pearl and its defiantly living 
 up to its name. Despite the last insertion into the series Ruby and Sapphire being decent games 
 but not quite as good as its predecessors it seemed as Pokemon was slowly going down hill. but 
 this release shot them right back up to the top again proving all the doubters wrong. Pokemon is 
 now reliving most of its former glory that it hasn't seen since the gameboy color days with Pokemon 
 crystal. This game brings the die hard fans back and even a lot of returning fans from the old 
 days. Pokemon Diamond/Pearl are games anyone can enjoy age 3-3000 its just that much fun. and with 
 the new integration of wifi capability you can trade and battle with your friends without even 
 leaving your couch! a big improvement from the link cable days. In conclusion i recommend this 
 game to anyone of any age its a great game that will keep you playing for a long time!
  
  Gameplay: Same basic gameplay we all know and love with some new added touch screen features aswell!
 
  
  Graphics: The unique blend of 3D and 2D looks great in a Pokemon game!
  
  Sound: Awesome sound track always fits the situation your in.
  
  Value: You cant get a better 
 game for the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maato_Nyuhaato
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun to play. Its pretty long. The graphics are beatiful, but some parts, 
 seemed recycled form the GBA games.
  
  The sound is okay, I suppose. The music is nice, the Pokemon cries are pathetic though.
  
  
 This game will keep you playing for a loooonnnggg time, especially if you have people to battle 
 or to Wi-fi with.
  
  Overall, the game feels pretty solid. Your recommended levels are higher than any other game in 
 the series, but its easier to level up. This game is definitely a must have for any DS owner. Get 
 it as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulimanitachi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  It is a great pokemon games. One of the best in the series. Oh yes if you think you are too old 
 for this game think again it is for any age. Now this pokemon begin in a house similar to pokemon 
 Blue and the town is like Pokemon blue you go to your friends and he finds a briefcase and you 
 start the adventure of your life. The game is pretty easy. The pokemon many of them are new. The 
 starter pokemon aren't that interisting as Ruby. But this game is good. It is a little short. The 
 graphics are nice 3d but only the buildings are 3D. The landscape is the same as Pokemon Blue and 
 Yellow. This time there is 3 teams that are evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cacaron
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the other Pokemon games like the blue version, the emerald and the silver one, you 
 have to buy this one. Like in the other games of the series, you play with a young man or a girl 
 and you catch pokemon and fight the old way. You enter a battle fight, catch, use an item or switch 
 of pokemon like in any of the past similar games. Buy this game, even if it is not that much different 
 of the older pokemon games it is very cool! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose-is-blue
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This is my 5th Pokemon game, and my most fave one to date!
  
  The 3-D Graphics are great, and the new shadowing of time is great also. Blue was a bit easy, but 
 this one is just right. it takes a bit to figure out all the new stuff as well, so its not just 
 throwing you into the game.
  
  Diamond really sets you into the story, and its a very well developed 1 at that!
  
  a bad part 
 though, is that the new pokemons names were very hastily made. there terrible! NOTHING A NICE NICK 
 NAME WONT FIX THOUGH!
  
  Sound... not the greatest. and the worst thing about it is that you cant turn it off in multi player, 
 when your trying to talk to friends! but what it lacks in sound it makes up for...
  
  THE PURE MULTI PLAYER FUN!!! IT IS GREAT!!!
  
  i played capture the flag 1 time and i was hooked.
 
  
  well over all, ive played 20 hours 45 minits, and yes i DID just get it 2 days ago. it is VERY 
 addictive and i recommend it to ANYONE.
  
  I dont even like pokemon anymore, and i love this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  After leaving the Pokemon world for a number of years (I last played Red/Blue back in, *shudder*, 
 elementary school) , I decided to get back in the game. When I originally saw this title pop up 
 on Gamespot I was skeptical to say the least, how much can they really improve something such as 
 this? Well friends, let me tell you, a lot.
  
  Graphics: while sticking to the old top down view of the world, this new installment takes in some 
 3D liberties. Parts of it, mainly with trees, looking somewhat Animal Crossing-esque. The colors 
 are bright, and the world is fresh. This is a pretty game.
  
  Sound: Before I go on, let me say I was happy to hear the classic poke-center healing tones (da, 
 da, da-dee-DA!) . I did smile and it was good. The music is classic, still feels like the world 
 of Pokemon and tends to keep you happy. The Pokemon's sounds are nothing new, simple growls and 
 whatnot, but they do their part.
  
  I love this game, I was a fan of the classics and I'm a fan of this. They added some great multiplayer 
 aspects. They have an interesting underground bit where you can get some interesting items for 
 your secret base . Not needed, but fun nonetheless. If you're a fan of this series, or have never 
 played but want a good RPG, get this. You will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhacker
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This is certainly a long-awaited game. I've been waiting for over a year and now that it has finally 
 been released in the U. S. I must say I am quite pleased. I'm going to break my review down into 
 three parts: the good, the mediocre, and the bad.
  
  THE GOOD
  ==========
  
  First of all... Pokemon on the DS! Sure, the basic principle of Pokemon remains unchanged since 
 its debut with Red and Blue, but after all these years it has yet to lose its charm.
  
  Wi-fi! Probably far and wide the most exciting feature on this version of the Pokemon series. With 
 the inclusion of voice chat (before, after, and even during the game!) , battling friends from far 
 away is amazingly fun. Of course, there is also local wireless trading and battling also, as well 
 as neat quirks like record mixing, group drawing, and showing off your trainer card (that you get 
 to sign with your stylus... useless but entertaining nonetheless) . My wife, a first-timer to Pokemon, 
 was thrilled. She hasn't even bothered to sign on to WoW since we got it. (She has Pearl, I've 
 got Diamond) .
  
  The graphics and sound are beautifully done, and should provide the eyes some pleasing sights.
 
  
  THE MEDIOCRE
  ==========
  
  Let's face it... this is the same game that debuted over a decade ago. While the game is good, 
 it's been done before. Of course, we all knew this when we bought it... so it's not much of an 
 issue. Also, friend codes can leave a bitter taste in one's mouth... but again, that's not really 
 the game itself's fault.
  
  THE BAD
  ==========
  
  Nothing really to mention here... the game doesn't have any flaws that make it to the BAD section. 
 The necessity for friend codes almost makes it here... but it's hard to condemn Nintendo for doing 
 this, because of the threat of internet predators.
  
  So, great gameplay, good sound and graphics, and wi-fi functionality. Whether you've been playing 
 since Blue or new to the series, if you're a hopeless fanboy or a jaded veteran, Pokemon Diamond/Pearl 
 deserve a chance. It's a solid game that stands on its own, and also provides more of the same 
 infamous game that we've come to know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  It was April 22nd when this masterpiece came out! I must say the series has come along way! This 
 game is just fu$%^&amp;&amp; awsome! You will not want to put it down! Especially with the Wi-fi!!! 
 This game is a breakthrough in technolgy! Finally! Battling is going wireless and online! The cables 
 have been cut! The graphics are truley amazing! And the stars of the game as always... THE POKEMON!, 
 are the best. This game is a ,must have! New Pokemon and new EVERYTHING!!!! The Legendary is so 
 freaking cool! You gotta get it! I love the starters except the monkey... I choose the turtle and 
 my friend choose the penguin! He got Pearl and I got Diamond! This game will certainly keep you 
 busy for a long time! The music is just the best I've heard in the series so far! Team Galactic 
 music will have your head bobbing! I don't see anything wrong with this game! There are lots of 
 battles and places to explore! Multiplayer battles, and ONLINE GAMEPLAY! This game will be a million 
 seller guranteed this year! I have already played the hell out of this game! I already caught Diaoga 
 and my Turtwig is now a Torterra! Do I recommend this game? OF COURSE!!! It will keep you glued! 
 And it's pretty addictive too! You won't put it down because it's just SO DAMN FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Pokemon is Back!
  
  Nintendo brings back one of its most popular franchises for the Nintendo DS. Its been a long while, 
 but the wait is finally over, and what can i say? this game rocks!
  
  You start out your journey pretty much the same as in the other games. Your a newbie trainer starting 
 out in a small town. You pick your starter (out of 3) and that'll be your first Pokemon. You'll 
 eventually get Pokeballs which will be used to catch more Pokemon. This game once again delivers 
 the Pokemon experience with a grand adventure well worth playing through. It offers a good 20+ 
 hours to beat and even then, you'll probably be enticed to keep playing. Leveling your Pokemon 
 up higher. Catching all the legendaries, and beating what other stuff the game has to offer apart 
 from the main journey.
  
  The biggest feature to this game that will probably excite old time fans the most is the use of 
 WIFI. You are able to go online, and fight other people. And a Global Trade System allows you to 
 trade for any Pokemon, of course depending on the other trainer's request. The coolest thing about 
 this feature, is that it can happen while you're not even playing your DS. It can be off, at home, 
 in your school bag... and when you turn on your DS again. Bam. there it is, you've completed the 
 trade without even knowing.
  
  One disappointment is that to literally fight other trainers, you have to actually have they're 
 friend codes. Because, when you fight other trainers online, you are actually fighting a CPU. The 
 other trainer uploads their team online so other people can fight it, but its a Computer that actually 
 controls them. Which is a disappointment, because a human player can put a far bigger fight than 
 a computer.
  
  Diamond and Pearl is a vast improvement over previous iterations of the Pokemon series. A semi-3D 
 overworld is appealing to the eye and displays a vibrant array of different colors. The Sound, 
 though some remixed, is incredibly well made. While some may scoff (though i see no reason why) , 
 it is far better than any music previous versions have displayed. However, one of the coolest minor 
 bit that i felt was cool, was use of more modern words such as Noob and Owned. It was quite a nice 
 surprised for me.
  
  Overall, this game is really good. Its got a lengthy adventure with good graphics, sound and gameplay 
 to boot. If you enjoy role-playing games, then this game won't disappoint. Unless you truly hate 
 Pokemon with all your hearts content, then there is no reason to avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PPNSteve
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Basic Information
  The fourth generation introduces another 107 new Pokemon, bringing the total of Pokemon available 
 to 493. Diamond and Pearl take place in the region of Sinnoh and the player starts in Twinleaf 
 Town.
  
  Like the previous generations, only certain Pokemon are available in each game requiring both games 
 to capture all the Pokemon. Though, the games WiFi trading system makes it a bit easier and cheaper 
 for those wishing to get a complete Pokedex.
  Below is a list of Pokemon exclusive to each game.
  
  Pokemon Game Exclusive Pokemon Found
 
  Diamond : Seel, Dewgong, Scyther, Murkrow, Scizor, Larvitar, Pupitar, Tyranitar, Poochyena, Mightyena, 
 Aron, Lairon, Aggron, Kecleon, Cranidos, Rampardos, Honchkrow, Stunky, Skuntank, Dialga
  
  Pearl : Slowpoke, Slowbro, Pinsir, Slowking, Misdreavus, Houndour, Houndoom, Stantler, Spheal, 
 Sealeo, Walrein, Bagon, Shelgon, Salamence, Shieldon, Bastiodon, Mismagius, Glameow, Purugly, Palkia
 
  
  The day-night system which first appeared in Pokemon Gold and Silver has once again returned. There 
 are now five time periods: morning, day, evening, night, and late night. Different Pokemon will 
 appear in the wild during these time periods and there are also time specific game events. This 
 brings a new level of depth to the Pokemon games
  
  A new multi-function device called the Poketch, short for Pokemon Watch, is also introduced. The 
 Poketch has 25 functions, including a map of Sinnoh like its counterparts the PokeGear and PokeNav 
 did for Kanto, Johto, and Hoenn. The Poketch has many functions that are not available at the start 
 of the game but can be unlocked throughout the game and a few other functions that must be obtained 
 by showing a certain species of Pokemon to another character. The Poketch mainly appears on the 
 bottom DS touchscreen and it displays a clock while walking around in the main world.
  
  Diamond and Pearl are compatible with the Game Boy Advance Pokemon games Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, 
 FireRed or LeafGreen. The GBA cartridge is inserted into the GBA slot of the Nintendo DS, while 
 Diamond or Pearl is in the DS card slot. In order for the player to transfer their Pokemon to Diamond 
 and Pearl, they must visit an area in Sinnoh called the Pal Park. Pal Park is located on Route 
 221 after you get the National Pokedex and it is the only means of transferring the Pokemon to 
 your game from your past games. Pokemon uploads are restricted to six per day per GBA cartridge 
 and the player will have to re-capture such transferred Pokemon in a Pal Park. The player cannot 
 transfer any of the Pokemon back to the GBA cartridge once they are transferred to their Diamond/Pearl 
 copy. While this is a interesting a unique way of allowing backwards compatibility with older games, 
 it's restrictions may fustrate some gamers.
  
  The DS's native support for Wi-Fi is also used, allowing players to trade, battle and communicate 
 using voice chat online on Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection is a free service 
 for all DS users unlike Xbox Live and other online games. Diamond and Pearl also feature Wi-Fi 
 connectivity to Pokemon Battle Revolution, much as their predecessors connected to the Nintendo 
 64 and GameCube. This allows you to use your DS as a controller in Pokemon Battle Revolution and 
 also transfer your Diamond and Pearl Pokemon to battle online using that game.
  
  Diamond and Pearl feature a global trading system, which allows trainers to search for any Pokemon 
 they want. The global trading system will then go through a multitude of trades with other trainers 
 in order to get the desired Pokemon. This is one of the best new features in Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pearl as it allows Pokemon fans to interact better with people worldwide and find specific Pokemon 
 they are looking for to complete their Pokedex.
  
  Diamond and Pearl also feature connectivity to Pokemon Ranger. By completing a special mission 
 in Ranger, a Manaphy Egg can be sent from Ranger to Diamond or Pearl, where it can be hatched into 
 the legendary Pokemon, Manaphy.
  
  Plot
  At the start of Diamond and Pearl, the player sees a newscast about a sighting of a red Gyarados. 
 They then head to their rival's house and go to Trust Lake with him to try to see it. Once there, 
 a Starly attacks. Nearby is a briefcase containing three Pokemon that the two choose from to fight 
 off the Flying-type. As is always the case, the rival takes the Pokemon that weakens the player's 
 choice. The professor's assistant, who is the alternate-gender player character from the player, 
 takes the remaining starter. After the Starly is defeated, the two return to Twinleaf Town with 
 Professor Rowan's briefcase. Back in Twinleaf Town the player's mother gives him or her running 
 shoes and then the player leaves for Sandgem Town to return the briefcase. After meeting Professor 
 Rowan, he gives the player the Pokemon they chose to keep and a Pokedex.
  
  During the course of the game, there are many conflicts with the evil Team Galactic and their leader, 
 Cyrus. When the power of Dialga or Palkia begins to overwhelm Sinnoh, Uxie, Mesprit and Azelf must 
 be summoned and the player must catch or defeat the Legendary. (Source: BulbaPedia)
  
  Overall the plot of the game is similar to the previous generation of Pokemon games, capture, train 
 and collect all the Pokemon that you can. On your journey you collect badges and battle opponents 
 on your way to becoming the Sinnoh League Champion. The story in Diamond and Pearl does help the 
 overall flow of the game unlike the previous games where the story was sort of tacked on.
  
  Gameplay
  A new battle system is used for Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. In this new battle system, 
 attacks are declared either physical or special by how the attack itself operates. Other then this 
 change, the same basic battle system/design is used just like the previous games. You select your 
 attacks by using the D-Pad or the stylus on the bottom DS screen and the attacks are displayed 
 on the top screen.
  
  GraphicsScreenShot
  One of the biggest criticisms of Diamond and Pearl is the battle graphics. The DS is capible of 
 3d graphics but the developers decided to keep the sprite based battle system instead of going 
 to a completely 3D view like Pokemon Stadium. Many would argue that Pokemon Battle Revolution is 
 the 3D part of Diamond and Pearl, but it would be nice to have Pokemon Stadium like graphics in 
 these DS games. The game-world is in 3D and it only makes sense that the battles should also be 
 in 3D. The sprite based battle system in the handheld games is 10 years old and has only had minor 
 adjustments over that time. It would have been nice to have a fully 3D battle environment for the 
 Fourth Generation of games, knowing that the DS is capable of doing this.
  
  Music
  Hitomi Sato and Jun'ichi Masuda have composed some great music for Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. One 
 of the highlights of Pokemon games is the music and they definitely do not disappoint in this department. 
 It is still limited to computer generated music but the synthesizer for the DS is improved from 
 the GBA. The soundtrack for the games has been out for quite a while in Japan on a 2 CD set and 
 some of the tracks have been fully orchestrated for use in the Diamond and Pearl anime. It would 
 have been nice if they had used orchestrated music in the DS game as well.
  
  Conclusion
  If you have ever been a fan of the Pokemon games, you will absolutely love Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pearl. They are definitely the best games in the series with hours of game play. It would have 
 been nice if Nintendo sent out media kits to Pokemon fansites for review to help promote the games, 
 but as our previous article pointed out, it seems that Nintendo did not do very much marketing 
 for Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. As the pre-order numbers have shown, little marketing of these games 
 still produced big numbers. It would have been nice if they marketed this game to people who have 
 never played Pokemon or think they are too old to play these games. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl is 
 a great game for all ages and many people will be eagerly awaiting the North American debut of 
 Pokemon Battle Revolution for the Nintendo Wii.
  
  (c) 2007 PPN, Sunain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROK3RO
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has more than enough Pokemon to enjoy. I have played lots of other great Pokemon versions 
 such as Gold Version, which was an awesome game... but guess what? This one is actually kinda better! 
 And I got it on the first day it came out... it was my first time to get a game on the first day 
 it came out as far as I can remember right now.
  
  It sells for a fair price and it's really worth buying this solid, well-made Pokemon game for the 
 DS. The characters, gym leaders, and the towns have great value and the difficulty of the game 
 is just right. The graphics improved a lot and the battle quality improved from the prequels dearly.
 
  
  The music is alright, just like the other versions.
  
  I predicted when I was in 2nd grade that a Diamond version of Pokemon would come out in the future, 
 while the other losers denied and thought of some other stupid ideas such as Sparkle Version . 
 Well I showed them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarshStomp
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I love that it brings in all the other games previous ways like how you get your starter in emerald, 
 saphire, and ruby, Now in Diamond and Pearl and your rival isnt the allways the the Girl if your 
 the Boy it is it's own character like in the previous games LG and FR. I have to give this game 
 a 3 thumbs up (if possible) and i like the new looks of the legendary, it makes you want to play 
 the game more to catch them. Pluse, i cant forget this The WIFI was the most briliant idea they 
 can do!!!! now i can battle people from across the world and find new rivals. I think its a huge 
 masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 20 minutes after it came out. Having played most of the previous Pokemon 
 games (and I mean the actual games, not the spin off titles like Pokemon Ranger) I had high hopes 
 that this would be a welcome addition to my DS game collection. I'm happy to say that for the most 
 part I was right. Diamond Version (and I suppose Pearl as well...) satisfied most of the standards 
 I have come to expect from a Pokemon game. The first thing you'll notice is that the graphics are 
 greatly improved over all the past titles. Every city has a distinct feel to it and the water effects 
 and fact it has weather effects in certain places really add to the overall atmosphere of the Sinnoh 
 Region. Speaking of the Sinnoh region, its massive, there are alternate routes, forests, three 
 lakes, even snow covered towns. This helps to reduce the similarity that was commonly found in 
 previous titles. Even the Pokemon's sprites are improved with more color, animations and differences 
 between the male and female versions. Speaking of the Pokemon in the Sinnoh region, there are around 
 100 new species of them. As most people are aware, almost every new Pokemon game has introduced 
 a number of these creatures. But this time around these new (and old) Pokemon have preferences 
 that give them a unique feel. For instance a Piplup (one of the starter Pokemon) may have a lonely 
 nature and like spicy food. This affects what kind of poffins they enjoy (special little bread 
 cakes Pokemon eat) and how they level up. In addition to these little personality quirks, all Pokemon 
 have special powers that can affect as little as the random powering up of a special move to being 
 able to avoid all status ailments. The music in the game is a concern of mine though. I have always 
 felt some of the tunes in Pokemon games are a little on the annoying side and these are no exceptions. 
 Amid all the upsides to this game a few small faults detract form the experience a little bit. 
 For one, the game does a bad job of telling you where to go next. You could spend an hour searching 
 for that hidden cave entrance to go to the next city that you think your suppose to go to. With 
 a larger, more open world you should have better directions than whatyou think your suppose to 
 do. This can lead to a bunch of aimless wandering. This game has many features as well that were 
 pulled form previous Pokemon titles including a day and night schedule that can affect which Pokemon 
 you can catch. There are also Pokemon contests that allow you to dress up your Pokemon and show 
 it off in a contest. Berry farming and a four speed bicycle are some of the other features. This 
 is a great game that really improves on the tried and true Pokemon formula both graphically and 
 otherwise. With the graphics making a shift to the 3rd dimension while still retaining that Pokemon 
 feel and the even deeper battle sequences help round off this excellent Pokemon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaknight36
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  poemon diamond is an amazing installment in the pokemon sieries with over 100 new pokemon to catch 
 and awesome starters! with pokemon diamond you can take your gba pokemon and catch them in the 
 pal park! if anyone enjoyed any pokemon game they will enjoy this one . With wifi you could battle 
 or trade pokemon around the world! Pokemon diamond takes complete control of the touch screen. 
 and is amazingly fun! pokemon diamond brings back the time feature that was cancelled after gold 
 silver crystal. this is the best pokemon game to date! it has much more features than the other 
 games i will be very happy to see the next installment of pokemon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance159753
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  I DONT KNOW ITS UNBELIVABLE. IT AWSOME. (i didnt know wat to saY except its AWSOME  
  THANKS FOR READING.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
 !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! TS AWSOME ITS AWSOME. 
 ALL U POKEMON FANS I GATTA TELL YALL SOMTHIN I THE BIGGEST OF U ALLL. IF U NOT A FAN THEN U A BIG 
 FAT ASSSHOOLLLEEE L. THIS WAT I GATTA SAY TO NONE FANS UN SCAMBLE IT,. RF DUTFX ZTDUZ ZUZUTR ZTU 
 ZUU Z ZUZU ZU
  ZUTUZ UZ JB UTB UG UG HG IOU H YHGVB YHGB UTGV KYV JGB YVJGVBKH YHBVJGVYRFVKUFHCV UJ TVBJG FVJB 
 KLVUTJBVUTGV UGB U 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piratecapn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game has fifty to sixty hours of gameplay, tons of side quests, updated 3D graphix, updated 
 music and sounds, updated battle animations, 493 poket monsters to collect, and online compatibility. 
 Diamond and Pearl brings back the use of daily time, one of the most beloved features omitted from 
 the last round of games. I have been a fan of Pokemon since Red on the original GameBoy. Using 
 all of the DS's features makes Diamond and Pearl the best DS game to date. The touch screen makes 
 navigating through the pokedex easy and fun. This game is a must have for any DS library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorLegs
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Up until now, there hasn't been a DS game that has really stood out like this one. The best pokemon 
 game since Ruby and Sapphire. I think it may just be the best game of the year. Everything about 
 it deserves praise, from the music to the graphics. This release will have you hooked till you 
 beat it! Very addicting. The pace is just perfect. And for once, I didn't get tired of the batle 
 music, as it was so well arranged. I can't say enough about Pokemon Diamond. An astounding achievement 
 in hendheld gameplay. You have to play this one! Bravo Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii_StarFox
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Pokemon has been created in 1996 in Japan. The game was so successful that it soon had cartoon, 
 mangas, toys and even card games. Pokemon was so popular at that time that it seemed as if it ruled 
 the world.
  
  Those who've played a Pokemon game and were amazed about the concept of it will not be disappointed 
 with this game. As usual, you start by getting 1 of the 3 pokemon games and continue your quest 
 to be the best trainer ever and try to catch them all. The graphics had a very nice update and 
 is pokemon user/non hardcore gamer friendly. The background and character movement goes smoothly 
 and uses simple 3D graphics. Don't expect any Final Fantasy III or Metroid Prime DS graphics comparison 
 though. However, most turn-based RPG games uses cool animation to make every battle exciting. Pokemon 
 is no exception and in this game the battle animation goes very well and looks like amazing fireworks 
 (special attack are awsome) .
  
  In terms of gameplay it's still uses the same concept : You're in a party with one to six monster 
 and train with them and get to the Elite Four. So you get the basics of most Pokemon games here. 
 However, there's alot of upgrades that have been added. For one there's a real time daylight clock 
 which uses the information of your DS settings, which add more variety to the game. The real time 
 daylight mechanism shows you that Pokemon won't stay in some field forever. They may change places 
 when it's day or night and you may only find some pokemon in daylight or night time.
  
  Another upgrade would be that the game uses stylus control and the lower screen. Thank's to the 
 lower screen, the game is much more organised and you can't do to much mistake in a battle with 
 the stylus (like killing a pokemon in accident by pressing to fast or pressing run accidently) .
 
  
  The sounds hasn't changed much from the GBA version and it's pretty much the game's biggest let 
 down. The pokemon voices are horrible and seems as if they're dieing, but it doesn't bother me 
 much since the music and jingles are catchy and great to hear.
  
  The biggest upgrade in this game is online play, something most Pokemon fans have been dying to 
 wait. They will not (much) be dissapointed. There's only to flaw I can see with the online games, 
 one you can't battle anyone, you need to enter a friend code to fight anyone. Two the game's Global 
 Trade Station, although it does works, seems as if it could have been worked out a bit. Peoples 
 are asking for very rare pokemon for a level 4 abra or asks for a Dialga for a level 5 chimchar. 
 But I can't blame the designers for that.
  
  But make no mistake, Pokemon Diamond and Peal gets best DS Wi-Fi award. You can use the DS's or 
 the DS headset (around 12.50 bucks canadien, so im guessing around 8-10 USD) to communicate with 
 peoples although it's a bit jaggy it works and that's all that matters. The best thing is the game 
 will last you for a LONG time thank's to online.
  
  All in all, the games refines it's concept and in the end it's probably the best in the series. 
 But im going to leave that to you, the gamers. Now excuse me while il go catch all 493 of em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game can't be explained in words, but I'll try my best. This is the hardest pokemon game yet 
 to complete. More pokemon, harder story, equals alot more fun. The new graphics can't compare to 
 the other pokemon games. More than a hundred new pokemon for you to cacth them all. The ds's capabilities 
 make the game a whole lot funner. Better graphics engine for one, new stuff is possible with the 
 stlyst feature. You can sign your trainer card, play mini-games, and a whole lot more. This may 
 not be the greatest review ever, but... this game, totally rocks. I have only played it ten hours 
 or less cause it just came out.. XD. I reccomend you should defiantly buy this game if you havent 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KorZ
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Yep it's already out and who would tought that this is with brand new options and more stuff to 
 play with. Not just like the other games, in wich you win the poke league and be happy filling 
 the pokedex. This one you can play online (i couldnt play online on emerald...) more interactivelly. 
 (my english rocks xD) .
  
  Well as for my advice, if you like pokemon games, you will love this one. Graphics more soffisticated, 
 sound more pure and gameplay more interactive. If you never liked pokemon games, you can suck on 
 your finger and play fps! =X
  
  And just to enjoy the moment, Thanks nintendo to make this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xa13xa17d312x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the greatest Pokemon games ever to hit, with amazing 3D graphics 
 and tons of Pokemon to see and capture. I couldn't sleep the night before the release since I was 
 so excited. I woke up 2 hours early for it and I was the 12th in line at Gamestop walking home 
 with Pokemon Diamond, a stylus and a Stradegy Guide. I fell in love with Pokemon games ever since 
 Pokemon Silver, it has to be the one of the best RPGs out there. I mean c'mon you get to have your 
 own team of any Pokemon you choose, and you leave off onto a journey just like the Anime. This 
 game is tons of fun and endless hours of gameplay. I have played for 7:31 (7 hrs and 31 minutes) 
 and I barely finished my 2nd gym badge. I have tons more of gameplay ahead of me! Grab yourself 
 a copy NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This RPG was in the making for a long four years, and the graphics in the previous games were plain 
 2D. But in Pokemon Diamond and Pearl, it presents itself as a wonderful, deatiled 3d game with 
 a non condescending attitude. You are in TwinLeaf Town, and your rival (and your friend) comes 
 along the way with you to check out the lake with a Red Garagos (Spelling?) . Then, attacked by 
 Starlys (new bird Pokemon) they must use the suitcase with the Pokemon Professor Rowan has. Then. 
 you eventally keep the Pokemon.
  
  Game Play:
  
  This game keep the Pokemon alive and well when you got 100 new Pokemon, new moves, and over 45 
 hours of game play. The leveling systems with the bosses are different, and brings a extra heap 
 of challenge. With your Pokemon in hand, you must get seven (no, thats not a typo, seven) badges, 
 and defeat both Team Galatic and The Eltie Four. Along with endless subplots, that is. The battling 
 system hasn't changed much, which is actually a good thing. 10/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  WHOA. A 3D world already brings this up to a 10, but the graphics on the Pokemon bring this up 
 even more. 10/10
  
  Sounf/Value/Tilt:
  
  Sound is good, LOTS of replay value, and awesome tilt.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Value: 10/10
 
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Overall: Pokemon Diamond/Pearl is the best game in the Pokemon fanchsie, which depicts amazing 
 3D graphics, divine game play, and a noncondecending attutude. Even for the people who haven't played 
 Pokemon, this is highly recommended.
  
  Overall score: 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to see an old favorite regain a foot hold in the game industry by providing 
 me a sequel for an old addiction I had many years ago. It was Pokemon. What I have always loved 
 is the fact that this game can be played by a 6 year old or an older guy like me and still be thoroughly 
 enjoyed. But it really is not as much fun as it is when it is the same thing as that same game 
 you were addicted to all those years ago.
  
  The game does tart off again as a young man (or girl) who bumps into some pokeballs and goes on 
 a long journey which is greatly embraced by their mothers (where the heck are the dads in these 
 games anyways?) . You go off catch new ones, go through some tutorials as though this is the first 
 time u have played this game and go through a cave then get ur badge by beating a dude who is just 
 a little too similar to Brock. It was at this point I looked at the map and realized I am playing 
 an enhanced graphical version of Pokemon Blue. At this point I closed my DS and realized I have 
 been had. Nintendo took Pokemon blue keeps some old Pokemon and made some new ones and essentially 
 made the same game with the events that happen in the other games. I can not believe that this 
 game is not as original as I had hoped it to be. I have paid 44 bucks Canadian for a copy of Pokemon 
 I already have! Given that there is new Pokemon with the same abilities as the ones in Blue did 
 and the fact that there is some new events and abilities as well as the use of the stylus really 
 does not make this a new game. I am quite dissapointed.
  
  However, despite the disappointment I can't put this game down. Which is weird but a smart business 
 move. All in all it plays well but for those who played red, blue and even yellow will realize 
 this all seems too familiar. Good for new players, same thing as the old one for those that have 
 played the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatchbell101
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Story: You and your friend later on your rival are strolling around then you meet up with Professor 
 Rowan and Dawn. They ingore you. But when they leave Rowna forgets his brief case why wouldn't 
 you look there you find three pokeballs then suddenly you are attacked by a pack of Starly. Then 
 you choose a pokeball and you battle the Starly. When you finish your fight Dawn will return nad 
 be shocked. She brings you to Professer Rowan's lab. After explaing your story Rowan will let you 
 keep the Pokemon you chose. Then he asks you to get records on all the Pokemon in Sinnoh. He gives 
 you a Pokedex and a watch. The watch has a lot of features tell you time, calculator, shows Pokemon's 
 HP, and so on. Then this when your adventure begins. You'll come along Team Galactic face them 
 lots of times. You face your friend {Rival} some times to. You can name the Pokemon you catch with 
 Pokeballs. sometime in the game you come acrros Dialga. and other legendary Pokemon including Lucario, 
 Areus and others. Gameplay: I really love the gameplay. The touchscreen is a little overwhelming 
 at first but you get used to it. You can import other Pokemon from other game but first you have 
 to beat the game. Lots of great stuff to do can take a while to go through all of Sinnoh. And catch 
 all the Pokemon. Bye the way over 100 new Pokemon!! I know shocking. Has some of the old Pokemon 
 to. Graphics: Love them. Look like gameboy graphics but almost everything is in 3-D. I kinda thought 
 they could've done better. Graphics don't really matter to me just the gameplay.
  
  Sound: Great sound. Makes me rember the good old days. Some catchy might want to put headphones 
 on to hear it better. Lots of Remixed versions of the old songs.
  
  Overall: I was on the waiting list since January. I waited a long time. Out of all the Pokemon 
 games this one comes out on top. When Battle Revolution comes out you can import all the Pokemon 
 you have in Diamond into Revolution. If you don't have this game get it will be a wounderful addition 
 to your DS library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkz909
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I like this game soo much and it is pretty cool for pokemon games since there are new pokemon, 
 new moves, new region, new gear, new people, new gym leaders, new everything and wow graphics and 
 gameplay is very good. It is the best game eva Highly Addictive and it is one of those games where 
 the adventure never ends since there are soo many things to do even when u get stuck sumwhere. 
 Wow this game is very good i cant wait till a game comes out like diamond and pearl together and 
 i am going to rub this game in my neighbors face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, well the Game Play flawless in my opinion. The New Soundtrack is fantastic, i think 
 its better than the last music for that game. Battling is made so much easier with the stylus. 
 The pokemon look great and all the things you can do with them is even better. There is just way 
 to much i can say to go to deep into it. But lets talk about the Wifi aspect of the game. Well 
 first off as always the F-Codes are a little Eh at first but once you get in to them there great. 
 The new and greatest addition to the game really is the voice chat, you can talk while chilling 
 in a chat room then you can battle your friend and talk to them as you battle, when you close your 
 DS you can hear people, but it puts you on mute so they cant hear you. And then the battle System 
 is still great. In short, I LOVE THIS GAME. Totally worth the wait as well the Hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermanjaro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so bare with me. Pokemon Diamond and Pearl makes all the previous versions 
 in the series pale in comparison. The graphics are new to the series. No longer a top-down view, 
 Pokemon Diamond and Pearl play at somewhat at an angle. The play mechanics are escentially the 
 same, but it has prettier graphics and uses the touch screen in predictable ways. For example, 
 during battle, the choices such as what moves or items to use are all on the touch screen. The 
 story is what you have come to expect in a Pokemon game. An organization called Team Galaxy is 
 trying to take over the world. Thats all I got since im not very far in the game. 100 new pokemon 
 are introduced in this game. Some examples include Chimchar, a flame wielding monkey, Piplup, a 
 water penguin, and Turtwig, a turtle with a plant growing out of his head.
  
  Well, all in all, this game is ecsentially the same as before with new graphics, but the formula 
 is so good, why change it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklynx13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The pokemon company and gamefreak have released nintendo's pokemon hits RPG series on the Nintendo 
 DS, with Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. It stays true to the original pokemon gameplay, and adds more 
 to please the fans. Weither you've played the game or not, its realy easy to pick up, and now the 
 background is proped up (3-D) although the characters are still the original sprites, still fun 
 though and looks great.
  With more than 100 new pokemon and all the originals it sure is fun to have new pokemon and see 
 those old pokemon you remember from way back when. The battling has improved, looks cleaner and 
 all your options are availabe on the touch screen, much easier, but you can use the buttons if 
 you like, and now you can trade and battle online, really cool. So be sure to go pick this game 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best Pokemon game since the series has started it is so good. They finally 
 came into 3-D and it looks good on the Nintendo DS i highly good acheivment I think. Also the gameplay 
 is fun i have put it down since midnight. Also this gmae is fun for all ages you can be young or 
 old and still injoy the game. The WI-FI in the game is also nicely used I like how you can trade 
 your pokemon with people all over the world. Also you can battle with them two. The best part of 
 the game is that you can play for hours and still have things to do that is why a give this game 
 a 10.0 out of10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak187
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely an excellent game. If you enjoy Pokemon at all, you will enjoy Pokemon Diamond 
 (and Pearl) . My main reason for not giving a higher score, and really the only drawback it has, 
 in my opinion, is some of the flow of the game. Everything seems to be slowed down so much from 
 the previous Pokemon games. At times I found myself bored in battles because it will take 5 seconds 
 for my Turtwig to tackle. The same thing can be said with the experience bar filling up. Another 
 issue I had was with some of the pokemon calls. I mean cmon, some of them are getting kind of ridiculous 
 in both length (Starly) and sound (Bidoof) . Although they can be slightly annoying at times, neither 
 of these are huge drawbacks to make you change your mind about picking the game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lineagemaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  if there is any game you should buy for the nintendo ds... is pokemon diamond and pearl... even if 
 you are not a pokemon fan you should face this game like a good way to show your skills on the 
 wi fi battles... pokemon is more than just a game about catching pokemons... is a game where there 
 is more strategy and quick thinking than most of the people believe... with over 450 pokemons, hundreds 
 of attacks and an impressive number of objects that you can put on your pokemon team... this is 
 an excellent way to spend at lest 40/45 hours of gaming on the story mode and 100 or more hours 
 on the wi fi battles... to make it more interesting pokemon battle revolution (PBR) will allowed 
 you to see your pokemons in 3D and spend some more hours on the wi fi mode... this is only my opinion 
 but this game without seen sounds controls and all that stuff... but seen how much fun this game 
 is. i would say it deserves at least a 9.0 on the final score... there is only one thing will never 
 change about pokemon and that is the fact that you still gotta catch &acute; em all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neji122793
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  best game i used the wifi mode with my cousin in orlando fun and i got the head set so did he and 
 we can talk this is one of the best pokemon games ever made its so much fun . The gym leaders are 
 ok not to hard not to easy it depends. my starter was a piplup its good most people that i know 
 got it. But all together a very fun game. one more thing if anybody wants to battle just tell me 
 and or trade. But like i said the game is very fun one of the best games that is for the ds this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sengfire
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Diamond. That explains it. This is the first Pokemon game for the Nintendo DS and let me 
 say it has a grasp that doesnt give up. The gameplay is perfect, from the great use of the touch 
 screen to just about everything else. The new pokemon are great, especially the starters. Just 
 when you thought Pokemon was going downhill with Sapphire, Diamond brings it back. With new Eevee 
 evos, it brings it home. The 3D/2D mix with graphics makes it even better, this is probably going 
 to be the best made Pokemon game in awhile. The best part is the Poketech, which allows you to 
 check on your daycare pokemon and keeps time. I reccommend this to anyone and everyone. One downfall 
 is the time taken to learn it, it kills alittle bit with the new controls and gameplay, but it 
 is just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VangrantJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically like its predecessors. It starts off with the main character (you) who happens 
 to acquire his first pokemon due to circumstances much like the previous games, and your rival, 
 who also acquires his first pokemon much like you. Although the main objective of the quest is 
 to acquire data on the pokemon of the region Sinnoh, its just basically to get all the gym badges, 
 then fight the elite 4, then the pokemon champ. The differences between this game and the previous 
 ones are that, this game has slightly updated graphics (a little 3d touches on the over towns, 
 cities, etc.) , a cool feature that allows you to see the time, status of your pokemon, calculator, 
 etc., a new wireless way of connecting with your friends/strangers via wife, and a few other goodies. 
 Time is back of course, and it is now sincronized with your DS so that if the game time is reflected 
 on the real world. Also, there are 107 new pokemon specific to this game, and the game has a bigger 
 land mass that the previous games. Aside from the little graphical updates, the new pokemon, wifi, 
 etc; if you are into pokemon and still don't get tired of doing the same quest as before, then 
 by all means, the game is for you. If you are one of those people who feel that you had seen all 
 of what pokemon has to offer, then the game is worth a quick rent. For those who think that pokemon 
 are over rated, then just don't bother because this is basically the same quest over, with new 
 pokemon, characters, region, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the wait ppl and worth $37.00. I just got not to long ago so heres the details 
 its good gameplay 10 this game is awsome I have'nt got to far though but i'll beplayin it until 
 I get like 4 or less bagdes. Ladies and gentlemen get of Gamespot and go play Pokemon Diamond&amp; Pearl. Come 
 on stop reading this go play this! If ur not playin this game now u don't know what ur missing get 
 out thier if u don't got this game and walk in that game store with $37.00 and say can I get Pokemon 
 Diamond or Pearl it was worth the wait I got mine reserved in Janurary I waited so long and now 
 look go out thier and get ur game ppl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocturnalkisses
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is just excellent. First, the game is now in 3-D. This breaks away from the traditional 
 2-D pokemon genre and brings something new to the table. Second, there are MORE legends instead 
 of just the regular two on the front case or the normal three in which the types are fire, thunder, 
 and water/ice. Thirdly, it's like all of the pokemon genres combined into one from pokemon red 
 and blue to ruby/ sapphire/ emerald. This game features all the cycles of the day such as evening 
 noon and night. And best of all, you don't have to catch ALL the pokemon to obtain the national 
 dex. All you need to do is to see the pokemon which makes it ALOT easier. Also there is new evolutions 
 for pokemon that didn't have an evolution form such as magmar, electabuzz, tengela, lickitung, 
 aipom, and others. Evee has TWO new evoultions bringing that little critter to 7 different forms 
 of evoultions.
  For anyone who is and isn't a pokemon fan should pick this game up. It's worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahasad
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Pokemon has come a long way from the good ol' days of Pokemon Red and Blue. With the introduction 
 of the Game boy colour, advance, and now Nintendo DS, pokemon has grown - it has become a part 
 of culture. All I have to say is that, Diamond easily lives up to the hype, name, and is the best 
 DS game yet. I am somewhat of a hardcore gamer - I play games like FEAR, Far Cry, Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter, Unreal Tournament, and my favourite: GTA San Andreas. But, Diamond has really grown 
 on my inner child.
  
  Storyline:
  Typical, but great. I love how you visit many cities, while trying to save the pokemon world. There 
 are many new elements in this game, although the base storyline is similar to others. New enemies, 
 new gym leaders, and new legendaries, make for a great experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  Diamond continues the tradition of the Pokemon RPG - an ambitious trainer sets out in the world 
 of pokemon, to discover, to train, to compete, and to explore. 100 New pokemon have been added 
 to this game, along with cool legendaries and starters. The pokemon have unique animations and 
 gender differences. Nothing much different there, and it keeps the player entertained for a LONG 
 time (&gt;30 hours of gameplay) . The game follows typical pokemon flair, with catching pokemon, 
 the pokedex, fighting, training etc. The formula is great, and it has not been tampered with. New 
 items have been added, such as the Poketch. Everything has been streamlined to be more user friendly. 
 The DS controls feel great, especially when using the stylus New wifi components have been added, 
 and my personal favourite is the GTS (Global Trading System) . No longer will you need the link 
 cables of before, and a friend nearby. Using the WiFi of the DS, you can trade with players all 
 over the world. There are numerous other wifi components. Graphics:
  The graphics are an improvement over previous generations, especially with the 3D environments 
 and pokemon animations. The game is bright, colourful, and quite vibrant - similar to my PSP games. 
 I feel the graphics are great, but they could be improved - the DS has more capabilities that can 
 be used. Sound: Typical sounds from Pokemon games, but I think the DS speakers output it much more 
 clearly. I think it is fairly good, although sometimes I do listen to some other tunes, and turn 
 the sound off
  
  Overall:
  I think that this game, along with a few other DS games (namely Mario Kart, Super Mario Bros, Super 
 Mario 64, Advance Wars DS, and legend of Zelda) are a must have for any loyal DS fan. For a pokemon 
 addict, this game definitely delivers, and overall it is definitely worth playing over... and over... and 
 over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhuntin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  pokemon has gone better things everytime, a new one come out better gameplay then the other one. Pokemon 
 diamond is the best of series no lie, and the graghies better then the others and game freak really 
 gone up since the last year. Game freak is really made them self come up. But pokemon is a really 
 long adventure that have new pokemon everytime, so what, SO WHAT BUT THEM POKEMON GOT BETTER POWERS 
 THEN THE OLD POKEMON. But the background of the fighting mode and the adventure mode is way better 
 then the others and have better thing then the other too. THIS GAME GETS A 8.9 GREAT OVERALL!!!! 
 POKEMON DIAMOND IS THE BEST OF ALL!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfastnin1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is pretty fun as usual. More characters, expandable quests is realy fun and you'll 
 get hooked.
  
  Graphics: Unfortunately, character's graphics havent changed at all, but the building got vamped 
 up 3d which looks really good. But they don't use enough different colors on buildings though.
 
  
  Sound: Its Crap. I found no songs tat were catchy. Last Pokemon sounds were pretty catchy, but 
 not this one. Value: Great value; wifi online play, a lot of new charcters added with addition 
 to the old pokemons. You can play it for at least 60 hrs. Its that good and ever-lastiing.
  
  Ultimately, Pokemon could have much been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  its a good game! only sometimes i see team gelaxy but sometimes i cant find them! but the game 
 is good but the graphics are realy good for an nds!
  only the most things what harped me the map (level) is to big! i cant find some pokemons but somethings 
 are blocked then you must try to go father in the game! but only sometimes its realy bad i have 
 doing around 6 or 9 weeks to get the hm 8 but it is japans or chineese but its diffecult to play 
 that in the langeuage! but the gyms are realy good multiplayer to! only i had delete my pokemon 
 of level 62 : ( because i have rule my pokemon it whas a exdident! because i havent read it good 
 yet! but its a good job for all pokemon games the bestests collections 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenslastfligh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  The different ways to obtain the many pokemon make this game fun and exciting. The wifi battling 
 and trading feature are fun, and the GTS is easy to use. The battle sequences are the same easy 
 process, but the utilization of the touch screen is welcome addition. The many legendaries in the 
 game are a fun challenge to go after. The poketore feature makes finding older pokemon much easier 
 to find. The underground area is fun to go play in when you have some free time, and the many items 
 you can find are always helpful. Best pokemon game yet, Game Freak just keeps improving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_of_Borg
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I imported this game because I couldn't wait to get it, and was I not disappointed. With the ability 
 to get Pokemon from old GBA games, all the Pokemon are attainable in this version. All but the 
 starters and legendaries are also available to catch without having to transfer from a GBA cartage. 
 The game play is great with 92 TMs and 8 HMs, and a grade total of 493 Pokemon in the game. I plan 
 on buying Pearl the day it comes out in English so I can fully enjoy the storyline in it. The one 
 downside to me in the game is that fact that this time, the legendary trio are all physic. And 
 if thats all that wrong with this game, its great! The sound also gets a bit repetitive, but thats 
 a Pokemon game for you. Recommended buy to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnzor99
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is the game us pokemon fans have been waiting for ever since we beat the elite four on red 
 or blue maybe even both even if u havnt really cared for pokemon games in the past you should take 
 a look at this one! It fully uses the touch screen with new tools in the game that you control 
 with it and you use it in battles. Not only did it add new features but it also added a slight 3d 
 view to the game and it shows times of day with more description. This is deffinatly a must have 
 if you own a DS or a really great reason to buy one It is a Perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svennn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  The game starts, al usually, to pick your starter pokemon, i think the water pokemon is the best 
 because you can't catch parukia. Parukia is water/dragon and diaruga is steel/dragon, but parukia 
 also learns a few dragon moves, so i think it's not really fair... well, so much to this piont, 
 but now to the game itself: the graphic is much much better than it ever was. Mostly the scene 
 before catching diaruga/parukia is the first good scene in the game! the music is also very good, 
 i think its better than it was in the gba, but a few are worse, mostly in the gyms, but most is 
 just perfect. What to say to about the gameplay? OF CAUSE THE TOUCH SCREEN!!! it helps many times 
 e. g. the item finder (in the poketch) is always available, you dont need to go through the menu 
 every time you want to look for a hidden item. the function that counts your steps is very helpful 
 for breeding or for the darkai or sheimi glitch (only on the japanese version (HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!!!!!) ) . 
 The touch screen is very helpful in fights, theres just more place on the top screen. as usually, 
 you have to fight the evel team galaxy, thats not as hard as team magmar or aqua. the gyms are 
 harder than in the other games, there are a few gyms with different types that make the whole thing 
 much more fun (and difficult) .
  
  if you think you are a little bit too old for pokemon, you'll have to buy this game, its not as 
 easy and for-children-made-looking ans the older games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharoh-man
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl takes place in Shin'ou, a region based upon the Hokkaido prefecture 
 of Japan, characterized by mountainous and snow covered areas and three lakes. Each lake is home 
 to a part of a legendary trio of Pok&eacute; mon; Yuxie is found at Wisdom Lake, Agnom at Aspiration 
 Lake and Emurit at Trust Lake.
  
  The games contains 107 new Pok&eacute; mon and chronicles the adventures of a new Pok&eacute; mon 
 trainer who vies to become the Pok&eacute; mon League Champion, collecting and training various 
 species of Pok&eacute; mon along the way. As in most games in the series, Diamond and Pearl feature 
 eight Pok&eacute; mon gyms led by Gym Leaders, professional trainers whose expertise lies in a particular 
 Pok&eacute; mon type. Gym Leaders serve as bosses and reward skilled trainers with badges of merit, 
 key to the advancement of the plot. The protagonist must simultaneously thwart the agenda of the 
 criminal organization Team Galaxy.
  
  Diamond and Pearl begin in Futaba Town. After viewing a television report about disturbances at 
 a distant lake by a red Gyarados, which could very well be the same Gyarados that appeared in Pok&eacute; mon 
 Gold and Silver at the Lake of Rage, the protagonist and his/her rival travel together to investigate 
 the local lake. They spot Professor Nanakamodo, an expert in Pok&eacute; mon evolution, and the 
 protagonist's second rival, who is the opposite gender of that selected. After a short discussion 
 the pair exits from the lake, leaving a briefcase behind. The protagonist and his or her rival 
 examines the case when they are attacked by Mukkuru. The player is then given a choice between 
 three Pok&eacute; mon found in the briefcase, Naetle, Hikozaru or Pochama. After defeating the Mukkuru, 
 they return the briefcase to Nanakamodo. Noticing that a bond has been forged between the young 
 protagonist and his/her chosen Pok&eacute; mon, Nanakamodo offers it to him/her, asking that he 
 embark on a journey and fill his/her Pok&eacute; dex.
  
  As the plot continues, Team Galaxy's motives are made clear. Executives of the organization are 
 named after planets in our solar system, such as Mars and Saturn. Team Galaxy captures Yuxie, Agnom 
 and Emurit, of Shin'ou's three lakes, and imprisons them, making it the player's responsibility 
 to free them. Upon releasing the trio, one is able to travel to the sacred shrine atop Tengan Mountain 
 and enter the cave, where the leader of Team Galaxy awakens either Dialga, in Diamond, or Palkia, 
 in Pearl. Dialga and Palkia's powers begin to overwhelm Shin'ou, causing the newly free Yuxie, 
 Agnom and Emurit to attempt to stop them. It is then that the player is able to engage in a battle 
 with either of the legendary Pok&eacute; mon
  
  Within a species, Pok&eacute; mon feature slight aesthetic differences depending on gender, including 
 aspects such as differently sized or absent distinctive physical features. For example, a female 
 Wooper has smaller antennae than its male counterpart and a male Scizor a smaller torso than a 
 female. [1] New abilities, such as Belligerence and Natural , were added. Infantile Pok&eacute; mon 
 in Diamond and Pearl, such as Roselia's pre-evolution Subomi, can be found in the wild, whereas 
 in previous generations attaining one was made more difficult through the process of breeding. 
 Baby Pok&eacute; mon also hatch from their eggs at a lower level than in previous games. A crown 
 is placed on Pachirisu in the Visual Judgement round. Pok&eacute; mon Contests, events where one's 
 Pok&eacute; mon compete in a dog show of sorts to win ribbons, return from Pok&eacute; mon Ruby and 
 Sapphire as Super Contests , with a few similarities and differences. Super Contests consist of 
 three rounds. In the Visual Judgement round, players utilize the Nintendo DS's stylus to place 
 accessories and objects on their Pok&eacute; mon to appeal to a particular genre, such as Cool or 
 Cute , and earn points. In the Dance Judgement round, one's Pok&eacute; mon competes with its opponents 
 in a test of rhythm and balance. The final round, Performance Judgement, is identical in premise 
 to the original; Pok&eacute; mon use their techniques strategically to appeal to the judges and 
 crowd. Assuming the same role as Pok&eacute; blocks, Pok&eacute; bread can be made through use of 
 the touchscreen and fed to Pok&eacute; mon in order to increase certain traits and the likelihood 
 of success in a Contest. [2]
  
  First introduced in Pok&eacute; mon Gold and Silver, Pok&eacute; mon Diamond and Pearl feature time, 
 which is reflected in a number of facets, such as the overworld, in the availability of certain 
 species of Pok&eacute; mon depending on the time of day, and even the lighting during battles. The 
 scale of the day and night cycle has grown substantially, featuring five different time periods: 
 morning, day, afternoon, evening and night. [3]
  
  A new device called the Pok&eacute; tchi, resembling a **** can be obtained and plays host to a 
 variety of features, including a time management system, a calculator, a method for monitoring 
 Pok&eacute; mon in the breeding center, a type chart, a radar, a map, an itemfinder, a counter, 
 a wireless link up seach, and drawing pad. [4]
  
  Below Shin'ou is an underground world, used for multiplayer gaming. Players can create and decorate 
 secret bases , like they could in Pok&eacute; mon Ruby and Sapphire, and participate in minigames, 
 one of which will allow the player to unearth fossilized Pok&eacute; mon. Initially, only one fossil 
 can be found in each game; the footprint fossil (new Pok&eacute; mon Zugaidosu) in Diamond, and 
 the Shield Fossil (Tatetopusu) in Pearl. However, after unlocking the National Dex it is also possible 
 to find the Dome Fossil (Kabuto) , the Root Fossil (Lileep) , Helix Fossil (Omanyte) , or the Claw 
 Fossil (Anorith) in either version. [5]
  
  The biggest addition to the series is the ability to go online via Wi-Fi and not only do battle 
 against other trainers, but trade and collect Pok&eacute; mon on a world-wide scale. There are several 
 centers in each city that serve different purposes. One center allows the player to enter battles 
 against other players, and join the Pok&eacute; mon Union, a chat room of sorts where players may 
 chat with people on their friends list. Another new feature is the GTS, or Global Trade Station. 
 By entering the GTS forum, the player can search for a Pok&eacute; mon and offer a trade. The trade 
 does not have to be instant and can be left for other players to browse.
  
  The developers have also added 42 new TMs, boosting the total amount to 92 (the Advance Generation 
 games' fifty TMs are making a return) . This marks the first time an entire 50-TM set has been left 
 intact between generations. 2 of the HMs have also been changed, a former one of which has been 
 downgrade
  
  Diamond and Pearl are compatible with the Game Boy Advance Pok&eacute; mon RPGs after earning the 
 National Dex. The Pok&eacute; mon Game Boy Advance cartridge is inserted into the GBA slot of the 
 Nintendo DS, while the Diamond/Pearl copy is in to upload Pok&eacute; mon. When you upload them, 
 you go to an area called Pal Park and must capture them in the wild. Pok&eacute; mon uploads are 
 restricted to six per day per GBA cartridge, and the player will have to re-capture such transferred 
 Pok&eacute; mon in Pal Park before transfering from another GBA game. Also, you cannot transfer 
 Pok&eacute; mon from an English GBA game to a Japanese DS game. [6] The player cannot transfer any 
 of the Pok&eacute; mon back to the GBA cartridge once they are transferred to their Diamond/Pearl 
 copy, as the transfer is permanent. The DS's native support for Wi-Fi is employed, allowing players 
 to trade, battle and communicate through voice chat online. [7] Diamond and Pearl feature Wi-Fi 
 connectivity to the upcoming Wii Pok&eacute; mon title Pok&eacute; mon Battle Revolution. [8] Diamond 
 and Pearl feature a global trading system, which allows trainers to search for any Pok&eacute; mon 
 they want, the resulting list showing all the people that are willing to trade that Pok&eacute; mon, 
 as well as the Pok&eacute; mon they want in return for it. [9] [10] Diamond and Pearl are heavy on 
 version exclusives, Diamond has 20, as does Pearl. Every Pok&eacute; mon is catchable without using 
 Pal Park (except for legendary pok&eacute; mon, Starter pok&eacute; mon and said starter pok&eacute; mon's 
 evolutions) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricky23i
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the best pokemon game out and has wifi! Its the best game out for the ds and think will 
 be for a long time. i say get it on ebay or some other website cause it isn't coming out til march 
 in the US. i give it a 10 of 10. I say you should buy this game and not wait. Pokemon Diamond is 
 a better game than Pokemon pearl. So go and buy it its th best game out!!!!! hurry they said to 
 be sold out in japn so maybe only ebay has them i got my there. What ever you pay is the game is 
 worth!! I think it is the best game out beats all the other gamesystems games. intendo and Pokemon 
 came out with a great game the best Pokemon game ever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordofbagend
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  THE Pokemon game iv been waiting for soo long so much has changed since blue yet it remains the 
 ultimate hand held game slightly ruined by poo spin offs and game cube games being made but they 
 are forgiven as they have now seen the light and given us this masterpeice it makes ronaldinho 
 seem like a warrington fc player and Lamborghini gallardo a saturn sky its tht good! i cant wait 
 any 
  my ds has been longing for me to play it for a while noe since trauma center but now iv got a sreason 
 to get fully addicted to playing on it,! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hummer433
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I have bought the japenese version of this game. i cant read japanese.... but the wi-fi features 
 are the best wi-fi features yet. My favorite part is talking to the trainers when battling them. 
 I havent met anyone that speaks english but its still great. another great part is the new pokemon 
 over half the pokemon are new and a bigger world than any other. without the wi-fi the game is 
 still good but doesnt compare to with wi-fi. you can trade real people, battle real people, talk 
 to real people. the game is just something i will be playing for months maybe a year or 2! I give 
 this game 10 because it is the best ds game ever made in its class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The new games of pokemon are finally out, but are they realy that good? the answer is...
  Hell yes!
  The storyline is really good, just like previous games.
  The pokemon never looked 
 better, they are all so cool and colorful now.
  The music is charming, fells a FF games.
  The gameplay remains the same, kind of. The battles are still turn based, and u cant still Fight, 
 Run, Item and Poke. altho, you choose all of these with ur own finger/stylus! yes, the gameplay 
 just became abit more fun and realistic with the touch screen!
  And now comes the big part, the WI-fi!
  Yes people, Pokemon world and Wi-Fi has come together, 
 and now you cna battle and trade pokemon with your friends around the globe! Also, there is the 
 underground, where yuo play Capture the Flag with ur enemy online, and can win special items and 
 even pokemon!
  With many new attacks and many new pokemon, this game will keep you on and on and on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukehu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game! QUITE a few changes from  First of all, the GRAPHIC!!! 
 The whole thing is 3D!!! (otherwise the graphics is kinda like ruby/sapphire.. of course a bit better.. since 
 it's on DS) There are new music! also some old ones remixed!! Music is nice to hear.. of course, 
 like the older versions, they repeat (i'm sure everyone knows this lol) There are NEW MAPS! NEW 
 GYMLEADERS! NEW POKEMON!!!!! Of course some old Pokemon in there too... but... some old pokemon that 
 originally do not evolve can now evolve! for example, roselia has a preevolved form AND an evolved 
 form!! Murkrow has an evolved form!! and a LOT MORE! Also the bike u get is dual-function! O right... and 
 new villain and new rival! However, the change that I LIKE THE MOST IS...... that.. well this might 
 take a while to explain... but I'm sure u pokemon fans can easily understand! You know how types 
 (and thus attack types) are categorized into Physical and Special? (for example, Fire is a special 
 atk, and Fighting is a physical atk) In all the older versions, special/physical attacks are COMPLETELY 
 according to which TYPE!!!! BUTTTT , in diamond and Pearl, this CHANGED! Now the attacks are categorized 
 into Physical , Special and Other INDEPENDENT OF TYPES!!!!!!! It depends on the NATURE of attack!!! 
 For example, BITE is a dark attack, thus u may assume it's a special attack, but, as u know BITE 
 is quite physical! therefore, Bite / crunch in diamond/pearl is a PHYSICAL attack (still Dark type 
 attacks) ! Therefore, a Pokemon's ATTACK stats determine the strength of this DARK attack, not SPECIAL 
 ATTACK stat! (same goes for defense / sp. def) ! Another example is the Electric attack, SPARK, 
 was normally a special attack 'cause it's electric, but in diamond/pearl they change it to physical 
 (Since in cartoon spark = turn whole body into electric and tackle opponent... quite physical) .... therefore, 
 Spark, still an electric attack, is actually a PHYSICAL electric attack! (atks like thunder shock 
 / thunder bolt are still special attack ofcourse) . And... Hyperbeam, a very strong normal attack 
 is now a SPECIAL attack! as u know, hyperbeam is a beam of... something... not really physical.. so 
 in diamond/pearl they change this into a SPECIAL...... (also, Shadow Ball is now a special move.. so 
 the side effect of shadow ball (lower sp. def) can actually come to use!) atks like growl, leer... 
 are part of Others group.
  
  In short, attacks are categorized by their NATURE, not on their type! So, if U have a Dark Type 
 Pokemon which u discover it is more specialized in ATTACK rather than special attack, u shouldn't 
 be sad, instead , should be HAPPY, since strongest dark type attack, crunch, depends on the ATTACK 
 stat! Anyways, a VERY good game to try out! I know English Version isn't out yet, but for anyone 
 who's played a lotta pokemon before, Japanese pokmeon shouldn't be THAT much of a problem. (still 
 worth playing.. just dunno names...) It'll take MONTHS before English version comes out.... too late..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lite_ds
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Well first of all this game has amazing graphics. Indoor the graphics are 2D like the GBA pokemon 
 games but when you go out door its all 3D. The battles are almost the same as the GBA but you use 
 the stylus to fight, change pokemon, use items and run away. The region is very very big. From 
 what I see there are two dead ends on the map.
  
  You start off in a new place ( of course ) . I dont know the name since its in Jap. Then you go 
 north from your town to find that old man thats in every game. He doesn't get attcked but he forgets 
 his suit case. You go up to it and then pokemon attack you. Then thats when you pick your starter 
 pokemon. So thats where you start.
  
  This game is very good. Make sure you pick this game up when it comes in english. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
