-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Ranger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonrangers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique capturing system requires quick, careful use of the DS touch screen.
 Good-sized quest will keep you busy for days.
 Attractive 2D graphics and animation bring the Pokmon to life.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Exploration sequences are basic and mostly pretty bland.
 So much rapid scribbling is required that you might scratch your screen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,213 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: HAL Labs
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 30, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pokmon Ranger has a similar look and feel to all the other lighthearted Pokmon games, but invites 
 you to capture all those critters in a rather exciting new way. 

  You'll really get to put the Nintendo DS touch screen to good use in Pokmon Ranger, a spin-off 
 of the popular series that requires a very hands-on approach to capture all those hundreds of different 
 pocket monsters. Though the game retains some of the same role-playing elements as the traditional 
 Pokmon titles, rather than facing off against the critters in turn-based battles, you'll instead 
 have to ensnare them by drawing circles around them as they skitter about the screen. This turns 
 out to be more interesting and challenging than it initially appears. Pokmon Ranger's unique touch-screen 
 controls, good-sized quest, and bright, colorful 2D graphics add up to a solid game.  

          Capturing Pokmon in this game feels kind of like having to hog-tie 'em, what with all 
 the looping.     

  In the game, you play as a boy or girl who dreams of becoming a Pokmon ranger and is lucky enough 
 to get recruited into the ranks of a noble organization devoted to preserving the peaceful harmony 
 between people and Pokmon. As a new recruit, you're given a "styler," a device that may be used 
 to pacify agitated Pokmon and temporarily recruit the critters to your cause. Initially, you'll 
 undertake a series of menial missions as you learn the ropes. But all the while, you'll be hearing 
 about the no-good Go-Rock Squad, a rival organization looking to exploit the powers of the Pokmon 
 using devices similar to the rangers' own stylers. Sure enough, you'll get caught up in the rangers' 
 efforts to get rid of these self-satisfied villains. Pokmon Ranger is mostly linear as you move 
 from one major mission to the next, though as in just about any Pokmon game, there's more to do 
 and more Pokmon to find even after you've finished the main quest. The lighthearted story has 
 a few amusing bits in it, but it's fairly predictable for the series.  

  As you accomplish missions and rise in rank among the rangers, you'll grow more powerful, allowing 
 you to run around with a bigger posse of Pokmon followers and use their special abilities more 
 frequently. The game's combat -- if you can even call it that -- is pretty unusual. When you run into 
 an untamed Pokmon out in the field, a capturing minigame ensues as the Pokmon starts running 
 around onscreen. At this point, you can draw on the DS touch screen, and each time you form an 
 uninterrupted circle around the Pokmon, you come closer to capturing and taming it. Some Pokmon 
 can be captured with just a couple of loops, while other, stronger ones will require more than 
 a dozen. Sometimes you'll face several Pokmon at once. This can be such an intense endeavor that 
 you may find yourself scribbling the heck out of the DS touch screen, possibly scratching it in 
 the process. It's nothing that can't be avoided if you don't press down too hard, but there aren't 
 many DS games out there that require such extensive and continuous use of the touch screen.  

 
  As you attempt a capture, the Pokmon will often try to attack or bump into the capture line. 
 If this happens, the line breaks and the capture attempt fails, forcing you to try again. Since 
 the capture line vanishes each time you complete a loop, the strategy becomes having to quickly 
 draw loops around a Pokmon when it isn't attacking, which is easier said than done against some 
 of the bigger, tougher breeds. Their attacks against the capture line deplete your energy, and 
 should the styler run out of energy, it's game over. Your energy reserves increase as you level 
 up by capturing more and more Pokmon, just like your health points do in a typical role-playing 
 game. And, just like a typical role-playing game, Pokmon Ranger starts off easy but the challenge 
 noticeably ramps up. Initially the capture process is almost mindlessly simple, as you can quickly 
 swirl around most Pokmon types to capture them in seconds. But some of the captures further on 
 in the story will require patience and skill.  

  This is one of those games that are deceptively easy at first. Thanks to the variety of Pokmon 
 (it's not the most of any Pokmon game, but there are around 200 different breeds) , the capture 
 process stays interesting. The same can't necessarily be said of the field-exploration sequences, 
 most of which boil down to some pretty basic dungeon crawls with a whole bunch of thinly veiled 
 key hunts in them. You'll often need to capture a certain type of Pokmon to proceed further into 
 an area. Some Pokmon can cut through gates or wire fences, others can crush rocks, others can 
 swing you across ravines, and so on, but all of this boils down to you getting some sort of obstacle 
 out of your way. The level design of the different mission areas isn't bad, but isn't particularly 
 imaginative, either. In between the game's equivalent of dungeon crawls, you'll get to explore 
 a few towns and may undertake some optional capture challenges, which entice you to capture as 
 many wild Pokmon as possible in a few minutes' time.  

          You can play the entire game using just the touch screen, but it's easier to run around 
 and explore using the D pad.     

  Though you'll travel with a partner character at times, Pokmon Ranger is a single-player game 
 that gets most of its lasting value from offering up a reasonably lengthy quest that spans 15 hours 
 or so. Beyond that, some extra missions and the underlying goal of finding every last Pokmon could 
 keep you going for a while longer. All throughout, Pokmon Ranger features a bright, attractive 
 visual style that does a fine job of bringing all the different Pokmon critters to life. There 
 aren't any 3D graphics here, but the 2D characters are nicely drawn and animated, and the Pokmon 
 themselves are shown to scale, which means that a massive charizard appears much bigger onscreen 
 than a tiny pikachu. Since the traditional Pokmon games use static images for all of the creatures, 
 it's great to see them actually moving this time around, using their various special abilities 
 to breathe fire, spout electricity, spew poison gas, and much more. The creatures all have a unique 
 call, but these unimpressive sound effects seem lifted straight from the Game Boy era. The rest 
 of the audio is pretty standard, including the upbeat music that sets the tone and pace of the 
 game.  

  Pokmon Ranger is more than a one-trick pony, because the process of capturing different Pokmon 
 has some variety and strategy to it. This still isn't as deep or involving of a role-playing experience 
 as some of the other Pokmon games, though, because you don't get to level up the different Pokmon 
 directly. In fact, you don't even get the sense that you're keeping all of the Pokmon you're capturing, 
 as you promptly let them back into the wild once you use one of their special abilities. This means 
 Pokmon Ranger doesn't give you that same sense that you're building up a huge collection of creatures, 
 even though you still log the data for each breed you successfully capture. And at any rate, the 
 whole theme of the game is different; you're cast as more of a nature-loving peacekeeper, as opposed 
 to an animal trainer. But the result is another original Pokmon game with plenty of challenge, 
 a unique spin, and an underlying "be good to the environment" message that both kids and grown-ups 
 should be able to appreciate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: u_gt_skilled
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This... is the most frustrating game I have ever played. It is NOT fun, it's far too hard (for me 
 at least) , and I personally do not want to waste my time drawing circles!
  
  Capturing the pokemon is the most annoying thing ever. And the worst thing is the reward. You DON'T 
 get to keep them! The animation is kinda cute, sure, and I like how they follow you, but it's just 
 not worth it. I play games for fun, and that's what this game completely lacks. 
  
  If you complete the game, you are able to do a excruciatingly hard quest and at the end you get 
 a manaphy egg that you can trade into D/P and will hatch. You can also breed it to get phione, 
 but I don't see myself completing ranger anytime soon. If you do, congratulations! 
  
  I feel like my touch screen has gathered so many scratches from this game, circles are permanently 
 there. And that's why you should probably get a screen protector if you value your ds's condition. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  In this game you pick between a boy or a girl. It deosn't matter which character you pick cause 
 they both have the same story and you catch the same pokemon with either character. The game has 
 pokemon from the first through the third generation of pokemon. The enemies in this game is a group 
 of scientist making pokemon mad and with the power of your stylus you don't make them upset anymore. 
 When you capture a pokemon with your stylus you can't keep them unless your partner but your partner 
 is Minun and you can't have a different pokemon as a partner. The places in this game that you 
 explore are really nice places to be at. 
  
  The good of the game is that capturing the pokemon with your stylus is fun and a great challenge. 
 There are alot of pokemon that you can catch.
  
  The bad of the game is that you don't get to keep the pokemon when you capture them. If you push 
 down on the stylus really hardly on your DS it could scratch the DS screen.
  
  Overall this game is a really fun game to play. I rate this game 6.5 outta 10. And I think you 
 should get this game when you see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Pokmon games - proper Pokmon games - are all about battling and collecting as many Pokmon as 
 you can. They're role-playing collect 'em ups, basically, and when Pokmon games don't stick rigidly 
 to that formula there's a worry that they won't be as good as the 'real' outings. Last year's Pokmon 
 Mystery Dungeon was disappointing, but Pokmon Ranger is here to restore our faith in Pokmon spin-offs.
 
  
  Pokmon Ranger is similar to Pokmon Mystery Dungeon in that your aim is not to collect Pokmon 
 but to help the people and creatures you meet. You're a Ranger and you wander around meeting characters 
 who give you missions - anything from escorting a VIP from one town to another to delivering an 
 item or rescuing a lost Pokmon. Whatever the job, it always involves battling Pokmon, and that's 
 where Ranger is different. 
  
  
  Instead of using Pok Balls you catch Pokmon using a Capture Styler and a Capture Disc (basically, 
 you draw circles around the Pokmon on the touch screen) . If the Pokmon touches or attacks the 
 lines you draw, the circles disappear and you lose health, so the stronger the Pokmon the more 
 circles you have to draw. 
  
  Later, when you meet tougher Pokmon, you have to enlist the help of monsters you've already captured 
 to trap the Pokmon you're battling. (Once you catch a Pokmon it follows you but only until you 
 either use its unique ability to catch another Pokmon or overcome an obstacle, or you set it free.) 
 These Pokmon have assist moves - one might let you blow bubbles with which to trap Pokmon, or 
 another might stun your target. 
  
  Pok Puzzle
  Pokmon Ranger exploits the unique abilities of the Pokmon in some simple but cool puzzles. If 
 there's a log in your path, snag a Fire type Pokmon and burn it away; if a villager says some 
 trees have caught fire, you'll need a Water Pokmon to help. It's up to you to figure out which 
 Pokmon you need, although that's never too tough and the required monster is always nearby. 
 
  
  This does mean Pokmon Ranger is rather easy and seasoned fans will breeze through without a problem. 
 Also annoying are the lengthy, text-driven cut scenes that have you reading for minutes at a time. 
 This will test your patience, particularly in the early tutorial stages when characters babble 
 on for ages.
  
  But that doesn't stop this being an enjoyable game. It retains the look and feel of the main Pokmon 
 series, and feels like a proper Pokmon game. Its alternative take on catching Pokmon works well 
 and the mission-led gameplay makes for a fun quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is a new game based around the Pokemon universe. Instead of playing as a Pokemon 
 trainer, this time around you play as a Pokemon ranger. A Pokemon ranger's job is to help protect 
 pokemon. They don't collect them like trainers do, but they can use their abilities to over come 
 obstacles. This already may sound like an interesting game and it is. If you're a Pokemon fan, 
 it is. This game is dedicated in doing two things. Pleasing the Pokemon fanatics and keeping everybody 
 happy until the next big game like the Mystery Dungeons series comes out. In no way, shape , or 
 form, is this anywhere near as good a game as Pokemon Diamond and Pearl and even the Mystery Dungeon 
 games. I mean, it's a good concept, but it lacks any originality in the game play. The missions 
 at first are fun, but after a while, you start to see a repeat in objectives and then it just gets 
 boring. You do the same thing each time in order to complete your objective and then when you do 
 finish, you have to do it all over again. It's just not worth it. The visuals are okay and the 
 music is the typical Pokemon themes. I recommend this game to all die hard fans of Pokemon and 
 even to kids ages 5 to 9. If, you're like me and you hate repetitive game play, then this is not 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKnight50
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why i bought this game, the only thing i thught was: "im going to need this game 
 in the future", (and apparently i did) . I was in gamestop one day when i asked to return the game. 
 then the cashier told me "i would keep that if i were you". reason, turns out, you can get a manphy 
 in rangers and put it in pearl/diamond.
  
  But time to get on topic. This game is pointless. I beat it in 3-4hrs. you just make circles around 
 pokemon? sounds boring.
  I can only imagine what the next one will contain....
  
  The only thing i like about it is the music. It had a catchy toon to it that made me keep playing.
 
  
  If your like me and you like good rpg games like dwm, pokemon, ect. then dont get this game. once 
 you beat it your just going to ask yourself: "did i just waste 3hrs playing a game?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  A very good game, but some flaws.
  Story: The story is very good and a welcome departure from the usual formula, but just a bit short. 
 The story starts with you writing a letter to the chief Pokemon Ranger of your town. You get to 
 join the ranks of the Pokemon Rangers. You start out with just recapturing someone's lost pokemon. 
 The story moves on, with you defeating an evil team trying to take over your region. 9/10
  Setting: The region that you are in is a bit small with only 4 towns, but lots of other deserts 
 and forests along the way. I would've liked a bigger region, but this is fine.7/10
  Gameplay: This is the first pokemon game is full 3D, in and out of battles, and it really helps. 
 There is a new way of capturing pokemon that works quite well. My only problem with this is that 
 some of the pokemon's powers are near useless on the battlefield, but this does not impact gameplay 
 much. 9/10
  Characters: The characters are great, but you don't get much chance to know them in the 10 chapters.
 
  Overall: This is a great game with very few flaws. If the story was only a bit longer and the 
 region was a bit bigger. If you have Diamond of Pearl, you should get this game for Manaphy and 
 Phione. It may seem pricey for 2 pokemon, but the adventure is well worth it.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terminaptor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on the commercial adds, you could tell I was pretty excited for it's 
 arrival. Of course, that's what most Pokemon fans were thinking - that this was going to be an 
 awesome game to have. It is... It just doesn't seem to sum up as a part of the Pokemon franchise.
 
  
  The game is pretty fun in general, but fans who thought this was going to be like the previous 
 games might end up being disappointed. I have to admit, that I was one of those people. No, you 
 don't exactly 'catch' the Pokemon and get to keep it. Once you capture a Pokemon with your styler, 
 it'll only follow you around until another event shows up, or you use it to aid you for a different 
 capture. The only Pokemon that will follow you 100% of the time are Minun or Plusle. (Male for 
 Minun, and Female for Plusle) 
  
  The basic ambition of the game is to help Pokemon, particular people, and nature. There's a huge 
 difference between being a Trainer and a Ranger, in case you might ask. In order to capture a Pokemon, 
 you must circle around it with your styler a certain amount of times, without the 'capture line' 
 to be broken by an attack. 
  
  Of course I won't tell any spoilers for the game, so I'm merely summing up the gameplay at the 
 moment. 
  
  Gameplay: 5.8/10 Definitely not as deep as other Pokemon games, but it still has its moments. 
 
  
  Sound: 7/10 One of the best parts of the game, in my opinion. Some parts, such as the main menu 
 - have flawless music. It doesn't seem to focus on Mono mode, but more of the 'Surround' or Stereo. 
 
  
  Control: 7/10 While some other players may complain about the controls, I actually don't find it 
 to be all that bad. However, there are still times when you're capturing a Pokemon that the line 
 may not respond as fast as your hands do. Also - your fingers and wrist may hurt after a few hours 
 playing this game. Merely a heads up for any of you that are considering to buy Pokemon Ranger. 
 
  
  Graphics: 5.6/10 Of course, the game still follows its basic and uncomplicated sprite style. The 
 visuals in the game is simple 2D. Nothing really 'wow' in here. 
  
  Lasting Gameplay: 5.9/10 After finishing the story mode and bonus missions, you won't find this 
 game as exciting anymore. The lasting gameplay is around one week or two. After capturing a few 
 more Pokemon, you might end up putting the game aside. 
  
  I didn't enjoy Pokemon Ranger as much as the classic versions (Pokemon Crystal, Diamond, and such) , 
 but don't let me stand in your way if you want this game. But as I said before - if you're expecting 
 a normal, battling Pokemon game, you might be better off buying something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemon276
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I believe that the makers did a very good job on this game and should be credited for a great game 
 for ds. It is challenging to a certain point and it makes you think about how to capture the pokemon. Although 
 different than many other pokemon game as too say you can't keep the pokemon you capture and the 
 pokemon don't have levles. I think it is nice to have a change and to not have just another verion 
 of traditional pokemon games for game boy consols. I think that many kids will have alot of fun 
 with this game because it is a little out of the ordinary and is different then the usual. Its got 
 great graphics for a ds game and is cool because you can levle up you character instead of your 
 pokemon this makes a good game even better. I am curious to know other peoples opinions on the 
 game are and wat they thought of the bonus ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  this i quite a fun game but could have been alot better by letting you choose your partner at the 
 begginging rather then have minun or plusle the story also is a bit boring and you can who the 
 bad guy is way by you have to fight him and you can tell this game has had a lot of thought put 
 into it like different pokemon need different amount of circles drawn round round them
  which makes it iteresting but the game is a bit too easy and the grapichs arent that good either
 
  it has some quite catchy songs tho which mkae the game feel a bit better but you kinda do the 
 ame jobs wherever you go like saving someones pokemon and it has a very linear style gamplay not 
 even letting you go anywhere it doesnt want you to which is very dissapointing and could have been 
 improved
  
  but for the first ten hours of repetitve gamplay isnt so bad just dont expect to play complete 
 it more then once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmaxholly
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The game was awseome because it had capturing in a new way. your pokemon may not stay with you but 
 they are very helpful until 7th mission where you cant use any helpers but you can use them everywhere 
 else. the game is very interesting. because of the 100 word gi=uidline in in in in in in in in in 
 in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in in a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a an a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa a a a a a a a aaaa a a a a a a a a a a aaa a a a a a aa a a aa an a a a a a a aaaa aaaa 
 aaaa a a a amaaaa aaaaama a aaaaaaaa bought the game 3 days ago a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a aa aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aaa aa a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyboy1350
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is a unique pokemon game that is very different from the usual story that we all 
 know and love.
  
  When i bought PR I had doubts that it was going to be another crappy spin off pokemon game *cough* 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon *cough* (IMO) . However, after playing a few of the missions, i found out 
 its not a crappy spin off but more a new pokemon experience all together, in a good way ;D.
  
  Gameplay; Mostly all the missions so far end with someone getting there problem fixed to another 
 disaster happening, but still is quite engaging. The other half of the time is spent capturing 
 pokemon ( with the stylus or i prefer to use my finger to not damage the screen ;] ) which are 
 needed to defend against the villians or to break gates, break down old trees etc. This may sound 
 bland but the challenge is trying to capture a fully evolved pokemon rather than the small pokemon 
 at the beginning.
  
  Graphics; Bright, colourful 2D graphics that suit the game perfectly.
  
  Sound; Some people 
 complain about the recycled pokemon grunts and noises, but for me, they make the game feel at home 
 with the pokemon franchise. And the usual town themes and cave tunes are upbeat and fit in great.
 
  
  Overall; I bought this game for 17.98 pre-owned, bargain or what ?! And to think i nearly didn't 
 get this amazing pokemon game because of the letdown of the horrible PMD ( again IMO ) .
  
  For anyone who is considering getting this game, i would highly recommend getting it, but maybe 
 not to those who aren't fimiliar with the pokemon universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 3, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game tries something different and for a while you'll have some fun. It makes great use of 
 the DS stylus and looks great too. The story is just alright and the gameplay gets repetitive after 
 a while.
  
  Whats new in this game is that you're not a pokemon trainer, which for fans of the series it might 
 be disappointing. Pokemon do not join your team permanently and you are not fighting against trainers. 
 You spend your time in pokemon ranger drawing circles around pokemon with your stylus. If you hit 
 the pokemon it will disrupt your capture. Also the pokemon will attack. Breaking your capture and 
 damaging your health.
  
  Once you captured a pokemon you can use its special move once, either in battle or on the field. 
 As you go through the game the pokemon have stronger attacks and are larger, but the for the most 
 part it is the same thing of capturing pokemon with your stylus and using their abilities to continue. 
 This makes for some fairly repetitive feeling gameplay. If you enjoy the story it might be enough 
 to push you along, but you might just get sick of this game before finishing it.
  
  I actually had some fun while playing this game and did complete the main mission. After that though 
 it wasn't interesting enough to make me want to play the bonus missions, even though they are the 
 ones where you get to use some legendary pokemon. That lack of specific pokemon abilities and the 
 inability to keep your favorite pokemon kinda makes this game a downer for long time fans. If you 
 complete it though you can now get a special gift on your Diamond or Pearl game. I've never tried 
 it as I got tired of this game before diamond an pearl came out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  how my reviews work 
  
  genre
  series (if a sequel etc)
  overall 
  
  
  
  this game is like an ex you dont wanna beat it. why? cuz the plot is totally stupidity protect 
 animals (whoops Pokemon) anyway the plot is ok other then the stupid protect animals that come 
 up often in the game. even if the go rock squad is an ok idea. the other stuff is good series wise. 
 most importantly this idea they have is a new leaf i think it will carry on even farther than i 
 think. why? its easy to maneuver, its so simple that a 5 year old could do it ,and its still difficulty 
 yet playable by anyone. graphics wise its fair not like its overlord pearl and diamond. still its 
 bound to happen as they had the rescue team or something on the gba. sound wise catchy not like 
 amazing but Pokemon standards . despite the fairly big flaws its not bad. Pokemon lovers be my 
 guest, anyone else looking for a rpg stay away, anyone under nine and still dosen't realize you 
 dont just train your starter i recamend. i am really lucky this came on a holiday other than Christmas. 
 
  
  genre score 8.5/10.0
  
  ok this is series i have not played the series so i can not truly answer (rescue thing not the 
 groundbreaking good rpg Pokemon) this thus i can not be trialled falsely. anyway this game is of 
 no caliber to the pearl and original Pokemon stuff. if these were guns tis would be a 10 while 
 the Pokemon is a 40 what more likely to blow you away... anyway these games are of no match to 
 the Pokemon games like Pokemon pinball, but are a good feeling great to test out the DS but RENT 
 FIRST... and only gift to small kids whom cant train Pokemon other than the starter. why i try so 
 hard on these i have no clue thus i end this
  
  series score 5.5/10.0 
  
  
  ok this is it 
  
  graphics: 8.0/10.0 
  sound 7.5/10.0 
  value 2.0/10.0
  tilt 3.5/10.0
 
  game-play 6.0 
  FINAL RESULT 7.5/10.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Pokmon Ranger is the most unique pokmon game so far. That being said, parts of it feel recycled 
 from previous games.
  
  In Ranger, you have an interest in helping to preserve pokmon versus capturing and training them 
 like in the "normal" games. You use a Capture Styler to encircle the pokmon and pacify them to 
 become something akin to a friend that you can use to assist you in the field (such as using a 
 quilava to burn down a log) or use them to help you capture other pokmon. 
  
  The story has you solving various citizen's problems while pacifying the pokmon involved. Eventually, 
 a "Go-Rock Squad" (read as Team Rocket clone) start causing trouble.
  
  Gameplay wise everything is a nice change of pace. You're sent on various missions where you must 
 pacify pokmon. Pacifying them involves using your stylus on the screen to draw circles around 
 them x number of times. You can use pokmon to help in capturing other pokmon. It sounds simple, 
 but for me it was a nice idea to introduce into the pokmon realm. 
  
  Sound is disappointing. There is new music, but all of the pokmon sound effects are recycled from 
 the other games. 
  
  Also included are several bonus missions which eventually leads to the discovery of the Manaphy 
 Egg which from there can be brought to any Diamond or Pearl game and raised there.
  
  In the end, Pokmon Ranger feels like a side quest to Diamond and Pearl souly for the purpose of 
 the Egg. It is entertaining while it lasts, but there's not much left afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I had gotten the game in 2006, thetime it was released. I was all excited for it, full power excited.
 
  
  No, I only have a quarter of the excitment now.
  
  Your job is to rescue pokemon from baddies and make sure you capture pokemon without your stylus 
 getting injured. You can use pokemon to recharge, attack, and to trap others. 
  
  This, however, is completly full of suckish crap, and the stylus's use is a waste of time.
  
 
  
  The graphics are very good, but the slowdown of the stylus puts it down as well. The music is average, 
 but it does have it's flawless times. Audio is okay, but not what you'd expect from others. The 
 camera is very messed up, like Shadow the Hedgehog. The control worsens it. The stylus is very 
 hard to control, and it's the worst control of the whole series without a doubt. 
  
  If you are a die hard Pokemon fan, try the game. But if you're beggining to be one, rent it. The 
 game is good, but it's stylus flaws and camera mess up stop it from being a landmark Pokemon game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VG_Freak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome people always talk trash about games that i love. when a war game comes along 
 everybody loves it what is up with that. it is so stupid how people do that! The game is great 
 you start off wanting to be one then you finally become one and is involved in a big plot from 
 the go rock squad the only thing i don't like about this game is that the big bad dudes with the 
 instruments keep repeating themselves. Well then you have to go on a journey to stop the go rock 
 squad which are kinda annoying. Then you have missions you have to do to rank up which they should've 
 added more ranks to keep you busy, but still it has a great balance. Any game i buy has to be good 
 or else i wouldn't buy it except for one game. You also have to consider it is a ds game so it 
 would not have amazing graphics like other systems so their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chewit_Gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Anyone who likes pokemon will love this game. 
  
  Nintendo have used the touch screen superbly!
  
  The story is that you are a Pokemon Ranger 
 and you are saving the town's people. Later you are a great ranger and you have to battle the Go-rock 
 squad.
  
  To catch the pokemon you have to use the stylus and circle the pokemon a number of times.
  
 
  The bad things about this game is that you might get annoyed because it is pretty hard and the 
 other bad thing about this game is that you may scratch your Nintendo DS screen.
  
  Overall it is a great game.
  
  I rate it 7.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipilup45
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Pokemon ranger gets really boring. but it still is a fun game. not what I wanted it to be like. 
 Why I rated it 6.5 because it gets fun then gets plain boring. The creators should have made it 
 better maybe WiFi connection like Pokemon pearl and diamond. It is just a rip off I tell you RIP 
 OFF. THEY SHOULD HAVE MORE POKEMON IN THE GAME. The game is really simple and easy but around the 
 end really hard. They should make the game better more complecated but for the wii. I hope you 
 enjoyed reading my ome awsreview on Pokemon Ranger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics: You may know most previous Game Boy Pokemon games to be alright in graphics, but not 
 quite there. This one is pretty different, it has some slight anime-like effects to it and more 
 things can happen at once. I suppose you'd expect this from a DS game!
  
  Sound/Music: The music is actually well composed! It's not annoying at all and I actually enjoy 
 the music. It's got the usual Pokemon-ish sounding tunes, but not the same ones we know from other 
 Pokemon games. The sounds are crispy and clear as well, also not annoying.
  
  Difficulty: I'd say this is about medium. All you really need is a fast hand for when you're capturing 
 Pokemon. Some are harder than others to get, and you can sometimes get mighty frusterated. Though 
 it's not insanely hard... or is it. :P
  
  Gameplay: Boy, do I have a lot to say about this. In this game, you're not exactly capturing Pokemon, 
 rather adding them for temporary use in your party. They can either do a specific elemental attack 
 on something that they must do so on the main map, or in battle. Either way, it's only one use 
 per Pokemon except for your partner, whom I won't give away. As for capturing them, it's rather 
 neat. You have to use the stylus and circle as many loops as it shows around the target Pokemon, 
 and you should probablly do it fast. If the loop is broken, it takes away your energy, which is 
 your main HP. This game doesn't count a loss as you lose your Pokemon, rather if you lose your 
 energy. Be careful when getting the big'ns.
  
  Controls: Most of the controlling you'll do in this game is all pen work. Sometimes you'll use 
 A and the D-pad, but 80% of the time will be used up working with a stylus. Thus, makes them simple.
 
  
  Overall: Totally brand new Pokemon experence, especially if you got tired of the same old traditional 
 Pokemon games. Most have given up on collecting them because they got tiresome after awhile. This 
 is a great break from those and for something new. Go out and get this game if you really want 
 something fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hustler_Champ
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The game is not like the pokemon trainer type and it is missing something which I dont know by 
 the way! Like I loved the Gotta cathem all! thing about Diamond . Plus the pokemon cant fight 
 other than help you in battle! The game is different from the battle type pokemon  it isnt good 
 for those who like battling! I liked the game cause I wanted to experience the feeling of being 
 a Ranger so I bought it, if you like battling dont buy it and if you like pokemon then buy the 
 game cause its filled with lots of pokemon . Especially after you finish the game you find lots 
 of legendaries!
  
  CHIMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game tries something different and for a while you'll have some fun. It makes great use of 
 the DS stylus and looks great too. The story is just alright and the gameplay gets repetitive after 
 a while.
  
  Whats new in this game is that you're not a pokemon trainer, which for fans of the series it might 
 be disappointing. Pokemon do not join your team permanently and you are not fighting against trainers. 
 You spend your time in pokemon ranger drawing circles around pokemon with your stylus. If you hit 
 the pokemon it will disrupt your capture. Also the pokemon will attack. Breaking your capture and 
 damaging your health.
  
  Once you captured a pokemon you can use its special move once, either in battle or on the field. 
 As you go through the game the pokemon have stronger attacks and are larger, but the for the most 
 part it is the same thing of capturing pokemon with your stylus and using their abilities to continue. 
 This makes for some fairly repetitive feeling gameplay. If you enjoy the story it might be enough 
 to push you along, but you might just get sick of this game before finishing it.
  
  I actually had some fun while playing this game and did complete the main mission. After that though 
 it wasn't interesting enough to make me want to play the bonus missions, even though they are the 
 ones where you get to use some legendary pokemon. That lack of specific pokemon abilities and the 
 inability to keep your favorite pokemon kinda makes this game a downer for long time fans. If you 
 complete it though you can now get a special gift on your Diamond or Pearl game. I've never tried 
 it as I got tired of this game before diamond an pearl came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a classic Pokemon player. I will NEVER play Pokemon Mystery Dungeon because I am so used to 
 the battle system. But when I got this game, it really rocked my perspective of the series. I will 
 admit, the repitition of drawing CIRCLES around and around and around gets really bad sometimes 
 (not to mention the carpal tunnel you get from the repetitive motion) , but when you beat the game 
 and recieve the prize at the end (Manaphy for Diamond/Pearl) it's really worthwile. However, there 
 is much to be desired of the missions. Only ten of them... only four cities... I really wish the 
 designers had put more GAME into the game.... but overall I'd say it's still a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvstrawberry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  For a first timer, this game is definitely worth trying. Besides the original and creative capturing 
 concept, the game has got a simple yet meaningful storyline embedded with 'moral education' that 
 encourages players to emulate the characters in the game. I shall not go too deep into the details 
 as they may spoil the game to those that have yet to play. The length of the game is just right 
 because the gameplay is somewhat repetitive. Make it too lengthy, the game will just bore you. 
 In my opinion, those are a few elements that make this game worth playing. Just one complain though, 
 i find this game too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafdragon88
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Excellent. I've been pokemon fan for a long time but this is probably the best one yet (probably 
 the hardest one too) . This is one of my favorite games of all time. Don't listen to other people! 
 This game is not short! It's rather long especially if you try complete post-game. It probably 
 took me a long time because this game is so hard. Really, if your not the persistent type, this 
 game is not for you. Even though it was so hard I never gave up and I became addicted. I loved 
 this game so much and I suggest you try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryasd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks dont listen to bums who say it sucks u need to be a hard core gamer. half of them 
 are 49 and live in there moms basement. some of them havent even played it. the graphics are a step 
 up from flat migits with flat buildings and flat pokemon. capturing pokemon is fun and it takes 
 a lot of thinking which is fun. it can be fustrating in the beginig, but hey all games are. Also 
 u can get manaphy from it which is okay (Manaphy is not te best pokemon in my opinion) u can play 
 after u win and u can capture 311 out of the 345 pokemon and the regies are in the game. The regies 
 are pretty hard because u need alot of field moves. above all great game play it for manaphy or 
 just for the pleasure of capturing 311 pokemon.
  
  CAPTURE ON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is great. I got so much fun out of this game. Even though it is pretty 
 short and hard. In this game you have to circle the pokemon with the stylus to capture them. When 
 you touch the screen with the stylus a line comes up, so you can no where you are circling . In 
 this game you don't battle with pokemon, you capture them and use themwhen you are fight bosses. 
 Like if you capture a grass pokemon they help you by making the lines you make with the stylus 
 turn into grass. This makes the pokemon trapped. These affects are called poke assists. If you 
 pick to start of with a boy in this game you will get minum. If you pick to start of with a girl 
 in this game you will get plusle. To use minum and plusles poke assist you need to fill up a bar. 
 The more bars you fill up the more the poke assist helps. First you start of with one bar then 
 two and so on. You'll get more bars eventually. I think the most bars you can get is five. Not 
 all the pokemon have the bars only minum and plusle do. Normally The pokemon you use the pokemon 
 assist with runs away. But that does not happen with minum or plusle. They just stay there. There 
 is a thing called ranger rank. After you do a few missions your ranger rank will get higher. The 
 highest ranger rank you can get is ten. Once you complete the game a thing called ranger net will 
 come up. On ranger net there are even more missions that you can do. The graphics are much better 
 then the other pokemon games there are on gameboy advance or DS. Another thing good about this 
 game is that pokemon don't just randomly appear, instead you actually see them. If you want to 
 capture them you just walk into them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  At first glance you may think Pokemon Ranger looks like just another Pokemon game. But it isn't 
 just another game. It's one of the most fun Pokemon games there is. It's got the nice challenge 
 you look for in any game. It also brings something completely fresh, new, compelling, and fun to 
 your Pokemon experience.
  
  Gameplay: This Pokemon game can be controlled with the touch screen 100%. It works very well so 
 do not worry about that ruining the experience. It's actually a great thing because it makes your 
 hand work pretty hard but not to the extent of Pokemon Dash which was horrible. To catch Pokemon 
 you use a device that is called the Capture Styler. You have to draw continuous loops around the 
 Pokemon that you are trying to catch with your Styler. It's fun and works great. You'll use Pokemon's 
 special abilities to solve puzzles and to help you catch other Pokemon. Since you are a Ranger 
 you don't really have any Pokemon that ever stay in your party for the whole entire game. Pokemon 
 are released once you use their special ability to solve a puzzle in the field. Only one Pokemon 
 stays in your party for the whole game. It's Minun if you are a guy and Plusle if you are a girl. 
 Your partner Pokemon can only be used to help you capture other Pokemon. Overall the gameplay is 
 fresh and exciting and works fairly flawlessly.
  Gameplay-9
  
  Graphics: Pokemon Ranger's graphics are nice but they are not amazing. The 2D sprites are quite 
 detailed though and the game just looks polished. Nothing to really complain about here or write 
 home about here.
  Graphics-7
  
  Sound: The sound is decent but the only things that truly stands out in my mind are all of the 
 different noises your Capture Styler makes whether it's just receiving a text message or making 
 that cool noise it makes when you are drawing loops around a Pokemon.
  Sound-6
  
  Value: At first glance it may not look like Pokemon Ranger has all that much value. It is about 
 an 8-10 hour quest so it is a fairly short RPG. On the first play through it is very fun and it 
 is the type of RPG that you can play at least 2-4 times through without getting bored.
  Value-8
  
  Tilt: I thoroughly enjoyed my time with Pokemon Ranger so far and I have played 
 through it multiple times and just started another new game. I just really like all of the new 
 things that it brings to the table and it is an all around fun game.
  Tilt-9
  
  Overall: Pokemon Ranger is a great game to buy for any Pokemon fan. (or Pokemaniac if that floats 
 your boat) A great investment for any gamer and a fun game for anyone.
  Overall-8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NefertariNami
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Although this Pokemon game has its quirks, I believe there are more downs then ups. You start out 
 as a young Pokemon Ranger and capture Pokemon with your stylus. You can play mini-games and play 
 time trials within the game. This game was great until it hit the boring side. After a while of 
 starting the game over and over because you couldn't beat a certain spot, or because you didn't 
 get enough info- It hit the boring side. I started to lean more towards Pokemon Pearl and Pokemon 
 Diamond and started playing this game less and less.
  
  If you are a hard-core Pokemon fan and would like the best out of your money- get Pokemon Pearl 
 or Pokemon Diamond and skip this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  OK, I was begging my godfather for a really fun game to play, and finally, I got a game! But who 
 knew I'd get such a hard POKEMON game???
  
  Gameplay (8/10) -
  This game, you have 10 hard and long missions to complete! I'm still around the 8th mission.... something 
 about the challenge cave or something like that. It's taking me days to complete! And I'm still 
 not done! I'm having trouble with some Salamence! Anyway, the levels will keep you occupied for 
 days! Drawing those circles around the Pokemon is much harder than it looks!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Great 2-D graphics!
  
  Sound (8/10) -
  Sounds are OK. Music sounds cool.
 
  
  Value (8/10) -
  Worth your money! Great game!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (8/10) -
  The game is great! Try it! But only if you're looking for a challenge!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8/10) -
 
  Great game, but pretty hard! That might frustrate some people, so think about it before buying 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewjacka
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was brilliant!!! I am a massive fan of Pokemmon games, and I thought this was exceptional!
 
  The plotline was good, and I think everything about it is good! I have read other reports of this 
 game being rubbish, they're liars, this game is the bst game ever!
  I completed it in three days, a bit easy, but still was excellent!
  
  I hope many people believe 
 me, and I urge you all out there to buy it!!!!!!
  I can't wait for the new Pearl game to come out here in the uk, I'm hoping to download the Manaphy 
 egg!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegiNightmare
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is really different from all the other pokemon games. It isnt were yyou walk around 
 in grass and trying to cath all the pokemon with the pkeballs. You are a pokemon RANGER not a TRAINER 
 you dont use the pokeballs you come to love you use a catcher styler. But always at the end you 
 have to release them in the end. All the pokemon you catch with the pokemon styler alows you to 
 use them when your trying to catch a pokemon with the styler. There not that many people to try 
 to fight with the only time you can fight is when you are in one of the 3 competitions. There is 
 a evil team in the game (There are always evil teams in the pokemon games) And you have to try 
 to save there pokemon that the caught with there stylers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSkirbi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  it's a good game if you got the manphy code it is even better because you will be looking foward 
 to it . which is getting manaphy on pokemon diamond or pearl people are to harsh on this game they 
 brought this game out so people can have fun on it ti'll pokemon diamond or pearl and keep us waiting. 
 so if you want to get pokemon diamond or pearl i would say get pokemon ranger first. or just not 
 get pokemon ranger and get pokemon diamond or pearl but sadly that way their is no chance you getting 
 the full sinoh pokdex : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMarioDude1
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This review isn't very long, but you don't need a long explanation for how bad this game is. It 
 is very difficult to slog through the endless tutorials, because you will eventually get so bored 
 of listening to these idiotic "rangers" blab about how "complicated" being a Pokemon Ranger is 
 that you will start pressing the A button in impatience. But that's not even the worst part. The 
 tutor will ask after the tutorial "Do want me to repeat that?" and you will be so impatient that 
 you will select "Yes" and the tutor will repeat the whole dang tutorial again and again until you 
 are prompted to listen. And even if you do listen, you still won't make it through the tutorials. 
 You want to know why? Because then you will learn of the bad gameplay, and find out that this game 
 is barely the RPG magic that is the rest of the Pokemon Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_freek
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I suspect that younger/inexperienced gamers will be cursing this review over and over... But those 
 hardened gamers will know what I mean when I criticise Pokemon Ranger.
  
  Alas, what people say is true, the game is only good for the manaphy egg (Which you have to spend 
 several hours and about $30 for) and all the hype is brainwashing people into buying the game, 
 then further encouraging them to like it. I'm sure that, like others, I have to regularly find 
 a good excuse to play it. Otherwise, It would be sitting at the bottom of my game bag, slowly collecting 
 dust.
  
  I constantly think that it is pointless and wonder why anyone could enjoy such a game. The fact 
 that only a couple Pokemon stay when you've used them is really bad, and makes you feel that you've 
 achieved very little. Also, Poke Assists make the game too easy, as your first parter Pokemon has 
 a great one. For example, the Ludicolo lurking around the fountain stay still for ages while you 
 temporarily lock away its freedom.
  
  I have to say, I haven't played it since May-ish. I got totally bored of it when I came to the 
 part where you were in the sewers, cleaning out Grimers. WE AIN'T SLUDGE PATROL!!! So I think this 
 game sucks. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_lord999
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 26, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  i believe that this game is quite hard to get the hang of and that using the styles is kool but 
 the game is a bit boring story wise so future buyers i say u buy this but only if u like long story 
 games. however the minigames u get to play on it are good and the mission are hard once u get a 
 bit better at the game but one thing that is bad is the pokemon u capture must be released once 
 u get out of there habitat. if u like the past pokemon games u will love this one. so good look all 
 u pokemon fans gotcha catch them all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AIRVRIDER11
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game if you're looking for a good DS game that will be worth your money. 
 The game starts off by you becoming a new Pokemon Ranger and you're given a Mission. these missions 
 help give you a higher rank. The game enables you to catch Pokemon by using your stylus, and having 
 to make circles around whatever Pokemon you would like to catch. As you advance, you will notice 
 that the Pokemon will be harder to catch, and although it sometimes seems as if it is impossible. 
 It's a ll worthwhile. So, if you're a Pokemon fan and you're looking for something different, but 
 still familiar. Pokemon Ranger is just that game you wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 10, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Get the manphie egg; Decent story, fairly long; every pokemon appire in the game; Unique 
 way of capturing pokemon with the stylus
  
  BAD- Graphics could've been suitable for the DS; not that long; GAMEPLAY:
  I'd say Pokemon ranger 
 is abit like the original Role Playing pokemon games, but you cant acculy keep the captured pokemon 
 with you, what you do is capture a pokemon with the stylus by drawing curcels around it and it'll 
 get captured, but as a ranger you must make sure the pokemon are safe and kept in its right enviroment, 
 so you cannot keep the captured ones with you, but they do get recorded in your pokedex, There 
 is a story in the game were the evil Go-go rock squad has captured the Ultra Styler that captures 
 pokemon without fail.... some kind of Master Ball, so its your job to get the styler back. during 
 the game you earn EXP and gain levels, this will increase your Health and rank (More rank you have 
 more pokemon will travel with you) , some pokemon have Abillties which'll work inside and outside 
 battles, You can chop down fences and trees and inside you can use the effect to make capturing 
 easier, but once you've used the effect they'll run away T_T
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are good with great animation, but the characture designs are to skinny and lancy 
 and does'nt look right, the backgrounds look great though but the overall look is'nt.
  
  SOUND:
  Decent sound and music, sound effects but theres that still techno voice acting coming 
 from the pokemon that does'nt sound right! X (
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall Pokemon Ranger is a good game but the main reason is for the Maniphie egg that you can 
 put onto your Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danglyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  One Sunday morning I went out to have a brunch at Tesco's. While I was there I noticed Pokemon 
 Ranger was cheaper than anywhere online, so I bought it. At first I was going to buy Pokemon Diamond 
 or Pearl but it seemed like it would be a while until they came out. As you should know in this 
 game you use the DS' stylus to draw rings with you're ranger's styler. When you draw a ring around 
 a pokemon successfully you will then see blue numbers around the pokemon's head telling you how 
 much more times to draw rings around them. If you then stop you will capture the pokemon and be 
 able to use their help in battle, and through using their field move (some pokemon do not have one 
 or the other) . If you are battling a trainer's pokemon and you capture them you will release them 
 straight away, therefore not getting the pokemon (It will be noted in your browser) . In this game 
 outside of battles you willl have to use field moves to overcome obstacles. There are cut, burn, 
 tackle, soak, crush, recharge, gust, cross and flash field moves. On the top screen, on the right 
 you will see your party of pokemon. If any of your pokemon have field moves you shall see a symbol 
 corresponding to the above. There could be 1-3 symbols the more there are, the stronger they are. 
 For instance one crush symbol can smash big rocks but 3 symbals can eradicate boulders. Pokemon 
 also have powers in battle that are called poke-assists. There are plenty of poke-assists and they 
 are: Grass, water, fire, electric, fighting, poison, psychic, bug, ground, rock, flying, dark, 
 ghost and ice. While ranking up in the game by completing missions more of these assists will become 
 available. Most of them attack the enemy and paralyze them, for instance bug and ground but some 
 will effect your styler like dark and fighting. After playing this game for 12 hours non-stop, 
 I had been sucked into the pokemon kingdom of Fiora, I even started to say Capture On! Much to 
 my surprise there were a lot of pokemon in this game and I knew it was always going to be a challenge 
 to capture them all. While playing through the game I was very surprised that I did not get stuck 
 on any part, and I hardly died. The only parts that took me a while was the first encounter with 
 Charizard, and Salamence. When I finally got to the level guardians of the game I thought I would 
 never be able to beat them. But after around ten minutes, and with the help of some pokemon I beat 
 them. After finishing the game you will be able to transport any pokemon from where ever you want 
 to anywhere you want (You will need to take full advantage of this to be able to capture those Regi's) . 
 Once you have finished the game you will unlock bonus missions inside the game (legendary pokemon 
 missions, that are way to easy) and bonus missions on the main menu which are kept inside ranger 
 net. Ranger net missions are yet again legendary pokemon and are all very easy except mew who the 
 only way possible for me to catch him was to make a copious amount of bubbles hoping he would get 
 caught in a few. This game will take an hour to be able to use the full extent of its content, 
 otherwise to get used to capturing for me it took a matter of minutes. This game would be worth 
 buying if you are planning on buying Pokemon Diamond or Pearl for there is a secret mission in 
 ranger net to get Manaphy. The only way to get manaphy is to transfer it's egg to Diamond or Pearl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boomermav
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger was one of the more wow, I wasn't expecting that kind of game. The storyline is 
 somewhat predictable unless you were just playing blindly. The game doesn't have the basic 368 
 pokemon, but only 213 different pokemon and also with the added bonus of the Manaphy Egg. The game 
 was fun, but easy to complete the storyline. I hear about people that can't pass levels or missions. 
 But I have never been on a mission and quit just because I can't bet one character. The game is 
 a fun game for you pokemon fans, but people that aren't that into it, would get much of a kick 
 out of the game. Anyone that is thinking of getting the game though, should buy it. It is fun and 
 keeps you busy for a good 10-20 hours. And when you bet the game, then try completing the poke'dex, 
 or in this game, it is called the Browser . Boomermav, Out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_link11
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game. It is fun because instead of throwing Poke Balls, Master Balls, etc., 
 you are completing various missions by using the Capture Styler to get help from various Pokemon. 
 The annoying part of the game is the capturing. Because when you get close to having it, it either 
 shatters your styler or breaks the loop. Then you have to start all over again. Plus, completing 
 this game is the only way to get Manaphy on Diamond and Pearl and that mission is really intense. You 
 have to go through a lot of Pokemon just to get that egg. Then, you trade it over it D&amp; P and 
 hatch it. Also, be careful to not break your stylus or hurt your hand. There's a mission on mew 
 and other rare poke'mon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diamond-Diaruga
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I love the Pokemon games. Ever since I was 6 years old I have been playing them. Every Pokemon 
 game that has come out I had to get, including this one. I bought Pokemon Ranger to have another 
 great Pokemon experience, well, I didn't get that. The game starts off with a very long what-to-do, 
 how-to-control kind of thing. It is a great way to show first time players how to play, but it 
 is too long. In my opinon, the storyline was very weak and the villians were bland. Now, I know 
 this is a new thing in Ranger, catching pokemon and releasing them. I hate this. The fact that 
 you have to catch a pokemon and releasing it, takes away the Pokemon experience. In the main RPGs, 
 you catch and train your Pokemon. I think that should be in Ranger instead of catch and release. 
 Overall, I think if there is a sequel, there should be a complete overhaul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game. It is fun because instead of throwing Poke Balls, Master Balls, etc., 
 you are completing various missions by using the Capture Styler to get help from various Pokemon. 
 The annoying part of the game is the capturing. Because when you get close to having it, it either 
 shatters your styler or breaks the loop. Then you have to start all over again. Plus, completing 
 this game is the only way to get Manaphy on Diamond and Pearl and that mission is really intense. You 
 have to go through a lot of Pokemon just to get that egg. Then, you trade it over it D&amp; P and 
 hatch it. Also, be careful to not break your stylus or hurt your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psuboyjoe
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Really fun, but the story is pretty short. The game itself is pretty easy too. Maybe doesn't reflect 
 older Pokemon games' length, but is a must-have for Pokemon fans. Ranger gives a new twist to capturing 
 Pokemon, much as the Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games do. The storyline is highly captivating. I played 
 it all of the way through nonstop until I completed it. This isn't saying much though as it only 
 took me a couple of hours to complete. I found that this game gets you familiar with using the 
 stylus quickly if you don't have much experience with one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 092093
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great all around game w/ great use of the touch screen. I wish it was a liittle bit longer. 
 It's very different then most pokemon games but is still awesome none the less. I would definitely 
 recommend this to any DS owner especially if they're pokemon fans!!!! So yeah if u need a new game 
 pick this one up definitely worth tha price and I bought when it was brand new and $35 now its 
 prolly less and definitely worth it!!!!!!! Some people will say it's just to keep u occupied till 
 Diamond/ Pearl and that's sorta true but this is completely different from the average poke game.... 
 not better just different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geotio
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay guys I admit I only bought this game for the manaphy egg for when Pokemon Diamond comes out 
 in English. But I did get in to it right away. I was disapointed though that you don't keep the 
 pokemon. Also that the strategy to catch a pokemon is to use the stylus and spin out circles before 
 the stupid annoying pokemon breaks your damn line! There's no fun in that. It's really hard near 
 the end and all you are really awarded with is headaches and carpal tunnel! It took 3 days to beat 
 for me and I definitely know I won't play it a second time. It's just not one of those games. The 
 original pokemon is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adventureseeker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If you expected just another pointless crappy pokemon game you are WRONG. This game is great. It 
 starts off like any other pokemon game, you are in this region and you have to stop these bad guys 
 from taking over the world with your pokemon. But in this game you dont throw pokeballs at the 
 pokemon you catch them wit your styler. Bascailly all you do is keep drawing loops around the pokemon. 
 There are also no items in the game, but each pokemon has its own ability. You also have to catch 
 pokemon that have a certain ability to solve puzzles in the enviroment. So if you are a fan of 
 pokemon this is a game worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom5800
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is a game people will get for the sole purpose of the Manaphy Egg which can be later 
 transfered to either Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, but it is far more worth getting than just for that.
 
  
  Gameplay - Ranger takes a whole new way to capture pokemon; instead of using a pokeball to capture 
 a pokemon and using it to battle, you use a special device called a Styler where using the DS stylus 
 (who would have guessed) you draw circles around the pokemon to capture it temporarily and use 
 it for a one time task out in the field. This is far more difficult than it sounds, if a pokemon 
 touches your line, then the line disappears and you have to start drawing all over again, also 
 if a pokemon attacks the line it will destroy the line and you will take damage. If your capture 
 line is destroyed, or you lift the stylus before you finish drawing a certain amount of circles, 
 then you will have to start drawing your circles over again. Each pokemon has a certain amount 
 of circles that you must draw around it at once, and some can go up to even 22 circles at once! 
 The story is similar to most pokemon games, some bad guys want to control the legendary pokemon 
 to do their bidding and you must stop them from achieving their goal. The battles will take some 
 getting used to, and not being able to keep the pokemon you capture can be sad, but just think 
 of it like boss battles where afterwards the boss doesn't help you continue, does it? For its unique 
 gameplay, Pokemon Ranger is a game to play for fun, but it is frustrating and can get very hard 
 very fast, so have patience with this game.
  
  Graphics - Very nice graphics, Pokemon Ranger has a 3D look and feel to it and is a huge improvement 
 to the normal pokemon game graphics. The graphics give you a look and feel to the game that hopefully 
 will be passed on to future handheld pokemon games.
  
  Sound - Each pokemon has its own unique cry just like all pokemon games, this helps add a little 
 uniqueness to the game itself because you can tell which pokemon are nearby. The different places 
 have the normal style of sound for each place, a cave sounds like caves from other pokemon games, 
 the forest ... sounds calm and tranquil.
  
  Weather you are a pokemon fan or not, Pokemon Ranger is definatly a game to play, especially for 
 the bonus of completing the story 100%. If you plan on picking up Pokemon Diamond or Pearl, then 
 you might want to buy Ranger for that special Manaphy egg. All in all, Ranger is fun and frustrating 
 at the same time, but as long as you save when possible you should find Ranger to be an enjoyable 
 game with few flaws in the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgarcia6
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a bad game. It is no fun, hard, and most of all, boring. All you do is draw circles. That is 
 all. NOTHING ELSE. The main story is you want to be a ranger. You become one and go oof on missions. This 
 time however, you do not battle, which is what makes this game boring. You have a item, and you must 
 draw circles to get pokemon, which you can not keep. You just use them and they go. You must stop 
 a team called go go from getting the super styler. There is one reason to get this. The manaphy egg. Which 
 you might as well just get action replay. Other wise, this is not a good game to play to get into 
 pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerissa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I admit this was a game I didn't anticipate buying. DVD Empire / Google had a good discount on 
 this game, so I picked it up. It is much better then I thought, in fact its really fun and can 
 I say challenging for a Pokemon game. It is a little difficult catching higher level Pokemon with 
 the stylus, which makes it even more entertaining for older gamers. The missions go fairly fast 
 and the sprites and graphics are nice enough to keep you interested in the game. The sprites are 
 detailed and the colors bright. It would have been nice to seen more interactive weather conditions 
 though, since all your missions are mostly based in towns named after the four seasons. I would 
 have liked to seen atmospheric conditions. For example in Falltown leaves blowing every so often 
 etc. but that has nothing to do with the game play. Word of caution save often, because your stylus 
 does have a tendency to break early on. Really a nice Pokemon franchise from HAL Laboratory they 
 did a really good job. This is a must have game for those who want manaphy in Pokemon Diamond and 
 Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Nintendo always pushes Pokemon as a franchise that spreads across many genres. The spin offs all 
 started with the N64 classic Pokemon Snap. While this was a highly addicting game, it was too short. 
 A few more spin offs came by and they were, well, let's say less than spectacular. Pokemon Ranger 
 comes out and I decided to give it a chance, along with a chance to transfer a legendary Pokemon 
 to the upcoming Diamond and Pearl games on the DS... what could I lose? The story is basic, you 
 are a new ranger and you have to stop Pokemon from causing damage to things/people by catching 
 them with your Styler . The styler is a device controlled by the device that catches Pokemon by 
 drawing circles around them. You can use these Pokemon to get around objects, like having a Machamp 
 smash a rock for you. The game gets pretty hard quickly, and you end up looking like a fool frantically 
 drawing 20 circles on you touch screen, but it's all in good fun. The game lasts from 9 - 12 hours, 
 without the bonus missions. The graphics are beautiful, staying true to the colourful Pokemon style 
 and the music suits the game perfectly, especially the boss and final boss songs. If you like Pokemon, 
 get this game. now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaJaYmAsTeR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  yep dats how you describe Pokemon ranger, weird but cool. you have something called a styler lol 
 how fruity tuty, and u circle and circle around da pokemon until its captured the pokemon. odd 
 way of capturing. but nonetheless it is very cool. and somewhat addicting. because its a whole 
 new system of to the pokemon series, and it actually works. not my fault that i like drawing circles 
 and doing graff where ur supposed 2 b capturing rofl its so awesome. wats even better is u get 
 pokemon to help u capture them, whether it is stunnning them or blockin them orr recharge of da 
 fruity tuty styler, it works tho! if u liek graff or circles or even pokemon, get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterlinkx1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is a pretty good game if you like pokemon like me. It seems to have some good graphics 
 for a 2-D game and sound is pretty good. And the story is ok too. But the gameplay is fun but after 
 awile it gets pretty boring drawing circles around the pokemon agian, and agian, and  
 you get my piont. But the story as I said is good: You (the ranger) save plusle or minun from a 
 houndoom and end up trying to save the world with the help of plusle or minun. But I'm not going 
 to spoil much else. LOL! But over all this game is pretty good for the fans but gets kind of boring 
 and tedious sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is a game that tries and succeeds in living up the hype. It is a engaging games 
 with flaws that aren't really a issue, My real problem is how it felt when I played that game. 
 it didn't the same as all the other Pokemon games (Mystery Dungeon Blue took the medal for second 
 best game ever.) This is coming from A HARDCORE Pokemon fan. I was a fan since 1997 and I still 
 am. But, this game still satisfied me completely, and I strongly recommend it, but take my word, 
 love this game, or feel ok with it. That's the best thing, it unhateable (I 89.99 percent sure 
 the negative reviews people didn't actually play the game) . It's really worth playing AND owning.
 
  
  Good: great new system of catching Pokemon, superb game play, awesome characters, a lot about it 
 is great
  
  Bad: feels un-engaging, sound is its second lowest corner, storyline feels a bit used before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomParty202
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty is a bit hard but I say it is one of the best Pokemon games to date. No matter what 
 anyone says. Alot of people in my school had thought this game was really stupid but after playing 
 it I really got into it and turns out it is the best game in the pokemon series so far (That is 
 until Pokemon Diamond and Pearl come out) It is a really addictive game that will grab the attention 
 of any pokemon fan (like myself) . I would recommend to try it before you judge it. You never know 
 how good a game is until you try it for yourself (Wish my friends would see that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Earthborn00
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  First off this game is slightly different from the other games. Your Play a Ranger and not a trainer 
 in this game; You have to protect Pokemon and help society by capturing Pokemon.
  
  The concept is good and so is the basic execution. However, in this game, you will need to use 
 a fair amount of the touch screen, so be careful or it will get scratched. This is because to capture 
 Pokemon, you need to draw circles around them. This is not easy at times and you need help from 
 some other Pokemon to capture a more powerful or a legendary one.
  
  The story is OK and well integrated in the game. It's fun to capture at first but there isn't much 
 more to the gameplay: it does lack an amount of depth.
  
  Overall this is good if you want something new, but not a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLEACHNARUTOMAD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the latest addition to the Pokemon series along with Pokemon Diamond and Pearl. The 
 game is great. It has almost all the Pokemon inside. And there's a new way to catch all the Pokemon. It's 
 by using the touch screen, round and round we go as we move the stylus around the Pokemon to catch 
 them. You can use the Pokemon's ability to catch the Pokemon during battle. There are baisically 
 10 ranks and you have to complete missions to achieve those ranks. You can't keep the Pokemon you 
 catch because you are a Ranger. You can't bring them out of their natural habitats until you complete 
 the whole game. You can also catch Deoxys and Celebi in this game. This is a very enjoyable game 
 for Pokemon fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wad11656
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games ever. It's most certainly unique, and it brings a whole new way 
 of capturing Poke'mon. This game is more than what I hoped it would be before I got it.
  It had such a nice introduction, with the leader of the town introducing you to the job of a Poke'mon 
 Ranger, and how to capture Poke'mon. I thought circling around the Poke'mon with the DS stylus 
 pen was a great and unique way to capture Poke'mon. You don't just circle them, though. When trying 
 to capture Poke'mon, they all have their own way to distract you or stop you from capturing them. 
 Also, after capturing a Poke'mon, you can use their field abilites outside of battles to get through 
 obstacles, or use them during battles to help capture a different Poke'mon.
  Your pal, Minun, stays with you through the whole journey. But with other Poke'mon, before beating 
 the game, after capturing them, you can't take them out of their original habitats, and they can 
 only be used once in either a capturing battle, or with a field ability, before being forced to 
 release it. Afterall, you ARE a Poke'mon Ranger, and your job is to protect Poke'mon and people, 
 not capture them and train them for fun.
  The farther in the game you go, the more variety of Poke'mon that appear, and usually, the more 
 hard it is to capture them. You go through quite a variety of missions to help people and other 
 Poke'mon, and they all require your capturing skills with a device that you recieve at the beginning 
 of the game called your stylus. Charizard and Entei are generally the main Poke'mon in this game, 
 and you battle them both I think two times, the second being much harder than the first time you 
 capture them.
  The surroundings look very smooth, and the Poke'mon move in their own unique way, and have different 
 abilities. The capturing sometimes gets quite boring and repetitive, but the fun and strong Poke'mon 
 you later battle makes it worth it. The graphics are very exceptional, and this is an excellent 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehonaker
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Pok&eacute; mon Ranger is a wholly unique game. It may be pretty uneven in difficulty, but it does 
 tend to grow on you. The concept behind it (drawing circles to catch Pok&eacute; mon) is fairly 
 different, and there are lots of creatures to catch.
  The difficulty, though, is pretty uneven. The game is pretty easy until you get to some of the 
 boss Pok&eacute; mon (like Steelix, Charizard, and Entei) , and the game then becomes terribly difficult. 
 Still, I liked to see that the game gave me a challenge, something a lot of other games don't do.
 
  In all, this game is pretty good, but nothing spectacular. HOWEVER, if you want Diamond and Pearl, 
 get this game. A secret unlockable mission on this game is the only way to get Manaphy, one of 
 the new Pok&eacute; mon, on Diamond and Pearl. Even if you don't want Diamond and Pearl, you might 
 like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaskD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger is the best spin-off Pokemon game since Pokemon Snap. It has a interesting plot, 
 original gameplay, excellent use of the DS touch screen, and more. You become a Pokemon Ranger, 
 go on missions throughout the Fiorre region using wild Pokemon you gain control of with a capture 
 styler, and stop the evil Go-Rock Squad organization. It's a really fun game and did much more 
 than make up for how bad Pokemon Dash was (good thing I never bought that game) . The game isn't 
 very long unfortunately, so if you don't want to finish it too quick, then bide your time with 
 the capture parks in the game or something. You'll also need this game if you want to catch Fione 
 and Manaphy on your Diamond and Pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger tried to stand out from its predecessors but just couldnt do it. You start as a 
 new ranger recruit and work your way through the ranks. Instead of pokeballs you use a stylus to 
 capture the Pokemon for a short period of time. You still get to try to catch them all but you 
 don't get to keep them. This is a disappointment for most Pokemon fans. 
  
  The gameplay is boring not to mention making your wrist hurt with the constant circles you have 
 to do to capture them. That is really all you do in this game: make circles on you touch screen. 
 You will be assigned a mission at the Ranger HQ and head out to complete it. Once you get out in 
 the wilderness you have to "capture" pokemon temporarily to get to your goal.
  
  Once you get to your goal you will meet a bunch of idiots... I mean the villians of the game. They 
 happen to have pokemon under their control. You cant use the pokemon you have "captured" to battle 
 with the bad guys pokemon. Nope the pokemon you have to battle just wander around your touch screen 
 attacking at nothing. The way you "defeat" them is to... you guessed it... make more circles on the 
 screen. Only a few Pokemon are even remotely difficult to capture which makes this game easier 
 than any of the other Pokemon games. 
  
  The only thing going for this game is the graphics which are great compared to many of the current 
 Pokemon games released in the US. For a first time player of Pokemon, I would suggest Emerald, 
 FireRed, or Diamond/Pearl. Those games are the traditional style of Pokemon and in my opinion are 
 better games. Pokemon Ranger is an below average game that lacks everything that makes a game great: 
 entertaining story and fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby_cyclone14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I thought it would be unappealing compared to the other Pokemon games, 
 like Pokemon Mystery Dungeon and the Pokemon RPGs, but I later discovered that this game is actually 
 quite entertaining and fascinating.
  You play as a person in the Pokemon world who is very enthusiastic about becoming a ranger, so 
 the person sends several letters to one of the best rangers in all of Fiore, whose name is Spenser. 
 Spenser is moved by your ambition and asks you to come see him in Fall City. When you meet Spenser, 
 you hear a disturbance, where Spenser tutors you how to use the Capture Styler, an impressive piece 
 of technology which allows rangers to use the powers of Pokemon. Spenser then flys you to Ringtown, 
 where your exciting adventure unfolds. This game is definitely worth purchasing, with a decent 
 length. This game can be hard sometimes, but that is a minor problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crystaldragon18
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  If I were to compare to Pokemon Mystery Dungeon it would be a 7.6. The game was fun and all, but 
 in Pokemon Mystery Dungeon you got to expierence something new... Yes, in this game you got to 
 be a ranger, but you were a human still and you still trained Pokemon- well wait lemme get back 
 to that. You didn't actually train Pokemon you only did assists at least in Mystery Dungeon you 
 get to grow levels. Plus, when your catching Pokemon all you do is make circles! Also, unlike Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon, after you beat the game you can do only a few missions and, in Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon, theres like so many things to do after the game! It's not like the end! Otherwise, this 
 game was fun hey it was still Pokemon after all you got to see there attacks so, a 7.6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edyugi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon ranger is a fun game to play. I'm a fan of the audio and the creative use of the touch 
 screen. I was dissapointed that there were no trainers or pokemon battles. Also the pokemon are 
 int the city intsead of hiding. And level ups are just too easy, you level up every five minutes. 
 The main enemy in this game is called the go rock squad. You will try and stop them with your capture 
 styler , or this games version of the pokeball. I know they bent the original story line A LOT. 
 If you are expecting an old pokemon rpg than leave. This is an exciting new twist to the new fiore 
 region, it uses classical pokemon to. My other problem is that sometimes the game does thing that 
 are just plain stupid, like sometimes poke assists dont work for no reason, which is a dissapountent. 
 The graphics are much better than any other pokemon rpgs, the charecters dont look so chunky . 
 I do recommed this game as a christmas gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun because it has a new way to capture and it is more fun to capture this way 
 than the other normal way with pokemon balls. I was hoping it would have better graphics but it 
 didnt it is still 2-D but thats ok. Besides the new capturing system the pokemon are alsoo neat 
 because you can actually see them the way they look besides the way they do like on emerald or 
 ruby or saphire or and other pokemon game. I always wanted this game when I heard of it and I thought 
 it would be like normal capturing but of course im wrong as you can see . The missions in the game 
 sare really fun and will keep you playing for awhile and once you beat the game it is not over 
 then you have net missions. So overall this game is great a good game to wait and play while you 
 wait for diamond and pearl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting this game to be a good one because all of the pokemon games before were great but 
 boy was i WRONG. I bought this game almost yelling to get home to play it. When i got home i started 
 playing it and wanted to return it back in the next 30 minutes. This game is boring, lackluster 
 and repititve. This game should say B instead of E its B for babys. this game is a total let down. 
 This game is pointless all you do is scribble dum lines i could go to the 99 cents store and get 
 me a scribble drawer for 2 dollars. in conclusion this game rots and Nintendo i am very Disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Double_Wide
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is the first Pokemon game that I have actually lost interest in and stopped playing because 
 it is so boring. I can't believe that there are gamers out here being suckered into thinking this 
 is a real game. COME ON, PEOPLE!!! When did seeing how fast you could draw a circle around something 
 become a real game? And to make things worst, you can't even keep the pokemon you catch until dag 
 on near the end of the game ! Keeping them I guess is completely pointless since you can't really 
 use them to fight anyone. The whole concept of this game is just stupid and childish to me... whats 
 the point in risking scratching up my DS screen by draw so many circles to catch these things, 
 if right after, I have to release it. I don't understand how anyone can call this a pokemon game. 
 If I weren't a game collector, I wouldn't even bother taking this game back to the store but I 
 would throw it in the trash... where it belongs! Any real gamer who is looking for a challenge that's 
 above a 4 year old's comprehension then do yourself and your pocket a favor and stay clear of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jro2020
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I definitely have to say that I enjoy this bizarre addition to the Pokemon family. Instead of a 
 trainer you now play as a Pokemon ranger, kind of a cross between a park ranger and local law enforcement. 
 Pokemon battles, collecting, and training are out; temporarily capturing, problem solving, and 
 general do gooding are in.
  
  Despite completely changing the gameplay dynamic Ranger sticks to the same storyline as all the 
 rest previous games.
  
  You are a young pokemon lover out to prove that you love and take care of pokemon better than anyone 
 else in the world. Along the way you meet a rival/best friend, a series of organizational leaders 
 who unlock new powers for you, and a gang (that insists on calling itself a team) of egomaniacal 
 bad guys set upon ruling the world. You and your pokemon overcome challenges together and become 
 a hero to all the land.
  
  Gone also is the free roaming gameplay, until that is you beat the main story then you can explore 
 to your hearts content. Instead you are assigned missions that to me feel like episodes from the 
 TV series. Each episode (mission) contains about 1 hour of game play and advances a linear non-branching 
 plot.
  While I do feel that this is the perfect length for each episode and gameplay session I was quite 
 annoyed to find that the main plot only lasts 10 episodes and the follow up content after defeating 
 the evil team leader seems half hearted. Also provided for extra content are special missions which 
 last only about half an hour but have no save points in case you are interrupted.
  
  My final verdict is that this game is short, I would buy it again knowing what I do now. I would 
 recommend it to fans of pokemon universe, but only if you were the type of person who enjoyed Pokemon 
 Snap. If it is the collecting, and leveling RPG elements that make pokemon so famous that you love 
 and not the world, I would suggest you not buy this game since those elements are missing from 
 Ranger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Following the release of the horribly bad Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games, Nintendo gives us the 
 surprisingly fun and innovative Pokemon Ranger. This game takes a different approach to the Pokemon 
 formula. Instead of playing as a Pokemon Trainer you instead play as a Pokemon Ranger which is 
 someone who doesn't capture but gets Pokemon to help them with situations like finding a missing 
 person or help with a natural disaster.
  
  The gameplay in this game is interesting. When you want to capture a pokemon in the wild, instead 
 of fighting it with one of your own you use an item called a Capture Styler. In order to use the 
 styler you must draw continous circles around the pokemon you want to catch on the touch screen 
 of the DS. The more times you capture the more experience your Capture Styler receives. You styler 
 levels up and that gives it health bonuses aswell as increases the strength of it's line. Don't 
 expect catching Pokemon to be a walk in the park because they will fight back and attack your styler. 
 Once your styler's health drops to 0 it's game over.
  
  All the action of this game takes place on the bottom screen. The top screen is used to display 
 your character's Ranger level as well as what Pokemon are with you during your mission. You can 
 use the stylus to move around if you prefer but it's easier to use the d-pad. Graphically this 
 game is pretty for a Pokemon title. Instead of small characters, the characters in this game are 
 detailed along with the enviroments you'll be travelling through.
  
  Overall this game is an interesting take on an old franchise. Pokemon Ranger is a good choice to 
 tide you over until the Pearl and Diamond versions are released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hpgirlsarehott
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger incorporates the use of the touch screen nicely. This game is challenging, and it's 
 fun to go through. The storyline is basically your a new ranger working yourself up to become a 
 high ranked ranger. You receive a device called a Styler that acts as a poke-dex, poke-balls, and 
 numerous other things. Of course, it isn't a Pokemon game without a group of trouble makers. This 
 time around, they're called Team Go Rock Squad, and they're developing something that will hurt 
 the rangers and Pokemon alike.
  In the field, you can actually see the Pokemon around you, and decide to approach or avoid them. 
 I recommend catching Pokemon you think would be most helpful in your current location. Capturing 
 the pokemon is fun. The Pokemon will move about on the lower screen, and you have to quickly use 
 the stylus to draw circles around them. The bad part of this is if the Pokemon touches the line, 
 it will break. Or worse, when the Pokemon attacks the line, you lose energy. When you run out of 
 energy in the styler, it's game over.
  While it is based on Pokemon, I think anyone could enjoy the game play and find it interesting.
 
  The graphics are actually pretty decent based on the other Pokemon games.
  The sound is ordinary, nothing I'd recommend.
  In conclusion, if you like pokemon, try this game. 
 If you don't, try it anyway. It's game play is unique to the series, and unique to the system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivvav
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Ranger Opinion:
  Story: Interesting, but repetitive. The best Story part is the final 3 missions (Groudon, Kyogre, 
 Rayquaza) but even those are too easy as there's a pattern to all of it. Creative characters and 
 childish jokes, but kinda dissapointing.
  Gameplay: New, creative, but lame and infuriating. I'd rather beat a Pokemon in battle than circle 
 it seventeen times and learn it's totally useless to me. Bonus features: Freakin' sweet. Extra 
 story which is better than the main stuff, and of course, the Manaphy egg.
  Reason to get it: Manaphy and Fione. Because unless you're a hardcore Pokemon fan like me, this 
 game is not that fun, and you gotta be biased to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsPYT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Now, being a hardcore PokeMon fan, I was at first little iffy when I heard this game coming out 
 so soon after Mystery Dungeon but, I find myself getting my moneys worth more with Ranger then 
 with MD.
  
  The reason for that is, Ranger is a game where you can REALLY do something to gain experience and 
 'play' rather then just press the same bottom for a repeat command like in the older games. MD 
 is a dungeon crawler while as Ranger is a puzzle game, dungeon crawler and pokemon game (without 
 the pokeballs) all in one!
  
  When you really think about it, the storyline is familliar but different as well as confusing considering 
 that in this game, in 'their world', there are no pokeballs and everyone lives with pokemon as 
 either pets are helpers, nice when you think about it but it throughs you off if you think it over.
 
  
  Learning to play this game is insanely easy, as well as figuring out dungeons and puzzles. If you 
 take your time or even learn to be a quick drawer (of a circle) , this game is simple to beat.
 
  
  The hardest battle was Salamance, not Charizard as some people think, lol. As I said, take your 
 time and learn to circle real fast and the game is already beaten.
  
  Level ups, battles and everything inbetween is a wiz. I personally think that the pokemon team 
 made this game alittle too easy... but thats just me.
  
  For people who want a real interacting, enteraining pokemon game? Get it! but wait for the price 
 to go down, it's too quick of a game for 40 bucks and I hate it when that happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars0000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a great game, but, if that I'm playing it gets through school, I'll be a L-O-S-E-R. 
 Now, this game is a little too short. I've been playing for 5-6 days maybe, and I'm already rank 
 nine. The sound is okay, but the poke-cries sound like my game was glitching. It is a new idea 
 with the circles and the loops and everything, but it can get a little tiring. Now if you're 10 
 or 9, this is a game that you would brag about in class. But at the teen age, oh my god it will 
 be a nightmare. Lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gojoepalmer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  In my view there's a need for it. This game is just what I wanted while waiting for Diamond and 
 Pearl. And best of all is it easy, understandable and plain fun! The plot has got me intrested, 
 but I'm not gonna leak any info for all you spoilerphobics. The way to play it is surpisingly easy. 
 In fact I could call it one of the easiest of the Pokemon series. But that doesn't mean if dosen't 
 have its fair share of hard bosses for hardcore gamers. And another thing is you can use the touch 
 screen for most of it for all you touch generation players. And if you want a good surpise, a certain 
 pokemon for you to trade to diamond and pearl, then You might as well get it. Overall if you these 
 qualties:
  
  + pokemon fun
  +easy to learn how to play
  +Great plot
  + usage of touch screen
  + an addicting thing of fun
  + Bonus for future games
  
  then 
 I'd recommend getting this game, espically if your still watching the clock for diamond and pearl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stouph99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  If youre a pok&eacute; mon fan it doesnt mean you will instantly love this game. The thing is, 
 this is a totally new twist on the Pok&eacute; mon RPG genre. In this game you aren't a Trainer, 
 you're a Ranger. Your goal isn't to catch them all, it's to help people and solve problems.
  For example instead of making your pok&eacute; mon gain experience, you gain experience and level 
 up your equipment and rank. At first the game is kinda annoying, the people talk to much and the 
 pok&eacute; mon you have to catch are super easy, but the story is really good. Later on when you 
 get to Fall City the game gets much more challenging and the wild pok&eacute; mon are much tougher.
 
  
  One thing i love about this game is that you can use your stylus thoughout the whole game. Obviously 
 you need it to catch pok&eacute; mon in the battles, but it's better for travelling and better for 
 talking with people and managing your team's Pok&eacute; mon Moves.
  
  This game has it's interesting parts, but it's no Pok&eacute; mon Emerald or FireRed/GreenLeaf. 
 I'm 50/50 on liking or disliking this game because it's not like the classic Gameboy Pok&eacute; mon 
 games. But for the story and the original spin on the Pok&eacute; mon RPG universe, I would say 
 that if you're truly a pok&eacute; mon fan you can't miss this one and you have to check it out!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenigame
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  
  Pokemon Ranger incorporates an idea not yet heard of in Action RPGs. 
  The idea that you could actually snag a Pokemon YOURSELF with your own skill, rather than commanding 
 Pokemon to do it for you is just one of those differences between this and regular Pokemon RPGs. 
 
  
  Interesting thing to note, is that there are no items in the game at all. 
  Nada, zero, zilch. 
  This means you'll never have to worry about those "open the door using a 
 key" scenarios. 
  
  Instead, you have to use your own thinking with Pokemon you acquire yourself along the way. 
 
  
  In order to do this, you have a special item called a "STYLER" that you use to circle Pokemon many 
 times and tame them. 
  After doing so sucessfully, you can use whatever power they have, like smashing rocks, using vine 
 whip to cross water, and other such things. 
  
  The story itself involves you becoming a Pokemon Ranger (either male or female) and going up against 
 Team Go-Go, the evil musician masterminds (okay, so it sounds cheesy, but it's actually quite interesting 
 how it turns out) . 
  
  The positive things about the game itself is that there's somewhat of a challenge in the game. 
 It's not the frustrating kind of hard, either. It's actually the challenge from the Pokemon you 
 encounter. 
  It took me literally five tries to get a good strategy for Entei. 
  
  Also, the game has a certain charm that other Pokemon games don't seem to have. The Pokemon seem 
 to have a little bit of personality, and this is perhaps because their powers are so varied within 
 the game, and also the fact that they don't appear randomly (you can actually see all of them on 
 the field, and they do attack you) . 
  
  A few negative things about this game would be that it's rather short (shouldn't take anyone longer 
 than 15 hours to beat) . 
  It's also the fact that there's not much else to do after you actually go back and catch every 
 single Pokemon at the very end of the game. 
  The graphics aren't that much different from what you would see from a GBA game, but there are 
 a few things that make it look more advanced (the very large Pokemon, for example) . 
  As far as the BGM and music goes, it doesn't have the charm that other Pokemon games seem to have. 
 It's still nice, but not something I would hum to. 
  
  However, everything in-between will captivate your interest for at least a week, and that's definitely 
 worth something, especially considering how addictive the game is. 
  
  Excellent game if you're a Pokemon fan, and even if you aren't, it'll still be a fun time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
