-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonfushiginodungeonb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pokemon trappings spice up combat a little.
 Interesting story with a few surprisingly touching moments.
 Not as difficult as previous games.
 Nice Wi-Fi features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough variety in story-based missions.
 Mystery Dungeon formula is getting stale.
 Drab dungeon visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 614 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: ChunSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 20, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness/Time recycles the aging Mystery Dungeon formula, 
 but it's still worthwhile for fans of dungeon hacks. 

  The Mystery Dungeon series from Chunsoft has been catering to fans of two-dimensional role-playing 
 games for years. The games offer random dungeons, plenty of items to collect (though rarely enough 
 space to carry them) , clumsy turn-based combat, and a degree of challenge that often forces you 
 to retry the same levels over and over again before you're successful. With Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Time, the Nintendo DS is getting two versions of its second 
 Mystery Dungeon entry this year. Although these offerings take steps to make the dungeon-hack trappings 
 more accessible than last month's Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer, they still feel monotonous 
 and are too similar to 2006's Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games to warrant much attention.  

  Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Time break the Mystery Dungeon mold by providing you with 
 a hometown and a central guild to which you can return. Game progress is broken down into a combination 
 of routine daily missions and story-based missions, and some plot exposition is given after you 
 complete each. You can also save your progress between missions and take care of your Pokemon in 
 the event that it's hungry. Consequently, making your way through these games is nowhere near as 
 brutal as you might expect if you're familiar with their predecessors.  

           Cherish these colors while they last; the color palette takes a nosedive in dungeons. 

  The lower challenge level here definitely has its advantages. For starters, you're less likely 
 to give up in frustration before you've had a chance to enjoy the interesting plot, which has some 
 genuinely touching moments. As in the previous Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games, you start off as 
 an amnesiac human who has been mysteriously transformed into a Pokemon. You soon encounter and 
 partner with a friendly Pokemon, and together you decide to join an explorers guild. Soon, you 
 learn of a world threat that somehow involves the very fabric of time itself. The one glaring issue 
 with the game's story presentation is the unforgivably redundant dialogue. More often than not, 
 your Pokemon's thoughts are visible as text before it actually chooses to voice them, at which 
 point it repeats almost word for word what you've already read.  

  The redundancy in the dialog is mirrored in some of the missions that you embark on. Almost every 
 mission involves rescuing a stranded Pokemon or arresting an outlaw Pokemon. There are some item 
 and escort requests, but they all play out in much the same way: delving into a dungeon and going 
 through generic, randomly generated floors until you find the object of your search. Even the story-based 
 missions play out in this way, with the one difference being that the dungeons during these experiences 
 are much longer, provide a few save points in-between floors, and are often capped off with a boss 
 battle.  

  Most of the battles you encounter, including those against boss characters, help allay the repetitiveness 
 and blandness of the dungeons, though not greatly. The gameplay feels only slightly less clumsy 
 and plodding than that of its Mystery Dungeon predecessors, because every action you take, whether 
 it's taking a step, attacking, or equipping an item, still counts as a turn. Given that all combat 
 takes place on a map screen presented in the top-down perspective, you'd be forgiven for thinking 
 that the experience would mimic something like the classic Zelda games; instead, you get a clumsy 
 back-and-forth experience that stalls as you wait for every creature to complete its turn.  

  However, a few Pokemon franchise additions come to save the day. You can recruit Pokemon you've 
 defeated into your party, and any recruits that exceed your four-member party limit will be sent 
 back to the guild on standby. Each of your party members can learn up to four special moves; and 
 as they level up, they will have the opportunity to forget an old move and learn a new one. So, 
 you're occasionally -- if not constantly -- getting the opportunity to try out new tricks and abilities 
 against your foes. You can also set the behaviors of all of your Poke-compatriots to do things 
 such as avoid trouble, take an aggressive stance, or consciously refrain from special moves that 
 might be useless in a certain situation. These battle options, as well as the various items you 
 gather, create a nice variety of tactics to draw on when fighting large groups of enemies or threatening 
 boss characters.  

  Of course, there's also the plethora of familiar Pokemon creatures available for you to discover, 
 and they're all represented in vibrant colors and smooth animations. Nevertheless, it's a shame 
 that the visual presentation isn't more consistent. The set pieces for the town, your guild, and 
 key areas in the story-based dungeons are drawn in a soft, whimsical cartoon style with rich coloring. 
 This is all matched in whimsy by the well-composed, youthful soundtrack, which boasts crisp, varied 
 instrument samples. However, as soon as you step into a dungeon for a mission, you're greeted with 
 a heaping face-full of boredom. Repetitive visuals lack detail and employ wholly uninteresting 
 color schemes, making dungeons look almost monochrome and making the combat seem even more like 
 drudgery than it actually is.  

  At least dying in this game doesn't set you back and have you feeling like a newborn every time. 
 But even if you do kick the bucket, you can ask to be rescued from mission dungeons by another 
 player, though it's worth mentioning that this option isn't available in some of the story-driven 
 levels. For a rescue to work, you'll need for a potential rescuer to have visited the same dungeon 
 and floor on which you've expired. Calling for help is as simple as choosing to request a rescue 
 after fainting, then going to the appropriate menu in the title screen before logging into the 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and sending a text message along with your rescue request. (Alternately, 
 you can do this by using the wireless communication between two Nintendo DS systems, or with a 
 cumbersome 54-character password.) However, Chunsoft has one-upped its previous Wi-Fi efforts: 
 Not only can you now send jobs that you've accepted to a friend with the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, 
 but you can also send rescue requests to someone's e-mail address or mobile phone. In the absence 
 of knowing when your friends will actually be playing the game, this is a great boon if you just 
 need a quick pick-me-up.  

           Gotta catch -- er, recruit 'em all!      

  If you're at all familiar with the Pokemon franchise, then it'll come as no surprise that unless 
 you play both the Explorers of Time and Explorers of Darkness versions, you won't be able to meet 
 and recruit all of the Pokemon in Mystery Dungeon's story. However, this doesn't make a huge difference 
 when playing through the game. The variety of move sets and resulting tactics between the two games 
 doesn't feel substantially different enough to warrant playing through both versions, and the presence 
 of exclusive items doesn't add a great deal either.  

  In any event, one version of this Pokemon Mystery Dungeon entry should suffice. You'll get more 
 than 20 hours of gameplay from front to back, and that doesn't include the extra hours that you'll 
 spend leveling up or restarting after a game-over screen. There are plenty of optional missions 
 to embark on as well, even after you've completed the story. If you found the previous Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon game disappointing and would rather just catch 'em all as a Pokemon trainer, then 
 this won't likely change your mind. Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon formula is showing its age with 
 jittery combat and bland dungeons, but these games still offer a decent balance of challenge, story, 
 tactics, and Wi-Fi innovations to keep patient players entertained.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rockstar964
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Well there isn't much new here if you have played previous mystery dungeon games. It still starts 
 you out with a quick personality test to decide what pokemon you will become. You then choose your 
 partner pokemon and wake up after a storm. Next you go through the same adventure as the previous 
 game. I am not saying it is a bad game but I'm saying that it is a little repetitive. It has a 
 lot of room for improvement but it is still a very creative game. On the other hand if you are 
 new to the series it is a very fun game. It may br the fact that you play as your favorite pokemon 
 or that the pokemon can talk. I don't want to sound like a critic but I think Nintendo can change 
 it up a little. All in all a fine game. I still say rent before you buy. It is one of the better 
 of the mystery dungeon games due to the fact that dialga is in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sssppp
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  I must say I wasn't surprised by the almost copy paste of rescue team (GBA) .
  
  Well in explorers of time you will have to explore dungeons for various reasons such as saving 
 a trapped pokemon, delivering an item or escorting one to another. Wait, did I say various? My 
 bad.
  
  The most interesting part of the game is the intense combat you will face in the dungeons but, 
 it's like they toy with you. You can't really tell the differences between a level 10 Pikachu and 
 a level 20. Your moves tend to miss a lot unlike rescue team. Moves like quick attack or bubble 
 or moves in that style seem as if they have 50% accuracy, which is quite frustrating.
  
  Leveling up is quite boring. (tons of exp needed)
  
  Although they managed to, I don't know, 
 increase the jobs in the board, they all look the same. Also, why doing a job in which you deliver 
 a reviver seed (costs 800 P) and you get a reward of 100? No point right?
  
  I was never able to understand if a mission that I did once would appear again, so I never knew 
 if I had complete or not all the side missions.
  
  Another thing I can't support is when you go for example on a mission to rescue a client, and you 
 find it, you walk toward him and he runs. What the hell? Sometimes it's like 2 mins to finally 
 save the client, because he keeps running!
  
  I don't really know whether I recommend it, or not. It depends on your time of "aura". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nozizaki
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best pokemon game out to date. This game does just about everything the first, 
 did not. First off this game has a very good, long and NOT boring story. The main story should 
 last about 15-25 hours, and gets very exciting and unpredictable. 
  There are numerous cliff hangers that will shock and suprise many. The graphics are displayed very 
 good, and are better than usual for DS. And the soundtrack is excellent, and the game would feel 
 wrong with out it. This game isn't just for pokemon fans, but all Action, Advernture, or RPG lovers. 
 You will love this game. One of the only game's that is actually worth $35
  
  The only bad things are:
  Not being able to pick your pokemon
  Limit up to 4 pokemon in dungeon
 
  
  WARNING:
  This game has an emotional ending (This may make you cry) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  The top is true. However, this game is challenging and does (once again let me say) take time and 
 patience.
  
  You need time (Funny, that's the name of the game) because it is a long game and if you die you 
 start the day over until you get it right. Which has aggravated me a lot. 
  
  You need patience for the same reason, so you don't end up throwing your DS (mine survived it and 
 I don't treat it like that anymore because I bought it with my money, forget the rant) . However, 
 if you want to pay another $126 on a DS go ahead, I'm not stopping you. I just can't pay that much. 
 So, anyway...
  
  The game has a lot to offer as long as you have the time and patience for it. 
  
  If you can 
 handle that, go ahead and buy it. If you can't rent it and see, then you won't be totally disappointed 
 if you're that kind of person, okay? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowchronicle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  This game is described as easy. I'd woudn't say that this the game people want nor not want. Well 
 some people just play it because it has something to do with pokemon. All I like is getting more 
 powerful each time i like the leveling up system and I like TM and all the other stuff. The graphics 
 are good for a nintendo ds but a nintendo ds doesn't have very good graphics. But it makes sense 
 to make it on the nintendo ds. I like how the story is but it seems someone like me could make 
 that story up. Music is fine. The game is good but the game has a few missing pieces to put in. 
 I think they should of spent more time on the game. But instead of pokemon dungeon try pokemon 
 pearl or diamond they amke a big difference. Beating the bosses in the game is easy the only problem 
 is getting to the bosses.
  Overrall score- 8
  Happy early new years for 2009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmmachine11
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has a okay story line that continues after you beat primal dialga. But i have the game 
 and I dont think its all that great, i beat the game inless then 3 days and found it very boring 
 after you beat it, I would rather it had awesome multiplayer fetures witch it did not, instead 
 you could recieve/send wonder mail, send/recieve items, send/recieve teams and send/recieve missions, 
 the game has horible graphics butt most pokemon games do, not like the wii and gamecube ones! anyways 
 to the point: this game is a Adventure/Rpg styled game, pokemon fans would probraly not be amazed 
 by it, exiting at first and then.... BORING!!!! so I think the game as a 6.0 and is not the best 
 choice of a pokemon game at the store, so please dont get mad at me if, you like the game, i used 
 to be a pokemon fan myself when i got it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lizzledpink
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  As a constant player in the Pokemon world throughout the years, I have to say that this game is 
 extremely underrated. Mediocre? Come on! What do you expect from this game anyway? The precision 
 of a first-person shooting game? Hardly. This game lives up to what it tried to be, and goes just 
 a bit beyond it too.
  
  I'm not here to explain the gameplay. I'm here to review it. Don't expect an explanation of what 
 dungeons are; read the official reviews for that...
  
  First, the difficulty. I've marked it as just right, not because its just right, but because this 
 game will challenge anybody perfectly. The difficulty level fluctuates from dungeon to dungeon. 
 Some dungeons are depressingly easy (but fittingly so for their position in the plotline,) while 
 others are nearly impossible to beat, bringing even the best players to frustration at times. 
 
  
  But unlike most reviewers here, I don't think this is a bad thing. After the end of the plotline, 
 you can continue to play, to challenge yourself and become better at your own pace. The ranking 
 system accurately represents the difficulties of jobs, once you understand it. If you're a player 
 who wants to play it safe, you can do a whole bunch of level "S" missions, or you could go all-out 
 and take on a star-8 rescue in Zero Island - I wish you luck. So the difficulty, for the most part, 
 is exactly where you want it to be. And if you want it to be lower? Just train a while. It's a 
 very simple but effective way of regulating things. Any gamer, young or old, could play this game.
 
  
  Now, the dungeons. I've heard it all - boring, repetitive, obvious... The trick with the game is 
 not to dwell on that. This game is what you make it. If you want it to be mediocre, it will appear 
 mediocre. But if you look at each dungeon as a fresh challenge, it gets more interesting. Sure, 
 it's easy to locate the stairs and move to the next level quickly. And yes. That is boring. But 
 what if you give yourself a goal? Try to find every single item on the map before you continue 
 on. Suddenly the difficulty multiplies, and things are more interesting. Just playing through is 
 okay, but you can have a blast and play for hours on end if you play the perfectionist way.
  
  The plot! Oh, the wonderful plot. First, I didn't expect much, of course. This IS a Pokemon 
 game, and it's more about strategy than plot. But! Time and Darkness took me by surprise. Try playing 
 the previous versions, Red and Blue rescue team, and you will without a doubt see what I mean, 
 but you probably will without even playing its predecessors. 
  
  The plot takes a new twist in the game. In the previous game it was a calamity approaching, and 
 action needed to be taken before the world was destroyed. Been there, done that... But this game 
 takes a different approach. In this game, your human life actually had a purpose. There is a genuine 
 reason for your change into a Pokemon. There are unforeseen allies, there are betrayals, there 
 are places you never thought the game would dare go. Playing through with no knowledge of what 
 is to come, many twists will surprise you. Some won't. But it's enough to satisfy. The characters 
 have personalities that will send you every which way. You might even be looking forward to whatever 
 happens next!
  
  The only complaint in the plot? You can't evolve your starter Pokemon or your partner until the 
 end of the second, almost unnecessary portion of the plot. By then, you're about level sixty or 
 so. Yeesh. Thank goodness Electivire lets you remember old moves for free, or I'd shudder at the 
 lost opportunities.
  
  Gameplay? Not much to say. It's Pokemon, in the mystery dungeon format. It takes some time to get 
 used to, but it is just as strategic as any normal Pokemon game. The only exception is EVs - there 
 are none, sadly. Still, the items are interesting. There are many different strategies to consider 
 as you work your way through the dungeons. Have fun!
  
  The graphics are the graphics. 2D, unimpressive, but satisfying enough, and they get the point 
 across. I can tell a Charmander from a Charmeleon, and they're pretty good-looking sprites, too. 
 
  
  I think I've covered just about anything. I give this game a solid 9.0 for doing exactly what it 
 wanted to and for making itself a game that anybody could play, if they give it a chance. Try it, 
 and be patient. You might end up with a new favorite game, if you play it with an open mind.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I love this game. If you are a pokemon fan and looking for a great game, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Explorers of Time/Darkness is the way to go. This is not just a regular pokemon game. In this game 
 you have to explore, rescue, and even catch criminals in randomly generated dungeons. No two dungeons 
 are the same so that evens adds to the fun. It has a great storyline even with some sad moments 
 that may make you weep a little. The many boss battles are great fun too and can pretty hard like 
 Dialga/Palkia. If you already have the first game (Blue/Red) and you're looking for a good sequel 
 than, please, get the game. The attacking can be much funner than most pokemon games because you 
 can actually see your character (or any other pokemon) move around to do any attack. Like the attack 
 slash for instance, the pokemon who does this attack moves around his arm a bit making it look 
 pretty cool. So, again, if your looking for a good, different pokemon game, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Explorers of Time/ Darkness is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexander146
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon 2 is quite different from most Pokemon games, but by no means does that 
 make it a bad game. In fact, it is one of the most fun RPGs on the DS.
  
  Story: I'll be frank, I wasn't too keen on MD1's story due do it's semi-bland simplicity. Luckily, 
 Chunsoft got the right idea and made a plot for the sequel that is surprisingly deep and well thought 
 out. It starts as a standard rescue-oops, I mean EXPLORATION team, but soon becomes much more.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics here are pretty slick. Each and every Pokemon is rendered in very nice 2D 
 images. The enviroment graphics are no slouches either.
  
  Gameplay: If you've played a Mystery Dungeon-esque game before, you know what to expect. If not, 
 all major actions such as moving and attacking are turnbased for you and your enemies. The Dungeons 
 you go through are randomly generated, and always provide a new experience. Still, some players 
 may be put off by the fact that the normally-light difficulty spikes suddenly in the second-to-last 
 main story dungeon and onwards.
  
  Still, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is an overall fun game that no one should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbybunny
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  After the last Pokemon Mystery dungeons the story really got to me and I had thoughts of my own. 
 Now a new one comes along with a brand new story that makes me want to see it over and over. It 
 may get weird and your partner strange, but lack the strife that it has to conquer the dungeon 
 and save the world from distortion and chaos. Last time I played it I was really surprised how 
 the story slowly went along with you and your partner. I like the new power you have "but, can't 
 use as you please." It really sticks to you and your imagination if you use yours "I hope." This 
 was a brand new twist to the Pokemon Mystery dungeon series I ever saw especially the episode I 
 saw as well. Team Explorers still go about discovering new places and discovering my past. I hope 
 others get the game if they played the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gustavos4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time. Explorers of Darkness is pretty much the same game to 
 my understanding. It's predecessor, Mystery Dungeon Red/Blue Rescue Team, was pretty good. A fresh 
 breathe of air from the regular Pokemon formula that you may be used to. What if you woke up one 
 day, to find that you're a Pokemon who can't remember anything?
  
  While I was hoping numerous things would be changed for the better, to make the game less disappointing 
 in the end, I got slapped across the face when I beat this game. You're left with no motivation 
 to continue through the boring dungeons. Catching the legendarys is pretty cool, but not too fun.
 
  
  The dungeons are longer (it would seem) , and it feels like the same things over and over. The story 
 is good with the twists, but very predictable and long to get to the point. The ending wasn't nearly 
 as powerful, and the game just isn't worth playing again. And you can't evolve yourself? I put 
 down the game and never picked it up after that point. If you've never played either games, I'd 
 suggest Rescue Team as your fresh air.
  
  Extra Comments: I'm serious. Rescue Team is more enjoyable, a more original plot, and the ending 
 made me cry a little. 
  
  I'm really not looking forward to the next game in the series, but if they allow more pokemon per 
 team, a more heartfelt story, and have no more slaps across the face, and a few more delightful 
 suprises, I may be able to overlook this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNewKidNoFace
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time is one of THE greatest games I've played, it's fun not 
 hard but not too easy. The only difficult thing is when you don't level yourself up enough or you 
 steal from a keckleon or you're fighting a high level boss, otherwise its not too hard. I own this 
 game and have wrapped it except for getting every guy that's hard, and I'd say that this game is 
 one of the funnest games for DS. I'd say the dungeon length is better than the first instead of 
 lots of dungeons being 99 floors, there are only two or three dungeons with that length. The hardest 
 thing in this game is collecting every character in the game, there is one guy you can never get 
 not even through wonder mail, Mewtwo. Keckleon is the hardest guy to defeat and thereforth is the 
 hardest pokemon to recruit, even through cheating (I have an Action Replay DS and a code for invincibility 
 and still haven't recruited him even with an Amber Tear, Golden mask or Friend Bow) . This is a 
 great game for people who like pokemon games and/or Adventure games. You may have a tough time 
 collecting recruits, but the story mode should be just fine, not too hard. AGAIN THE BEST GAME 
 FOR NINTENDO DS I'VE EVER PLAYED and probably YOU'LL EVER PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MageofBlood391
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  "Pi! Pika-pika-pi-ka-pika! Pi-pi-kaCHUUU!!!!"
  
  Ever wondered what that means? ... Yeah, me neither, but for those of us who are, let's say "different," 
 enough to wonder, here's your chance to find out. See, not only do those cute little guys (or not 
 so cute, in some cases. Yes, I'm looking at you, Groudon.) love to fight, breed, and compete in 
 beauty competitions, but they apparently also like to group together to save the world. Who'da 
 thunk it?
  
  In Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time for the Nintendo DS, you'll play as the typical guy 
 who goes around collecting Pokemon for use to beat down other Pokemon, collecting money and items, 
 and even dresses his awesome little Piplup up with scarves and things. Well, I guess you aren't 
 a completely typical guy, as most "typical guys" are, well, human. See, in Mystery Dungeon, you 
 take the roll of a Pokemon and go around searching through dungeons to do everything from rescuing 
 lost Pokemon to delivering packages to being a tour guide / body guard. Kind of an odd twist to 
 the ever popular Pokemon franchise, in all honesty, but it sure worked out.
  
  As the game starts out, you have to answer a series of questions to determine what you're Nature 
 is, which affects what Pokemon you become. For instance, a male docile nature will yield you a 
 Charmander, while you'll get to be Pikachu if you prove to be male and brave. After you find out 
 what Pokemon you'll become, you have to press your finger (or stylus, whatever you want) onto the 
 touch screen, and hold it down for a few seconds. That'll decide what color your Aura is. Without 
 spoiling a (rather simple) puzzle, I can't go into too much detail what your aura color affects, 
 but it doesn't really matter too much. Just remember to not forget what yours is.
  
  Finally, you're done, and you can actually play the game. Or not. Why does every game have to 
 have a twenty minute opening cut scene? Seriously, I'm getting tired of having to leave before 
 I can get anything out of the game I just paid upwards of thirty dollars for. Oh well, whatever. 
 Anyway, you'll quickly see your partner Pokemon (which you get to choose after getting your nature) 
 on the beach, watching the sunset and taking the absolutely stunning sight of the Krabby making 
 bubbles, which refract the sunlight. It's truly a peaceful sight indeed, at least for a game with 
 DS graphics. Your partner is walking along the beach when he sees something shocking; there's a 
 Pokemon passed out on the beach! Being the nice fellow he is, he'll quickly run over to see if 
 there's anything he can do to save the poor soul. Fortunately, the Pokemon is just fine, at least 
 for the most part. Apparently, it has totally lost its memory, save for its name and the memory 
 that it was once a human. Not exactly something you see every day, even in a world full of talking 
 birds and turtles.
  
  Of course, it's starting to get late, and there's really nothing more that the two new-found buddies 
 can do on the beach, so they start to head over to your partner's house when tragedy strikes. A 
 Koffing and a Zubat come and steal your partner's prized treasure, his Relic Stone, thinking that 
 it should be worth something! The nerve of these Pokemon nowadays, picking on weak little kids. 
 They should be ashamed. But, of course they're not, and they rush off with the Relic Stone. Your 
 partner almost breaks down into tears over the loss of it, so you agree to help get it back. Without 
 knowing it, an inseparable pair, as well as a great rescue team, has just been formed
  
  Time is a fairly normal dungeon crawler. For most of the main game, you'll be progressing through 
 randomly created dungeons with the intent of getting to the end and defeating the boss. You also 
 have the option of accepting missions that range from rescuing KOed Pokemon to capturing criminals 
 for Officer Magnezone. As you complete more missions, your Rank will go up, which results in various 
 rewards, but usually increases storage space for items. Speaking of items, there's a vast, vast 
 range of stuff to use. Need some quick HP? Eat an Oran Berry. Want to put that annoying boss in 
 its place? Just throw a Sleep Seed at it and beat the crap out of it until it's, well, permanently 
 asleep.
  
  Once you get far enough into the story of the game, you'll be able to get new recruits to your 
 team to aid you in your travels, and use them in addition to the basic pair of you and your partner. 
 You can have up to four Pokemon in a party at the same time, but you can still recruit Pokemon 
 even when your party is full; they simply go back to your rescue guild's home base to await being 
 used on a latter day.
  
  As to be expected from a Pokemon game, you'll be putting quite a bit of time (no pun intended, 
 of course) into playing Mystery Dungeon. With a main story that'll last you just about twenty hours, 
 and then quite a lot of post-game content, it'll be quite a while before you're done with this. 
 Nintendo really has gone overboard with the amount of Pokemon nowadays. Yes, I realize that it's 
 not necessarily a bad thing, but how exactly are we supposed to catch 'em all? Oh well, at least 
 there's plenty of motivation to pick the game back up again on a plane trip or long car ride.
 
  
  There are no EVs or such in the Mystery Dungeon games, so you're free to just go and train on whatever 
 you like, which is most certainly an improvement from having to spend hours on end perfectly breeding 
 and training your Adamant Scyther with 31 Attack and Speed IVs. However, by not having the option 
 to do so, you do lose a lot of play time, and while some would rather spend their time perfecting 
 a competitive team, I'm all but overjoyed to see that my time can actually go to playing the game, 
 instead of preparing to.
  
  One of the better aspects of Mystery Dungeon is that, when you've reached your limit and been KOed 
 in a dungeon, you've the option to send out what is called an SOS code. There's multiple ways that 
 you can send and receive these SOS codes, through a password that you can, say, post here on GameFAQs 
 for other users to see, through your Friend Roster on Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, or through close 
 range DS to DS Wireless Communication, but the rescuer will always have to go through the dungeon 
 and reach the floor and location that the rescuee was KOed at. Once the rescuer gets there, the 
 rescuee can be revived with all of the money and items he had when he was KOed (you normally lose 
 all items and money when you die) . Of course, even Pokemon aren't friendly enough to go save people 
 out of the sheer kindness of their hearts, the rescuer will receive points that go onto their Rank 
 and possibly a reward for their rescue expedition. Even in a game so many people would call "childish," 
 money influences everything. Welcome to the real world, kids.
  
  While it may not be the absolute greatest game for the DS, you'll definitely want to pick up either 
 the Time or Darkness version of Pokemon Mystery Dungeon; they're literally the same game anyway. 
 Just get whichever version's box art you like better; Darkness has Bidoof while Time has Piplup. 
 It truly is a hard life, being a gamer; decision after decision after decision, whatever will we 
 do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogloe
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The first Mystery Dungeon I'll have to admit was a lot better then I expected. A good story and 
 unique gameplay. I thought it was a good turn from the original pokemon. So I decided to buy this 
 games in hope of a newer and better adventure.
  
  Now this game is still fun. However I feel that it is almost the same thing. It contains a lot 
 of the same things. A quiz, a main character with a hidden past and a team with a dream. But it 
 is all so alike to the first one. The battle style hasn't changed a bit. Use your team to duke 
 it out with evil or confused pokemon. Eventually you'll be able to recruit them. 
  
  However despite the same gameplay you will see decent story line. At first it's not much but with 
 a ironic betrayal you'll find yourself in a heap of trouble having to do with the magical time 
 gears.
  
  Ultimately this game is a little longer and better then it's predecessor. So if you liked the first 
 one then give this one a go. But if you're looking for a good game to play then I would look into 
 it first. So this is why I gave it a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ushotdead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Long Story
  -Intersting Story
  -Tons of stuff to do (missions, outlaws etc.)
  -you can recuit 491 Pokemon! 
  -interesting wifi 
 features
  
  The Bad:
  -dungeons graphics are a little bland
  -you can only control one pokemon throughout the game
  -Monster Houses are a pain
  
  Graphics: 
 7
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 7 
  Value: 9
  
  
  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time/Darkness, are 2 great games.
  It has a good story, 
 a long one, tons of stuff to do, including capturing outlaws, rescuing stranded pokemon and more, even 
 after you're done the main story, there's a ton of stuff to do, there's a post story that will 
 take you at least 5 hours, after you have already completed the 20 hour or so story. You can recruit 
 33 legendaires, in each game, the only ones you can't get are shaymin, and arceus (you can now 
 get mewtwo in time, and celebi in darkness, because there is a new wifi option) . Every Pokemon 
 is recruitable, so if you hav a favourite one, it's in this game, and you can recruit it. The only 
 problem is that you can only control 1 pokemon throughout the whole game, which is really annoying, 
 like when you battle, you can only control 1 pokemon. Monster houses are totally ridiculos, sometimes, 
 when you walk into a room, 20 pokemon fall from the sky, and you have to beat ALL OF THEM! I have 
 no idea why they have that in this game, becuase they get 20 turns, and then you get 1, and its 
 absolutely ridicolous but its not enough of a downfall to take away from the fun of this game, 
 it really just means, turn off your ds and try the dungeon again and hope you don't get a monster 
 house, and luckily, you only get them every 3-5 times.
  The Story is about a boy/girl, who is a pokemon (you take a test and see which of 16 you get) , 
 that remembers they're a human, but for some reason they're a pokemon, and you have a partner, 
 (of your choice of 16) , that wants to form a exploration team, and that has a relic fragment, that 
 has no idea what it is. So you guys form an exploration team, and then as your dong your jobs, 
 you find out that someones stealing time gears, and when one is stolen, time stops there, and then 
 thats when the story really takes off and becomes so great, that you never know whats going to 
 happen next . 
  There are dozens of dungeons for you to explore, and they all have different feels, like ice, forest 
 etc., but inside the dungeons the graphics are mostly pretty boring, but that doesnt really matter 
 too much.
  The sound is mostly just a couple of the same battle hit sounds, when you hit the enemy it makes 
 the sound. So the sound for that part is pretty bad, but the music is actually pretty good, not 
 too catchy, but it usually fits the mood of the dungeon or battle.
  The value of this game is just enormous though, because there's the main story, that will take 
 you from 20-30 hours, and then theres another story after that which will take you about 10 hours. 
 And then theres ranking up, i think theres about 8 ranks, and you rank up by doing missions, you 
 get a certain amount of points for doing missions, and getting enough lets you rank up. and you're 
 free to try to get up through the ranks, recruit legendaries, rescue people over wifi, or many 
 other things to do. So if you want to beat the stories, recruit legendaries, get to master rank, 
 recruit any other pokemon you want , and help rescue other people over wifi, then you can be playing 
 this game around 60-80 hours to complete. And then theres always leveling up , and you can never 
 stop rescuing people, and if you wanted to recruit EVERY pokemon ever, then that will take you 
 at least 30 hours, so in other words, you can be playing this game for over 100 hours.
  So in the end, I think this game is an absolute MUST buy, for pokemon fans, rpg lovers, and dungeon 
 crawlers alike.
  This game gets about a 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwi1610
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I always think sequels are better than there first dont know why just are to me well back to the 
 game this is deffinitly better than mystery dungeon 1 rescue teams in this story the beging is 
 similar theres a thunder storm you here voices (not litterally lol) then you wind up on a beach 
 as a pokemon i dont want to give anything away but it is worth buying in the uk only 24.99 at 
 sainsburys where i come from i dont know about anywhere else 
  
  Items are the same a few new ones they also hav the pokemon from pokemon diamond and paerl (probally 
 spelt um wrong my spellin is very poor lol) the dungeons change evry time u go in them thats a 
 small warning so dont waste time by triyin to rember the routes like i tried dose not work i gave 
 this a ten mostly because i like most pokemon games
  
  
  by people
  
  Kiwi1610 Out
  lol
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmjkl22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awsome get it now and read this review later but then come back to it. you start 
 of as human that turned into to a pokemon and remembers nothing of his past. And then a pokemon 
 finds you k. o'ed and helps you and I don't want to spoil it so............ the only thing bad is 
 that the bosses are pretty hard but you sould still get his game and its one of the best games 
 to date on the DS!!!!!!! get it now! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  In the game you start off on a beach where you are lying there and the pokemon you are and your 
 partner wakes you up and Koffing and Zubat steal ancient Relic. You go inside Beach Cave and you 
 get the Relic back you two go to the Wigglytuff club and you two become a Rescue Squad and that 
 is where your adventure starts. You can recruit some wild pokemon in the game and let them join 
 your Rescue Squad.
  
  The good of the game is that it isn't like any other Pokemon game like before.
  
  The bad of 
 the game is that it gets boring real fast.
  
  Overall I rate this game 7.0 outta 10. I think you should think about getting this game because 
 it is pretty  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPA_GLUSTEE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Very underated. how did it get a 6.5?. Far better that the first one. And I like it how you can 
 do less to get more story rather than the first one were there was to many 99 lv dungeons and it 
 was to hard. and because it was a part of the story line you had a sence that you had to do it. 
 And this time its all optoinal!. A very good game with a rewarding story. that provides some touching 
 moments (even for some teens!) . and the story seems to never end even after the game. But it still 
 has a few problems but you'll see the good parts shine through THE GAME NEVER ENDS!!!!!!!! really 
 it dosent. And unlike some games this dosent seem to get any more boring!. Not to mention the replay 
 abillity and the power to start a new game!. One of the best games on DS and highly recomened.
 
  
  I guess another underated game for the DS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderZX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  So like the last Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Game you start out taking a test to determin what 16 Pokemon 
 your going to play as in your journey. So after you take the test you will be shown some stuff 
 and then you will wake up realizing that you have lost your memory. The Pokemon you chose as a 
 Partner will come and wake you up and ask your help, you of course say yes and your journey Begins! 
 
  
  Gameplay: They game play in this game is turn based but the trick is nothing happens untill you 
 move or use an Item, so you could sit there for hours and hours without moving and nothing would 
 happen. So when an enemy Pokemon walks up to you you want him to waste his turn coming to you so 
 you can attack first, now this is when it gets to be like a normal Pokemon game, you attack he 
 attacks intill the battle ends but there is no sequence when you go into battle. Now this may seem 
 like it get's old rather fast it doesn't, because you can have 10 or even at times 20 Pokemon soming 
 at you at once! 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are so-so like it's Milk but not quite a milk shake no what I mean? I mean 
 it's nothing to fancy they are just ok. But they are still good enough to add something to the 
 game. Your Charcaters are doing alot more movement than the first one, they pull, they eat, cheer, 
 and when there shocked there isn't just a face and plus when they get scared it looks good.
  
  Sound: Well the good thing is that the only thing that sreams at the start of the battle are 
 Legendaries, so there are no cries in a normal circumstance. 
  The music isn't that outstanding you wouldn/t mind no sound when your in a dungeon, but there is 
 a awsome special effect that you hear often that you want to turn your volume to max.
  
  This game is a must buy for anybody who liked the first one, and for all those people they have 
 massivly Inproved features in the game that frusterated people in the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Usually a successful trademark will have a variety of satellite products. These spin-off normally 
 introduce several variations to the original. This is exactly the case of Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. Though 
 far below the level of orthodox versions, the appearance of Red/ Blue Rescue Team by Chunsoft in 
 2006 might be consider a success to some extent. Therefore, the firm continues this approach with 
 the newest game for NDS with the name Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time / Darkness (PMD) .
 
  
  The story in PMD starts with you, the leading character, drifting to a Pokemon island after a strange 
 sea storm. Surprised to see yourself transformed into a Pokemon, you have no choice but to make 
 friends with some others of your kind and finally form a team to participate in Wigglytuff Guild. 
 Your motive, of course, is to explore the surrounding caverns to discover the reason of your transformation. 
 However, during this, another secret is gradually revealed: the Time Gear - a mysterious object 
 with the ability to control the time flow and cover the planet with darkness. Unfortunately, there 
 are others who also knows about this artifact. And then you start a rival stretching over the past, 
 the present and the future against many other powerful foes, including legendary pokemons, to save 
 the peace of this world and discover your own secret. An interesting plot with many surprising 
 turning-points awaits.
  
  Despite the absorbing story, you can not help feeling deja vu since game play of PMD really lacks 
 innovation. As usual there are some questions preceding the adventure and by answering this, you 
 will be assigned a proper representative pokemon among the familiar ones such as Pikachu, Charmander 
 hay Meowth... You can also choose another as your companion for the following incidents. Afterward 
 PMD quickly leads you to discovering the caverns. Semi turn-based Role playing rules continue to 
 be applied when players can move freely and the battle begins on encountering hostile monsters. 
 Everything must be done in turn, from running around the opponents to fleeing or attacking. Generally, 
 the feeling is more like pondering over a chess board than fighting a rapid-fire battle.
  
  A strong point of PMD is its various covern designs. Game provides a large number of caves, and 
 even in the same cave, the traps and layout will automatically change after each time you discover 
 it. At first, you can not change your companion, but later it's possible to choose one of the tamed 
 pokemon to travel with. Thanks to the huge number of Pokemons, most of which are typical for this 
 series, you will have to spend a considerable amount of time to tame and select a satisfactory 
 assistant. The difference between Explorers of Time and Explorers of Darkness is still some exclusive 
 pokemons that only appear in one version but not the other. However, you can exchange them with 
 other players through Wonder Mail.
  
  If your team is defeated in a covern, all your gold plus half of the equipments will be lost. However, 
 game provides several useful features helping you avoid such a loss. Every time you lose a battle, 
 it's possible to send a SOS message to your friend through Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection or Wii Message 
 Board and wait for rescue. During this time, you can return to the cave to loot items but can't 
 gain more experience through battle. It's the most considerable addition to game play.
  
  Besides familiar game play, control, graphics and sound in this version are also ... too familiar. 
 Though controlling character through touch pad is executed, it proves to be so inconvenient that 
 you will sooner or later return to traditional control with buttons. PMD still uses many bright, 
 spectacular colors but its graphics does not look better than a GBA game. Sound part does its job, 
 but not impressive. If you compare these factors with the nearest orthodox version for NDS: Pokemon 
 Diamond/ Pearl, it is easy to understand why this is just a spin-off.
  
  So yeah, it's an average game on NDS, or call mediocre if you like to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongebobsq4000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is much longer than the Blue Rescue Team and this game challenges you and basically I 
 like a good challenge. The friend areas I really hate, thank goodness they took it out and that's 
 why my score is much higher than expected. It has an interesting storyline for example going to 
 the expedition and going to the future world while you realize it's all dark and all interesting 
 things appear and at the end where you vs the guild. A challenge that was. All I just have to say 
 about this is great, fantastic, a great challenge of this game. Blue Rescue Team was way too easy 
 and this game is interesting so if anyone would buy the game, I recommend anyone to get it because 
 it's one of the most coolest game on the planet. Cool scenery, interesting looking dungeons and 
 the bosses, way out of this world. Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderball37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  My reason why it's harder is the fact that I got owned by the COM 167 more times than the original 
 rescue team. Don't be calling me a noob for that! It's just my elemental choice that kinda wrecked 
 me. In fact the story was longer than the oringinal more slection of rare pokemon to recruit and 
 more items than usual. The Com's are smarter and harder, the story line does affect your feelings 
 a litle bit (It actually made me cry a flood!) , It's also fun for lmost any age except people 18+. 
 The dungeos are rougher because you are more likely to run into a monster house. There are more 
 tactics that you can choose from and aren't limited to how many tactics you canuse at once! Despite 
 the criticisum yes hey coulde make the story longer and that's all the negativity I have to say. 
 Everything else is a huge improvement to me. The fact that it's like a copy of the original rescue 
 team, that's normal for Pokemon, that's like saying you all hate the other versions of pokemon 
 except, Yellow, blue, and red. ill leave that question for the critics to think about and That's 
 all ill say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEfan555
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. It is the best Pokemon game ever. There aren't 
 many games that compare to this ones. I'm currently on my Second play through of this game, and 
 I won't be surprised if I play a third time or even more.
  
  Pros
  1. Great Story!!!
  2. The constantly changing dungeons make a different experience every time you play.
  3. 16 starting 
 Pokemon to choose from. (even though you have to take a quiz to find out which one you will be, 
 but you can find the answers on the internet or in a strategy guide if you want a certain Pokemon)
 
  4. Hours of game play, plus re-playability 
  5. It's difficulty level isn't too hard or too easy.
  6. There is the main story and a post ending 
 story. Which gives you a story and other things to do once you have beaten the game.
  7. It's just fun
  
  Cons
  1. Can't evolve Pokemon until you beat the main story line. 
 
  
  This is a game that is HIGHLY under appreciated and has an amazing story. I wasn't sure how the 
 game would be when I bought it. But it was one of the best games I have ever played. BUY THIS GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omaranty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  pokemon mystery dongeon explorers of time is really fun and a bit of a strategy game the most disapointing 
 thing is that come on people its the twenty first century and we're still using text instead of 
 real actual talking.
  
  
  
  
  other than that I really enjoyed this game as an RPG and strategy game.
  alot of people say you 
 have to be a pokefan to enjoy this game well thats not true any RPG fan will love this game sure 
 I'm a pokefan and i liked this but if you have a ds and you're looking for a great RPG game that 
 will keep you playing for hours just to find out the flow of the story .
  
  oh and did I mention this game story is really interesting it'll make you keep playing.
  
  
 
  check your cash got enough go buy it. thats my opinion on pokemon mystery dogeon explorers of time 
 .
  score:9.0
  till next time gamer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooboogoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  The graphics are some of the best yet and the feature of switching the teams from ds to ds is very 
 easy now since both games are on the ds. The most fun feature is the fact that you can earn all 
 482 + 8 pokemon minus darkrai, shaymin and the other guy. There are 53 dungeons plus 8 secret dungeons. 
 For long time poke fans like me, this was a turnaround with no trainers nor pokeballs. The game 
 had weird and inventive items that were fun to play around with. Overall the game was excellent. 
 Some of the mazes in the dojo were screwed up and the fact that the final maze is as hard as crap. 
 Now most of you would say that all pokemon games are crap, but they are so not crappy. Some have 
 stayed with the series since it's beginning in 1996! Okay, so it's not like pikachu beats mario 
 or link or kirby, but he still holds his place in brawl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eherosparkman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Pokemon games. I enjoyed red and blue, up to gold and silver, so on and so fourth. 
 But when the rescue team games came out, it was a big hype.
  I really liked the first ones, but when i heard they werre createing number two, i was all for 
 it!
  There are simple parts in the game that are quite obvious. Som parts on the other hand are REALLY 
 hard. I was on the final battle with Dialga for a few days! It was pretty darn tough. I never had 
 a chance to really hurt him cause of roar of time! I finished him and got to Darkrai. I'm still 
 stuck on him. The problem is, My starter was grass, and Darkrai's dungeon was fire!
  I really think thats kind of cheap! My partner has to do 80% of the work, cause its a piplup. Whenever 
 i decide to fight, i have to find a Rypherior to use Giga Drain on! Lol. This is another review 
 by Eherosparkman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchgun
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I passed the main story in two days, not because it was short but because I enjoyed playing this 
 game which in my opinion is one of the best games I have played in a 3-4 years and I'm still playing 
 it now even though I have already finished. You don't get to pick the Pokemon you want to be (obviously) 
 I got squirtle & charmander. This is a great game that many people should enjoy I should even recommend 
 it to some of my friends which I will soon. Anyway, it is hard to recruit some types of Pokemon than 
 others which makes it funner and after every few levels you learn a new move. You can choose th 
 behavior of your Pokemon recruits like to go and attack every other Pokemon in the dungeon or to 
 follow you. If you don't agree with this review fine it's just an opinion but if you do, well thanks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w20046ps1
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is worth buying and lengthy enough to enjoy but i wish it to be more lengthier. The graphics 
 is good with average music, but it's not lengthy enough to fully enjoy. The game itself is slightly 
 repetitive but to me, it's like a reborn. I suggest this game to anyone with knowledge of Pokemon 
 and also to people who can appreciate this game. Small bag can challenged you and random dungeons 
 can surprise most novice gamers out there but it is easy to get used to if you put your head to 
 it. Just buy it now when you still can. Bottom line, buy it, but I really really wish it was way 
 more lengthier so we can play, enjoy and appreciate it more. Aside from all of this, it is a great 
 game to play so enjoy it, I just wish it to be longer. My best opinion would be that this is the 
 best mystery dungeon. All though this is a great game, odds are they won't make a third one, but 
 enjoy this new game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Back in 2006, Pokmon fanatics worldwide rejoiced at the thought of being able to leave their trainer 
 days behind and enter the real world of Pokmon in the first set of Mystery Dungeon titles. Upon 
 its release, I reviewed Blue Rescue Team, but was disappointed in the overall gameplay mechanics 
 as compared to other titles in the Pokmon universe.
  
  With the release of this new set of sequels, Explorers of Time and Explorers of Darkness, I am 
 happy to say that many of my complaints from the first game have been addressed here, even if some 
 smaller problems do take their place.
  
  Continuing in the theme of the last set of titles, Explorers of Time begins with a set of personality 
 questions that allows the game to ascertain which pokmon you are most comparable to. The game 
 then reads your aura in a clever "place your fingertip on the touch screen" mechanic and assigns 
 the appropriate pokmon to you. At first, I was assigned Meowth, a disappointing outcome, so I 
 reset the game and was happy to see that the set of personality questions had changed, leaving 
 me with a much more positive ending when assigned to be Squirtle, a turtle.
  
  After being assigned your playable character, you can choose your partner from a short list of 
 other characters. This time around, I chose Pikachu, the very mascot of the series. As in the last 
 set of titles, the pokmon type you choose to be your partner is just as important as the pokmon 
 type that you are assigned to be. For instance, I wouldn't have wanted to choose another water 
 type pokmon as my ally, as Squirtle can handle that job with ease. Instead, I chose an electric 
 type famous for his Thundershock ability that can paralyze most enemies in their tracks.
  
  The story finally begins when you are found passed out on a beach by your ally pokmon. You discover 
 that you were actually a human that has been transformed into a pokmon in a process that is not 
 yet clear. Your ally pokmon will be thrilled to find you alive, and will eventually proposition 
 you to join him/her in an Exploration Team.
  
  Housed by Wigglytuff's Guild, Exploration Teams are groups of pokmon that travel through the land's 
 various mystery dungeons answering calls for help from lost pokmon or simply to find money and 
 items. After naming your team, you will be assigned different jobs by the guild, most of which 
 are involuntary.
  
  This guild mechanic is one of the bigger changes from the original Mystery Dungeon. Now, instead 
 of being able to do whatever you want whenever you want, you are at first under the control of 
 Wigglytuff's Guild, making gameplay pretty linear for the first few hours. Also, by being under 
 control of a guild, any money you may receive during your outings goes straight to the guild, with 
 you receiving a mere 10% of the total earnings.
  
  On the flip side of that coin, however, the guild also breaks up the monotony of simple dungeon 
 crawling by adding in mini-games not found in the previous titles. For instance, early on you will 
 be assigned sentry duty, guarding the entrance of the guild. You stand underground, looking up 
 through a large grate on the surface that allows pokmon to stand on it without falling through. 
 While they stand on the grate, you will be shown their footprints and must identify the pokmon 
 by its print, by tapping on one of four choices on the touch screen. You will be graded accordingly 
 based on how long it took you to identify each pokmon and if you actually identified them correctly.
 
  
  As you progress, the overall story of the game shifts, when the world's time gears start coming 
 up missing. When time gears are stolen, time in each area literally stops, and it'll be up to you 
 to find the culprit and set things right.
  
  The affect on the flow of time has also resulted in an increase in "bad" pokmon found throughout 
 the region. Adding yet another new and positive feature to the game is the ability to track down 
 these bad pokmon and bring them to justice.
  
  While the overall gameplay may seem very linear, after a few hours you'll be given the task of 
 checking the notice boards for jobs and wanted notices, and can actually take on multiple jobs 
 without continuing the main storyline. You are not told, however, that you can let your story missions 
 wait, so this is something most players will have to find out for on their own.
  
  Battling is achieved through a basic dungeon-crawling mechanic. Each dungeon is a new, randomly 
 generated experience at every entry, keeping the game from being too predictable, but still not 
 breaking away from this oft-seen system. Battle is as turned based as a dungeon crawler can be, 
 with you and your allies taking turns attacking whatever pokmon you may have just wandered into. 
 Items and money are randomly scattered through the floors of each dungeon, but can be lost just 
 as quickly as they are gained if you happen to be defeated on a level.
  
  As fainting results in a loss of all money and up to half of your items, you will want to quickly 
 memorize the location of the bank in town. Since money is pretty easy to come by in the dungeons, 
 I often found myself entering dungeons with a zero balance, just so I didn't risk losing what I 
 had worked for so long to earn.
  
  Another aspect that returns in this sequel is the tummy meter, which shows how full your pokmon 
 are at any one point in time. By picking up apples and gummies, you can fill your tummy easily, 
 but, as in most other dungeon crawlers, having to keep track of such a thing is a waste of time, 
 in my opinion.
  
  One of the biggest positive changes found in this sequel is the fact that your treasure bag is 
 an ever-expanding item. Whereas in the previous game you were stuck with a set amount of item slots 
 (that seemed to fill far too quickly) , you will now be given extra space at random intervals throughout 
 the game. Even so, the item storage shop in town will still remain a large friend of yours, since 
 you will often come across items that you don't want to risk losing by fainting in the dungeons. 
 You will also want to take note of the item shop itself, which offers items like HP healers and 
 apples that keep both your life bar and tummy filled, respectively.
  
  Other returning features include the ability to randomly recruit pokmon that you defeat in the 
 dungeons, and the ability to take part in Wi-Fi rescue missions, where you can go and rescue a 
 friend who happened to pass out in a dungeon by answering their wireless call for help.
  
  Speaking of Wi-Fi, you can also use the system to trade jobs posted on the boards, and to trade 
 items and teams themselves. In this way, you will have a chance to receive the other game's exclusive 
 pokmon and rare items that may be quite common in the other game.
  
  On the more technical side of things, the graphics here are almost identical to the previous set 
 of titles, which is nice in that it provides a lot of continuity from one title to the next. The 
 pokmon are quite small, so intricate details are lacking, but the bright colors and shapes found 
 in the various environments add a bit of whimsy to the overall experience.
  
  The sound department also receives little in terms of an upgrade. Catchy little tunes do play throughout 
 the game, along with various pokmon sound effects, but they don't add anything absolutely necessary 
 to the title. Furthermore, since dialogue takes place through text boxes, it's just as easy to 
 play with the sound off as it is to play with it on.
  
  In the end, while the incredibly repetitive nature of the game might be enough to scare away older 
 players, the improvements seen in this sequel far outweigh the negatives that remain. And while 
 the Mystery Dungeon series is still not up to par with its Diamond and Pearl counterparts, this 
 set of titles does provide some nice filler in between releases of other trainer-filled outings. 
 As a whole, when choosing dungeon crawlers, you could do much worse.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pokemonexplorersoftime 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  You wake up on the beach as a pokemon, determined from a personality quiz, and find yourself in 
 a new place. After joining an explorer's guild, you and your parnter go on various missions through 
 various dungeons and locations, recuiting pokemon to help you and arresting outlaws to progress 
 the story. this game follows the "Dungeon Hack n' Slash" formula closely, though there is a surprising 
 amount of charming story that goes along with it.
  
  Gameplay 7- Going out on missions and dungeon crawling is what you will be doing most of the time 
 here, this by itself is fine, but when you die, you lose all the money you are carrying and up 
 to half of your items. You can send out a rescue mail over WFC and have someone come to the rescue. 
 Or if you dont have online, you will be restarting your DS an aweful lot.
  
  Graphics 8- Older style 2D, while good looking, the color palette becomes bland in the randomly 
 generated dungeons.
  
  Sound 7- The music has some charm and ring to it. There isnt much in the sound effects department.
 
  
  Fun Factor 6- The randomness of the dungeons is where this game falls short. In the later missions, 
 some rooms will have what are called Monster House (another reason to restart the game usually) , 
 where the whole room is full of enemies that spawn on you, these events are really tough to survive 
 unless your party is much higher level than the enemies. As long as you have good luck, the game 
 is fun, it just seems odd for a game aimed at younger players to have such punishing consequences 
 for defeat.
  
  Replay Value 7- Once you beat the game, there is more quests to do and story to see, if the interest 
 lasts that long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I never played any of the Pokemon games, but when I saw this I thought I would give it a try. I 
 ended up really enjoying it! I love interacting with the characters in town and the RPG aspect 
 in the dungeons. It offers plenty of fun via Wifi too, you can rescue people that have fallen in 
 the dungeon or get rescued if you fall yourself. The story is interesting as well I have to say. 
 To me it's kind of like Zelda RPG but cuter. I don't know why this game got such a low grade but 
 I think it's great and will be playing Pearl when I'm done with this. The music and graphics are 
 very good for the DS and it's pretty easy to learn how to play as well. Definitely try this game 
 if you like RPG's even if you don't know anything about Pokemon, you'll like them after you play 
 this 
  UPDATE TO MY REVIEW:
  I tried out Pearl and honestly was disappointed. I like the format of the Dungeon games much better. 
 I like being able to play hands on as the Pokemon characters and seeing the characters battle directly. 
 There is an order to where you have to go and not so many things going on that you can do which 
 makes the game a simple progress of start to finish. You also feel more of the Pokemon world, it's 
 just easier to get yourself immersed into the game. I just got Pokemon Team Blue because it's just 
 like this game, if you like Explorers of Time or Explorers of Darkness that is the next game you 
 should play if you haven't already but it isn't as good as this new Dungeon game. Exploreres of 
 time/darkness has tons of replay value with continued storylines after the game is over, wifi rescues, 
 and new lands to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun, and just like the last game, there is an equal balance of story, and 
 action. Although the storyline can be cumbersome at times, it gets you that much more into the 
 game. And the boss battles will have you either ripping your hair out, or doing a victory jig. 
 Now with different types of jobs, you can make the game difficult or easy depending on your choice. 
 And with 2 games, you can slightly control how your game progresses by changing which Pokemon you 
 can recruit. Unlike the last game, you start out in a training "Guild" where you live and train 
 until the end of the game. Many interesting things happen here, and it is usually the center of 
 game play until you beat the game. The game really just takes you inside and makes you feel what 
 your character is feeling. This game is a good choice for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is a complete anomoly, like the original Pokemon games. Pokemon takes one 
 of the most hardcore games, the Mystery Dungeon games, and morphs it with its complexity and attention 
 to detail into a highly accessable, easy to understand game without comprimising that depth.
  
  However, after playing several hours of this game (and being introduced to the brilliance of 
 Shiren the Wanderer) , the lack of a challenging and rewarding difficulty system ends up being it's 
 downfall as merely a "Shiren for Beginners" or a starting point for people who are interested in 
 Roguelikes, but don't want the brutal difficulty.
  
  The initial selection process is different: Like the previous game, you are asked numerous questions 
 to determine what type of Pokemon you will become. Each Pokemon has different abilities that when 
 you go through dungeons and gain EXP, you gain said abilities. With about 16 initial Pokemon to 
 start out with, the replayability in this alone is endless.
  
  The dungeon plays very similar to Shiren: Turns are done on a global scale. Such as this: you move, 
 everyone else in the dungeon moves as well as performs actions. This leads to some complicated 
 strategies forming with your allies, whom you can select and recruit through the various dungeons 
 as well.
  
  There are two problems with this game: One being that the one thing that Pokemon is synomonous 
 for doesn't become available until after you finish the quest, which are evolutions. Evolutions 
 are a prime reason why Pokemon games are so satisfying and to deregulate that until the end (and 
 not allow your main avatar to evolve) is a sore disappointment.
  
  The other is mainly the fact that the game seems watered down. Sure, this game caters to a younger 
 set, but if Pokemon has taught us anything, brutally complex and deep strategy games can be given 
 to kids if the right license is put on it. The fact that they continue to dilute this game otherwise 
 seems contradictory to what Pokemon stands for.
  
  Otherwise, if you want to get into roguelikes, this is a fresh start. Otherwise, Izuna might be 
 better for some, but the overall best game to try is Shiren the Wanderer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhg53
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I got the game after it came out in the U. S. A and it is a fair game. I enjoyed Blue (the one for 
 the DS the came before it) so I thought I would give Time a try. I have not beat the story on it 
 but so far it is a good one. I will tell you this about the story you where a human that is now 
 a Pokemon with a cool "skill" and there are Pokemon from the future. The graphics are the same 
 but I don't care. There are new items and Pokemon and the way to get Pokemon is way better. You 
 can even have them join after a job but they are only level one in this way. You can also get eggs 
 after some missions which can help. Also with jobs you can explore new areas, simple missions from 
 the first games, and now capture outlaws. In the dungeons after a little bit you get box that you 
 can get items for only 150 coins a box. Over all the game is good and worth a try if you are a 
 hard core Pokemon gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Darkness/Time represent the latest incarnations of the fifteen 
 year old mystery dungeon series, which has once again been given the Pokemon treatment and offers 
 a few enhancements over last year's Blue/Red rescue team games. Players of the previous games will 
 see a lot of the same core gameplay here and can safely skip these next two paragraphs, for the 
 rest of you, you'll find that a lot happens when you mix two games in a bucket and stir, so please 
 read on.
  
  The Mystery dungeon series is based around the original 'Rogue' in which you simply went down the 
 floors of a dungeon and battle monsters in search of treasure, you've likely heard of 'Roguelikes', 
 a title given to these spinoff games that enhance on the original idea in so-many ways but stay 
 true to the core elements. One of the biggest characteristics of Rogue is the difficulty, and although 
 not as brutal as traditional Roguelikes, you'll be failing a lot while trying to play through Darkness/Time 
 and then you'll be failing some more. Since the dungeons you enter are generated at random each 
 time you visit, you can't take advantage of prior knowledge to reach the end and sometimes the 
 layouts will seem just darn right unfair when you encounter another of the Rouge features, the 
 'Monster House'. Throughout most of the game it'll be just you and a partner, and you'll likely 
 be facing just one or two enemies at a time, but the random 'Monster House' will throw a large 
 amount of monsters in the room with you, giving you little chance of survival, such is the burden 
 of the dungeoneer. If you believe you can get through the difficulty you'll find that the game 
 behind it all has a lot to offer, outside of the dungeons you have a storyline, people to talk 
 to, items to buy and a lot of things that make RPGs what they are. Your millage on the series greatly 
 hinges on your love for both Pokemon and/or Roguelikes, but the most interesting moments can be 
 seeing how your Pokemon behave in these new situations and environments.
  
  
  
  Most of the core Pokemon rules are here, you'll level up with experiences, eventually get the ability 
 to evolve, learn new moves with your levels (up to 4 as usual) , hold items, use PP, TMs and try 
 to build a selection of all available Pokemon. All these rules are merged so well with the Rogue 
 rules, it's like they were meant to be together, but just as the Pokemon rules are unfamiliar to 
 a Rogue fan, some of the additional rules here may take a little getting used to for the Pokemen 
 and Pokegirls. A few of the new things you'll find are; Having to keep your belly full on long 
 dungeon trips, only four Pokemon in a team at once, throwing items and a whole lot else, such as 
 the crazy shops in the middle of dangerous dungeons. You'll also find tweaks to the way that your 
 moves behave, some weaker moves have a lot more punch in the right situations and can really turn 
 the tide however having a powerful move that you can use only 5 times may not always be the best 
 choice when faced with 20 floors of danger. These moves can also be 'linked' allowing you to use 
 two moves in a single turn, giving you a quick one, two punch effect such as lowering your attackers 
 defense before delivering a quick slap to the face.
  
  The new features in Darkness/Time won't turn any heads and it definitely won't win over any new 
 fans, however the changes do improve over the previous games and are well worth mentioning. As 
 you'd expect you now have access to the full roster of Pokemon, that's a staggering 490 for those 
 of you keeping score, up from the 386 from the last adventure. All should be obtainable if you 
 have access to the alternate game (time - darkness) but before you ask, no you cannot in any way 
 transfer these across to Diamond/Pearl to boost your legendary collection, sorry! Of course you'll 
 have a new story to follow and dungeons to visit, but I'll go into that a little more later. The 
 last major feature is wi-fi support, which isn't all that surprising since many DS games have taken 
 this routes recently (Diamond/Pearl included) , the most surprising part of this is the email support, 
 yes email. Just like the previous games, when you inevitably fall in a dungeon you can request 
 help from another player, this was achieved before by posting a lengthy code up on a forum and 
 hoping someone would rescue you, now you can simply post it out through wi-fi for the world to 
 see or send it to friends (using friend codes) at which point your request will trigger an email 
 to be sent to their address. What this means is you could register your Wii number and be alerted 
 with a blue light, or my personal favorite is to have it sent to a cell phone where you'll receive 
 your friend's urgent plea for help while you're doing totally mundane day to day life, it's all 
 about synergy.
  
  
  
  One thing I wasn't expecting to stand out was the storyline, Pokemon games have always featured 
 a story that was purely functional and never anything that was stand-out memorable. The biggest 
 surprise here was that the storyline ended up having a lot more going on than I first gave it credit 
 for, it starts off very much like the previous games but ends up with a few surprises and a great 
 ending, it surely won't win any awards, however it'll have you fighting through the dungeons to 
 see what would happen next. The characters you meet are varied and all the townsfolk will be talking 
 about what's going on with dialog changing often, the most interesting character you'll meet is 
 your guildmaster Wigglytuff. This Pokemon must of evolved with a bad moonstone and you'll be constantly 
 wondering if his random singing and shouting of "Yoom-Ta!" is just a facade and if there's actually 
 a mastermind behind those glazed eyes, either way the sheer insanity of this Pink balloon puts 
 him in the same line as Minsc and HK47 in my book.
  
  
  
  Explorers of Time/Darkness isn't without faults, many non-persistent gamers will undoubtedly get 
 frustrated with the challenging difficulty, people who are easily disturbed by completely unfair 
 odds may quickly find themselves dropping the game early before finishing. Another minor shortcoming 
 is the menu system, epically related to the wi-fi which isn't very user friendly and streamlined, 
 options aren't in obvious places and you may find yourself repeatedly disconnecting and re-connecting 
 from wi-fi in order to get a few simple tasks done. That said, the wi-fi does work, but having 
 the options integrated into the actual gameplay rather than in a bunch of menus could of been a 
 better route to take. It's also surprising not to see any kind of Pokedex included, although this 
 does make sense since you aren't a trainer who has been given the task of cataloging every Pokemon, 
 but it does make life hard if you are trying to add all the Pokemon to your team.
  
  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time/Darkness isn't for everyone, in fact it isn't for most 
 people, it focuses on it's audience and doesn't add much to last years adventure. Fans of this 
 genre will find there's a lot of gaming to be had here with 20 chapters that will take a long time 
 to get through, followed by several extra missions that'll keep you playing after the main game 
 is completed and take your patience to a new level. With so many hours of gameplay and plenty to 
 do, I give Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time/Darknes 4 flaming monkey heads out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomeOddGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Many people may have remembered the previous titles Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Blue & Red Rescue Team 
 for being a short piece of work, and not liked very well at all... But this time, the tables have 
 turned for this title. Much more has been improved than just a couple minor things. While the gameplay 
 and concept may seem the same, most everything else has been improved. This title should not be 
 judged by its past, but more likely what it has to offer.
  
  Graphics may not seem like an improvement at all in this title, but even still, who said they had 
 to do anything with the graphics? They look very crisp and solid, along with keeping the charm 
 of the Pokemon series to life. Regardless that most of it looks like it came off the GBA like it's 
 predecessor Red Mystery Dungeon, a lot of things in this game would be hard to reproduce on the 
 GBA like the finer detail and dual screen scenes.
  
  The story is very much improved than the last game. After finishing the main storyline and then 
 some, this game has to offer at least 15+ hours on the main storyline alone, most of which being 
 series of plot events rather than doing mindless roaming around a dungeon for a job. Even after 
 the main storyline is over, there is still much more to be offered by this title throughout its 
 entire post-ending gameplay. Spent 25+ hours overall in the game, and I still haven't seen all 
 that the game has to offer storywise. ;)
  
  Difficulty is just something that can't be explained in a couple of words... The game offers for 
 the most part a pretty balanced difficulty when traveling through the dungeons, though during the 
 main storyline, even grinding levels isn't necessary for the most part. Though some of the dungeon 
 lay-outs can be pretty frustrating, especially when you take a step onto one trap to another. The 
 luck factor with you and the enemies can be unfair also, resulting to a frustrating demise. Also, 
 during the final boss fight, there is an immense gap between difficulty when in battle, seeing 
 how the boss has the power to destroy you in a single blow, also to remind you that your partner 
 cannot fall in battle either... Though the dungeon before it is fairly easy to traverse through 
 without much problems. For high and lows, it sort of balances the game out, though it would have 
 been better for a better balance on difficulty...
  
  Gameplay is very similar in this game as it was in the past, but this version has more to offer. 
 With 490+ Pokemon offered and the immensely long storyline, the game lasts much longer and performs 
 much better than the past title. The mini game does offer a light stray away from the dungeon crawling 
 experience, but it's not much when it gets tiring after the fourth time around. The wireless connection 
 modes really offer a much more efficient use of the games rescue services, seeing how entering 
 a 24 character long code can be a bit of a pain. The wireless feature offers more than just rescuing, 
 but also seeing other people's teams in battle at the dojo. The touch screen control seemed like 
 there was effort put into it, but this can easily be forgotten since the buttons provide a more 
 fluent experience of the game. Though typing in passwords for wonder mail is much easier with the 
 touch screen than the use of buttons.
  
  The music in the game is very well refined. It sounds much more clear and there is so much variety 
 to match with the moment and dungeon. Can't really say much here, seeing how that's all I can really 
 define the music as. If there were to be another Mystery Dungeon title, the developers should really 
 look back at this title for music inspiration.
  
  All in all, regardless of the ups and downs the game contains, this title surely offers enough 
 to deserve its $34.99 price tag. Same refined gameplay, good graphics, excellent music, very variable 
 difficulty, and a very fine storyline gives this title an 8.5 from me.
  
  ~SomeOddGuy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfeng7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  MORE AWESOME THAN  
 HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI 
 HI HI HI HI HI HI HI HI A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA AA A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlord149
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5. The game looks great. Don't seems like a DS game.
  Gameplay: 9.5 The game has the perfect play for each player. Right, not matter how videogamer you 
 are :D.
  Variety: 8.5 Not to much pokemons to catch, but a lot of different pokemons to see around.
  History: 
 9.0 is a cool But pretty similar to other Mystery Dungeon's.
  Difficulty: 10 The game can be played easily by everybody, not matter what.
  
  The total of 
 this califications is 47.5, and an estimated rate of 9.5. Awesome!
  
  I personally recomend this game to all pokemon series fans. It worth the prize.
  
  My personal 
 best pokemon as a partner is Chimchar, and any other is OK in the same team as any other. Try that 
 and enjoy this game.
  
  I don't know what more to say. For completing the 800 minimum characters: lalalala lalalala lalalala 
 lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala 
 lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala 
 lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala lalalala 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_dingdong95
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  and i thought pokemon mystery dungeon blue team was good. this game combines todays technology, 
 one of nintendos oldest franchises, and pokemon blue team to create this totally sweet game. im 
 kind a bummed that there is no arceus or shaymin but since those are the only two missing i dont 
 really care much. theres a crapload of dungeons and pokemon so its easy to lose track of time. 
 and of course in order to enjoy the full awsomeness of this game you will have to devote hundreds 
 of hours to this game (on Mystery Dungeon Blue i had about 300 hours before i stopped) . the sound 
 greatly accompanies the game as you play from dozens of dungeons. the graphics are awsome (for 
 the DS anyway) and allow for that feeling like your acutally in the game. like i said overall its 
 an awsome game that i thank the lord for having nintendo and chunsoft create an epic game for the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGoddess32
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the first mystery dungeon on ds, and I just HAD to get this one. I like the other pokemon 
 games, but I personally like this one better because you're actually a pokemon!
  I've only had the game for a few days, but I'm enjoying it so far. I have to say that the graphics 
 are totally cute.... I am a piplup in my game. I thought about getting darkness too, but I don't know. I've 
 heard both games are pretty much the same except for a few things. The gameplay is good, and as I 
 said, the graphics are too cute. I'd say if you like the pokemon games then I think you'd like this 
 one too. I like the little questionnaire at the start of the game to determine which
  pokemon you will be. I bought the strategy guide too so that I can get the most out of this game. I 
 have an action replay DS, but I don't think I'll use it for this game. I think I'd rather use the 
 guide and get stuff on my own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaomoon2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so it might be bad 
  Well since they took Eevee out I was a Chickorita with a Piplup as a partner. Anyways If you like 
 the first game youll like this one. 
  Graphics: The graphics were the same as the last one but a bit improved. They even added portraits 
 for all the Pokemon not just the important characters. The graphics are really good.
  Music: The music was even better than the last one! Yes lots of music makes the game better! 
 
  Gameplay: Well the game play is basicly the same but Theres two job boards! Theres one for the 
 missions from the previous game like Rescue whoever blah blah blah and the SECOND ONE is for Outlaws. 
 What I mean by that is You get the job and accept it then you go to the dungeon its and you have 
 to find the outlaw thats in the job information and beat them up ( that sounds weird) Then you 
 either retrieve a stolen item that they drop or arrest them.
  The storyline was very interesting and its like you wont be able to set your DS down for a second! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Its a perfect sequel to Pokemon mystery dungeon red rescue team and Pokemon mystery dungeon blue 
 rescue team only better with more Pokemon and a guild! I think it is better because it has bounty 
 hunting so you can beat up the thugs or criminals. The favorite thing to me is it has better legendary 
 Pokemon and genders because first one it was hard to get most rare Pokemon and genders do not have 
 to make you guess anymore =) , but it is harder to get other Pokemon to join you so that is my 
 difficulty. You should also get Wi-Fi so you can get friends and send rescue mail to your friends 
 who play this game. This game can be the best Pokemon game in the whole series of Pokemon. The 
 reason why I rated it perfect was because it had good graphics and best quality and perfect game 
 play. I think diamond is close but this is better in a million ways that I won't say. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
