-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/pokemonfushiginodungeona/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pokemon trappings spice up combat a little.
 Interesting story with a few surprisingly touching moments.
 Not as difficult as previous games.
 Nice Wi-Fi features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough variety in story-based missions.
 Mystery Dungeon formula is getting stale.
 Drab dungeon visuals .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 750 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: ChunSoft
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 20, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness/Time recycles the aging Mystery Dungeon formula, 
 but it's still worthwhile for fans of dungeon hacks. 

  The Mystery Dungeon series from Chunsoft has been catering to fans of two-dimensional role-playing 
 games for years. The games offer random dungeons, plenty of items to collect (though rarely enough 
 space to carry them) , clumsy turn-based combat, and a degree of challenge that often forces you 
 to retry the same levels over and over again before you're successful. With Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Time, the Nintendo DS is getting two versions of its second 
 Mystery Dungeon entry this year. Although these offerings take steps to make the dungeon-hack trappings 
 more accessible than last month's Mystery Dungeon: Shiren the Wanderer, they still feel monotonous 
 and are too similar to 2006's Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games to warrant much attention.  

  Explorers of Darkness and Explorers of Time break the Mystery Dungeon mold by providing you with 
 a hometown and a central guild to which you can return. Game progress is broken down into a combination 
 of routine daily missions and story-based missions, and some plot exposition is given after you 
 complete each. You can also save your progress between missions and take care of your Pokemon in 
 the event that it's hungry. Consequently, making your way through these games is nowhere near as 
 brutal as you might expect if you're familiar with their predecessors.  

           Cherish these colors while they last; the color palette takes a nosedive in dungeons. 

  The lower challenge level here definitely has its advantages. For starters, you're less likely 
 to give up in frustration before you've had a chance to enjoy the interesting plot, which has some 
 genuinely touching moments. As in the previous Pokemon Mystery Dungeon games, you start off as 
 an amnesiac human who has been mysteriously transformed into a Pokemon. You soon encounter and 
 partner with a friendly Pokemon, and together you decide to join an explorers guild. Soon, you 
 learn of a world threat that somehow involves the very fabric of time itself. The one glaring issue 
 with the game's story presentation is the unforgivably redundant dialogue. More often than not, 
 your Pokemon's thoughts are visible as text before it actually chooses to voice them, at which 
 point it repeats almost word for word what you've already read.  

  The redundancy in the dialog is mirrored in some of the missions that you embark on. Almost every 
 mission involves rescuing a stranded Pokemon or arresting an outlaw Pokemon. There are some item 
 and escort requests, but they all play out in much the same way: delving into a dungeon and going 
 through generic, randomly generated floors until you find the object of your search. Even the story-based 
 missions play out in this way, with the one difference being that the dungeons during these experiences 
 are much longer, provide a few save points in-between floors, and are often capped off with a boss 
 battle.  

  Most of the battles you encounter, including those against boss characters, help allay the repetitiveness 
 and blandness of the dungeons, though not greatly. The gameplay feels only slightly less clumsy 
 and plodding than that of its Mystery Dungeon predecessors, because every action you take, whether 
 it's taking a step, attacking, or equipping an item, still counts as a turn. Given that all combat 
 takes place on a map screen presented in the top-down perspective, you'd be forgiven for thinking 
 that the experience would mimic something like the classic Zelda games; instead, you get a clumsy 
 back-and-forth experience that stalls as you wait for every creature to complete its turn.  

  However, a few Pokemon franchise additions come to save the day. You can recruit Pokemon you've 
 defeated into your party, and any recruits that exceed your four-member party limit will be sent 
 back to the guild on standby. Each of your party members can learn up to four special moves; and 
 as they level up, they will have the opportunity to forget an old move and learn a new one. So, 
 you're occasionally -- if not constantly -- getting the opportunity to try out new tricks and abilities 
 against your foes. You can also set the behaviors of all of your Poke-compatriots to do things 
 such as avoid trouble, take an aggressive stance, or consciously refrain from special moves that 
 might be useless in a certain situation. These battle options, as well as the various items you 
 gather, create a nice variety of tactics to draw on when fighting large groups of enemies or threatening 
 boss characters.  

  Of course, there's also the plethora of familiar Pokemon creatures available for you to discover, 
 and they're all represented in vibrant colors and smooth animations. Nevertheless, it's a shame 
 that the visual presentation isn't more consistent. The set pieces for the town, your guild, and 
 key areas in the story-based dungeons are drawn in a soft, whimsical cartoon style with rich coloring. 
 This is all matched in whimsy by the well-composed, youthful soundtrack, which boasts crisp, varied 
 instrument samples. However, as soon as you step into a dungeon for a mission, you're greeted with 
 a heaping face-full of boredom. Repetitive visuals lack detail and employ wholly uninteresting 
 color schemes, making dungeons look almost monochrome and making the combat seem even more like 
 drudgery than it actually is.  

  At least dying in this game doesn't set you back and have you feeling like a newborn every time. 
 But even if you do kick the bucket, you can ask to be rescued from mission dungeons by another 
 player, though it's worth mentioning that this option isn't available in some of the story-driven 
 levels. For a rescue to work, you'll need for a potential rescuer to have visited the same dungeon 
 and floor on which you've expired. Calling for help is as simple as choosing to request a rescue 
 after fainting, then going to the appropriate menu in the title screen before logging into the 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, and sending a text message along with your rescue request. (Alternately, 
 you can do this by using the wireless communication between two Nintendo DS systems, or with a 
 cumbersome 54-character password.) However, Chunsoft has one-upped its previous Wi-Fi efforts: 
 Not only can you now send jobs that you've accepted to a friend with the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, 
 but you can also send rescue requests to someone's e-mail address or mobile phone. In the absence 
 of knowing when your friends will actually be playing the game, this is a great boon if you just 
 need a quick pick-me-up.  

           Gotta catch -- er, recruit 'em all!      

  If you're at all familiar with the Pokemon franchise, then it'll come as no surprise that unless 
 you play both the Explorers of Time and Explorers of Darkness versions, you won't be able to meet 
 and recruit all of the Pokemon in Mystery Dungeon's story. However, this doesn't make a huge difference 
 when playing through the game. The variety of move sets and resulting tactics between the two games 
 doesn't feel substantially different enough to warrant playing through both versions, and the presence 
 of exclusive items doesn't add a great deal either.  

  In any event, one version of this Pokemon Mystery Dungeon entry should suffice. You'll get more 
 than 20 hours of gameplay from front to back, and that doesn't include the extra hours that you'll 
 spend leveling up or restarting after a game-over screen. There are plenty of optional missions 
 to embark on as well, even after you've completed the story. If you found the previous Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon game disappointing and would rather just catch 'em all as a Pokemon trainer, then 
 this won't likely change your mind. Chunsoft's Mystery Dungeon formula is showing its age with 
 jittery combat and bland dungeons, but these games still offer a decent balance of challenge, story, 
 tactics, and Wi-Fi innovations to keep patient players entertained.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BradleyPalermo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is going to my 3rd review (yay :D) and I'm going to do it on Pokemon mystery dungeon: explorers 
 of darkness! To give you the gist of it, it's the next step in the series, featuring almost all 
 diamond/peral pokemon! (excluding arceus and shaymin) it's revolutionary graphics and battle system 
 are just amazing. It also features a completely new conglomerate of dungeons and pokemon, as well, 
 instead of a rescue team, you're an exploration team. 
  
  With red and blue, there were only missions to save Pokemon, but now because of a mysterious problem 
 in the fabric of time, some pokemon have turned into outlaws, and you must eather arrest them or 
 get back stolen items. There are numerous boss battles with an amazingly flawless storyline that 
 just keeps going long after the credits have rolled and you've restored peace, but the questions 
 is; for how long? In truth, only about a week, as next up there's a tear in the fabric of SPACE. 
 
  
  But this time your team is ready to save the world twice over and meet and make friends with countless 
 pokemon. this is one of the greatest pokemon games ever and is a must - buy for pokemon fans! but 
 are YOU ready? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  It would be very easy, and a little unfair, to just wade in and say that the two latest Pokmon 
 Mystery Dungeon games - Explorers Of Time and Explorers Of Darkness - are almost identical to their 
 predecessors, Red and Blue Rescue Team. Even though technically, they are, but then given that 
 we've come to expect that from every Pokmon game over the last decade, it's hardly a new criticism. 
 Instead, it's better to look at what Time/Darkness are in their own right and, more importantly, 
 whether they represent the genre well. And the verdict? A big grin and two paws up.
  
  No Pain, No Game
  Or maybe it should be a big grin worn through a mask of tiredness and two thumbs 
 worn down to the knuckle, but still definitely up. You see, if there's one thing that Time/Darkness 
 can be described as, it's draining. Brightly coloured and cute it all may be, but there's a whole 
 world of random dungeons, strategic forward planning and excessive level grinding behind those 
 pretty eyes. That the game pushes down on the difficulty pedal very early on doesn't help matters 
 and things get really tough after just the third dungeon. Needless to say, you'll probably be cursing 
 the harsh 'lose random items and all your cash each time you die' rule before you're barely out 
 of your exploration team nappies.
  
  
  Of course, we doubt many Pokmon fans will complain about such vicious treatment, seeing as it's 
 been the staple of all Pokmon adventures and the need to build up the stats of your Pokmon through 
 repetitive backtracking and combat is really nothing new. However, Time/Darkness do seem to overly 
 punish those who try to advance before they're properly ready. True, much of the failure will be 
 on your part - you'll be screwed if you don't make use of the bank to store away your cash or buy 
 enough items to keep your party's strength up - but it's still a steeper difficulty curve than 
 we would have expected from a kid-friendly game.
  
  But, it's hard to stay mad at a game that's not only irresistibly cute and well realised, but also 
 offers far more depth than it first lets on. The flexibility to build up a Pokmon team consisting 
 of whoever you fancy, explore a huge number of additional dungeons aside from the main quest and 
 generally do as you please for the most part might not be any different to previous Mystery Dungeon 
 titles, but they're certainly most welcome. Saving the stranded teams of your friends via Wi-Fi 
 is also a nice feature, although we can't help but think a co-operative multiplayer mode might 
 have been better suited. 
  
  
  
  Still, we'll save the wishlist for when Chunsoft gets round to making the inevitable third game. 
 As it stands, Time/Darkness don't exactly reinvent the Pokmon wheel but they're still just as 
 round, useful and ultimately enjoyable as they ever were. If you can consider wheels 'enjoyable', 
 that is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancinkayley
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  A Pokemon wakes up on the beach and starts taking sense of his/her surroundings. S/he's had amnesia 
 and is struggling to make sense of his/her surroundings. However, s/he can still remember two things: 
 his/her name and the fact that s/he was once a human. S/he meets another Pokemon and helps them 
 get back a stolen Relic Fragment, then together, they form an exploration team and begin training 
 at Wigglytuff's Guild.
  
  Not like the storylines of the main Pokemon games, is it? Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is very different 
 to the main Pokemon games. Instead of being a trainer who has to catch, raise and train Pokemon, 
 you are now a Pokemon, in charge of an exploration team. The Pokemon you are is determined by a 
 series of questions you have to answer at the beginning of the game. After answering these questions, 
 you are told what nature of Pokemon you are most like (for example, bold, timid, lonely etc.) , 
 a little bit about that nature, then what Pokemon your starter is in this game out of a possible 
 16 (all of the starters from the main Pokemon games, plus Pikachu and 3 Normal Pokemon) . After 
 that, you get to pick your partner Pokemon out of a random 7 or so, who will be your sidekick. 
 You may think that the storyline in this game is like the storyline in the first Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon, but it's not. This storyline has several plot twists in it which might just keep you on 
 your toes.
  
  In this game, you travel through many dungeons. Each dungeon is comprised of several floors, the 
 amount depending on the dungeon and each floor has many different rectangular rooms joined by corridors. 
 On each floor, you must try and find the stairs to progress forward. Dungeons are randomly generated 
 so even if you visit the same dungeon a lot of times, chances are, you won't know exactly where 
 the stairs will be the next time you visit.
  
  But it's not just a simple matter of hunting down stairs. Of course, wild Pokemon will be wandering 
 around the dungeons. When they see you, they'll head towards you, using the shortest route possible. 
 This game is a turn-based one, so enemies won't do anything until you do something.
  
  While enemies are headed towards you, you can try and defeat them before they get close, either 
 by throwing projectile weapons such as Geo Pebbles or Iron Thorns at them, or by using certain 
 moves that will hit Pokemon over a long distance, like Flamethrower or Water Pulse. You can move 
 towards them instead, or just sit there and wait for them to come close. You can also use items, 
 like orbs or seeds, to try and help you in battle. For example, you can throw a Totter Seed at 
 enemy Pokemon to make them confused or eat a Violent Seed to get your Attack and Special Attack 
 up to the maximum level. Occasionally, a defeated wild Pokemon may ask to join your exploration 
 team. At later stages in this game, you can carry far more items than you could in the first Pokemon 
 Mystery Dungeon, which is good. This was one of the problems I had with the first game.
  
  When you're not exploring dungeons, you will probably be in the local town of Treasure Town, or 
 in Wigglytuff's Guild. These places have many facilities to help you out. In Treasure Town, Kangaskhan 
 Storage is a place to store all the items you don't need, but unfortunately, though your can carry 
 more items with you than in the previous game, you can't store as many in Kangaskhan Storage.
 
  
  Those items that you don't want or need, though, can be sold at Kecleon's shop, just like the first 
 game. You can go to Duskull's Bank, which just replaces Felicity Bank in the first game, where 
 you can withdraw and deposit your money. There's also an Electivire Link shop, which lets you link 
 moves. Linking moves lets you use multiple moves in one turn. However, every move used will lose 
 1 PP and if one of those moves runs out of PP, the moves will de-link. Yet another facility that 
 was also featured in the first game is a Marowak Dojo, which replaces the Makuhita Dojo in the 
 first game, where you can battle through a few mazes to train your Pokemon.
  
  There are a couple of new shops in this game. One is a Chansey Day Care. If you get an egg from 
 a mission, Chansey will look after it for you until it hatches. The second is Xatu Appraisal. Occasionally, 
 while exploring a dungeon, you'll get some chest items, like a Deluxe Box, a Sinister Box or a 
 Hard Box. You'll need to take those to Xatu to open them. It's worth it, though, you can get some 
 pretty good items from there.
  
  In Wigglytuff's Guild, you have some bulletin boards listing some jobs that you can take on. One 
 notice board gives you jobs like fighting Outlaw Pokemon. You need to get to the floor of the dungeon 
 that the Outlaw Pokemon is on and they will appear right in front of you so you don't have to search 
 for them. Then you must fight and defeat them. Sometimes, all you have to do is simply defeat the 
 Pokemon, while other times, they will drop an unusable item which you must pick up to complete 
 the mission. The other notice board gives you jobs like rescuing Pokemon in trouble, escorting 
 Pokemon to a certain floor or to their friends in a dungeon or escorting Pokemon to a certain location 
 on a certain floor (like to a locked door, for instance) . Some more facilities in Wigglytuff's 
 Guild is a Chimecho Assembly which replaces the Friend Areas in the first game. Here you may assemble 
 your team. There are restrictions on how big your team is allowed to be (four Pokemon, maybe less 
 if some of those Pokemon are big Pokemon like, say, Dialga) . There's also an Assembly Post nearer 
 to the place where you leave for exploration for easy access, too. Another feature within Wigglytuff's 
 guild is Croagunk's Swap Shop. Here you can swap a few items for better ones. But you may only 
 swap two items that are for the same Pokemon or for the same Pokemon type. For example, you can 
 swap a Bulba-Claw and a Bulba-Fang in exchange for a Grass-Guard.
  
  Graphics and sound in this game are just as I expected. Graphics are about the same as the first 
 game, bright and colourful and they do the job perfectly. Sound effects in this game are annoying, 
 but the music makes up for it. However, I thought that the first game had some nicer tracks, but 
 then again, I haven't completed the post-story yet since I'm dragging it out slowly. Yes, like 
 the main Pokemon games and the first Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, you have a post-story, which is good 
 definitely a good thing, since the main storyline in this game made me want to play more to find 
 out what happens next, but once I got near the end, I didn't want it to be over so soon!
  
  There isn't much multiplayer in this game. It's mainly rescuing people who are stuck in dungeons. 
 You can rescue or be rescued over Wi-Fi too, a major improvement over the first game's rescue system. 
 Once I got stuck in a dungeon, sent out for a rescue over Wi-Fi, then returned after having my 
 lunch to find that my team had been saved. You can also download special missions off Wi-Fi, which 
 may unlock things like version-exclusive characters in your game.
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this game, without really knowing why. I just found it addictive, 
 though it felt like the storyline was too short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashChamp88
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the first Pokemon Mystery Dungeon on the GBA i was eager to pick up a copy 
 of the next installment and once again immerse myself in the wonderful world of Pokemon.
  
  Like the previous game, you begin the game with a series of questions to determine your personality 
 type and then are allocated a pokemon specific to that particular personality... I happened to 
 be a chimchar. Then you get to choose a partner from a list of approximately 8 Pokemon and i chose 
 squirtle, just like in the first game. You wake up in the pokemon world without any knowledge of 
 who you are, or more importantly who you were. You soon encounter your chosen partner and the game 
 begins. 
  
  I found the game to start of a little slow, the good stuff all happens after the first hour of 
 two of gameplay, and that's when i became hooked. I've been playing this game every chance i get 
 and i feel as though i can't stop until i figure out what's going on and more importantly, how 
 the protagonist is tied up in everything.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to that of the first game, no real improvements have been made and 
 the dungeon layout is virtually the same. That's the only downfall i find in this game, i'd love 
 this game even more if the designers really sat down and found a way to amp up the actual exploring 
 aspect.
  
  All in all i found that the story in this game is enough to cancel out all the negative aspects 
 that this game seems to present the player with a gaming experience that definately got me hooked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucarioownz1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  Pokemon mystery dungeon 2 is a great game featuring you a human who gets turned into a pokemon 
 in a storm and who can't remember anytihng about their past. Through this game you learn more about 
 your past and save the world. Although thats the main basis of the story you go through many different 
 adventures but i won't into too many details because i'm here to review it.
  
  Story Line
  
  The storyline is can be really well done or confusing. It depends if you get 
 confused very easily.
  Like i said before the main storyline is that you a human turns into a pokemon and knows nothing 
 about your past, through this you meet your partner who asks you to join an exploration team with 
 him when you help him recover his treasure from team skull's arbok and koffing (I think) you gladly 
 except which results in a series of adventures. Personally i think the storyline is great, it's 
 interesting, pratical and confusing at the same time. I would rate it about 3 and 1/2 lucarios 
 outa 5 only because well sometimes the storyline strays off the main topic and leaves some questions 
 unanswered
  
  Graphics
  
  Okay the graphics in pokemon mystery dungeon 2 are basically the same in the first one 2d graphics 
 with fantastic color. I'm not really gonna say much except that the colors pratically suit everything 
 most of the time. To make this short i rate the graphics 3 lucarios outta 5 because the graphics 
 aren't great but pretty good for a ds game
  
  Music
  
  Oh now were talking before i start i have to say the music is superb!!!!!!!!!!! It creates a variety 
 of sound clustered together to form wonderful songs like have you heard the song when your facing 
 Dialga it suites it really well. The only thing i really have against it is sometimes the music 
 doesn't suit the area like Mystifying Forest or when you get a monster house (Please God not the 
 monster house) so i have to rate this 4 Lucarios outta 5
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well the gameplay in this game isn't that hard to figure out once youv'e figured out how to fight, 
 move and use items then your pretty much set for the whole game. Their is not much to say so i'll 
 just cut the cheese i rate the gameplay 3 lucarios outta 5
  
  Final decision and recommendations
  
  In the end i quite enjoyed the game i found the difficulty 
 just right and hard and annoying sometimes. In the end i rate it 8 lucarios outta 10 i would've 
 rated it 6 outta 10 if it wasn't for the music. Personally i liked it but i would recommend it 
 to you if like an easy or annoying play but i wouldn't recommend it to you if you aren't a big 
 pokemon fan well because you probably wouldn't get half the stuff.
  
  
  (c) Lucarioownz1 leader of team darkaurastorm and gamespot user 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dash0808
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I think, no, wait, I KNOW pokemon mystery dungeon is the BEST game EVER IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD. It 
 rules! i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amirali2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The game starts by you doing a test which can get boring sense you cant choose your charecthe the 
 hero but its ok when you pass the test it will tell you your aura. Then it showes which pokemon 
 you are then you pick your partner then you began the game, put there is alout of speech to get 
 pass when you do you are after two criminal pokemons. Then you do missions for pokemons and the 
 game goes like that then you get to explore diferint dungeons and then you need to do more missions 
 and thats all and it gets boring! so the game is long but not that longbut its still good to buy. 
 The online is ok you can sent sos mail to your friends but its not that helpfull so over all its 
 not a bad game to buy so its okif you are a pokemon fan. and its a realy good game and it only 
 costs $34.99 and its worth every peny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balor8122
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  i play it and play it all day the second i get home from school and i strongly recommend this game 
 its the best i have ever played you can get it anywhere for 30$ or less i got it for 10. so play 
 it up all day or night if you prefer. so on a scale of 1 to 100000000000000 i give it a  
 why not one more point one because only pokemon diamond is that good or call of duty four. note 
 playing this AWESOME game may cause eye damage or serious happiness. do not play if you have liver 
 or kidney damage. stop playing immediataly if you develop arash or instant sunburn. play  
 love pokemon if you also love pokemon this game is for you, if you dont it is still for you so get 
 out there and play play  
 headache from the awesome ness is common in new players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydman2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the 1st mystery dungeon, where you control a Pokemon. There are no trainers in sight, 
 and you and your friend have made a team.
  
  This is basically alot like the 1st, with some minor adjustments. Never-the-less, this is still 
 a great game to pick up, especially if your a Pokemon fan or just don't like the same trainer things.
 
  
  Unlike most Pokemon games, this is quite a hard game, with the dungeons and bosses being tough. 
 Once you beat the dungeon and beat the boss you feel as if you've accomplished something. Games 
 like Pokemon diamond just don't have that feel of achieving something, it's all rather basic in 
 those sort of games.
  
  This game has a nice story to it, unlike most Pokemon games. You wake up on a trainer free island, 
 and was a human, but you are now a Pokemon. Your soon to be partner comes and becomes your friend. 
 I won't say anymore.
  
  One of the major flaws of the game, however, is the things you can do not in the storyline. Games 
 where you are a trainer gives you plenty of side quests and things to do after you completed the 
 game. But with the mystery dungeon series all you can do mostly is rescue Pokemon, which gets repetitive.
 
  
  The graphics are nice, especially in cut scenes where they take place on the top screen. Better 
 graphics then other handheld Pokemon games.
  
  So, all in all, this game is pretty good, but with a few flaws. I rate this an 8, so it's a great 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  PMD: EOD is pretty cool. A bunch of new stuff has been added, and the new Pokemon and storyline 
 are OK. I'm a huge fan of the Pokemon series, but lately I've been more and more disappointed. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is good. You explore a dungeon with your partner, filling in the ever changing map, 
 beating crazy wild Pokemon senseless. The new sprites for the Sinnoh pokemon are pretty cool, and 
 the animation is awesome as well. But bieng beaten senseless by a Monster House is no fun. They 
 made Monster House's even harder.
  
  Story
  
  The EXACT SAME STORY, but told differently. Instead of Rayquaza, it's Dialga. Instead of Good guy 
 bieng good and bad guy bieng bad, Good guy= bad and Bad guy= Good. Wow, what a shock. Like any 
 other dramatic movie out there. Seriously, the Pokemon series is in desperate need of an update. 
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Not bad, but not good. Sprites are just OK and the animations are about the best part of the whole 
 game's graphics.
  
  Overall
  
  The game is another one of those, ' I'll just play it cuz' I'm bored' games. It is soooo much like 
 the first one, and the Graphics are in need of an update, not to mention the story line. All in 
 all, this is just another one of those games that only newbies would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabour_slash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  i have had this game a week and completed both sections but its not really that easy. the graphics 
 are better than the last 1 and the original storyline is longer and better but the post storyline 
 are a lot shorter and easier. the hardest bit on the game is the darkrai, it took me more time 
 to do that than the rest of the game put together. i think it is harder to level up on this 1 but 
 it is easier to recruit and there are more, newer features. i think this game is the best in the 
 series. the most annoying bit is when you yourself can't evolve. you have to get some pokemon til 
 you are able. the moves are better detail and there is a wider range of moves items and pokemon. 
 overall this game is better than mystery dungeon blue/rescue team but there is a shorter more exciting 
 storyline so a rate 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well i bought this game the day after it came out and i reaaly do wish i could say easy and hard! 
 because sometimes it is just insanely difficult (Dialga fight if your a grass or water type, both 
 my favorites!!!) or extremely easy (Drowzee fight, Drowzee is actually the first boss!) .
  
  This game also has an amazing story you'd think that for a pokemon game (except for my fellow poke-fans 
 out their) that the story is exactly the same such as in the normal pokemon games (your a ten year 
 old kid with a stupid hat who gets a rare one of a kind pokemon that s/he bonds with but ultimately 
 forgets about, beats the gym leaders along with the elite for and manages to capture the most important 
 pokemon of whichever region you just happen to be in and even after you've engraved your name on 
 the tablets of glory nobody notices you!) geez that would have been a mouth full... but whatever 
 the only thing of the mystery dungeon story that has been recycled is that your partner finds you 
 "zonked out" near one of the dungeons and that after you beat the last boss before the credits 
 role (in this case Dialga) that you mysteriously vanish everyone misses you and a legendary pokemon 
 is thankful to your partner for helping get back their sanity that they allow them to have you 
 back (noooo don't leave me with this freeeeaaak!!!!!) 
  okay enough with the story now to the gamplay!
  alright it is basically the same controls as 
 the last time A for your basic attack you have 4 different moves etc. the only thing that bugs 
 me is that now you can't switch team leaders in the middle of a dungeon! which is really annoying 
 because my stupid lanturn just wouldn't use discharge on the bronzongs and hitmonlees when i was 
 fighting regigigas and almost got me killed.
  Alright now for the Dungeons!
  The creators of the game had the idea to make it so every ime you go into a dungeon the items and 
 basic layout of the map changes which is pretty cool the only thing is that most of the dungeons 
 only have a total of about 30 floors and if they're going to do that they could've made em a little 
 bit more challenging (alright maybe their not so hard because i use a wonder mail generator to 
 get any item i want bite me but whatever)
  Alright i can't think anything more to say sooo i suggest getting this game if your a fan of the 
 series otherwise consult other reviews and your friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewieGee
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Pokemon.
  
  What can I say?
  It absolutely dominated the gaming scene when it came out.
  Millions of people bought Red, Blue 
 or Yellow, and nearly every other Pokemon RPG that came out. Heck, 11 years on, in 2007, Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl was a massive seller, and stil is. But sometimes you wonder...
  
  Has success got to its head? I mean, you now have plush dolls, pens, magazines, posters, bed covers, 
 encyclopedias, websites, everything you can imagine.
  
  But these things are bought because Pokemon is so popular. Older players appreciate the gameplay 
 and intense battles wirelessly, whilst younger players may just gasp and awe at a pikachu with 
 a heart shaped tail.
  
  And then we come to Pokemon's new-found interest: The SPIN-OFF.
  
  And this is one of them. Mystery Dungeon: Time and Darkness. The sequel to those Red and Blue 
 Resucue team games released a couple of years ago. 
  
  I found the old games annoying at first. They seemed boring. I was expecting it to be as good as 
 Ruby or Sapphire. It was't.
  
  But comparing those games to Ruby and Sapphire is like comparing a jewel to a mountain. Yes, the 
 mountain catches your eye. It's bigger, scarier and takes up more space (on the sales charts) but 
 that tiny jewel could be worth a whole lot.
  
  And so I played on Rescue Team some more. And it grew on me. I was addicted. To a Pokemon Spin-Off!
 
  
  And so, I completed the game. And I waited for the sequel.
  
  And here it is.
  
  Explorers of Time? Or of Darkness? Does it matter? I got Darkness. Maybe the storyline differs 
 by 3 letters or something. I dunno. Who cares?
  
  This game looked promising. It looked like that tiny jewel that everyone overlooked, still looming 
 underneath Diamond and Pearl from last year. 
  
  This game's story is... mediocre. I wasn't expecting more, but they could have done a bit better.
 
  
  But the difference. When those old games came out, they were new to me. It was a difficult concept 
 of gameplay to understand, but once you got it, it became fun.
  
  This... not so much. You know the drill. And the first few dungeons are... boring. And they just 
 get longer and longer until you're bored out of your brains and you want to turn off.
  
  It just seems... the same. You want something new. You want something better. You want a new game.
 
  
  But what you get is a refined game. Sorry.
  
  Don't get me wrong, there is a long story mode where you can try all sorts of tasks and challenges. 
 You can go ahead and try to get all 490-odd pokemon if you want to. But I didn't.
  
  Also, this game's difficulty. It was a doddle at first. Really easy. But after the first few dungeons 
 the levels of enemy pokemon start increasing. And then they rocket up. And I died a few times quite 
 early on. And this game's meant to be aimed at younger players? Don't make me laugh.
  
  I was... disappointed at this game. It's... ... okay. 
  
  But i think that jewel was really 
 just a penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  as the title says, this one is much better then the first ones because...
  
  . This game has a much better storyline with clever twists and more and it makes you feel like 
 you're actually IN the game.
  
  . The graphics have been slightly improved.
  
  . This one is SOOOOOOO much longer to complete the main storyline of the game!!!!!
  
  And so 
 on...
  
  Here's my summing up:
  
  Graphics: They're still GBA-ish (like the previous ones) and don't really show what the DS can 
 do, but if it did have the graphics of diamond and pearl, it would feel a bit weird. They should 
 of been better, just not too much better. 8/10
  
  sound: The sound is fairly descent and the attack sound effects are very suited to the attacks! 
 7/10
  
  Music: The music in this game are better then the first game as some songs are very catchy like 
 the Hidden land song! 9/10
  
  overall: with WI-FI, a awesome storyline and much more, if you like pokemon games and have a DS, 
 then get this game as there's only two major problems, these are that the gameplay is sometimes 
 repetitive and some dungeons and bosses are insanely hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  In terms of gameplay, this game is almost identical to the first mystery dungeon with some major 
 improvements. The most notable of which is the usage of the second screen. Now you can have the 
 map on top which makes it much easier to see what's going on. 
  
  However, there's still a problem with the bottom view being blocked by the map overlay and the 
 message box. Even if you have the map on the top screen, the map overlay on the bottom screen does 
 not go away. Also, the message box needs to be moved to the top screen too. It's annoying when 
 your partner keeps casting agility or light screen every single step.
  
  The addition of new pokemon, abilities, jobs and items (especially the golden mask) speeds up the 
 gameplay and makes tasks (like collecting pokemon) less of a chore. This might entice some people 
 to try and collect all of the pokemon, which brings up my last point.
  
  The mystery dungeon game is no where as addictive as the regular pokemon games. You can't really 
 collect pokemon and try new combinations of moves to battle against your friends. Even if you get 
 an amazing group of pokemon, it's kind of pointless because you can't really do anything with them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777jon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than the last Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. It is a lot better than the last 
 Mystery Dungeon because it has better graphics. Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness 
 is a lot better than the last because it is on the Nintendo DS. It has endless amounts of of fun 
 until your beat Darkrai and achieve master rank. But Mystery Dungeon is sill fun when you get bored 
 and start playing your DS. And it is also really fun having new pokemon too. except the bad part 
 is that in Darkness you can't have Celibi, Riolu, and Lucario. Celibi, Riolu, and Lucario are one 
 of my favorite pokemon.
  In Darkness, you get Mewtwo and Rotom and they are very hard to recruit. And other bad things about 
 Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is that you have to use wonder mail to get certain legendaries9kind of 
 like the last Pokemon Mystery Dungeon) That is everything I have to say about Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: 
 Explorers of Darkness. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Pokmon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness, capitalizes on the failures of the first entry 
 in the Pokmon Mystery Dungeon series. Offering a much more adorable and emotionally intense story, 
 with addictive gameplay, I have found that this one is more of the pick-up and stay playing variety.
 
  
  Pokmon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness launches by asking you, the player, a series of 
 questions that gauge how well your personality traits match against the set of several Pokmon. 
 The answers that the player gives determine which Pokmon they will play as for the entire game. 
 The questions are quite interesting in that they sometimes match, even in its simplest state, the 
 player. For a true Pokmon fan or just someone who knows exactly what Pokmon they want to be there 
 are several faqs are available online that guide you in the way to answers questions to get who 
 you want. After the player has chosen their Pokmon, they proceed to choose their partner. The 
 partners range from the starters from all Pokmon generation games to including a few other choices. 
 I went along and chose the adorably and always cute Pikachu. After choosing the Pokmon, the player 
 proceeds into the Pokmon world. 
  
  The main story of the game is to discover why time has been stopping all over the region. One of 
 the earliest opening cinematic sequences indicates that a Grovyle is stealing the games time gears. 
 The mission is to stop Grovyle. I will admit that the story proceeds at a quick pace from the start. 
 However, it is broken into pieces by the ability to go into a series of quests, if one wanted to 
 build up the teams rank. The higher the rank the more items the player can carry or keep in storage. 
 It is difficult to discuss the story any further as it will reveal pivotal events that are vital 
 to the intrigue of the game.
  
  The story soon takes off from their in which you will meet your partner and help them conquer their 
 fear of several things in the world. Generally, the player serves as a way for the Pokmon partner 
 to develop confidence with the benefit of creating a long lasting friendship. The player will soon 
 be inducted into the Wigglytuff Guild (a team of explorations teams) as apprentices, and soon go 
 on explorations quests. 
  
  The quests range from a variety of options. The quests can generally range from escort missions, 
 search and rescues, or capture the bandit. There is a ranking system for these missions with different 
 awards being award in respective denominations based on the difficulty. Some missions will reward 
 you by allowing you to explore new areas that do not relate to the main story.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  What makes this game appeal to people who aren't just Pokmon fans, is probably the idea of dungeon 
 crawling, or for those that aren't in the arena of video game terminologists (and yes terminologist 
 is a word) , traveling through an infinite number of dungeons with layouts that change randomly. 
 In the past Pokmon was a game in which the only idea is to catch Pokmon, travel through an over 
 world map, and defeat a prestigious class of elite Pokmon trainers or go through a smattering 
 of Pokmon recreational facilities in an effort to gather enough certifications to show that one 
 has mastered the training of their Pokmon. Pokmon mystery dungeon strays away from that tradition 
 and allows the player to play as a Pokmon, gather other Pokmon friends, and explore dungeons 
 in an effort to see all Pokmon and gather treasure. 
  Explorers of Darkness raises the bar over the previous version by offering the extensive story, 
 more hilarious characters, more items, more Pokmon, and perhaps a feeling that what you are doing 
 isn't just something random. I could not get into the previous offering for the middle of the game 
 seemed like a chore.
  
  Explorers of Darkness never feels like a chore for it attempts to make sure that you never get 
 bored, whether from the witty and silly way that Team Skull (skulltank, zubat, and koffing) acts 
 and responds, from the way that your partner attempts to bond with you, or the hilarious members 
 of the Wigglytuff Guild. Most of the dungeons are kept short, offer save points (sometimes with 
 access to the players storage) , and provide healing for the player before they face a boss. Although 
 that last part may make the game sound easy, some of the bosses are in themselves very difficult 
 even with full health, if your team is not up to par.
  
  Players are able to extend their team by attempting to recruit other Pokmon. Recruiting is generally 
 random. Once you recruit a Pokmon, you can add it to your active team roster and take it with 
 you (only in the most story intense battles will you not be able to use them) . 
  
  In terms of sound, the game offers an interesting mix of tunes. I only have one favorite and that 
 can be found in the first area of the game, the beach with the Krabby. The other music is a hit 
 or miss for some people, I generally kept it on low while listening to other music but for boss 
 battles or monster houses, I turned it up. The sound effects in the scenes are perfect and sound 
 fitting, if not powerful.
  
  On the graphics side of the spectrum, I would pin this as perhaps a beautiful game to behold. Somehow, 
 the style of pencil artwork seems to expand this greatly and keep it looking fresh. The cinematic 
 sequences are always interesting to see, and really do look beautiful. 
  
  After completion of the main story, players are given the ability to continue to play through and 
 accomplish a few more chapters to get to know the guild, open up the ability to evolve, and recruit 
 all 490+ Pokmon, or even rescue others via the Wi-Fi service.
  
  
  
  
  Pros
  +Ability to recruit all 490+ Pokmon on one game
  +Emotional yet fast paced story line (about 
 20-25 hours to beat main story)
  +Hilarious Characters
  +Varying Dungeon Locations
  +Level Grinding is not required
  
  
  Cons
  -Music could have been a bit more robust in 
 dungeons
  -Some Attacks are a bit too unfair (such as Fury Swipes, can one hit KO, if all 5 hits hit)
  
 -Dungeons become a bit difficult
  -Monster Houses will kill low-level players or those inexperienced with using the items
  -Unless 
 one really desires to keep his or her items, just save before a dungeon instead of waiting for 
 someone on Wifi service to rescue the team
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asturns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Though Red/Blue Rescue Team was good, this was better. Longer, better, more advanced, and has a 
 good post-storyline. 2 world destruction cases, one game. Stop the destruction of time and the 
 ruin of the fabric of space! And defeat the pokemon behind it all! Fun game and, though the storyline 
 is longer, it is worth it. It immerses you in the game's storyline, with a few sad moments. But 
 only 2-3. At the end of boss battles, one of two things will happen. A victory dance and shouts 
 of victory, or total frustration and fists of fury. Now, in addition to regular jobs, u can take 
 out outlaws too. You start in a guild, training to be an exploration team, unlike in blue/red where 
 ur a rescue team right off the bat. And a lot of times, you feel like you are the character. You 
 share the same emotions. This game is a good choice for every pokemon lover. THe difference of 
 time and darkness pretty much depend on personal prefence. Do you want Mewtwo (Dark only) or Celebi 
 (Time only) Maybe even is your favorite red (darkness) or blue (time) doesn't matter, their both 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  With Pokemon ever expanding and the Wii changing the games, you'd figure that 2D RPGs were done 
 for. Well, not here! Anyhow, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness (or Time) gives you 
 a decent experince with just a bit of bland color.
  
  The only "real" problem that I have with this is that the whole personallity test to determine 
 what pokemon you are is as always, limited to just the "popular" ones. You'll be stuck as either 
 a starter of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th gen or as one of the other four popular ones (Pikachu, Skitty, 
 Meowth, and unfourtantley, Munchlax) . Instead of getting someone like vulplix, I had to be a meowth, 
 which isn't that bad, but considering that they said "we'll let you discover your inner pokemon," 
 I'd figure I will get a better selection of pokemon to be. Ah well, can't be that picky I suppose.
 
  
  Anyway, I didn't play the first one, but I believe the plot is the same. You're a human who's just 
 been zaped into a pokemon and hasn't got a clue as to what your past is or what you're doing there. 
 It almost seems like destiny that your "sidekick" (whoever you choose at beginning to go with you) 
 comes along to help you out. It's pretty simple, but you'll become a member of a guild and live 
 in a treasure town when you're not visiting the dungeons.
  
  Gameplay is ok. Most of your time is spent romping around randomly generated dungeons and areas 
 similar to them. It's not to bleah, you'll find lots of stuff lying around, and the enemies to 
 fight and recruit if needed. Fighting the foes is a tad clumsy, but you'll get used to it if you 
 remember the old clunky NES days of Zelda controls. Items seem to be too many sometimes, but you 
 can stash your goods at a storage area in the town after an adventure, allowing more room in your 
 conservatively growing bag.
  
  Graphics are just fine. Nothing too big or impressive yet nothing too lacking. I personally don't 
 care about this topic, so I am skipping it.
  
  Music is very tuneful, and in fact, very catchy that it can get stuck in your head! Most of the 
 Guild's music is march like and bright, with lots of tuba and brass to exagerate the pompousness 
 of the place. The town's theme is very fitting, and some of the story's cues aren't so bad either. 
 Most of the dungeon music is somewhat generic compared to the others. It's you're usual "pokemon 
 techno" for your battles. Really though, much of the other tunes stand out more to leave a better 
 impression.
  
  Sounds are relativley simple. Like with all pokemon games, there's not a whole lot to it, but it's 
 enough to get the job done.
  
  The whole story itself is rather simple to understand. So it shouldn't take you too much time if 
 you're good with RPGs. Gamespot says 20 hours, but I've already gotten more done in a shorter amount 
 of time.
  
  But I guess the only really bad part is just what pokemon you get stuck being as. You can level 
 up and learn new moves and so can your teammates and such, but you can't evolve until AFTER you've 
 completed the story! So if you were stuck as a Chimcar and you want to become an Infernape, well, 
 you're gonna have to wait a LONG time as compared to your usual pokemon escapades.
  
  Really though, I feel this is most enjoyed by those who like the old school RPGs, with there limited 
 graphic angles and clunky gameplay. It's good, yes, but with all the time it will take as compared 
 to a usual pokemon game, it seems a little slow. However, it's one of the few pokemon games in 
 which you get to be a pokemon, considering that it doesn't offer much outside of the battling factor. 
 It would be better to have a pokemon game that wasn't oriented so much about collecting and battling 
 and just more on simply interacting with your beloved monsters (whether disgustingly cute cats 
 and electric mice or intemmidating dragons, kitsunes, and evil monkeys) . Well, can't do much here.
 
  
  But this game is still a lot better than you think. If you're unsure, rent it or borrow it. As 
 for me, it's a good challenge and great way to take a break from your usual "Gotta catch them all!" 
 routine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temporius
Rating: 3
Date: May 31, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game and the other version, explorers of time, are not worth your time or money, much less 
 worth both. First off, the gameplay grows repetitive VERY fast. You press the attack button until 
 the enemy dies, and throw in a healing item when your health gets low. You then move around a very 
 simple maze until you can find the stairs to the next floor. You might be wondering why I classified 
 the game as "very hard" if the mazes are so easy and the gameplay requires no skill at all. Healing 
 items are extremely rare, and the boss difficulty is insane. It is easily possible to be able to 
 one-shot the normal enemies and then be one-shotted a boss in the same dungeon. In the first dungeon, 
 I took 120 damage from an attack. Considering that a high level character has about 250 health, 
 that is just way too much to be so early in the game.
  
  There has been almost no innovation since the original for the GBA. The only new feature I see 
 is that there are now "Outlaw pokemon". These optional bosses that you can defeat for a small reward. 
 However, they can still one-shot you, and dieing causes you to lose half of your items and all 
 of your money, as well as be unable to claim a reward from any other missions you cleared.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is repetitive, the difficulty is way too high unless you are way higher 
 level than you would get without running around doing every mission every day, and you have probably 
 done all of this before. This game is not worth your time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakoburn
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  At start, it may seem just like the first one, but its a lot better. Great difficulty adjustment, 
 a new storyline, all the new Pokemon, and new mission modes are just the beginning. The creation 
 of the Guild is awesome, showing the player that s/he's not alone even at her/his wake up time. 
 The money rewards are the same, since it varies from 100poke to 1000+poke, depending on the dungeon, 
 although it seems to be stolen by the Guild, since the reward you get is only 10% of the original 
 (if you get 150poke, the original reward was 1500poke) .
  New items add to the strategy, since new effects means new uses, and the change of category from 
 physical to special is a little confusing at first, but anyways adaptable. A new window shows the 
 controls inside dungeons, making it easy if this is your first game in the series. For veterans, 
 there is the Wi-Fi Connection, enabling rescues all over the world.
  The plot is catchy, looking even more like a suspense movie, were the watcher/player does not want 
 to look away until s/he finishes. At some points, there are some clues to know what's going to 
 happen next and for solving a mystery before the game does. As always, the dialogues help the player 
 a lot, and you get the ability to talk to your partner outside dungeons, providing you with a compact 
 instruction of what to do next. The only problem with this is that some of the dialogues are very 
 big, causing you to always want to jump them at certain parts, giving the risk of losing important 
 info of the story. Also, some of the clues mentioned above are inside the big dialogues, ruining 
 the good feeling of the mystery being solved part by part. The sound is also better, with new musics 
 and some remixes of the first one.
  My last word: Don't miss this game. You'll be really sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preachcuster
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This was the first pokemon game I had ever played, and initially I found it charming. Having never 
 experienced a pokemon game I was happy with the quirky, happy vibe, but as I found out later it 
 is nothing compared to REAL pokemon games. This game is all about exploring, randomly generated 
 dungeons. That's about it. The story is good, I guess, but it does not make up for this games short 
 comings. You will probably become bored to tears just tracking down outlaw pokeys, or escorting 
 pokeys to a certain level in a dungeon. The sound and graphics are almost exactly the same as past 
 gba/ds pokemon games, but unlike in Diamond/Pearl there is no 3-D anywhere. I traded this game 
 in for Diamond and would recommend getting Diamond or Pearl instead of this. Diamond is 100 times 
 more fun than this game. If you have already played D or P this game would be a great let down 
 to you. There is nothing really wrong with this game, but if your like me, you play games to have 
 fun. Fun, this game is not. The best thing this game did for me was prevent dust from going into 
 my ds slot. Avoid at all costs, unless you picked up and enjoyed last years title, "Pokemon and 
 Watching Paint Dry". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbusDumbledorr
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun, and just like the last game, there is an equal balance of story, and 
 action. Although the storyline can be cumbersome at times, it gets you that much more into the 
 game. And the boss battles will have you either ripping your hair out, or doing a victory jig. 
 Now with different types of jobs, you can make the game difficult or easy depending on your choice. 
 And with 2 games, you can slightly control how your game progresses by changing which Pokemon you 
 can recruit. Unlike the last game, you start out in a training "Guild" where you live and train 
 until the end of the game. Many interesting things happen here, and it is usually the center of 
 game play until you beat the game. The game really just takes you inside and makes you feel what 
 your character is feeling. This game is a good choice for anybody.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paalkaaran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun. The story mode is not as long as the game before, but there is a better 
 story mode in this game. I thought it was better than Blue Rescue Team and Red Rescue Team also 
 because it has a few advantages. 1. You can now feed your partner and recruits items instead of 
 just making them hold it. (They can still hold items, though.) 2. There are 105 more Pokemon (excluding 
 Shaymin and Arceus) to find. 3. your partner does not become "just another Pokemon" after you beat 
 the game. There are some half good half bad things, too. 1. No more friend areas. 2. You have to 
 be yourself in Pokemon square. And the bad part is that Kecleon is like 3 times stronger when he 
 sells things in dungeons. I really liked this game and I think anyone who liked the preceding games 
 will like this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I got the first game a while ago and i have to be honest, i hated it! This game i had second thoughts 
 on, but i still got it and its awesome. Im excited that you can play as the new Pokemon as well 
 as classic ones.
  
  
  The Good: Story is awesome. I havent completed this game, (i think im on the last dungeon) but so 
 far the story has had so many plot twists and moments that will make you cry (literally) -Lots of 
 playable Pokemon-GREAT WIFI-Lots of dungeons and items-The guild is really cool and know you can 
 arrest Pokemon 
  
  The Bad: This game is REALLY frustrating when you die in a dungeon-They didnt really change a lot 
 of the battle mechanics from the first one 
  
  
  Final Comments: This game is a lot better thn the first one and i love it.. i got it the first day 
 it came out and i still havent beat it!!!!!!!!!!!!! Great Sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroxm5
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, i have played other pokemon games but never anything like this when you 
 get to be the pokemon.... i had never played mystery dungeon blue or red, so this was something new 
 to try. It is awesome to encounter many kinds of pokemon mixed from all of the regions in the dungeons 
 that switch everytime you go in. But i considered it harder then any other pokemon game i have 
 played, even though you do get to travel in teams of two or up to four people. The game was a let 
 down on not being able to go through evolution, and also not being able to recruit most of the pokemon 
 you encounter. another not so good thing is that there is a lot of text in the game that may bore 
 you but after it is over the adventures are a lot of fun. Overall this was one of the best games 
 i played, even if it had some minor setbacks to it, because i love pokemon and being able to actually 
 play as them instead of the trainers to explore was more fun then i thought!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefaqs_rule
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  It is a game that you could enjoy for maybe a week or so. It has the same graphics, but more items, 
 it has a better story, more moves, and Pokemons!! Like if you really like Pokemon then this game 
 may be a fun, addictive. Like if you really want Darkrai, that might encourage you to get him, 
 and that will make you want to play more to find him. But it is pretty boring after you beat the 
 game after the Darkrai mission, and when you get all the things you want. You could just explore 
 to get recruitments, go to Golden Chambers, rescue, or just look for treasure!!!! It is a game 
 that some people could enjoy!!! And it is worth buying. You'll get used to it if you like the game!!!! 
 (If you want to recruit legendaries you have to hold a Friend Bow, Amber Tear, or a Golden Mask. 
 I used a Golden Mask.) It's a fun Pokemon Game!! ^_____^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon will help those of us who spend hours at a time on the Diamond and Pearl's 
 GTS system searching for rare pokemon take a break.
  Darkness and Time starts as it's predecessor did: you take a quiz to determine what pokemon you 
 are and then you choose your partner, only with a slightly larger choice range.
  Your chosen partner finds you on a beach and the only thing you can remember is your name and that 
 you were, at one point, a human.
  
  From then on, things are different from Blue/Red rescue team.
  
  Rather than get a sort of 
 den for your pokemon, you join the Wigglytuff Guild (which is run by-you guessed it!- Wigglytuff) 
 as an apprentice rescue team. Your goal from here on out is to build a name for yourself coupled 
 with preventing the theif Grovyle from stealing the Time Gears-artifacts that alter the very flow 
 of time itself-that If removed from there proper place, the time in that region stops completely. 
 But is Grovyle the real villian here? 
  The good:
  -You get to use all 400+ pokemon from titles like Yellow, Ruby, Emerald, Fire Red and Diamond version.
 
  -New missions in which you can search for 'outlaws'
  -Just plain cute!
  
  On to the bad stuff...
  There are a few things that Chun Soft could have excluded such as the 
 morning scene when Loudred wakes you up, the little meeting afterwards and the end of the day meal. 
 These all take up an extra 15 minutes that you can use for dungeon crawling. 
  
  In general, it's a really good game, fan of pokemon or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderstarter
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game really does nothing to the mystery dungeon formula, but that doesn't take away how much 
 fun it can be.
  The story is very similar to the original. You're a human that becomes a pokemon with no idea what 
 the heck is going on. You meet with your partner and form an exploration team. With your partner 
 you will embark on a satisfying 8-20 hr. journey to stop time from freezing permanently. the story 
 seems very terminator-like, but has its surpisingly touching moments.
  The gameplay is really where this game falls. Sure, it's fun, but the constant danger of your stamina 
 hitting 0 is a big pain. Bosses are ruthless, and it's not easy to beat the final boss (I couldn't 
 beat him until I was lvl 45) . Attacking brings a whole new theme to the world of pokemon moves, 
 moves each have their own range which could kill someone 10 spaces away from you or hurt everyone 
 in the room. It's hit-and-miss gameplay.
  There's a huge replay value with this game. After the main story, you have practically a whole 
 other story to finish along with that. Recruiting legendary pokemon is a hard feat to accomplish, 
 but it's amazingly satisfying when you do. Rescuing other people over WFC is another reason to 
 keep playing, you know, give someone a pick-me-up if their day is in the dumps.
  Overall I love this game and highly recommend it to all pokemon fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DsAccount
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Remember the original pokemon mystery dungeon. Well this game is really different. This game has 
 a real story to it. This game has improved graphic's and you can play as more pokemon. This game 
 has 16 pokemon for you to start with. This game has some old faces and some new faces. The changes 
 in this game was really great because i wasn't going to pick this game up but i decided to try 
 it. 
  
  It will keep you guessing to the end. In the beginning of the story it shows someone stealing something 
 but that person is really your friend. I don't want to give up the plot because you should see 
 for your self who is really the bad guy. This game is worst every penny because it is a awsome 
 adventure.
  
  If you had a bad experience with the first game well give this one a try. It is a interesting game. 
 It has a great amount of replay value in it but it gets repeative. You will spent atleast 20hours 
 to try to fight all the bosses and explore all these new dungeons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genome_227
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  So, before I get this review going, there's something that needs to be said and it's this; If you 
 liked the first two PMD games, and you know who you are, you finished every bit of post game plot 
 and spent untold hours seeking out even the most illusive of Legendary Pokemon for Team AwesomePants, 
 then you don't really even need to read this, because you will LOVE this game and, chances are, 
 you already know this. Similarly, if you played the first and loathed it, is the idea of rogue-like 
 games is enough to make you stab your own eyes out in frustration so that you never have to read 
 about them again then this game? You're gut instinct is right on the money about this, you ain't 
 gonna to like it one bit. Better of staying clear.
  
  Now we're left with people who did not play the first game, or who, like myself, did but would 
 not exactly have called it the best game in the world. For you folks? A review.
  
  
  Graphics;
  
  Lets start with what's going to leap out at you first, eh? The graphics for PMD: EoT/D 
 are not that different from it's GBA cousin, this is not to say they are wholly unimproved, as 
 the little tweaks, like upped quality and the fact ALL Pokemon now have little images to accompany 
 speech, will certainly bring a smile to the already initiated. Nor is it to say that those original 
 graphics where bad, per say, they certainly serve well enough, with the top-down, 2D view being 
 arguably ideal for lengthy dungeon crawls. But.. That's not the same as being good, they serve 
 their purpose, with some mild flare, and a few animated cut scenes, but it's nothing to write home 
 about.
  
  A solid 7/10 (add a point if your a fellow 2D lover)
  
  Sound;
  
  The second thing that will hit you after turning the game on. Like the graphics this is a decent 
 attempt, but you're probably not going to find yourself humming it at work or anything like that, 
 though it stops somewhat short of being too hair-wrenchingly repetitive, which is always a good 
 thing. Those who played the original will be pleased to hear that some of the original tunes have 
 been remixed, and played randomly in certain 'optional' dungeons which lack themes of there own.
 
  
  A similarly decent 6/10
  
  Game Play;
  
  The meat of the experience, and the reason behind the love-it-or-loathe-it nature of these games. 
 The game is driven by dungeon exploration which, in it's turn, is driven by a turn based battle 
 system that actually managed to mimic a seudo-realtime feel. Enemies will not move, attack, or 
 take any action until you and your partner (s) have also done so. Additionally you are a Pokemon 
 and, as such, poccess special moves based on elemental properties, but you're also limited in how 
 many times these moves can be used. It's worth noting, for players from the previous generation, 
 that max PP's are now much more generous and PP restorative items are easier to come by than before. 
 All this lends the game a decent depth, should you hurl a rock or walk towards them? However, a 
 lot of people do not enjoy this style of game, since it is slower than, say, the FPS style games 
 that tend to be quite popular here in the west. However, if you like to take your time and think 
 about what to do next? These kind of games can be very addicting, and take on a 'just one more 
 mission' feel quite quickly. 
  This game can be pretty hard. This whole style of game is notorious for it's difficulty and, while 
 this is probably the easiest yet created it can still be horribly cruel at times, even for those 
 who are used to this kind of thing. Mostly this is due to the unforgiving nature of the game, whereby 
 you are considered to fail an entire dungeon if you (and/or, in this case, you're partner) faint. 
 Though that's slightly offset by the fact you will not longer loose ALL of your items if you faint 
 in this particular game and, while your progress into that dungeon is still gone, the game no longer 
 automatically saves when you faint or levels fainting penalties on you if you opt to restart your 
 DS and play from your previous save.
  
  8/10 (detract at LEAST a couple of points if your an action addict)
  
  Storyline;
  
  The 
 previous games in this set carried stories that, while not exactly bad, are not seen as accomplishing 
 all they could have. PMD: EoT/D addresses this problem in full force, with a plot that carries some 
 genuinely tear-jerker moments. I'm not going to lie, the adults in the audience are probably going 
 to be slightly agitated by the fact that certain points are laid out a little too thickly, you'll 
 often find yourself watching a flashback meant to explain some plot point that you already saw 
 coming some time ago, which is annoying but not so unusual given the target demographic of both 
 the DS and Pokemon games. Having said that, the story itself is still pretty interesting, containing 
 some situations that one would not expect to find in a game aimed towards the younger market.
 
  The plot is also a fair bit longer this time, which is a welcome change, but also a bit annoying, 
 since the card still only allows for one save meaning that the only way to see the plot again is 
 delete all your progress and start from scratch. I'd love to see Nintendo do something to fix this 
 problem in the next games.. *hint hint*
  
  Compelling though oftentimes predictable, a 7/10
  
  Overall;
  
  This game has it's flaws, 
 certainly, it will not appeal to everyone and certainly isn't the hardest MD game ever made. But 
 if you like your old-skool RPG's and/or dungeon crawlers and your looking for a new DS game? You 
 could certainly do worse than picking up a copy.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikaPikaboo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I start this review, it should be noted that to review this game I played Explorers of Darkness 
 and not Explorers of Time. If there are two major differences between the two games besides for 
 different Pokemon, then I shall include a section for Explorers of Time.
  
  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon is an indirect sequel of the first game, "Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Blue 
 Rescue Team". The dungeons are still randomly generated and the main town will be where you can 
 do various things like in Blue Rescue Team. In the main town of both games, you can buy items or 
 TMs, store your items and money, link moves, train at the dojo, and take on some missions. The 
 game has basically remained the same from the Blue Rescue Team and Explorers of Darkness, however 
 there are a couple of new changes added to the formula.
  
  A small change is that in Blue Rescue Team, you could receive missions and other stuff through 
 mail, but in the new Mystery Dungeon, they scrapped that idea altogether, and replaced it with 
 Chatot telling you what your objective for the day would be (which is usually just to look at the 
 available missions) . Another small change is now there are two mission boards: one for basic missions 
 like in Blue Rescue Team and another for Bounties (where you must defeat a certain Pokemon to retrieve 
 an item back for your client) . In Explorers of Darkness, every now and then, you will be forced 
 to play a footprint minigame, where the objective is to match the footprint of a Pokemon to the 
 Pokemon within a set time period.
  
  In this game, there is a brand-new story, which Blue Rescue Team was lacking. Though they basically 
 use the same opening, throughout the game, the story seems to get darker and darker and there are 
 actually some surprises that actually shock you, even if it's just a little. First you take a small 
 test answering questions much like you did in the previous games. After taking the exam, you press 
 your finger onto your touch screen so that it can "feel your aura". I'm not sure whether this actually 
 does something, or just to integrate the touch screen controls, but I didn't seem to notice anything. 
 After that, you become a Pokemon based on your results. Once you have found out who you will be 
 playing as you have your choice of choosing whichever starter Pokemon you desire to be your partner.
 
  
  Anyways, the story starts like this... You wake up on the beach and you can't remember a thing, 
 except for your name (which you can input) and the fact that you were a human. Your partner is 
 the first to find you and tell you that you are [insert your Pokemon here] . It seems as though 
 your Partner was about to join the Wigglytuff Guild, but was too afraid to go through with it. 
 A Koffing and a Zubat see this and now know that your Partner was a coward. After your Partner 
 meets up with you, the Koffing and Zubat steal your partner's most precious possession, his Relic 
 Fragment. Your partner and you will now team up together to take back his treasure.
  
  Like previous installments, players may send out an SOS if they are defeated in the dungeon, which 
 can be done either using passwords or DS Wireless Communications as before, but also through Wi-Fi. 
 New to this series will be the option to temporarily send a team member to aid a friend in need, 
 which may allow a team to have more than four members. Defeated teams awaiting rescue may also 
 revisit previous dungeons to make more and collect items, but without the ability to level up. 
 I have not used this feature much, so this is where this review should lack.
  
  The best change is the face that there is no need to buy Friend Areas like you needed to do in 
 Blue Rescue Team. In Blue Rescue Team, the player had to buy different Friend Areas, or they would 
 not be able to befriend some of the Pokemon. Explorers of Time totally scrapped the idea and set 
 it up so that you could set up a team just by talking to a Chingling.
  
  As far as graphics go, this could have been done on the Gameboy Advance, like Red Rescue Team. 
 Explorers of Time still uses the same old sprites as the previous game. This game also does not 
 feature any FMVs, which we all know the DS can now handle. This may be an entertaining game, but 
 the visuals don't really back it up. The soundtrack is upbeat and the music seems to go in great 
 with the dungeons, however the visuals don't shine as much as the music does. The controls are 
 basic and simple. You can use your D-Pad to move, B Button to attack and L + B Button to use your 
 set move, which you can choose form your menu. You can also use your touch screen to move around 
 and attack, but the D-Pad feels much more comfortable.
  
  If you're a rabbid fan of Pokemon, you should get this without a doubt. If you enjoyed playing 
 Diamond/Pearl and you're looking for that same vibe from Explorers of Time, try somewhere else 
 as this is does not have the same satisfaction as the old-school Pokemon. Pokemon Mystery Dungeon 
 is, by far means, not for everyone. If you remember playing some old Dungeon RPGs back in your 
 day, you may want to revisit the genre by playing this game. And maybe if you've never played a 
 game of this genre you can try now, but I can not guarantee that you will enjoy this game.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Story: 
 [7/10]
  Gameplay: [7/10]
  Graphics: [5/10]
  Sound: [8/10]
  Controls: [7/10]
  
  Overall: 6.8
  
  ---Pikaboo
  
  For more reviews like this, check: http://wiiniis-united. co. nr 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Darkness/Time represent the latest incarnations of the fifteen 
 year old mystery dungeon series, which has once again been given the Pokemon treatment and offers 
 a few enhancements over last year's Blue/Red rescue team games. Players of the previous games will 
 see a lot of the same core gameplay here and can safely skip these next two paragraphs, for the 
 rest of you, you'll find that a lot happens when you mix two games in a bucket and stir, so please 
 read on.
  
  The Mystery dungeon series is based around the original 'Rogue' in which you simply went down the 
 floors of a dungeon and battle monsters in search of treasure, you've likely heard of 'Roguelikes', 
 a title given to these spinoff games that enhance on the original idea in so-many ways but stay 
 true to the core elements. One of the biggest characteristics of Rogue is the difficulty, and although 
 not as brutal as traditional Roguelikes, you'll be failing a lot while trying to play through Darkness/Time 
 and then you'll be failing some more. Since the dungeons you enter are generated at random each 
 time you visit, you can't take advantage of prior knowledge to reach the end and sometimes the 
 layouts will seem just darn right unfair when you encounter another of the Rouge features, the 
 'Monster House'. Throughout most of the game it'll be just you and a partner, and you'll likely 
 be facing just one or two enemies at a time, but the random 'Monster House' will throw a large 
 amount of monsters in the room with you, giving you little chance of survival, such is the burden 
 of the dungeoneer. If you believe you can get through the difficulty you'll find that the game 
 behind it all has a lot to offer, outside of the dungeons you have a storyline, people to talk 
 to, items to buy and a lot of things that make RPGs what they are. Your millage on the series greatly 
 hinges on your love for both Pokemon and/or Roguelikes, but the most interesting moments can be 
 seeing how your Pokemon behave in these new situations and environments.
  
  
  
  Most of the core Pokemon rules are here, you'll level up with experiences, eventually get the ability 
 to evolve, learn new moves with your levels (up to 4 as usual) , hold items, use PP, TMs and try 
 to build a selection of all available Pokemon. All these rules are merged so well with the Rogue 
 rules, it's like they were meant to be together, but just as the Pokemon rules are unfamiliar to 
 a Rogue fan, some of the additional rules here may take a little getting used to for the Pokemen 
 and Pokegirls. A few of the new things you'll find are; Having to keep your belly full on long 
 dungeon trips, only four Pokemon in a team at once, throwing items and a whole lot else, such as 
 the crazy shops in the middle of dangerous dungeons. You'll also find tweaks to the way that your 
 moves behave, some weaker moves have a lot more punch in the right situations and can really turn 
 the tide however having a powerful move that you can use only 5 times may not always be the best 
 choice when faced with 20 floors of danger. These moves can also be 'linked' allowing you to use 
 two moves in a single turn, giving you a quick one, two punch effect such as lowering your attackers 
 defense before delivering a quick slap to the face.
  
  The new features in Darkness/Time won't turn any heads and it definitely won't win over any new 
 fans, however the changes do improve over the previous games and are well worth mentioning. As 
 you'd expect you now have access to the full roster of Pokemon, that's a staggering 490 for those 
 of you keeping score, up from the 386 from the last adventure. All should be obtainable if you 
 have access to the alternate game (time - darkness) but before you ask, no you cannot in any way 
 transfer these across to Diamond/Pearl to boost your legendary collection, sorry! Of course you'll 
 have a new story to follow and dungeons to visit, but I'll go into that a little more later. The 
 last major feature is wi-fi support, which isn't all that surprising since many DS games have taken 
 this routes recently (Diamond/Pearl included) , the most surprising part of this is the email support, 
 yes email. Just like the previous games, when you inevitably fall in a dungeon you can request 
 help from another player, this was achieved before by posting a lengthy code up on a forum and 
 hoping someone would rescue you, now you can simply post it out through wi-fi for the world to 
 see or send it to friends (using friend codes) at which point your request will trigger an email 
 to be sent to their address. What this means is you could register your Wii number and be alerted 
 with a blue light, or my personal favorite is to have it sent to a cell phone where you'll receive 
 your friend's urgent plea for help while you're doing totally mundane day to day life, it's all 
 about synergy.
  
  
  
  One thing I wasn't expecting to stand out was the storyline, Pokemon games have always featured 
 a story that was purely functional and never anything that was stand-out memorable. The biggest 
 surprise here was that the storyline ended up having a lot more going on than I first gave it credit 
 for, it starts off very much like the previous games but ends up with a few surprises and a great 
 ending, it surely won't win any awards, however it'll have you fighting through the dungeons to 
 see what would happen next. The characters you meet are varied and all the townsfolk will be talking 
 about what's going on with dialog changing often, the most interesting character you'll meet is 
 your guildmaster Wigglytuff. This Pokemon must of evolved with a bad moonstone and you'll be constantly 
 wondering if his random singing and shouting of "Yoom-Ta!" is just a facade and if there's actually 
 a mastermind behind those glazed eyes, either way the sheer insanity of this Pink balloon puts 
 him in the same line as Minsc and HK47 in my book.
  
  
  
  Explorers of Time/Darkness isn't without faults, many non-persistent gamers will undoubtedly get 
 frustrated with the challenging difficulty, people who are easily disturbed by completely unfair 
 odds may quickly find themselves dropping the game early before finishing. Another minor shortcoming 
 is the menu system, epically related to the wi-fi which isn't very user friendly and streamlined, 
 options aren't in obvious places and you may find yourself repeatedly disconnecting and re-connecting 
 from wi-fi in order to get a few simple tasks done. That said, the wi-fi does work, but having 
 the options integrated into the actual gameplay rather than in a bunch of menus could of been a 
 better route to take. It's also surprising not to see any kind of Pokedex included, although this 
 does make sense since you aren't a trainer who has been given the task of cataloging every Pokemon, 
 but it does make life hard if you are trying to add all the Pokemon to your team.
  
  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time/Darkness isn't for everyone, in fact it isn't for most 
 people, it focuses on it's audience and doesn't add much to last years adventure. Fans of this 
 genre will find there's a lot of gaming to be had here with 20 chapters that will take a long time 
 to get through, followed by several extra missions that'll keep you playing after the main game 
 is completed and take your patience to a new level. With so many hours of gameplay and plenty to 
 do, I give Pokemon Mystery Dungeon Explorers of Time/Darknes 4 flaming monkey heads out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina667
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon,2005's only not-completely-recycled Pokemon game, gets a pair of sequels 
 on the Nintendo DS, let's cut to the chase, hm?
  
  Overview: The game is a top-down dungeon crawler featuring most of the current pokemon cast, if any 
 of you have played the mostly Japan only fushigi no Dungeon (Mysterious dungeon) games, this should 
 be a bit familiar.
  
  Gameplay: As stated before, it is a top-down dungeon crawler. The game, while at first seems to be 
 real time, is in reality turn-based, much like the main pokemon series. The battle engine is basically 
 a 3D version of the original one, with a few modifications. Things that are added include hunger. (Basically 
 a stamina bar, which when empties causes your party leader to lose health until death.) IQ (Which 
 if high enough, gives pokemon special abilities.) movement through a 3-Dimensional plane (So moves 
 are given the new quality of range.) However, only IQ is pulled off well. Hunger is more of a distraction 
 than a legitimate gameplay element, and Some moves seem to have a broken range, and the fact that 
 you can be surrounded quickly is frustrating. Speaking of that...
  
  Difficulty:9/10 The game is astoundingly hard, with invisible and crippling traps, enormous mazelike 
 floors that chew through stamina, and unforgiving hordes of pokemon. The game seems easy at first, but 
 there's a steep incline after a few dungeons. And while pokemon will offer to join your team, they're 
 not much help due to dull-witted AI, you'll have to severely restrict them if you want to work well 
 with them.
  
  Visual: The game does decently, but not much to write home about, cutscenes are fairly well done, however 
 sparse, and sprites keep most of the details of the original monsters.
  
  Sound: Decent, there isn't a lot of noise, but the attack effects are nice touches to the harsh worlds.
 
  
  Music: Decent, but sometimes the music seems incongruous with the dungeons, and a lot of music is 
 recycled from B/RRT in some form.
  
  Conclusion: If you can withstand it's harsh trials and slight repetitiveness, this can be a fun game. Otherwise, just 
 leave it be.:/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwind1012
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. If you remember from the first Mystery Dungeon, you had to fight in 
 dungeons, beat missions, and recruit pokemon to your team... same thing for this game. It has no 
 added game play features, besides the storyline and MORE POKEMON (!!!) but I like how the story 
 goes on with the point, and how the cut scenes were made beautifully! Wi-Fi makes this game outstanding. 
 If you remember in the first game, again, if you died in a dungeon, you would ask to send an SOS 
 message. The only problem was, you had to either have another person with the game who can save 
 you, or have someone put a 20 digit password (dang!) To make it easier, you can simply go on Wi-Fi, 
 and ask anyone all over the world/friends to save you; this simply makes it easier. You can also 
 trade teams and items over wi-fi too! Graphics are not bad, nor good, but the cut scenes, as I've 
 said, have amazing graphics for the DS. This game isn't to hard, all you do is you beat pokemon 
 in a dungeon, beat a mission that you accepted, beat up bosses, and pretty much cut and dry; doing 
 the same thing over and over until you get use to it. All I've got to say overall is this game's 
 amazing, especially for an RPG. An RPG like this deserves two thumbs up ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrn
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Like stated in the smaller review, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness, isn't really 
 all that of a great game.
  
  Sure, the story HAS improved, if that's what you're looking for, but the game itself is missing 
 many of the elements that make a REAL Pokemon game. For example, a limited inventory (a feature 
 from Pokemon Diamond/Pearl) , a 6-person party (I understand, but the feature of gangbeating the 
 computer trainers is a great prospect) , and no evolution until the game is actually beaten make 
 this "new" game fail when compared to others.
  
  Occasionally the game is fun, but the annoying and miniscule tasks that you must deal with everyday 
 (the retarded Loudred that wakes you up, storing away the past day's gains, going back down 2 stories 
 to save so you don't lose anything good, etc.) make this game REALLY annoying when played in long 
 bursts.
  
  I'm not shooting down this game or anything, but the prospect of uber-pwnage with a Charizard really 
 appeals to me, which is something that's not possible unless you selected Charmander as your partner, 
 got him as your personality (but let's be serious, EVERYBODY wants Chimchar) , or leave it up to 
 a completely screwed up equation that gives you a chance of less than 10% at recruiting. Did I 
 also mention that you can't evolve until you beat the game? And guess who the last boss is! A frickin' 
 Dark Dialga thing, or something to that effect (I'm currently grinding until I can just sweep through 
 the game) ! Seriously, beating legendary Pokemon with 2 Basic Pokemon (3 if you've actually had 
 the time to recruit something good early on) seems pretty lame, seeing as you'll have to go through 
 the same, re-scrammbled dungeon, just to fight the bosses again, even with the small percent that 
 the boss/anything else will actually join you!!!
  
  Did I mention that accuracy sucks? I GUARANTEE that in atleast one mission, either you or your 
 partner Pokemon will fail the mission because all of your attacks missed the enemy. I know what 
 ACTUAL Pokemon players are thinking, "Just use a 100% attack, nub!" Well, even with 100% accuracy 
 (from the real games) , these attacks are not guaranteed to hit (except maybe sure-hit moves like 
 Aerial Ace, haven't tried) ! Meanwhile, your enemy will likely have a status-reducing move, further 
 hampering your ability to kill it!
  
  Seriously, all in all, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness just seems to me like a redesigned 
 copy of the first flop. STICK AWAY AT ALL COSTS, unless you're a real die-hard Pokemon fan that 
 enjoys tortuing their own soul.
  
  On a side note, I believe I'm being pretty generous with a 6.0 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m1k3m
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Darkness is a dungeon crawler. It has randomly generated 
 dungeons, but there's practically no difference at all between each floor. There is also no difference 
 at all between the floors when comparing two different dungeons. It feels amazingly repetitive, 
 which is a word you'll be hearing quite a bit throughout this review. The game uses a clunky menu 
 system which you need to use EVERY time you attack, use an item, or just want to check out info 
 or stats. It gets very repetitive. There is a small overworld which is very interesting and fun. 
 All of the shops are run by certain Pokemon. For example, Chansey runs an egg day care, Electivire 
 runs the link shop, and Kecleon runs the shop. It gives the game some personality because the dungeons 
 are so bland. The game is filled with charming and interesting characters too. The dialogue is 
 a tad boring at parts though. Overall, the story is good. Much better than the last Pokemon Mystery 
 Dungeon's story. The gameplay and all does have flaws, but it all does come together.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing much to say here. They're about GBA quality. Maybe a LITTLE better. They're 
 very colorful though, especially in the overworld so it is fun to look at. The dungeons all have 
 the same type of art design. They don't really set themselves apart from each other graphically 
 at all. Very repetitive.
  
  Sound:
  I'm not gonna lie, it's not that great. Definitely GBA quality in this department. I guess some 
 of the tunes are a little catchy, but there's nothing too catchy and definitely nothing even close 
 to epic. Also, it's repetitive.
  
  Value:
  The game does have a great value. The main story should take you at least 12-17 hours to complete 
 and then there are loads of sidequests to do after. I would actually say that the side quests will 
 take you even longer than the main story did. The game is worth the $35 even though it does have 
 quite a few flaws. 
  
  Tilt:
  I enjoyed the game quite a bit. That is probably because I'm a Pokemon fan though. I noticed it's 
 flaws and sometimes the game did make me want to throw my DS at the wall because of some annoying 
 things in it like the pacing of going through a dungeon. I feel that it's a little too slow. 
 
  
  All in all, if you're a Pokemon fan this is a must buy game. If not, you should buy it if you're 
 a fan of dungeon crawlers too. It's also worth buying if you just need a lengthy game that is pretty 
 fun too. And as one last note, you better be okay with the game being repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Casual, easygoing baby-rogue will delight the youngsters, especially with 490 cameo appearances 
 by the Poke-reatures. Lots of space in inventories.
  
  The Bad:
  Nearly indistinguishable in every way from the earlier Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. Extremely low difficulty 
 level means exploring and grinding can get dull fast.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I can sum this up with a few questions:
  Did you enjoy playing through last year's Pokemon Mystery Dungeon? Do you want to do pretty much 
 the same thing again, with slightly different creatures and a slightly different story?
  If you answered yes to both, or if you haven't yet sampled the Pokemon Mystery Dungeon world, you 
 will enjoy this game. If cutesy, easy, random dungeons with a story geared towards 8 year olds 
 is not your thing, you might skip this one, and pick up one of the more challenging Roguelikes 
 out there (e. g. Izuna, or Mystery Dungeon Shiren The Wanderer) . The Pokemon Mystery Dungeon franchise 
 is sort of like a Rogue-style RPG with training wheels. A typical Rogue-like has a few defining 
 features:
  1) Extremely punishing when you die (lose all equipment, experience, and cash) .
  2) Save points either don't exist, or do not allow replays
  3) Randomly generated 'caves' to 
 explore, where a 'turn-based' movement and battle system is in place.
  
  The Pokemon world is a kinder gentler world than your typical RRPG, so #1 and 2 have been eased 
 a great deal, probably to increase the appeal to the crowd that enjoys Pokemon (usually on the 
 younger side, although many are growing up fast....) . Hard saves exist, where you can re-start 
 from as many times as you want. When you die, you lose SOME (but not all) of your money and equipment. 
 However, the fact that you keep your experience, and still keep most of your stuff means that you 
 will rarely, if ever, need to re-load a day. Also, the extreme easiness of the dungeons and sheer 
 volume of helpful stuff to let you survive makes it highly unlikely that you'll ever come close 
 to dying, especially if you've played and survived other "real" roguelikes. 
  
  PMD allows you to select from a set of 'jobs' at the guild, and you can take up to 8 at once (so 
 that you could clear two or three in one run through a dungeon) . There is a story, forcing you 
 to do a quest here and there, but most of the time you are free to grind away and collect stuff. 
 There is lots of room in your backpack, as well as an even roomier storage system in town, so even 
 that has been eased up here.
  
  I happen to enjoy this franchise for the simple reason that sometimes I just want a dungeon crawl 
 without the muss and fuss and worry associated with most of them. Just give me a simple story, 
 a simple combat system, and a low-frustration set of quests/jobs to choose from, and I can happily 
 while away the hours when I'm not playing something more angst-inducing (e. g. GTA-Vice City comes 
 to mind... damned Cholos) . 
  
  So, PMD brings easy-going dungeon questing fare to the table, with 'jobs' to choose from and a 
 mildly interesting story aimed at the younger crowd (in the same way that 'Pooh's Grand Adventure' 
 had an interesting story) . If you want a game that looks and acts like a rogue-style, but goes 
 easy on the punishment, this game delivers a slick experience, although the graphics are decidedly 
 GBA-quality (which, somehow, works for this genre) . If you are looking for a true Roguelike, I 
 suggest you give Mystery Dungeon Shiren the Wanderer a whirl.... but keep this game around for those 
 times when Shiren makes you want to smash your DS against the wall.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X_Link10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Off the top I would like to say, this being as a sequal to Blue Rescue Team, Explorers of Time/ 
 Darkness are much better than the originals.
  
  First off, Graphics. Very GBA'ish, but I'm not necessarily saying that as a bad thing. Better graphics 
 may have made the game feel a bit weird, but they could've been better, just not TOO much better.
 
  
  Second, gameplay. The very turnbased battle system of just hitting A or L+A for attacks can be 
 very boring. But, the RPG elements really makes it about strategies about how to perserve "PP" 
 and so you won't get knocked out by type-disadvantages. The system of pick and job AND an outlaw 
 really puts a lot of choice, and with even MORE dungeons... well, it really brings what it offers. 
 And the recruit system is better than ever without having to buy and visit those pesty friend areas, 
 you now just have 1 place, and it's so easy! Plus, theres over 490 pokemon in this game, making 
 it very different each time.
  
  Lastly, plot. My god, this plot is incredible. I won't reveal anything to you, but I will say that 
 the guy your chasing after was actually trying to SAVE the earth from something called "Planet 
 paralysis" and you find a huge secret about your charectar, but I won't reveal anything :D. Anyways, 
 the plot is put together perfectly.
  
  Overall, I believe that if they just tweaked the graphics a bit, and if they somehow spiced up 
 the attack system, this game would be incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  It's been a year since the release of Pokemon Diamond/Pearl, and we are greeted with the sequel 
 of Pokemon MD: Blue/Red Rescue team. Those games were decent, but quite boring, in my opinion. 
 Can this game fix all the snags of its predecessor?
  
  Graphics: I can say I'm seriously disappointed, again. C'mon, Nintendo, you can do MUCH better 
 than this. GBA styled graphics, again? We are in the DS generation, the Pokemon GBA era is over. 
 We're in 2008, and Nintendo haven't explored the full potential of the DS in MD2. I was expecting 
 something like Diamond/Pearl, but this...? Oh well, 6/10.
  
  Sound: Eh, the SFX aren't that bad and the music is somewhat decent. It's a better follow up of 
 the previous game. I can't really say much about anything else here. 7/10.
  
  Gameplay: Ok, you are a human, and you were transformed into a Pokemon (which the test will determine 
 which of the 16 starters you are, plus your aura) . 
  
  Then you pick your partner, and start out in the world of MD2. You get to be a member of Wigglytuff 
 Guild, and they basically give you jobs to do and, you'll be guessing already, that will be exploring 
 Mystery Dungeons. Be it to get an item that a Pokemon has lost or just beat a boss, you'll explore 
 these MD to the full (if you want) , and each time you enter, the cave will change. The power of 
 randomize, eh? 
  
  Well, the battles are simply A to attack, move to target and/or run, and L+A to store your special 
 move. You gain exp. when you beat the Pokemon, which will contribute to leveling up, and consequently 
 learning more and better moves. Nothing that is particularly new, just more of reinventing the 
 wheel.
  
  I give a 7/10 here.
  
  Replay value: Well, it does have WiFi this time around, so that's an extra point for replay value. 
 It's actually the first game to ask you for your real email address so it can tell you when Friend 
 Rescues occur. I assume this has something to do with your friends' games (maybe when they pass 
 a dungeon or something) . Nevertheless, it will send you a confirmation email with a pin that I 
 assure you receives perfectly on Hotmail, so that's a plus. 
  
  I don't think there is a lot of replay value after this, because the dungeon get boring and monotonous 
 after some time. 8/10 here, however.
  
  Resuming, Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Explorers of Time/Darkness is a reasonably good sequel to the 
 previous games released a couple of years ago. Nintendo invested in WiFi and lots of new dungeons 
 to explore, and that made some people happy, but the graphics and sound leave quite a bit to be 
 desired. Plus, it's only fun the couple of times around, as you'll find yourself bored if you play 
 this game too - and unless you're a diehard MD fan, I don't see you replaying this game. 
  
  I personally only recommend this if you really are a fan of these kind of games. Also, this 
 is NOT a sequel to Diamond/Pearl. 
  
  Nintendo tried, and almost got the "formula" right, but not quite yet. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
