-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Polarium
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/polarium/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Puzzle mode has 100 increasingly difficult puzzles.
 You can create and share your own puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Challenge mode is weak.
 Presentation is decidedly underwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 722 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Mitchell
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Apr 18, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the idea of creating puzzles and sharing them with like-minded friends is intriguing to you, 
 then you'll find enough enjoyable mind-benders to make Polarium worth a purchase. 

  Polarium is a puzzle game named for its play off of the concept of polarity. Similar to Ikaruga, 
 Polarium is all about switching the polarity of things from light to dark and back again as the 
 situation dictates. It's awfully plain-looking, and some of its modes aren't much fun. However, 
 the game's puzzle mode and the ability to create and share your own puzzles does give Polarium 
 a lot of appeal to fans of brainteasers.  

          Polarium's puzzle mode is where you'll spend most of your time.     

  There are two 
 or three different ways to take on Polarium, but the rules remain roughly the same between modes. 
 You're given a playfield full of light and dark tiles, and you can flip them over by drawing lines 
 with the stylus. When you create a horizontal row of all one color, it disappears. The object is 
 to draw long, snaking lines that will create multiple solid lines at the same time, potentially 
 clearing the entire screen in one fell swoop. That concept works a little differently in each mode. 
 Challenge mode tries to bring it like Tetris, giving you a well and dropping multiple mixed-up 
 rows at you at set intervals. Most of what drops on you is dropped in some sort of pattern that 
 can be cleared in one line, if you're fast enough. Play ends when both your screens are stacked 
 with tiles. This is the weakest of the three modes, because it just comes down to how quickly can 
 recognize and eliminate the handful of patterns that are repeatedly tossed your way. Versus mode 
 lets two players go head-to-head. Here, the lines you eliminate are sent to your opponent's screen, 
 just as you'd expect from a multiplayer puzzle game. There are some attack items to earn, and the 
 first player to clear his or her screen wins the match. This is a reasonably cool mode, but the 
 main point of interest in Polarium is its puzzle mode.  

  Polarium has 100 preset puzzles for you to take on in order. Puzzle mode gives you a static screen 
 full of tiles. All these tiles can be eliminated with just one stroke of the stylus, and it's up 
 to you to figure out the proper path to victory. The first 20 or 25 puzzles warm you up, but past 
 that mark, it starts to get pretty tough. You can enable a hint mode that will show you the starting 
 and ending point of a successful line if you get trapped on any one puzzle for too long. These 
 are some great brainteasers that really force you to think, and they're easily the best, most-rewarding 
 part of the entire game.  

  Once you're finished with the puzzle mode -- or once you get stuck -- you can always turn to the lounge 
 area, which lets you create your own puzzles. While creating your own puzzles isn't all that hot 
 on its own -- because you always have to provide a correct solution when you're making a puzzle -- the 
 game offers the ability to share your puzzles with others via wireless link or password. This means 
 you can take to the streets or take to a message board and trade puzzles with other players. Challenging 
 your friends to complete your own devious tasks is great fun that makes the whole package more 
 worthwhile.  

          If you have a Polarium posse, you'll be able to share your created puzzles.     

  Graphically, 
 Polarium isn't much to look at. The tiles are either light or dark, and there aren't any additional 
 tilesets that come in to change up the look. It's very plain. The game's sound effects and music 
 are similarly underwhelming, but at least they don't get on your nerves.  

  Fans of the puzzle genre aren't guaranteed to like Polarium. The modes that fall into line with 
 other genre favorites are the weakest part of the package. But if staring at a brainteaser for 
 lengthy periods of time is your idea of excitement, or if the idea of creating puzzles and sharing 
 them with like-minded friends is intriguing to you, then you'll find enough enjoyable mind-benders 
 to make this worth a purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mary9332003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  Polarium is a game for the DS which had a predecessor on GBA which I've never heard of. It's just 
 a puzzle game where you draw lines with the stylus and the squares you select invert their colours. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Puzzle game, so not that fun.
  Originality: Had a predecessor so it probably didn't improve all that much.
  Music: It's a standard 
 affair or arcade music. It won't annoy you, but it's not catchy either.
  Graphics: Nothing special, just gold, white and black. Grey doesn't count. At least Polarium doesn't 
 look pixelated.
  
  As one of the first DS games released, it showed one how to use a DS, but not much more. The puzzle 
 section is comprehensive, requiring a lot of mind power to figure out a certain way to draw a line. 
 The challenge is almost a pushover once you figure out the basics of Polarium tactics. Of course, 
 I got sick of playing the challenge after 5 minutes, so maybe it gets harder and I never got that 
 far.
  
  Drawing up your own little Polarium puzzles is bound to appeal... probably no one. Not even hardcore 
 puzzlers would live through drawing up puzzles, when there are already so many puzzles that could 
 KILL you with boredom. Sorry, any joke or pun was not intended. 
  
  In a way, Polarium is a good enough game. For a puzzle game that only just learnt the functions 
 of a DS. You may not want to own the game, but it's worth just trying out, just because puzzles 
 are good for you. Especially easy ones, which do spring up quite a bit in Polarium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schimik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The rules are simple. With the stylus, you strike a single path so that all the rows are of the 
 same color. The game itself isn't as simple as the rules. There are two modes in this game. The 
 first one is Challenge. It's pretty much like Tetris. A bunch of blocks fall and you have to clear 
 the rows by turning the tiles into the same color. However, the other mode, Puzzle, is much more 
 fun. The game has 100 stock puzzles, but you can also trade customized puzzles with other friends 
 who have the game. Some of the stock puzzles can be solved in a few seconds, but others need a 
 lot of thinking.
  
  In overall, the Puzzle mode is the main core of the game. The difficulty level of this mode is 
 well balanced. Everything looks dull in this game, but its simplicity make Polarium a puzzle game 
 that differs from the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Unique and fun core gameplay; good use of touch screen; clean presentation.
  
  The Bad: Only two modes of play; overall presentation is boring; very little lasting appeal.
 
  
  Polarium is one of those puzzle games that really tries to use the DS's touch screen controls to 
 its full advantage. It does a decent job of creating an interesting puzzle setting, but ultimately 
 its lack of value, production levels, or depth shoot the promising gameplay to heck.
  
  The gameplay is interesting - in one line, you should be able to flip the tiles to make matching 
 horizontal lines. It's a great concept on paper, but it gets old really fast. Because of the lack 
 of modes in Polarium, there's just no lasting value to the game.
  
  The challenge mode has 100 puzzles to tackle, and that's at least interesting, but unless you're 
 easily hooked on Sudoku or crossword puzzles, it's not going to appeal to you. You can create your 
 own puzzles, which is an interesting diversion.
  
  Ultimately, the barebones presentation and the lack of modes really kill any potential Polarium 
 had. More application of the promising gameplay could have created a good game, but as it is, it's 
 no more than mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryMe01
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  A puzzle game from Nintendo featuring it's new and weird looking new portable, taking advantage 
 of it's new touch screen. What can go wrong and how can you miss something like this?
  
  That's what I thought, and it was all good at the start. Touching something and using your mind 
 and stylus to change titles as cool and interesting in the beginning. But then it got boring, fast. 
 And starting the same marathon mode over and over again, it's all the SAME!!! The only thing that 
 made this game interesting was the puzzles that you needed to solve, flipping over title and make 
 the whole gride disappear in one stroke. Genius. And it lasted a lot longer than the other single 
 player modes - for a week!
  
  Other things to mention, 2 player is good but like the meat of the game, it's all the same.
  
 
  Keep a look out in the discounted bin - I did! $20 Australian, brand new! Not bad but not a good 
 game, less than average - especially when Reggie likes this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy drawing lines to solve puzzles and have friends who like to as well than this game 
 is for you. If you don't than this game is a complete waste of time and money. With better games 
 in the genre for the ds this title is a very petty attempt to draw you away from those better titles. 
 Graphics really don't make a difference in this game because how good can lines look? Not very 
 good. There's not much to the sound either and quite frankly i never even knew that it was there. 
 Overall this game is appealing to some and that's great because those people could oneday make 
 the next great game in this genre but it isn't polarium
  
  ~JaMeS4418 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamster_120
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  If you like puzzle games, Polarium is definatily worth a purchase. If you aren't wild about puzzle 
 games to begin with, you will probably be disappointed with this purchase. It is very easy to learn 
 to play and the tutorial helps a lot. 
  
  Graphics: Hard to have good graphics in a puzzle game, but these are particularly lacking. Looks 
 kind of 2 dimensional sometimes which is not good for a Nintendo DS game.
  
  Sound: This is the most annoying thing about the whole game. The same music plays over and over 
 and over and over.... well you get the point. If it was a good song, I wouldn't mind as much, however 
 the song consists of a lot of beeps.... over and over and over. Sometimes I turn the sound off 
 on the DS to stop the song from annoying me.
  
  Don't get me wrong, overall, it is fun to pickup and play every once and awhile, but unless you 
 can find it extremely cheap I would advise you not to purchase this. I probably would not have 
 if I had known what it would be like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_Ursiny15
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  before i bought it i thought it was going to be awsome. but when i bought it it sucked its just 
 like tetris but backwards i did like it but after a while it started to get really boring. the 
 sounds are catchy but the graphics are diffrent from the normal games i play. but the multiplayer 
 thing is pretty cool i had fun with it for a while but it got boring after awhile. my friends also 
 agree about this but we still play it when we want to! i dont know what else to say so ill just 
 talk. this game is okay. i just like first-person shotters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  I don't think I should enjoy this as much as I do. I hate mind games. I hate crosswords, su-doku, 
 those wierd word boxes you name it I hate it. This is also a mind game. A mind game I bought it 
 along with 23 others for 4000 stars off the nintendo 24:7 website (so there they do actualy do 
 games) . I didn't really want it. I got it through impulse buying, and have oathed to never do such 
 a thing again.
  
  See it's not a bad game. To be honest it's really good. The multi feature is kind of cool and easy 
 to win. and the levels have kept me occupied for quite some time. The thing is though I shouldn't 
 like it. It is a mind game and I should hate it. But the thing is I can't find a reason why. It's 
 not a good game, it dosen't have enough features to make it a classis, but it is by no means a 
 bad game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Puzzle games will always have a home on portable systems. They are short, do not have a plot and 
 can be played for a couple of minutes or a couple of hours. Polarium is a title that fits all of 
 the requirements I listed above and takes advantage of the stylus feature of the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  The concept of the game is simple enough. You have a grid of black or white squares. Your goal 
 is to change all of the squares black, white, or solid horizontal lines of black or white. Where 
 is the challenge? Well, you have to perform this task without lifting the stylus. When you move 
 the pen over a block, it will switch its color. You can mover from left to right or up and down, 
 no diagonals. There are 100 puzzles that you can solve using these basic instructions. The first 
 ten are easy; they go up exponetionally from there.
  
  If you get tired of trying to solve puzzles, there is the challenge option. This has a Tetris feel 
 to it. Blocks falls down and you have to get all of them either black or white. When you do, they 
 disappear. Blocks continue to fall and if you do not eliminate them fast enough, you lose. The 
 plus to this option is that you can get rid of the blocks in steps instead doing to the pen-left 
 aspect of the puzzles.
  
  There is a head-to-head option to the game that only requires one cartridge; it requires you to 
 turn the DS on its side to view the action. This took a little getting used to because it is not 
 the usual way you hold the DS. 
  
  Finally, there is an option to create your own puzzles within the game to challenge your friends. 
 You cannot create an unanswerable puzzle because part of the creation process is to provide the 
 answer to the puzzle.
  
  This is by no means a great game. It is a decent game that I paid seven dollars on clearance at 
 Target. I would have been very disappointed with the title if I paid thirty for it, but at seven 
 dollars, it was worth the small investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teliko_Hat
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  this is truly a brilliant game that really puts your mind to it's top performance. it takes a good 
 while to get bored of this game and if you ever do, it's even more fun to play against your friends 
 in multi player and with only one game needed for game-share. and even still there is even more 
 again that you can test your friends mind by making your own puzzles and seeing if your good at 
 things like that. and you can also send them to you friends and they can save them or vise versa. 
 you've got to admit that for an all time classic game, they sure know what they were doing to give 
 us some long lasting fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Polarium is very simple; you slide your stylus to turn tiles to either black or white. What for? 
 To make horizontal lines of the same color, to make them dissapear.
  Polarium has two main game modes. The first one is Challenge Mode, in which you're asked to clear 
 as many lines as possible, while more and more pieces of tiles stack up in the lower screen; if 
 you get too many stacked up, it's game over. This mode is the fast-reflexes one, where you need 
 to look and think ahead of the game to get more lines cleared. Very fast pased and a little bit 
 addictive, but just a little bit. Is it fun? Yeah, but it gets old fast, and repetitive.
  Puzzle mode is my personal favorite. There are 100 puzzles in which time is not your enemy but 
 your friend. You're given unlimited time to look at a series of tiles and think and ponder 'Hmmm... how 
 can I trace a single stylus stroke throughout the touch screen to make all the lines dissapear?" 
 That's basically it. Sounds simple? It is, but it is very fun and addictive too. WARNING - You 
 will only like this mode if you like to take your time and think; if you expect to find the answer 
 right away, this mode is not for you. The harder puzzles are at the end, and boy are they challening; 
 you'll spend a good amount of time clearing these 100 puzzles.
  Polarium also features a puzzle-save function. You can either enter puzzle codes you get online 
 or from freinds, or link your games; doing either of these gets you more puzzles to solve. And 
 you can make your own too. 
  There's also a VS mode where you turn your DS to the side and try to clear as many lines as possible. 
 Lines you clear are sent to your opponent, and whoever gets a clear screen first, wins the match. 
 Kinda fun, but not a whole lot.
  Many, many people bash and trash-talk this game because of the graphics. Granted, they aren't pretty, 
 but this is a puzzle game; it doesn't need pretty looks to be fun. The sound is also a little shallow 
 though, and puzzle games do need good sound to keep the fun gameplay company, so that's a low point.
 
  Replay value? Well, if you want to take the time to enter those long puzzle passwords, you could 
 have some fun searching for puzzles online. Otherwise, once you beat Puzzle mode and get some good 
 scores in Challenge mode, the game is pretty much over. VS Mode doesn't do much either.
  A good game that could've been better with some extra modes or options. Worth buying? Pretty much, 
 especially since you can find it for $10 at some stores. Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Polarium is not this year's Max Payne. It doesn't even compare to Meteos and defentily not to Tetris. 
 This game makes great use of the Touch Screen the buttons will not do anything once you select 
 Polarium on the DS Menu screen.
  The gameplay of this game is good. With the boring Challenge mode this game gets a little boring. 
 But if you play the puzzle mode you will find it fun.
  The graphics aren't impreesive but are 3Dish.
  The sound isn't impressive either (Not at all) .
 
  The value of this game with the puzzle mode is okay but this game is VERY hard.
  I like the puzzle mode of this game but this game is mediocre compared to Meteos and Tetris.
 
  
  MY SCORE 5.8
  GoB April News 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_Metroid
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This puzzle game for the ds is not one of the best puzzle games for the system .It not even close 
 to knocing you socks off. It does get a little hard in some areas (most all of them ) . My little 
 brother had no clue what was doin witch was funny then I did the puzzle in his face and "you suck 
 at game!". And thats how hard it is. I would not recomind this game but if its is only 7.00 or under 
 I might would get it but only if that is the only cheap ds game. Or unless you find it on the streets. Pluse 
 the music sucks donkey b***s. And if you buy this game and its $30.00 I will find you then slap 
 you for buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_mess
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game is one of my favourites - although the graphics are dull, it's a great 
 puzzle game good for people who need a hard puzzle to chill out.
  
  The game has 4 different modes, each of which are unique. The general idea is to make rows of the 
 same colour using stylus strokes.
  Challenge 
  You have to clear rows of tiles to either black or white rows before the screens fill up. A bit 
 like tetris.
  
  Puzzles
  This is where you will spend most of your time - you have to clear the board of black and white 
 tiles (which are in a fixed shape) into rows of the same colour in one move. There are 100 puzzles, 
 each increasingly difficult.
  
  Versus
  You'll need a friend for this one (Download play compatible) . You turn your DSs onto the side and 
 have to clear rows as usual, but once you do, it jumps over to your opponent's screen and the first 
 person to get rid of them wins.
  
  Edit
  This is where you can design your own puzzles and send them to friends who have Polarium.
  
 
  Overall this is a fun game if you are in the right mood and is easy to pick up. Puzzle game fans 
 will love it, but this title wouldn't appeal to everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biobug
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been good but lacks depth and is boring. The basis is so simple, and the game 
 modes are so limited, i picked it up played the tutorial and said "i will play this later." The 
 game shows a good idea on the right platform that was not flashy enought and not visually entertaining. 
 The stylus was put to good use but the graphic capabilities of the DS and the brightness at which 
 it can show images was not used and made the game only good in short spurts. BOTTOM LINE: do not 
 buy this game unless you are old, clever, and think it is fun watching the stylus slip around and 
 make the wrong lines on the screen. LAME-OOO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  It will be the next [anything] is a claim thrown around far too often. It happens in sports, music 
 and Hollywood. Unsurprisingly, such claims also permeate the videogame realm, and perhaps to even 
 a greater extent than they do the aforementioned sectors of entertainment. Titles claiming to be 
 a Halo killer or the next Grand Theft Auto should be approached like Miss Cleo - with much skepticism.
 
  
  So when George Harrison, the Senior VP of marketing for Nintendo, told a gaming website that Polarium 
 for the Nintendo DS was a triple-A puzzle title soon to be used in the same sentence as Tetris 
 around the world , there was predictably lots of doubt and scoffing. Claiming that Polarium would 
 be a title as significant as Tetris was an obvious marketing counter-attack to the entrancing Lumines 
 for Sony's PSP and an attempt to make the wait for the DS-bound Meteos a little easier to stomach. 
 In the end, while it's got charms of its own, Polarium unfortunately confirms the invalidty of 
 that claim.
  
  Envisioning Polarium's concept is a little bit like mashing traditional videogame puzzlers, Ikaruga 
 and Othello into tiny little boxes. The core of the game is based around flipping two-colored tiles 
 - black on one side and white on the other - so that colors match horizontally across the playing 
 field. Once completed, the matching lines of blocks disappear. The playing field provides you with 
 a one-tile dead zone perimeter that allows you to complete intricate selections without selecting 
 an undesired tile, or to aid you when your path is blocked by a tile you've already selected. This 
 core is present in both of the game's main modes, Challenge and Puzzle. Interaction with the puzzle 
 blocks is entirely stylus-based, and similar to a game like Meteos or Zoo Keeper, once you play 
 the game you'll find that touching really is good. That is to say, to attempt to play such a game 
 on any other platform - with the d-pad - would seem mundane and awkward.
  
  The interaction is unfortunately in need of a little work, however. The idea is solid enough - 
 you set your stylus down where you want your selection to start, you sweep it across tiles and 
 around corners, and then you lift and tap the last block you highlighted to complete your selection. 
 This flips every tile to its opposite color. The problem is, your selection cursor lags behind 
 your actual stylus input. If you draw your selection box too fast, you might see some uncanny and 
 undesirable results. In addition, because lifting the stylus effectively means you're ready to 
 end your selection, unintentional selections are often made. You can imagine the frustrations of 
 a caffeine-infused, jittery coffee drinker trying to play this game.
  
  When you're done getting used to the controls, you still might not find the Challenge mode much 
 fun. Challenge mode infuses the traditional get rid of falling blocks concept with Polarium's core 
 gameplay, meaning you'll have to make quick work of your selections. Eventually you get adept at 
 snaking your selection around corners and making elaborate, last-second tile clearings as more 
 tiles start to stack higher and higher. These moments are fun at first, but then you start to notice 
 that the same tile patterns keep falling down here and there. You've seen that M formation before, 
 and you know how to take care of it. You've already cleared that stupid squiggle pattern four times 
 already. It just keeps going repetitively like that and it kind of kills any sense of urgency that 
 you'd expect from a puzzler.
  
  Part of the allure of a traditional falling block puzzle game is that you carve your own landscape 
 because the individual blocks fall with such random tendencies. Here, not even the near-death rush 
 to stay in the game is exciting after your first few go rounds. In fact, you're almost glad that 
 the game's putting you out of your misery, with hopes that maybe next time the patterns will fall 
 with more randomness. And of course, they don't.
  
  The Puzzle mode is really where it's at, where you're presented with 100 puzzles that challenge 
 you to create horizontal lines that are completely of one color throughout the entire playing field... 
 in one fell stroke. The puzzles start off easy enough, but they get progressively more difficult 
 at a nice pace. There are some hiccups in the progression - one of the puzzles in the high 30's 
 ended up being almost easy as puzzle 4, and so on. This only happened a few times, and is a minor 
 quirk at worst.
  
  The Puzzle mode is what will make or break whether or not Polarium is for you. Because you have 
 to do things in a single stroke, you might catch yourself staring at the screen without doing a 
 single thing for a handful of minutes at a time. It really has more in common with brain teasers 
 and crossword puzzles in that sense. The ratio of time spent thinking versus time spent acting 
 is through the roof with this one. If you're the brainy type, it's a great time waster when you're 
 riding on the subway or bus somewhere, or on a lazy evening when you've finished that day's crossword 
 puzzle in the paper. But when the mood for consequential and more intense gaming starts to settle 
 in, Polarium's puzzle mode won't fare as well as, say, Fire Emblem would. It's like certain cuisines 
 - you have to be in a certain mood and mind frame to really appreciate staring at Polarium's checkered 
 puzzles, but given those criteria, it's engrossing.
  
  Polarium does add value by allowing you to craft and ultimately share your own puzzles. It doesn't 
 do much for you since you know what the answer is. But being able to swap puzzle passwords on AIM 
 with your friends is a neat idea. It's something that would work great with Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection 
 if a sequel or update were to surface. Of course, this only matters if you're interested in the 
 core gameplay in the first place.
  
  Polarium really doesn't do much else significantly after you get past the Puzzle mode. This extends 
 into its aesthetic presentation, which is clean and certainly nothing bad, but ultimately boring. 
 The screen is dominated by generic looking black-and-white tiles, on a plain white grid, on a plain 
 white screen with no backgrounds. The only other colors are seen in screen-side icons and your 
 selection graphics. Personally, boring graphics have never been a big deal as long as they don't 
 actually hinder a game's playability. Still, when a game looks as drab as Polarium does, it can 
 get a bit frustrating knowing that more effort could have been spent in this area without sacrificing 
 any of the game's playability or core ideas.
  
  The sound is really on par with the visuals, and is a far cry from a significant portion of your 
 experience with this game. There's this gentle tune that floats through the air as you play, and 
 sure, it presents a soothing aura for those moments you'll find yourself enraptured in the Puzzle 
 mode. But again, there could have been more effort here to at least include different soothing 
 tunes that you could choose at your whim. Is it needed? Certainly not. Does it hinder the gameplay? 
 Of course not. Would it have been appreciated? Given the game's lack of pretty much everything 
 else outside of Puzzle mode, yes.
  
  It would be best to look at Polarium not as a videogame puzzler, or even a videogame at all, but 
 an activity - akin to a riddle book, crossword puzzle or Rubik's Cube. If you're the type who enjoys 
 staring at brain teasers and then - a ha! - finding the solution, its 100 puzzles are certainly 
 worth the price of admission. Overall I find myself satisfied with my experience in Puzzle Mode 
 land, but Challenge Mode was a complete disappointment. If you've no patience for the constant 
 staring and deduction required for an activity of this type, make your way down the aisle to a 
 Puyo game, Meteos, Lumines, or what have you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmiyamoto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  Scanning the local Gamestop, my eyes lazily rested on an interesting prospect. Everyone knows that 
 puzzlers hold lofty standards on handheld gaming machines; every good portable needs an excellent 
 pick-up-and-play title. Thus I briskly passed on the highly touted Meteos and took a somewhat risky 
 stab at Polarium. Based on the fact that Ive been playing it feverishly for the past three weeks, 
 Ill go out on a limb and say I got my moneys worth.
  
  The premise in Polarium is so rudimentary and mundane, yet will twist every bit of juice out of 
 that flourishing brain of yours. Utilizing the touch screen for every facet of the game, all you 
 have to do is browse the palette of black and white blocks given to you, and with the flick of 
 the stylus, turn that previously black tile into a white one. Sounds simple, right? Black and white; 
 it cant be that hard. But when youre tasked to turn the tiles into rows of just one color, the 
 challenge significantly increases. Tack on the incessant dropping of more tiles on your ever-growing 
 pile, and the pace, feel, and tension rises substantially.
  
  The game is actually very scant in the amount of modes available. Theres simply a challenge mode 
 (which is the aforementioned scenario) versus mode (which allows you to link wirelessly with friends 
 and challenge them) , and the highly addictive, and extremely rewarding puzzle mode. Puzzle mode 
 gives you a screen of blocks, and all with one stroke of the stylus, you must eradicate them. This 
 is the true bulk of the game, since there are 100 stock puzzles, and you unlock each of them after 
 you beat the previous one. After exhausting your supply of brainpower to complete all of them, 
 youll feel a resounding sense of pride.
  
  But the true essence of pride is not fully realized until an online friend sends you one of their 
 custom made puzzles through a nicely implemented password system; conquer their puzzle, stump them 
 with your own, and youve finally understood how truly gratifying Polarium is. The incorporation 
 of the custom puzzle option presents vast amounts of different puzzles to perplex your brain with. 
 This stroke of utter brilliance propels Polarium into an addiction that wont go away. Dont fret 
 about the boring, elevator-esque music, lifeless visuals or your lack of a social life after discovering 
 this game; theyre all superfluous afterthoughts in the grand scheme of gaming. And, sure, there 
 are some minor technical hiccups, like the unresponsive stylus disease, but youll soon learn how 
 to overcome it with a healthy dose of time put into the game.
  
  I cant recommend many more games in the DS library than this one. Superficial features give no 
 justice to the simple, yet intricate glory that is Polarium. Grab your stylus, lock your door, 
 and search your brain for something you never knew was there; thats the essence of Polarium.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormsnut1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  Polarium will probably start off interesting and addicting to anyone who picks it up, but it quickly 
 gets boring and needs more work. It's technically tetris with a different style, only there are 
 a couple of modes added on. The concept is simple, you have to flip tiles to either black or white 
 until a whole row is the same colour. 
  There are two different modes you'll want to focus on, Challenge and puzzle. Challenge mode is 
 the aspect of the game that acts like tetris, in which you have to try and clear rows to keep going. 
 Although it's fun to start off with, it lacks depth. 
  The most interesting and somewhat slightly harder mode of Polarium is puzzle mode. In this you 
 have to clear every row in one go, and this can be both confusing and fun, so will keep you playing 
 a lot more than Challenge mode. There are also 100 puzzles to get through, so it'll take up your 
 time if you get stuck on them easily.
  The graphics and sound may be poor, but it's not really an issue as the idea of the game is simple 
 and you don't need to worry about this, although they would have been a nice extra. The game play 
 will keep you interested for a while, and the game has one of the lowest values on a DS game, so 
 if you really are into puzzle games, you should give this a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schadenfreude
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS seems tailor-made to puzzlers. The touch-screen functionality and dual screens 
 make for some simple and beneficial mechanics. Polarium sets an appealing and solid foundation 
 with this groundwork in place but fails to really capitalise on the DS strengths, making a game 
 that is simply overflowing with missed opportunities. Even so, the sometimes intriguing, often 
 addictive gameplay makes the game recommendable to patient puzzle gamers looking for a brain-wrenching 
 challenge. 
  
  The basic concept of Polarium is simple: change the polarity of different black or white tiles 
 on a rectangular plane to make horizontal rows of one solid colour, after which the tiles will 
 disappear. By drawing a line over the tiles using the DS stylus, the only method of control present, 
 said tiles flip over revealing whichever colour (of the two available) was not there before. Multiple 
 rows can be flipped at the same time, and mastering various techniques to effectively play the 
 game is both frustrating and rewarding, given the games challenge. This foundational gameplay 
 is utilised differently in the games three modes, all of which offer a decidedly altered experience 
 from one another.
  
  Challenge Mode is essentially Tetris using Polarium's gameplay. Tiles drop in rows, often several 
 at a time from the top screen, and using the touch screen you have to create horizontal rows of 
 either black or white tiles. Rows can be as large or as small as desired, spanning both vertically 
 and horizontally. Its a race against time, though there is no time limit; if you arent quick 
 enough both screens will fill with tiles: game over. And believe-you-me, this mode is unforgiving. 
 Based on your score you receive a letter ranking, similar to those given in elementary school, 
 and even getting a paltry C is an immense challenge. This mode seems somewhat tacked on to give 
 the game longevity, but it provides a decent enough experience for gamers who like to go back and 
 beat their own scores; that, or get their ass handed to them by their digital opponent. Challenge 
 Mode is undoubtedly the worst of the three modes.
  
  Versus mode is essentially a multiplayer version of Challenge Mode, the only real difference being 
 that every row you vanquish is sent to your friends screen as opposed to simply disappearing. 
 This mode is really not all that different from Challenge Mode aside from your opponent, but the 
 different items that become available in multiplayer make it a little more interesting. And, as 
 has been proven time and time again with many other games, duking it out with friends is just that 
 much more fun than solitary play. Really, this mode is nothing to write home about but its worthwhile 
 if youve got some friends to play with and time to kill.
  
  The final and best mode of play is Puzzle Mode. There are 100 preset puzzles in Polarium waiting 
 to be solved. Using a single stroke of the stylus you have to find the path to victory. Of the 
 100 puzzles the first 25 or so are quite simple and act as a good warm-up to the mechanics. However, 
 as you move on the puzzles increase dramatically in size and difficulty. Once past puzzle 50 youll 
 find yourself challenged, and passing the 75 mark is no easy feat. This mode is perfect for those 
 who like brainteasers and are up for a pretty hefty challenge that is both endearing and amusing. 
 It requires patience and quite a bit of strategy, but its ultimately one of the most rewarding 
 things to come out of a puzzle game in a while.
  
  A nice feature of Polarium is the ability to make your own puzzles. If you ever get bored solving 
 the many brainteasers in puzzle mode, you can make your own. While its really not executed to 
 its full potential it still provides some nice lasting value to the game. Once a puzzle has been 
 made you have to solve it (meaning that it has to work) , and when thats done its given a code. 
 With this code you can give other people said code and they will be able to solve your puzzle on 
 their own DS, just as you will be able to solve others' puzzles if given their codes. Its a compelling 
 add-on to be sure, but making your own puzzle just doesnt have enough pizzazz to hold ones attention 
 for long.
  
  Polarium is unlike most games as of late in that it favours gameplay over graphics. This is by 
 no means a bad thing, but an immense lack of effort concerning the visuals and audio of the game 
 is noticeably detrimental. The main issue resides in the complete lack of variety. The tiles only 
 vary between white and black, a grey backdrop is ever-present and an orange line follows the tiles 
 that you wish to flip. The only slight reprieve from the bland colour palette comes in coloured 
 outlines on the main menu, something simply not enough to instil any interest. Though insipid, 
 Polarium is smooth and crisp. As would be expected from a game so bland, everything runs exactly 
 as it should - no bugs, frame rate issues, inaccuracies or anything of the like. 
  
  Unfortunately this game is no Lumines; it is best played muted. At first the thumping electronic 
 beat in the background seems fitting, if not at all intriguing, but considering that there is only 
 one looped track in the whole game, it becomes a little more than irritating. Its not an awful 
 track, but combined with pedestrian sound effects, which really dont add anything to the experience, 
 very little good can be said about the audio.
  
  Most gamers, even those that typically fancy puzzle games, probably wont find Polarium all that 
 hot. If youre the type, though, that does their Su Doku every morning alongside breakfast, then 
 you might just find a lot to like in Polarium. If you overlook what the game lacks in style, which 
 it certainly does, youll see that whats available in terms of gameplay is intelligent enough 
 to challenge even seasoned puzzle gamers, and some of the modes pack a surprising punch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution17
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  I really don't want to go into the concept in detail as it will make my head hurt. To put it sinply 
 you have to draw a line and flip tiles over to produce a line of tiles that are all the same colour 
 (black/white)
  
  There are sveral different methods of flipping them over including parallel lines and using the 
 border. In the tetris-esque main mode you have to flip tiles as quickly as possible. This is where 
 the fun lies and there is a satisfying sound to getting complete lines that just begs you to come 
 back for another go.
  
  In the puzzle mode you have as much time as you like (provided your ds can handle it) to come up 
 with a solution to a particular.
  
  Poplarium stimbles when it comes to presentation and it is just soooooooooo lacklustre.
  
  
 Where it suceeeds however, is in providing pick up and play gameplay and you will find yourself 
 always coming back for a 10 minute game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baylon452
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  Polarium is one of a kind. It is a strange Puzzle game exclusive to the Nintendo DS. The basic 
 concept is that you have a grid of white and black blocks and your goal is to make the grid all 
 one colour (so all black, or all white) . You do this by touching the block you want to change colour 
 and you have to do it all in one continuous stroke, which means your cannot remove the stylus from 
 the gird. It is hard to describe and you will only fully understand it when you have a go at it 
 for yourself. 
  
  There are two single player game modes in Polarium. Puzzle mode is where you have 100 puzzles and 
 you have to complete each in one stroke. They come in blocks of 10 and you have to do each one 
 before moving onto the next set of 10. They start of pretty easily but soon begin to be a challenge. 
 From stage 80 and upward they come near impossible and take more than a good few tries to complete. 
 The second mode is Challenge mode where sets of blocks continuously drop down onto the gird, in 
 a sort of tetris style, and you have to clear each line before they all eventually fill the screen 
 and you loose. This is sort of the high scoring part of game, for if you want a quick go. These 
 two modes will last you a good while, all according how committed you are.
  There is a multiplayer mode where you and a friend are against each other in finishing a puzzle 
 first. Its good for a few goes but lacks depth that would make it a worthy multiplayer game.
  
  The graphics and Sound in Polarium are very simple. The graphics consist of black and white 
 tiles and alls the sound has to offer is quite an annoying backdrop of music and a sort of swish 
 sound when you turn a tile over. 
  
  On the whole, Polarium is a good attempt of a new type of puzzle game; it will hold your attention 
 for as long as you let it, but Polarium may not be every ones idea of a good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalAssassin78
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 4, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Polarium is an interesting puzzle game that has a very simple and fun gameplay mechanic that I 
 have not yet seen in a puzzler. You have an assortment of black and white tiles that you switch 
 so that each row of horizontal tiles are the same color. You also can only switch them in a single 
 line that does not cross paths with itself. The problem is with the game modes. There are two different 
 ways to play Polarium. One is the Challenge mode. The challenge mode is similar to tetris. A stack 
 of tiles fall down to the bottom, and you must eliminte them by making each row the same color. 
 While it sounds fun, it really isn't. The only way to advance in this mode is to memorize the rows 
 of blocks to decide how to eliminate them, since there are only so many different combinations 
 of stacks that are present in challenge mode. The other is Puzzle Mode. In Puzzle mode there is 
 a set of 100 pre-made puzzles for you to tackle. Many of the Puzzles, especially later on are quite 
 challenging. In fact, some may lead to frustration if you are not a patient person. This mode would 
 have been alright if they had added some color, designs, more music in the game. It is quite hard 
 to stare at a Puzzle for hours, especially when the only colors you see are black and white, and 
 there is only one music track in the whole game that is actually pretty decent that is perfect 
 for setting the tone of the game. It's just that any song would become tiring after awhile, even 
 if this song is very trancy, and doesn't get that annoying ( right away) . Also, after you beat all 
 100 puzzles, if leaves a bad taste in your mouth. The game doesn't make you feel like you accomplished 
 anything. 
  There is also a multiplayer mode to Polarium, as well as a mode where you can create your own puzzle 
 and send them to a friend or even someone on the internet by a specific code. While this is all 
 neat, after you beat all 100 puzzles, you probsbly never want to come back to the game ever again 
 for any of the modes. So all in all, Polarium is a puzzle game for only a hardcore puzzler that 
 probably won't be fun for anyone else for it's dullness and boring gameplay modes that send frustration 
 down a gamer's spine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordgubbs_fil
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  Its not a very good or goodlooking game and it feels kina half-done when you start playing it. 
 But once you start youre gonna have a hard time puting it away. Although the game is too hard and 
 I couldnt feel that it was fun anymore after i had made the puzzle part and thats about when i 
 put it away for another game..
  So to sum up the game it has a great and funny puzzle part whith 100 different puzzles and it has 
 a play mode whitch is totally worthless it makes you wanna kill yourself after a while because 
 theres no way that you can make it at least I couldnt.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuzzyGuy84
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:38 pm PT
Review:  People waiting for the "must-have" puzzle game for the Nintendo DS will keep waiting. Polarium 
 makes great use of the DS' touch screen, but doesn't pack enough puzzle punch to entertain gamers 
 for more than short bursts of time.
  
  The game consists of white and black blocks that switch colors when pressed. Gamers use the stylus 
 to create horizontal lines of uniform color which disappear, or to transform the entire screen 
 into a single color with one stroke of the stylus, depending on game mode. Polarium also lets gamers 
 connect wirelessly with a friend for competitive races, or to trade custom-made puzzles.
  
  Polarium doesn't have any bells and whistles - the graphics are functional, but not impressive, 
 and the mellow soundtrack is neither intrusive nor memorable. The game is enjoyable at times, particularly 
 with a friend, but ultimately will leave gamers thinking, "that's it?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Polarium puts the touch pad is to great use and its simplicity makes it very accessible although 
 in this games case simplicity is also its biggest downfall. 
  
  Gameplay
  The game itself relies on a series of puzzles which with each level increase in difficulty. Each 
 puzzle consists of both black and white tiles, using the stylus you must flip the tiles to make 
 one solid block of colours in a single stroke. The problem here is that after completing one puzzle 
 a menu appears and you must manually choose the next puzzle or indeed the 150th one thus making 
 it both tedious and uninspiring. It would have been far more effective if after the completion 
 of each puzzle you unlocked the next and it automatically moved on. 
  Challenge mode consists of the same only in a Tetris style where puzzles fall continuously and 
 you must beat each one as quick as possible, failure to do so will cause the puzzles to pile up 
 on top of each other, if the pass the red bar on the top of the screen you will fail.
  Multiplayer involves all your flipped tiles moving over to your opponents the first to clear their 
 screen wins, this enjoyable enough as well as single card download play. The best mode however 
 is the edit mode in which you make your own puzzles and can then swap them with friends. 
  
  Graphics and sound:
  Dullsville, monochrome with the odd splash of colour here and there 
 but otherwise completely lacking in style or variation. Sound consists of a clicking sound as the 
 tiles flip, that's about it...
  
  Overall however Polarium just feels a little rushed the controls are sometimes a little laggy, 
 very frustrating during a bout of multiplayer and the presentation all round is boring and uninteresting. 
 However it is a budget title and will satisfy the need of puzzle lovers. Could have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 19, 2005 7:23 am PT
Review:  La veritat s que faig aquesta review sense haver-mel acabat, no ho acostumo a fer, per far 
 una excepci en aquest cas ja que el joc est dividit en dues parts ben diferenciades, i la part 
 que a mi magrada, la de fer servir el coco, ja lhe acabada, laltra part entra el fet de si ets 
 bo o no amb el punter, has de ser ms o menys hbil.
  
  He fet els 100 puzzles que porta fets i trobo que sn fora enginyosos, el que passa que nhe trobat 
 de ms fcils en nivells ms alts que en nivells baixos.
  
  El joc en si s fora interessant, la veritat s que el sistema de joc amb el punter obre un ventall 
 impressionant. no mimagino jugar a aquest joc sense punter, amb les fletxetes.
  
  Els grfica sn molt fluixos, i trobo que podrien haver-se currat alguna coseta ms.
  
  El 
 so s correcte i la msica tamb.
  
  Trobo a faltar alguna modalitat ms de joc amb el mateix sistema, llstima que no hagi pogut jugar 
 a la modalitat de 2 jugadors, deu ser fora interessant.
  
  Resumint, em va enganxar fora, per quan vaig fer els 100 puzzles sem va acabar el repte eper 
 a mi, i no hi he jugat gaire ms, la part dhabilitat noms hi he arribat fins al tercer nivell 
 de 10, a veure si algun dia mhi poso a fe-lo del tot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo710
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Polarium , I bought it 11 march in holland at the NDS release , together with mario . 
  If you and Just as I told you before you should rate this game as a puzzle game . You should look 
 at the tiles them self , Jou should see this as a black and white game, beliefe me it's more than 
 this , Cause If youfe finished it You can insert codes to download usermade puzzles , this makes 
 it a mmorpg . 
  you realy should try this one , It's kick a'ss . 
  Yeah , If A friend Got this game ask him if you can borrow it , 
  You know It realy rocked my 
 world . 
  The game start's with a Tutorial , Explaining the game techniques , after you did that you can 
 play the normal puzzle mode and a chalange mode , puzzle mode has you complete a whole puzzle with 
 one line , chanlange mode is eternal (RPG just changed into MMORPG ;) ) blocks keep fallin and 
 you have to tap them before the screen is full of black and white blocks.
  Multiplayer : 
  If your friend doesn't own polarium you can send him a demo featuring : 10 puzzles , Tutorial , 
 and a multiplayer mode , I'm not going to even try to explain how the multiplayer works cause it's 
 to hard to explain .
  Hope you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixlr8evo8
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  I acutally first discovered this game while I was working one day at Gamestop, and the Nintendo 
 rep put the game in the system. At first, when I wasn't really sure how to play, I thought it was 
 kind of stupid, but once I figured it out, it was pretty fun. I couldn't stop playing it in fact. 
 Its a great game, and I'll tell you why.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) - This is one of the strong points in the game. Once you get past all of the possible 
 ways to figure out the puzzles, and you can start to see how to easily destroy the lines, this 
 game gets incredibly fun. All you have to do is turn the white panels into black panels (vice versa) 
 on one line. Lines fall down from the top in rapid succession, and you trace your way to destroy 
 them. It pretty simple, but difficult to master. The large pen on the DS demo unit makes the controls 
 not very responsive, but when I got my DS, and played the full version (which is mostly the same) , 
 the Nintendo stylus worked incredibly well. There were no delays, menus were easily accessable, 
 and everything was presented very well.
  
  Graphics (4/10) - This game has this very cold feel to it. Everything is in black in white, except 
 the rare instance of color to clear the blocks off the screen. The blocks don't have any variety, 
 there are no skins, and not much animation going on either. But then again, when you compare it 
 to other games of the genre, there really doesn't need to be much in a puzzle game to make it a 
 great game.
  
  Sound (6/10) - Not much going on in this department. The developers of the game could have made 
 this game much better if they jampacked the game with lots of tracks since the game could go on 
 for a while, and because they chose to simplize the graphics engine. Everything else is pretty 
 crisp and clear though.
  
  Value (9/10) - This game is extremely fun from the moment you pick it up, to the moment you put 
 it down. The game is challeging and fun, and the puzzles will keep you going though out the entire 
 time you own the game. It would have been nice to see some cool unlockables, but you can't get 
 everything you want in a game can you?
  
  Overall, this is a fun game, and although not too incredibly innovative, its one of the games you 
 get on your DS whenever you find it in your budget to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breadstickguy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 22, 2005 2:46 am PT
Review:  Polarium is a puzzle game for the Nintendo DS.
  
  The best way to describe this game is Tetris, but with drawing. The object of the game to to make 
 lines, but instead of having to build them from falling blocks from the screen, you have to make 
 a line of bricks that are all the same color. Doesn't sound to challeging right? Well, is Tetris 
 challenging? The answer is yes, it is. It is also a timeless classic that will never get old. I 
 can play Tetris until my fingers turn blue and still want more. The best thing about Tetris is 
 the random puzzles. This is one thing that Polarium lacks, the challenge mode, in which you must 
 clear as many lines as you can is the same set of blocks over and over. I mean, the rotation of 
 the blocks is different, but you always see the same blocks fall in the same order. This is ok 
 because you can eventually memorize the pattern and actually being to do well with the game. This 
 may be the reason that the developers felt that the game's speed should be so high. Now, I'm not 
 complaining, but its really frusterating when you start out. Think about never having played Tetris 
 before and starting on level 7 or 8? REALLY TOUGH!! That's how I felt during my first few hours 
 with Polarium.
  
  The other mode that is in Polarium is the Puzzle mode. In this mode you can solve 100 premade puzzles. 
 The catch is you only get one chance to draw a line, if you can't flip all the bricks in a single 
 line, you don't win. This is my favorite mode because it involves more thinking and less raw speed. 
 The challenge mode is just way too fast to really enjoy for very long.
  
  Overall, fun game, worthing buying for any puzzle fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipervv
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2005 12:13 am PT
Review:  Polarium may not be the most advanced puzzle game ever made but it does offer a good amount of 
 fun. Learning to play it couldn't be easier. After the short tutorial you're ready to take on any 
 level of challenge, but be prepared to think HARD!
  I can honestly say this game couldn't have been done on any other system which is the main reason 
 we have the DS to begin with. You use the stylus in an attempt to draw one long, snaking line that 
 will hopefully flip over the correct block to make the horizontal lines all one color. then those 
 blocks will explode taking you into the next puzzle. This is a great concept!
  I don't really have any complaints with this game. Likewise, I don't really have to many awesome 
 memories from this game either. It is simply a well made puzzle game. Simple to play, hard to beat, 
 and fun for hours!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dethking
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Polarium is a game that gives you innovation that could not be pulled off properly on another system. 
 Unfortunately, it has a few problems that hamper it's gameplay. 
  Graphics wise, Polarium isn't pretty. It's made up mainly of black and white, but seeing as Polarium 
 is a puzzle game, graphics aren't the most important aspect.
  The obvious factor that seperates good puzzle games from bad puzzle games is the gameplay. Polarium 
 is a mix of good and bad. The good? The fantastic Puzzle mode. You solve puzzles that are built 
 into the game, and they test your brain. You need to flip the tiles so they match with their own 
 colors. Even better, your friends can send you their own puzzles to you. You can also create your 
 own. The Puzzles will last you a very long time and you won't complete them in a hurry, as they 
 get increasingly difficult. However, after a while, you may get bored of the Puzzle mode, and you'll 
 likely try out the "Challenge" mode. Unfortunately, this is is the part of Polarium which is broken. 
 Challenge mode is very similar to tetris. You have to remove the blocks that fall down from the 
 top of the screen, by making all blocks the same color using the stylus. This makes them disappear. 
 However, the problem with this is that the stylus can sometimes be inaccurate and go too far across 
 the blocks. And sometimes when you try to clear the blocks, by tapping on the last block you selected, 
 it doesn't always respond. Apart from this, the Challenge mode is alot of fun, but it is flawed.
 
  Like the graphics, sound doesn't make a big appearance in Polarium. The sound is basic, but not 
 bad. Most people will keep the sound on just for background music while they are solving tough 
 puzzles. Others will turn it off because they may find it boring. When moving the stylus across 
 the touch screen, people may be annoyed by the sound it makes. Luckily this can be turned down.
 
  There is alot of Value to be found in Polarium. The 100 Puzzles to complete, the ability to trade 
 puzzles with friends and using codes to unlock puzzles make the Puzzle part of the game, the main 
 strength of Polarium. The Challenge mode also offers some Value, especially if you play it against 
 a friend.
  Overall, Polarium is a fun game. It is very innovative and puts the DS hardware to good use. If 
 you like Puzzles which require more thinking than fast paced action, than Polarium's puzzle section 
 will give you all that. However if you want a faced paced puzzle game that requires more action 
 than thinking, polarium's challenge mode simply doesn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicStyles
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2005 12:02 am PT
Review:  Ive been gaming for a long time - longer than some of you have been alive, in fact. I remember 
 the original Game Boy, with its brick-like design, its incredibly poor graphics, and the insatiable 
 thirst for batteries it seemed to possess; I remember it all. What stands out the most, however, 
 is not the hardware  it was the software. Above all else, I remember Tetris. The simple yet ingenious 
 design, the quaint soundtrack, and the infinite replay value were what propelled the Game Boy to 
 god-like status, and is the reason why half of my childhood is a blur to me. Its been ever since 
 then that, when launching a handheld system, a must-have puzzle game became a staple  Lumines 
 for the PSP is a great example. Nintendo seems to have missed the boat with its North American 
 launch of the DS, but can Polarium deliver? The answer, sadly, is that the game does not live up 
 to the high expectations that were set forth by its predecessors. However, taken on its own merits, 
 Polarium is a rather challenging game with just enough modes to make it a worthwhile purchase for 
 fans of brainteasers.
  
  --
  
  Polariums basics are pretty simplistic; the game, which is primarily played on the lower, touch-sensitive 
 screen, consists of only a square board that's completely filled with patterns of black, white, 
 and gray blocks. Touching a white block with your stylus turns it black, and vice-versa, while 
 the gray blocks are neutral. You can score multiple flips by dragging your stylus vertically or 
 horizontally across several blocks, and it forms a golden line around the chosen blocks. This line 
 cannot be crossed, and there is no diagonal motion allowed. The objective of the game is to clear 
 the board by turning all the blocks white or black, or by forming horizontal rows of white and 
 black. Simple, no?
  
  There are three different modes in Polarium, albeit none of them differ much from the others. Challenge 
 mode consists of the player trying to clear his screen to earn points by flipping the tiles, all 
 the while having large blocks of black and white fall onto the play area. Overall this mode just 
 feels too easy, because the blocks that fall are both too slow and follow somewhat of a pattern. 
 There is a multiplayer aspect to the game, in which you play with another person on their own DS 
 with their own copy of the game, or the demo that they can download. Wait a minute, a downloadable 
 demo of the game? What is he talking about? Well, with a copy of Polarium, youre able to send 
 out a wireless signal to any DS units around you, who can choose the download option from the main 
 screen, giving them a temporary demo of the game that lasts until they turn the machine off. The 
 multiplayer mode consists of two players battling to clear their screen first. Each time you clear 
 a line, it gets sent to your opponents side, and it can get quite hectic at times with two skilled 
 players.
  
  The last mode, and the mode that should offer the most interest, is Puzzle mode. One hundred pre-made 
 puzzles come installed with the game in said mode, which are essentially a large block of tiles. 
 The objective: to clear all of the tiles in one stroke. Its relatively easy for the first thirty 
 or so levels, but then comes the fun part. Having spent over forty minutes on one puzzle, I can 
 honestly say that the later levels are tough. Incredibly tough. Puzzle mode also offers the ability 
 to make your own puzzles, which is a great addition if you have friends or siblings who want a 
 good brainteaser. Or you can even take it online through a password system, and challenge other 
 gamers with your puzzles. I have found no greater joy with Polarium than seeing some of my smartest 
 colleagues get stumped by a one-stroke puzzle that Ive created.
  
  --
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, Polarium suffers greatly. Black, white, gray  thats about all 
 you get. Does it work? Yes. Does it need any more than that? Not really, no. The game looks as 
 though it should have come bundled with the DS hardware itself, since it matches the overall theme 
 of squares and rectangles. The sound doesnt get annoying, which is a good thing, and it doesnt 
 try to overcompensate and ends up keeping the game simple.
  
  --
  
  If you like puzzle games in general, consider getting this. It may not be the same drop-block 
 formula that has worked in the past with games like Lumines, but it does offer something new and 
 refreshingly challenging. A little more effort could have been put in to make the audio and visual 
 stand out more; nonetheless, you wont regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a99aSix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Many are aware of games like Mindsweeper and Tetris. Of course, those are two classics, and now, 
 it seems, Polarium is an instant classic as well. The simple gameplay of changing the color of 
 boxes from white to black, black to white, with the simple stroke of the stylus is a perfect puzzle 
 game for the DS. (Though, to elminate the boxes, you'll have to match them horizontally only.) 
 This game brings a much needed breathe to the game release dry DS. It's masterful and smart. The 
 puzzles at first, like most things, start of easy, but as you progress, it does get relatively 
 hard... and you'll notice some brain teasing instances. A good sign of a very intriguing game. It's 
 challenge mode, is exactly what it says, as blocks drop from the top screen, you are at a race 
 to reach 1000 lines of elmination, before the blocks fill the entire screen. And the blocks do 
 come faster as you progress, in rows of 3 - 5, sometimes, single rows.
  
  It's multiplayer is by far, it's best feature, where you compete with 1 other player, (only 1 card 
 required as well) , and you hold your DS sideways, where the right screen is your opponents view, 
 and the left is your screen to play on. And like tetris, it's the race to elminate the blocks. 
 It can be timed and has a best out of "5, 10" feature as well. 
  
  If your looking for a really intriguing, thoughtful process puzzle game. Polarium is the way to 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciikesef
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  What happens when you take Tetris, Ikaruga, and a PDA, place it in big 'ol pot and use a stir stick 
 called Nintendo? Polarium, one of the best DS games to date, and one of the best puzzlers ever.
 
  
  Polarium is a very unique game, that looks like it actually belongs on a palm pilot or pocketPC. 
 Puzzle mode is the game's main focus. The concept is simple: Using only one line, flip over tiles 
 on a rectangular play area to make each horizontal row the same color. However, this is one of 
 the harder puzzle games out there, and around the 15th of 100 stocked puzzles, you could have a 
 little trouble. This isn't that big of a deal, because puzzles are unlocked 10 at a time, and solutions 
 to some puzzles are similar to others in the set. Using a guide on this game is not recommended, 
 because all that would do is spoil it for the player.
  
  Puzzle Mode also has an edit sub-mode. You can create new puzzles to store on the game card, and 
 swap them with your friends using the wireless function. But even better is the password function, 
 which allows users to share puzzles without requiring being in wireless range. Each password is 
 thirty digits, for example, this password:
  
  1561349514
  6374867833
  2331938542
  
  will yield a puzzle that looks like a stick figure (ain't he cute!) . This greatly enhances the 
 value and replay of the game. 
  
  Challenge Mode is a more exciting and suspenseful version of Puzzle mode. Pre-determined yet random 
 blocks of tiles are dropped onto the playing field and the player must disperse them as quickly 
 as possible. Obviously, the fewer strokes, the better the score. This is a great way to distract 
 yourself from Puzzle mode in case you're in a spot of trouble. 
  
  There is also a versus mode in the game, in which the player is given a wider field than in earlier 
 modes, but for a reason. Each player tries to eliminate all the tiles on their field. When a successful 
 stroke is completed, the tiles transfer to the other player's field in random columns. The first 
 player to overcrowd their space loses. This mode is absolute, pure fun, and nothing more can be 
 said about it.
  
  Lastly, there is the lounge area, where you can change settings, view the tutorial, see the credits, 
 or most importantly, use the wireless functions. There are three wireless actions available, two 
 of which mentioned earlier, the sending and recieving of custom puzzles. The third option is to 
 send a Polarium demo to another DS. The demo includes the tutorial, 10 puzzles, and the versus 
 mode of the game. Yes, Polarium has single-card download play, and it is fantastic. 
  
  The graphics are minimal, and can't really be awarded much. They're not good or bad, just there. The 
 same goes for the sound, the music is rather monotonous, but you can just listen to a nice CD and 
 turn the DS's sound off anyway.
  
  Overall, Polarium is definetley worth a purchase if you like puzzle games, or are just looking 
 for a good new DS game. Shame that this didn't get more attention. But don't take my word for it, 
 find someone who has the game and download the demo. 10 bucks says you can't beat them in versus 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutterkk
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 24, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  (edited review)
  
  Polarium. This is a new puzzle game for the DS. In it, you must use your stylus to create lines. 
 When you've made a line, you tap the end of it, and all panels that the line selects flip over. 
 This is a simple and original idea. It's too bad the game was rushed.
  
  There are two modes in this game, excluding the tutorial and multiplayer modes. The first one is 
 challenge mode, where blocks of black and white tiles are falling down continuously, and you have 
 to prevent the blocks from filling up the two screens. The second mode is puzzle mode. In it, you 
 have 100 puzzles to solve in a single line. These are mind-numbingly difficult.
  
  In order to get rid of blocks, you must make a horizontal line of either black or white blocks. 
 This makes the entire horizontal line disapear. In challenge mode, the blocks of black and white 
 tiles seem to be little puzzles. You'll be seeing the same blocks of tiles falling down time after 
 time after time. The game even cheats on you. That's right, the game cheats. Some blocks of tiles 
 require you to use the unflipable border to solve them. However, if a block of tiles is in the 
 middle, there is no top or bottom border, only parts of the other tile blocks. So, in order to 
 solve the middle puzzle, you have to flip over some tiles from another block of tiles, making that 
 block of tiles take even more time to solve. Completely unfair.
  
  Theres also puzzle mode. You can try the game's 100 preset puzzles, or you can make up to 100 of 
 your own. A good thing about the game is that you can distribute your puzzles with friends either 
 wirelessly or with a password, which is pretty neat.
  
  That's when the game trips over onto a pile of shattered glass and bleeds to death. The challenge 
 and Puzzle modes are the only things this game has to offer. It's a terrific idea, almost as original 
 as Tetris, the king of all puzzle games. It also couldn't be done on any other system. But the 
 lack of game modes is terrible. This game should have been much more, and hopefully there will 
 be a remake on another system with more modes. Polarium has a potential that never sees the light 
 of day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Polarium is a unique puzzler where you flip over tiles trying to on one move get all the rows to 
 be one color to destroy the tiles. There are 3 main modes of play...
  
  Challenge- this is kinda like a tetris part, where segments fall and you have to try and keep the 
 puzzle from getting too high up.
  
  Puzzle- Try and solve these 100 premade puzzles, or make your own!
  
  Versus- Play against 
 your friends
  
  Graphics- 4 - While they are very basic, they are sharp as can be
  Sound- 3 - Once again, basic but sharp
  Gameplay- 9 - I love it, very addictive
  Replay- 8 
 - This will last me a long while
  Value- 9 - A great little puzzler
  
  Overall- 8 - It's definately a diferent & unique puzzler worth picking up, but isn't the greatest 
 thing ever. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
