-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia: The Fallen King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/princeofpersiaworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-implemented touch-screen mechanics.
 Good level design.
 Swordfighting is simple but fun.
 Impressively smooth animation for the prince .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls can be frustratingly imprecise.
 Bland storytelling.
 Dull, predictable boss fights.
 Frequent slowdown.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 2, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Touch-screen controls prove to be a double-edged sword in this alternately compelling and frustrating 
 side-scrolling adventure. 

  There have been many princes of Persia since the original game was released nearly 20 years ago, 
 and although they've ranged from noble romantics to angst-ridden bad boys, they've all shared a 
 gift of tremendous agility. In conjunction with its new console reboot of the Prince of Persia 
 series, Ubisoft has brought the graceful monarch to the DS in a side-scrolling adventure that can 
 be thrilling when the intuitive touch-screen controls work as they should. Regrettably, for every 
 thrilling moment the controls deliver there's a frustrating one, too, and this normally agile prince 
 takes a few too many clumsy steps.  

  The Fallen King takes place after the new console game, but you don't need any knowledge of that 
 adventure to dive into this one. The prince is continuing his quest to defeat the evil god Ahriman 
 and do away with the icky substance known as corruption that has emerged across the land since 
 Ahriman's escape. For most of this journey, he is joined by the magus Zal, whose powers are vital 
 for overcoming the countless obstacles that impede our hero. There's a decent, if cliche, narrative 
 here, as secrets about Zal's past and the prince's reasons for fighting are slowly brought to light, 
 but the storytelling's lack of flair doesn't do it any favors. Some cutscenes or voice acting could 
 have made the tale more compelling, but as it is, the story here is told all in text, with still 
 images. At least the writing conveys some personality, and the prince, here a squat, cartoonish 
 version of his console counterpart, comes across as a good deal more likable than he does in the 
 console game. His attempts at jokey banter with the dead-serious Zal lead to a few funny moments, 
 and you also get the sense that, despite his constant wisecracks, he's fighting for something he 
 cares about deeply.  

           The prince and his new BFF Zal go through a lot together in The Fallen King.      

 
  This is a side-scrolling action game in which you must make your way through level after trap-filled 
 level, frequently rolling under spinning blades, leaping over spike-filled pits, and swinging out 
 of the way of crushing boulders. All of the moves are performed with the stylus, though you hold 
 down a button to indicate you want to use one of Zal's powers rather than control the prince. You 
 rarely control Zal directly; he typically just hovers along behind the prince, apparently impervious 
 to all the dangers the prince must work so hard to avoid. To make the prince walk, you hold the 
 stylus near him, and to run, you put it farther away. To roll, you double-tap to the prince's left 
 or right, and to leap, you tap the platform you want the prince to leap for, and he obliges. You 
 can also scurry up walls a short distance and jump back and forth from wall to wall to ascend to 
 higher areas.  

  For the most part, the controls are very intuitive, and the implementation of touch-screen controls 
 is the game's greatest asset. There's an almost tactile pleasure in using Zal's magic to maneuver 
 a dangerous orb of corruption through narrow passageways to destroy a wall that's blocking your 
 path, and it can be thrilling to pinpoint some elastic corrupted goo with your stylus and grab 
 onto it as you fall, narrowly avoiding a spiky demise. The game is filled with engaging experiences 
 like these, and they just couldn't have been delivered so effectively with a more traditional control 
 scheme. When things come together in moments like this, the controls and the gameplay can be a 
 delight.  

  But sadly, there are moments that spoil the magic, and the game's greatest asset is also its greatest 
 liability. Too often the controls are imprecise, which is an especially damaging issue in a game 
 that's all about precise, death-defying leaps and rolls. There may be times, for instance, when 
 you will tap a platform that you want the prince to jump to, only to see him leap to it and then 
 run right off of it, plummeting to his death. The generous smattering of checkpoints throughout 
 each area means that when the prince behaves with a suicidal mind of his own, you're never set 
 back very far, but it's nonetheless maddening to have the game misinterpret your inputs with disastrous 
 results.  

  The level design is quite good, starting out simple but steadily introducing new elements and ratcheting 
 up the challenge at a pace that keeps things interesting across the game's 50-odd stages. Zal periodically 
 acquires new powers, like the ability to manipulate various types of corruption to serve as grappling 
 hooks or to form walls for the prince to climb, and each new ability changes up the gameplay in 
 small but important ways. He also eventually becomes capable of activating portals that the prince 
 or just about anything else can pass through, allowing for some light but engaging puzzle-solving. 
 And the later stages, while not exactly difficult, have intricate traps that require more precise 
 timing to survive.  

  There's combat, too, of course, and though it's very simple, your swordfights with hulking guards 
 are still enjoyable, requiring you to hold the stylus on the prince to guard against attacks and 
 then tap or slash across your enemies to strike when the time is right. The few boss battles are 
 not so enjoyable, though, relying as they do on predictable, easily discerned patterns. You can 
 even locate a treasure called the revival orb that instantly replenishes your health each and every 
 time a boss defeats you, removing all the challenge from these confrontations.  

           Supposedly corruption is bad, but you couldn't get through most of the game's levels without 
 it.      

  The graphics are a bit simple, but what they lack in richness of detail, they make up for in smoothness 
 of animation. This prince runs, rolls, and leaps with a grace that recalls the movement of the 
 prince in the original 1989 side-scroller. The three-dimensional backgrounds provide a great sense 
 of depth, and like the prince himself, the towns, ports and palaces you'll pass through have a 
 stylized look that lends the action a lighthearted vibe. Unfortunately, frequent bouts of slowdown, 
 while far from crippling, do drag the action down a bit. The absence of any voice acting makes 
 the audio feel a bit lacking, but the clashing of swords, the whine of spinning blades, and all 
 the other deadly sounds you'll hear are convincing. The percussion-heavy music, though repetitive, 
 can be thrilling and sounds especially good on a decent pair of headphones.  

  The Fallen King will take most players around seven hours to complete. Perfectionists may find 
 a bit of replay value in going back and finding all of the treasure chests hidden throughout the 
 levels, though, unfortunately, there's no option to journey back to previous regions, so you'll 
 have to create a new game if you want to replay earlier stages. Ultimately, there is magic in this 
 adventure, if you're willing to overlook some frustrations to find it. It's a real shame that the 
 accessible, enjoyable touch-screen controls can be imprecise enough to result in the occasional 
 deadly misstep, because this makes The Fallen King as maddening as it is enchanting.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Matrix_Soul
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is not as good as I hoped. All the levels are pretty much the same, and some things aren't 
 really explained properly. You don't know if you can save or not, which is a real problem. The 
 only good things are the plot and characters. The music, however perfectly fits with the game.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome, because of its 3-D... ness. But in a cutscene I recently saw, they look 
 like pieces of cardboard, which just looks weird. I was pretty disappointed with that.
  
  The plot is simply about the Dark God (sorry don't the name) who has awoken or something like that. 
 The Prince goes to the City to find the Light King and ends up finding everything Corrupted. He 
 meets Zal, a magus who is slightly corrupted and controls both the light and dark, which is pretty 
 awesome. When he meets Zal, he finds the King-only something horrible happened to him (ain't telling 
 what happened) . From time to time, Zal would change to his Corrupted Form and starts attacking 
 you. 
  
  Overall, I would give these ratings:
  Gameplay: 6.5/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Plot: 8/10
  Music: 10/10
  
  
  Overall, this game is an okay game, but several things should 
 be improved.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  early impressions...
  
  I have just recently reviewed Tomb Raider: Underworld and gave it a really high score. I also mentioned 
 there that I have yet to see how this title will be able to stack up against the said game. Prince 
 of Persia should be a safe bet if you're looking for an acrobatic action-adventure game. But as 
 it turns out, it is not.
  
  The game will start with a story driven by what looks like hand-drawn art with subtitles. There 
 are no VO whatsoever. Not even a 3sec video clip which in my personal opinion is a major turn-off 
 specially for a fan that is expecting a lot from a game like this one. The tutorial will then follow 
 with a brief yet effective way of showing you how to perform the basic moves like walking, rolling, 
 jumping on platforms, etc. After a minute or two, you'll realize that you're pretty much on your 
 own which is actually a good thing because you'll spend more time playing than reading instructions 
 on how to play the game.
  
  The game map works pretty much like New Super Mario, you get a path that you can follow that sometimes 
 branches out. And within that path you need to play a level if you want to push through the game. 
 While the game experience itself is a bit bland in my opinion (more on that in a sec) , turning 
 this into a touchscreen only game made it really easy. You'll feel like you do not have complete 
 control of the game because you just simply point the character into a particular direction, and 
 he'll try his best to follow it. And it works, most of the time. Because there will be times that 
 he will not be able to recognize a command for him to jump a platform. And if you tap on the platform 
 twice, it will just cause him to roll which is very frustrating and shouldn't have been an issue 
 if they at least gave the option to use the d-pad and buttons. This is something that some game 
 makers should really realize that not because the DS have a touchscreen means that you have to 
 force your games to use it!
  
  The levels are filled with traps like spikes, boulders, rotating blades, etc. They are far from 
 being challenging as long as you have a sense of timing. There are switches that you need to push 
 to open locked doors, which causes the camera to focus on the door it unlocked even though its 
 just a few meters away from you. You also collect gold coins (ugh!) that enables you to unlock 
 some other doors. The enemies are also not that challenging and can be defeated by giving them 
 a couple of taps. The first boss on the other hand will give you a bit of a challenge during the 
 first few seconds, but once you figure out his weak spot, defeating him is a piece of cake as well. 
 The levels are pretty linear and although there are few places that you can visit, the only reward 
 you'll get are probably just a few additional coins.
  
  The graphics is on the cartoony side. Which I believe is something that they intended to do. But 
 since there are tons of titles that fit the same description, most would probably think that they 
 just did a bad job of making the game look good. Yes the game's graphics is acceptable overall. 
 But newer games are now starting to push the DS to its limit and its sad to see that this game 
 isn't one of 'em.
  
  The sound is a bit flat. Given that there are no VO's and cinematics, they could have at least 
 raised the sound quality up a bit. Some of the effects even sound muffled.
  
  The game overall is something that a fan would probably enjoy playing because they might let go 
 of some of the game's shortcomings. But if you're not, then I would rather spend my money on Tomb 
 Raider: Underworld instead. It's better in terms of gameplay, controls, sound, and graphics. And 
 there are tons of cinematics in there as well.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a franchise that has been on the market for quite some time. I have played 
 all the console iterations of POP and some of the handled ones and even though this ds title retains 
 some of the elements that make a POP, it falls short when it comes down to the action. 
  
  You start of with the task of looking for the king in a kingdom full of corruption and there your 
 adventure starts. Yup its not the best story ever but the real drawback is that it is all text 
 based with no VO whatsoever or even a cinematic to make your day which is kind of a letdown. I can 
 understand that they use little VO if theres a lot of talking but even at the start theres only 
 like 3 sentences to put you up to speed with the story. Though to its credit it is great when you 
 are in a rush to just enter into the action but it kind of makes you wanna skip the story.
  
  Gameplay 8.0
  Now when it comes to gameplay you get a nice experience but not the most complete 
 one. You do everything with the stylus a la Phantom Hourglass. The basics are moving by pushing 
 the stylus to the right, you walk when you put it closer to our hero. You jump and attack by tapping 
 the screen and some others here and there. It all works ok, but every now and then you'll want 
 to jump but instead you roll and die but it doesn't happen too often but when it does it sucks. 
 It would have been great if traditional controls were implemented but they aren't. Everything is 
 simplified but all in all it retains many elements from the POP games, like jumping like a monkey 
 up an down, killing some bad guys here and there, and the classic traps. There are plenty of checkpoints 
 if you die too often and some treasures to collect in each dungeon but theres nothing really important 
 in them, they are just there for collecting sake. 
  
  Graphics 7.0
  Graphics are descent with nice environments and sprites, though the artwork of our prince may disappoint 
 some of the hardcore gamers because it looks a little too childish but after seeing him jump some 
 traps without a scratch you can let it go. 
  
  Sound 5.5
  In the sound department, as i was saying above, theres no VO so you will only get the music in 
 each dungeon that its alright but nothing really worthy remembering. You will forget the sounds 
 by the end of the day.
  
  Replay value
  In the end this is not the worst POP ever but there could have been a lot more content in it. If 
 you are in the need of a game to play right now in this genre and you only have the ds then this 
 could give you a week of fun if you don't play it day and night, because its is a short game and 
 a relatively easy one. Everyone else will be better expending its money with its console counterpart 
 which is way better or rent it cuz after its done you can only go find some treasures but thats 
 just about it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
